id: 1307.0014
title: Optimal Binary Codes and Measurements for Classical Communication over Qubit Channels
authors: Nicola Dalla Pozza, Nicola Laurenti, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, figures rearrangement, clearer formalization of the procedure for the evaluation of the region of transition probabilities, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0014
abstract: We propose constructive approaches for the optimization of binary classical communication over a general noisy qubit quantum channel, for both the error probability and the classical capacity functionals. After showing that the optimal measurements are always associated to orthogonal projections, we construct a parametrization of the achievable transition probabilities via the coherence vector representation. We are then able to rewrite the problem in a form that can be solved by standard, efficient numerical algorithms and provides insights on the form of the solutions.

id: 1307.0037
title: Fragility of superposition states evaluated by the Loschmidt Echo
authors: Denise Bendersky, Pablo R. Zangara, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0037
abstract: We consider the degradation of the dynamics of a Gaussian wave packet in a harmonic oscillator under the presence of an environment. This last is given by a single non-degenerate two level system. We analyze how the binary degree of freedom perturbs the free evolution of the wave packet producing decoherence, which is quantified by the Loschmidt Echo. This magnitude measures the reversibility of a perturbed quantum evolution. In particular, we use it here to study the relative "fragility" of coherent superpositions (cat states) with respect to incoherent ones. This fragility or sensitivity turns to increase exponentially with the energy separation of the two components of the superposition.

id: 1307.0105
title: Photon gas in a finite box: thermodynamics and finite size effects
authors: A. A. Sokolsky, M. A. Gorlach
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013847 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0105
abstract: Thermodynamic properties of a photon gas in a small box are explored taking into account finite size effects. General thermodynamic relations are derived for this finite system. Photon gas thermodynamic functions are calculated for the case of cuboid cavity on the basis of first principles. New finite size effects are discussed.

id: 1307.0128
title: Adaptive Discrimination Scheme for Quantum Pulse Position Modulation Signals
authors: Nicola Dalla Pozza, Nicola Laurenti
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, extension of the receiver scheme with Generalized Kennedy-like local measurements, version accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0128
abstract: In the communication scenario, we consider the problem of the discrimination between the signals of the Quantum Pulse Position Modulation. We propose a receiver scheme that employs repeated local measurements in distinct temporal slots within the symbol time interval, adaptively chosen on the basis of the outcomes in the previous slots. By employing Dynamic Programming to optimize each measurement, we approach the theoretical performance limit much closer than existing receiver schemes.

id: 1307.0130
title: Quantization of the Electromagnetic Field in Non-dispersive Polarizable Moving Media above the Cherenkov Threshold
authors: Mario G. Silveirinha
comments: 52 pages, under review
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0130
abstract: We quantize the macroscopic electromagnetic field in a system of non-dispersive polarizable bodies moving at constant velocities possibly exceeding the Cherenkov threshold. It is shown that in general the quantized system is unstable and neither has a ground state nor supports stationary states. The quantized Hamiltonian is written in terms of quantum harmonic oscillators associated with both positive and negative frequencies, such that the oscillators associated with symmetric frequencies are coupled by an interaction term that does not preserve the quantum occupation numbers. Moreover, in the linear regime the amplitudes of the fields may grow without limit provided the velocity of the moving bodies is enforced to be constant. This requires the application of an external mechanical force that effectively pumps the system.

id: 1307.0145
title: Probabilistic models on contextuality scenarios
authors: Tobias Fritz, Anthony Leverrier, Ana Bel¨¦n Sainz
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 63-70
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0145
abstract: We introduce a framework to describe probabilistic models in Bell experiments, and more generally in contextuality scenarios. Such a scenario is a hypergraph whose vertices represent elementary events and hyperedges correspond to measurements. A probabilistic model on such a scenario associates to each event a probability, in such a way that events in a given measurement have a total probability equal to one. We discuss the advantages of this framework, like the unification of the notions of contexuality and nonlocality, and give a short overview of results obtained elsewhere.

id: 1307.0148
title: Multimode cavity-assisted quantum storage via continuous phase matching control
authors: Alexey Kalachev, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; v2: minor changes, final version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 88, 033846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0148
abstract: A scheme for spatial multimode quantum memory is developed such that spatial-temporal structure of a weak signal pulse can be stored and recalled via cavity-assisted off-resonant Raman interaction with a strong angular-modulated control field in an extended $\Lambda$-type atomic ensemble. It is shown that effective multimode storage is possible when the Raman coherence spatial grating involves wave vectors with different longitudinal components relative to the paraxial signal field. The possibilities of implementing the scheme in the solid-state materials are discussed.

id: 1307.0156
title: Quantum nonlocality as the route for ever-lasting unconditionally secure bit commitment
authors: Gl¨¢ucia Murta, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to an insecurity found in the protocol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0156
abstract: We present a bit commitment protocol based on quantum nonlocality that seems to bring ever-lasting unconditional security. Although security is not rigorously proved, physical arguments and numerical simulations support this conclusion. The key point is that the proof of the commitment is forced to become classical data uncorrelated with anything else. This allows us to circumvent previous impossibility proofs in which it is assumed that classical data can be replaced by quantum data that may be entangled with the committer. The proposed protocol also recovers two features missing in recent "relativistic" quantum bit commitment protocols: (i) the committer can decide if and when she wants to reveal the commitment and (ii) the security of the commitment lasts for arbitrary long time.

id: 1307.0163
title: A New Description of Quantum Behaviors for a Simple Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Sangrak Kim
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0163
abstract: We describe quantum behaviors of a simple harmonic oscillator, starting from the classical mechanics. By imposing two conditions on the phase points generated from a symplectic algorithm, we obtain discrete energy levels, satisfying $E_n \tau_n = h$ where $E_n$ is the total energy of the oscillator and $\tau_n$ is the time step for the closed orbit of $n$-polygon in phase space. We can thus successfully integrate classical and quantum mechanics into a single frame, if we assume that time is discrete.

id: 1307.0176
title: Phase-controlled localization and directed transport in a bipartite lattice
authors: Kuo Hai, Yunrong Luo, Gengbiao Lu, Wenhua Hai
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0176
abstract: We investigate coherent control of single particles held in a bipartite optical lattice via a combined high-frequency modulation. Our analytical results show that for the photon resonance case the quantum tunneling and dynamical localization depend on the phase difference between the modulation components, which leads to a different route of the coherent destruction of tunneling and a simple method for stabilizing the system to implement the directed transport. The results could be referable for manipulating the transport characterization of the similar tilted and shaken optical or solid-state systems, and also can be extended to the many-particle systems.

id: 1307.0217
title: Graphene Enabled Low-Control Quantum Gates between Static and Mobile Spins
authors: G. Cordourier-Maruri, Y. Omar, R. de Coss, S. Bose
comments: Comments welcome, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075426 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0217
abstract: We show that the feature of Klein tunneling makes graphene a unique interface for implementing low control quantum gates between static and mobile qubits. A ballistic electron spin is considered as the mobile qubit, while the static qubit is the electronic spin of a quantum dot fixed in a graphene nanoribbon. Scattering is the low control mechanism of the gate, which, in other systems, is really difficult to exploit because of both back-scattering and the momentum dependence of scattering. We find that Klein tunneling enables the implementation of quasi-deterministic quantum gates regardless of the momenta or the shape of the wave function of the incident electron. The Dirac equation is used to describe the system in the one particle approximation with the interaction between the static and the mobile spins modelled by a Heisenberg Hamiltonian. Furthermore, we discuss an application of this model to generate entanglement between two well separated static qubits.

id: 1307.0251
title: Scalable quantum computing based on stationary spin qubits in coupled quantum dots inside double-sided optical microcavities
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, one column
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 7551 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0251
abstract: Quantum logic gates are the key elements in quantum computing. Here we investigate the possibility of achieving a scalable and compact quantum computing based on stationary electron-spin qubits, by using the giant optical circular birefringence induced by quantum-dot spins in double-sided optical microcavities as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We design the compact quantum circuits for implementing universal and deterministic quantum gates for electron-spin systems, including the two-qubit CNOT gate and the three-qubit Toffoli gate. They are compact and economic, and they do not require additional electron-spin qubits. Moreover, our devices have good scalability and are attractive as they both are based on solid-state quantum systems and the qubits are stationary. They are feasible with the current experimental technology, and both high fidelity and high efficiency can be achieved when the ratio of the side leakage to the cavity decay is low.

id: 1307.0257
title: Characterization of hyperfine interaction between single electron and single nuclear spins in diamond assisted by quantum beat from the nuclear spin
authors: J. H. Shim, B. Nowak, I. Niemeyer, J. Zhang, F. D. Brandao, D. Suter
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0257
abstract: Precise characterization of a hyperfine interaction is a prerequisite for high fidelity manipulations of electron and nuclear spins belonging to a hybrid qubit register in diamond. Here, we demonstrate a novel scheme for determining a hyperfine interaction, using single-quantum and zero-quantum Ramsey fringes, by applying it to the system of a Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) center and a $^{13}$C nuclear spin in the 1$^{\mathrm{st}}$ shell. The zero-quantum Ramsey fringe, analogous to the quantum beat in a $\Lambda$-type level structure, particularly enhances the measurement precision for non-secular hyperfine terms. Precisions less than 0.5 MHz in the estimation of all the components in the hyperfine tensor were achieved. Furthermore, for the first time we experimentally determined the principal axes of the hyperfine interaction in the system. Beyond the 1$^{\mathrm{st}}$ shell, this method can be universally applied to other $^{13}$C nuclear spins interacting with the NV center.

id: 1307.0272
title: Informational correlation between two parties of a quantum system: short spin-1/2 chains with XY Hamiltonian
authors: A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 45 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0272
abstract: We introduce the informational correlation $E^{AB}$ between two interacting quantum subsystems $A$ and $B$ of a quantum system as the number of arbitrary parameters $\varphi_i$ of a unitary transformation $U^A$ (locally performed on the subsystem $A$) which may be detected in the subsystem $B$ by the local measurements. This quantity indicates whether the state of the subsystem $B$ may be effected by means of the unitary transformation applied to the subsystem $A$. Emphasize that $E^{AB}\neq E^{BA}$ in general. The informational correlations in systems with tensor product initial states are studied in more details. In particular, it is shown that the informational correlation may be changed by the local unitary transformations of the subsystem $B$. However, there is some non-reducible part of $E^{AB}(t)$ which may not be decreased by any unitary transformation of the subsystem $B$ at a fixed time instant $t$. Two examples of the informational correlations between two parties of the four node spin-1/2 chain are studied.

id: 1307.0311
title: Block entropy for Kitaev-type spin chains in a transverse field
authors: V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0311
abstract: Block entanglement entropy in the ground state of a quantum spin chain is investigated. The spins have Kitaev-type nearest-neighbor interaction, of strength J_x or J_y, through either x or y components of the spins on alternating bonds, along with a transverse magnetic field h. An exact solution is obtained through Jordan-Wigner fermionization, and it exhibits a macroscopically degenerate ground state for h=0, and a non-degenerate ground state for nonzero h and for all interaction strengths. For a chain of N spins, we study the block entropy of a partition of L contiguous spins. The block entanglement entropy needs the eigenvalues of the 2^L-dimensional reduced density matrix. We employ an efficient method that reduces this problem to evaluating eigenvalues of a L-dimensional matrix, which enables us to calculate easily the block entanglement for large-N chains numerically. The entanglement entropy grows as log L, at the degeneracy point h=0, and only for J_x=J_y. For nonzero magnetic field, the entropy becomes independent of the size, thus obeying the area law. For unequal J_x and J_y, the block entropy shows a non-monotonic behavior for L<N/2.

id: 1307.0338
title: Sequential State Discrimination and Requirement of Quantum Dissonance
authors: Chao-Qian Pang, Fu-Lin Zhang, Li-Fang Xu, Mai-Lin Liang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 052331, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0338
abstract: We study the procedure for sequential unambiguous state discrimination. A qubit is prepared in one of two possible states, and measured by two observers Bob and Charlie sequentially. A necessary condition for the state to be unambiguously discriminated by Charlie is the absence of entanglement between the principal qubit, prepared by Alice, and Bob's auxiliary system. In general, the procedure for both Bob and Charlie to recognize between two nonorthogonal states conclusively relies on the availability of quantum discord which is precisely the quantum dissonance when the entanglement is absent. In Bob's measurement, the left discord is positively correlated with the information extracted by Bob, and the right discord enhances the information left to Charlie. When their product achieves its maximum the probability for both Bob and Charlie to identify the state achieves its optimal value.

id: 1307.0348
title: Centre-of-mass motion-induced decoherence and entanglement generation in a hybrid quantum repeater
authors: J. Z. Bern¨¢d, H. Frydrych, G. Alber
comments: 28 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 235501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0348
abstract: Quantum communication over long distances relies on the ability to create entanglement between two remote quantum nodes. Recent proposals aiming at experimental realization propose a hybrid quantum repeater setup where two distant material qubits are entangled by light-matter interaction. Motivated by these developments, we investigate possible decoherence effects originating from the centre- of-mass motion of the spatially well separated trapped qubits. Within the Lamb-Dicke regime we use photon exchange involving coherent states of the radiation field to entangle the two material qubits. Optimal generalized photonic field measurements are used to achieve entangled qubit pairs with high fidelities and high success probabilities. We demonstrate that the quality of the achievable two-qubit entanglement crucially depends on the trap frequencies involved. Furthermore, dynamical decoupling schemes are proposed which are capable of suppressing centre-of-mass-motion-induced decoherence effects significantly and which involve only local operations acting on the spatially well-separated material qubits.

id: 1307.0363
title: On complete positivity, Markovianity, and the quantum data-processing inequality, in the presence of initial system-environment correlations
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: v3: to appear in Physical Review Letters, 5+3 pages, 2 color figures; v2: 10 pages, much improved, 2 figures; v1: 7 pages, preliminary version posted to encourage comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140502 (3 October 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0363
abstract: We show that complete positivity is not only sufficient but also necessary for the validity of the quantum data-processing inequality. As a consequence, the reduced dynamics of a quantum system are completely positive, even in the presence of initial correlations with its surrounding environment, if and only if such correlations do not allow any anomalous backward flow of information from the environment to the system. Our approach provides an intuitive information-theoretic framework to unify and extend a number of previous results.

id: 1307.0378
title: Pure state quantum statistical mechanics and black holes
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 15 pages, plain tex
journal: Seth Lloyd, Ph.D. Thesis, Rockefeller University, 1988, H. Pagels supervisor
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0378
abstract: Chapter 3 of S. Lloyd's 1988 Ph.D. thesis, `Black Holes, Demons, and the Loss of Coherence: How complex systems get information and what they do with it,' supervisor Heinz Pagels. Reformulates statistical mechanics in terms of pure states and shows that (a) quantum statistics of typical pure states are very close to the mechanics of statistical mechanical ensembles; (b) if a system is in a typical state with energy E, then the reduced density matrix of a subsystem is very close to a thermal state. (A similar result was derived using Levy's lemma some years later by S. Popescu, A.J. Short, A.Winter, Nature Physics 2, 754-758 (2006).) Pure state quantum statistical mechanics is applied to black holesto show that for typical states of matter insideand outside a black hole, the external state is likely to be thermal. Proposes novel interpretation of probabilities in quantum statistical mechanics. Full thesis available at this http URL This chapter was submitted for publication to Physical Review in 1988 but rejected by one sentence referee report: `There is no physics in this paper.' You be the judge.

id: 1307.0380
title: Quantum enigma machines
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 9 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0380
abstract: Enigma machines are devices that perform cryptography using pseudo-random numbers. The original enigma machine code was broken by detecting hidden patterns in these pseudo-random numbers. This paper proposes a model for a quantum optical enigma machine and shows that the phenomenon of quantum data locking makes such quantum enigma machines provably secure even in the presence of noise and loss.

id: 1307.0381
title: Energy transfer using unitary transformations
authors: Winny O'Kelly de Galway, Jan Naudts
comments: 
journal: Entropy, 15(12), 5121-5143 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0381
abstract: We study the unitary time evolution of a simple quantum Hamiltonian describing two harmonic oscillators coupled via a three-level system. The latter acts as an engine transferring energy from one oscillator to the other and is driven in a cyclic manner by time-dependent external fields. The S-matrix of the cycle is obtained in analytic form. The total number of quanta contained in the system is a conserved quantity. As a consequence the spectrum of the S-matrix is purely discrete and the evolution of the system is quasi-periodic.

id: 1307.0383
title: Inverse Engineering Control in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, Marcelo S. Sarandy, J. Gonzalo Muga
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0383
abstract: We propose a scheme for inverse engineering control in open quantum systems. Starting from an undetermined time evolution operator, a time-dependent Hamiltonian is derived in order to guide the system to attain an arbitrary target state at a predefined time. We analyze the fidelity of our control protocol under noise with respect to the stochastic fluctuation of the linear parameters of the Hamiltonian during the time evolution. For a special family of Hamiltonians for two-level systems, we show that the control evolution of the system under noise can be categorized into two standard decohering processes: dephasing and depolarization, for both Markovian and non- Markovian conditions. In particular, we illustrate our formalism by analysing the robustness of the engineered target state.

id: 1307.0401
title: Quantum principal component analysis
authors: Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni, Patrick Rebentrost
comments: 9 pages, Plain TeX
journal: Nature Physics 10, 631 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0401
abstract: The usual way to reveal properties of an unknown quantum state, given many copies of a system in that state, is to perform measurements of different observables and to analyze the measurement results statistically. Here we show that the unknown quantum state can play an active role in its own analysis. In particular, given multiple copies of a quantum system with density matrix \rho, then it is possible to perform the unitary transformation e^{-i\rho t}. As a result, one can create quantum coherence among different copies of the system to perform quantum principal component analysis, revealing the eigenvectors corresponding to the large eigenvalues of the unknown state in time exponentially faster than any existing algorithm.

id: 1307.0411
title: Quantum algorithms for supervised and unsupervised machine learning
authors: Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni, Patrick Rebentrost
comments: 11 pages, Plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0411
abstract: Machine-learning tasks frequently involve problems of manipulating and classifying large numbers of vectors in high-dimensional spaces. Classical algorithms for solving such problems typically take time polynomial in the number of vectors and the dimension of the space. Quantum computers are good at manipulating high-dimensional vectors in large tensor product spaces. This paper provides supervised and unsupervised quantum machine learning algorithms for cluster assignment and cluster finding. Quantum machine learning can take time logarithmic in both the number of vectors and their dimension, an exponential speed-up over classical algorithms.

id: 1307.0452
title: Wigner distribution, nonclassicality and decoherence of generalized and reciprocal binomial states
authors: Anirban Pathak, J. Banerji
comments: 18 pages, 8 Figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 117-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0452
abstract: There are quantum states of light that can be expressed as finite superpositions of Fock states (FSFS). We demonstrate the nonclassicality of an arbitrary FSFS by means of its phase space distributions such as the Wigner function and the $Q$-function. The decoherence of the FSFS is studied by considering the time evolution of its Wigner function in amplitude decay and phase damping channels. As examples, we determine the nonclassicality and decoherence of generalized and reciprocal binomial states.

id: 1307.0470
title: Estimation of Phase and Diffusion: Combining Quantum Statistics and Classical Noise
authors: Sergey I. Knysh, Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0470
abstract: Coherent ensembles of $N$ qubits present an advantage in quantum phase estimation over separable mixtures, but coherence decay due to classical phase diffusion reduces overall precision. In some contexts, the strength of diffusion may be the parameter of interest. We examine estimation of both phase and diffusion in large spin systems using a novel mathematical formulation. For the first time, we show a closed form expression for the quantum Fisher information for estimation of a unitary parameter in a noisy environment. The optimal probe state has a non-Gaussian profile and differs also from the canonical phase state; it saturates a new tight precision bound. For noise below a critical threshold, entanglement always leads to enhanced precision, but the shot-noise limit is beaten only by a constant factor, independent of $N$. We provide upper and lower bounds to this factor, valid in low and high noise regimes. Unlike other noise types, it is shown for $N \gg 1$ that phase and diffusion can be measured simultaneously and optimally.

id: 1307.0471
title: Quantum support vector machine for big data classification
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Masoud Mohseni, Seth Lloyd
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 130503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0471
abstract: Supervised machine learning is the classification of new data based on already classified training examples. In this work, we show that the support vector machine, an optimized binary classifier, can be implemented on a quantum computer, with complexity logarithmic in the size of the vectors and the number of training examples. In cases when classical sampling algorithms require polynomial time, an exponential speed-up is obtained. At the core of this quantum big data algorithm is a non-sparse matrix exponentiation technique for efficiently performing a matrix inversion of the training data inner-product (kernel) matrix.

id: 1307.0479
title: Uncertainty principle in a cavity at finite temperature
authors: A.P.C. Malbouisson
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, version as accepted to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 014101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0479
abstract: We employ a dressed state approach to perform a study on the behavior of the uncertainty principle for a system in a heated cavity. We find, in a small cavity for a given temperature, an oscillatory behavior of the momentum--coordinate product, $(\Delta\,p)\,(\Delta\,q)$, which attains periodically finite absolute minimum (maximum) values, no matter large is the elapsed time. This behavior is in a sharp contrast with what happens in free space, in which case, the product $(\Delta\,p)\,(\Delta\,q)$ tends asymptotically, for each temperature, to a constant value, independent of time.

id: 1307.0513
title: Domain-wall melting in ultracold boson systems with holes and spin-flip defects
authors: Jad C. Halimeh, Anton W?llert, Ian P. McCulloch, Ulrich Schollw?ck, Thomas Barthel
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures. Supplemental Material: 2 animations (avi) comparing the domain-wall melting with and without defects, corresponding to figures 3, 4 and the discussion in section V.B; minor improvements; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0513
abstract: Quantum magnetism is a fundamental phenomenon of nature. As of late, it has garnered a lot of interest because experiments with ultracold atomic gases in optical lattices could be used as a simulator for phenomena of magnetic systems. A paradigmatic example is the time evolution of a domain-wall state of a spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain, the so-called domain-wall melting. The model can be implemented by having two species of bosonic atoms with unity filling and strong on-site repulsion U in an optical lattice. In this paper, we study the domain-wall melting in such a setup on the basis of the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (tDMRG). We are particularly interested in the effects of defects that originate from an imperfect preparation of the initial state. Typical defects are holes (empty sites) and flipped spins. We show that the dominating effects of holes on observables like the spatially resolved magnetization can be taken account of by a linear combination of spatially shifted observables from the clean case. For sufficiently large U, further effects due to holes become negligible. In contrast, the effects of spin flips are more severe as their dynamics occur on the same time scale as that of the domain-wall melting itself. It is hence advisable to avoid preparation schemes that are based on spin-flips.

id: 1307.0528
title: Complementarity and Classical Limit of Quantum Mechanics: Energy Measurement aspects
authors: Ad¨¦lcio C. Oliveira, Zolacir T. Oliveira Junior, Nestor S. Correia
comments: 4 figures and 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0528
abstract: In the present contribution we discuss the role of experimental limitations in the classical limit problem. We studied some simple models and found that Quantum Mechanics does not re-produce classical mechanical predictions, unless we consider the experimental limitations ruled by uncertainty principle. We have shown that the discrete nature of energy levels of integrable systems can be accessed by classical measurements. We have defined a precise limit for this procedure. It may be used as a tool to define the classical limit as far as the discrete spectra of integrable systems are concerned. If a diffusive environment is considered, we conclude that the "lifetime" of discreteness is approximately $1/\kappa$ ($\kappa$ is the diffusion constant), thus it was possible to relate the classical limit of a spectra with the action of an environment and experimental resolution.

id: 1307.0560
title: Spontaneous photon-emission from a non-relativistic free charged particle in collapse models: A case-study
authors: Angelo Bassi, Sandro Donadi
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 761-765 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0560
abstract: We study the photon emission rate of a non relativistic charged particle interacting with an external classical noise through its position. Both the particle and the electromagnetic field are quantized. Under only the dipole approximation, the equations of motion can be solved exactly for a free particle, or a particle bounded by an harmonic potential. The physical quantity we will be interested in is the spectrum of the radiation emitted by the particle, due to the interaction with the noise. We will highlight several properties of the spectrum and clarify some issues appeared in the literature, regarding the exact mathematical formula of a spectrum for a free particle.

id: 1307.0576
title: Closed form of local quantum uncertainty and a sudden change of quantum correlations
authors: Shuhao Wang, Hui Li, Xian Lu, Gui Lu Long
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to crucial misunderstanding of the LQU
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0576
abstract: Quantum correlations play vital roles in the quantum features in quantum information processing tasks, and it is of fundamental importance in studying quantum phenomenons. Among the measures of quantum correlations, recently, the local quantum uncertainty (LQU) for bipartite quantum systems is proposed [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240402 (2013)]. In this paper, we have derived the closed form of the LQU for a large class of arbitrary-dimensional bipartite quantum states. We revisit the problem of sudden change of quantum correlations in the transition from separable to bound and free entangled states [Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 1056 (1999)]. By using the LQU, we have demonstrated that the sudden change located exactly near the transition point from separable to bound entangled states.

id: 1307.0595
title: Role of initial system-environment correlations: A master equation approach
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 88, 052107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0595
abstract: In order to achieve practical implementations of emerging quantum technologies, it is important to have a firm understanding of the dynamics of realistic quantum open systems. Master equations provide a widely used tool in this regard. In this work, we first construct a master equation, valid for weak system-environment coupling, which explicitly takes into account the impact of preparing an initial system state from an equilibrium system-environment state that has system-environment correlations. We then investigate the role of initial system-environment correlations using this master equation for a system consisting of many two-level atoms interacting with a common environment. We show that, in general, due to the initial system-environment correlations before a state preparation, the quantum state of the system can evolve at a faster time-scale. Moreover, we also consider different initial state preparations, and demonstrate that the influence of state preparations depends on the initial states prepared. Our results can be of interest to many topics based on quantum open systems where system-environment correlation effects have been neglected before.

id: 1307.0611
title: Quantum Will: Determinism meets Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jos¨¦ I. Latorre
comments: To appear in Euresis Journal, this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0611
abstract: We present a brief non-technical introduction to the standing discussion on the relation between Quantum Mechanics and Determinism. Quantum Mechanics inherent randomness in the measurement process is sometimes presented as a door to explain free will. We argue against this interpretation. The possibility that Quantum Mechanics provides just an effective description of Nature which is only valid at our low-energy scales is also discussed.

id: 1307.0632
title: Decoupling with random quantum circuits
authors: Winton Brown, Omar Fawzi
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0632
abstract: Decoupling has become a central concept in quantum information theory with applications including proving coding theorems, randomness extraction and the study of conditions for reaching thermal equilibrium. However, our understanding of the dynamics that lead to decoupling is limited. In fact, the only families of transformations that are known to lead to decoupling are (approximate) unitary two-designs, i.e., measures over the unitary group which behave like the Haar measure as far as the first two moments are concerned. Such families include for example random quantum circuits with O(n^2) gates, where n is the number of qubits in the system under consideration. In fact, all known constructions of decoupling circuits use \Omega(n^2) gates. Here, we prove that random quantum circuits with O(n log^2 n) gates satisfy an essentially optimal decoupling theorem. In addition, these circuits can be implemented in depth O(log^3 n). This proves that decoupling can happen in a time that scales polylogarithmically in the number of particles in the system, provided all the particles are allowed to interact. Our proof does not proceed by showing that such circuits are approximate two-designs in the usual sense, but rather we directly analyze the decoupling property.

id: 1307.0682
title: On non-equilibrium photon distributions in the Casimir effect
authors: Vanik E. Mkrtchian, Carsten Henkel
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, added Appendix
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 526 (2014) 87-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0682
abstract: The electromagnetic field in a typical geometry of the Casimir effect is described in the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism. The main result is the photon distribution function (Keldysh Green function) in any stationary state of the field. A two-plate geometry with a sliding interface in local equilibrium is studied in detail, and full agreement with the results of Rytov fluctuation electrodynamics is found. As an illustration, plots are shown for a spectrum of the energy density between the plates.

id: 1307.0689
title: Polyestimate: instantaneous open source surface code analysis
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0689
abstract: The surface code is highly practical, enabling arbitrarily reliable quantum computation given a 2-D nearest-neighbor coupled array of qubits with gate error rates below approximately 1%. We describe an open source library, Polyestimate, enabling a user with no knowledge of the surface code to specify realistic physical quantum gate error models and obtain logical error rate estimates. Functions allowing the user to specify simple depolarizing error rates for each gate have also been included. Every effort has been made to make this library user-friendly.

id: 1307.0694
title: On the theory of quantum measurement
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 18 pages, no figure. Many small improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0694
abstract: The notion of state reduction employed by the standard quantum theory of measurement is difficult to accept for two reasons: It leaves open where and when the reduction takes place and it does not give any objective conditions under which the reduction occurs. Some recently published ideas on this problem are developed an improved. The disturbance of measurement due to identical particles in the environment is shown to make any POV measure non-measurable. Truncated POV (TPOV) measures are introduced that can be measurable if object systems satisfy the additional requirement of having separation status. The separation status is generalised from domain of space to domain of phase space. Starting from the previously introduced distinction between ancillas and detectors, further study of experiments suggests that a thermodynamic mixing within a detector and the consequent loss of separation status is the objective condition for the occurrence of the state reduction. The conjecture is simple, specific and testable. The theory is illustrated by a model of a real measurement.

id: 1307.0732
title: Can coarse measurements reveal macroscopic quantum effects?
authors: Tian Wang, Roohollah Ghobadi, Sadegh Raeisi, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0732
abstract: It has recently been conjectured that detecting quantum effects such as superposition or entanglement for macroscopic systems always requires high measurement precision. Analyzing an apparent counter-example involving macroscopic coherent states and Kerr non-linearities, we find that while measurements with coarse outcomes can be sufficient, the phase control precision of the necessary non-linear operations has to increase with the size of the system. This suggests a refined conjecture that either the {\it outcome precision} or the {\it control precision} of the measurements has to increase with system size.

id: 1307.0771
title: Fault-ignorant Quantum Search
authors: Peter Vrana, David Reeb, Daniel Reitzner, Michael M. Wolf
comments: v1: 15+8 pages, 4 figures; v2: 19+8 pages, 4 figures, published version (Introduction section significantly expanded, presentation clarified, results and order unchanged)
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 073033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0771
abstract: We investigate the problem of quantum searching on a noisy quantum computer. Taking a 'fault-ignorant' approach, we analyze quantum algorithms that solve the task for various different noise strengths, which are possibly unknown beforehand. We prove lower bounds on the runtime of such algorithms and thereby find that the quadratic speedup is necessarily lost (in our noise models). However, for low but constant noise levels the algorithms we provide (based on Grover's algorithm) still outperform the best noiseless classical search algorithm.

id: 1307.0810
title: Can One Detect Whether a Wave Function Has Collapsed?
authors: Charles Wesley Cowan, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 19 pages LaTeX, 8 figures. The first version of this paper has been (revised and) split into two papers, the first of which is v2 of this post, and the second part is posted as arXiv:1312.7321
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 47: 195303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0810
abstract: Consider a quantum system prepared in state $\psi$, a unit vector in a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space. Let $b_1,...,b_d$ be an orthonormal basis and suppose that, with some probability $0<p<1$, $\psi$ ``collapses,'' i.e., gets replaced by $b_k$ (possibly times a phase factor) with Born's probability $|\langle b_k|\psi\rangle|^2$. The question we investigate is: How well can any quantum experiment on the system determine afterwards whether a collapse has occurred? The answer depends on how much is known about the initial vector $\psi$. We provide a number of different results addressing several variants of the question. In each case, no experiment can provide more than rather limited probabilistic information. In case $\psi$ is drawn randomly with uniform distribution over the unit sphere in Hilbert space, no experiment performs better than a blind guess without measurement; that is, no experiment provides any useful information.

id: 1307.0827
title: Epistemology of Wave Function Collapse in Quantum Physics
authors: Charles Wesley Cowan, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 28 pages LaTeX, 1 figure; v2 minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0827
abstract: Among several possibilities for what reality could be like in view of the empirical facts of quantum mechanics, one is provided by theories of spontaneous wave function collapse, the best known of which is the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (GRW) theory. We show mathematically that in GRW theory (and similar theories) there are limitations to knowledge, that is, inhabitants of a GRW universe cannot find out all the facts true about their universe. As a specific example, they cannot accurately measure the number of collapses that a given physical system undergoes during a given time interval; in fact, they cannot reliably measure whether one or zero collapses occur. Put differently, in a GRW universe certain meaningful, factual questions are empirically undecidable. We discuss several types of limitations to knowledge and compare them with those in other (no-collapse) versions of quantum mechanics, such as Bohmian mechanics. Most of our results also apply to observer-induced collapses as in orthodox quantum mechanics (as opposed to the spontaneous collapses of GRW theory).

id: 1307.0831
title: A theory of minimal updates in holography
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: main text: 5 pages, 4 figures, appendices: 7 pages, 7 figures. Revised for greater clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0831
abstract: Consider two quantum critical Hamiltonians $H$ and $\tilde{H}$ on a $d$-dimensional lattice that only differ in some region $\mathcal{R}$. We study the relation between holographic representations, obtained through real-space renormalization, of their corresponding ground states $\left.| \psi \right\rangle$ and $\left.| \tilde{\psi} \right\rangle$. We observe that, even though $\left.| \psi \right\rangle$ and $\left.| \tilde{\psi} \right\rangle$ disagree significantly both inside and outside region $\mathcal{R}$, they still admit holographic descriptions that only differ inside the past causal cone $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{R})$ of region $\mathcal{R}$, where $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{R})$ is obtained by coarse-graining region $\mathcal{R}$. We argue that this result follows from a notion of directed influence in the renormalization group flow that is closely connected to the success of Wilson's numerical renormalization group for impurity problems. At a practical level, directed influence allows us to exploit translation invariance when describing a homogeneous system with e.g. an impurity, in spite of the fact that the Hamiltonian is no longer invariant under translations.

id: 1307.0832
title: Preparation of Nuclear Spin Singlet States using Spin-Lock Induced Crossing
authors: Stephen J. DeVience, Ronald L. Walsworth, Matthew S. Rosen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 173002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0832
abstract: We introduce a broadly applicable technique to create nuclear spin singlet states in organic molecules and other many-atom systems. We employ a novel pulse sequence to produce a spin-lock induced crossing (SLIC) of the spin singlet and triplet energy levels, which enables triplet/singlet polarization transfer and singlet state preparation. We demonstrate the utility of the SLIC method by producing a long-lived nuclear spin singlet state on two strongly-coupled proton pairs in the tripeptide molecule phenylalanine-glycine-glycine dissolved in D2O, and by using SLIC to measure the J-couplings, chemical shift differences, and singlet lifetimes of the proton pairs. We show that SLIC is more efficient at creating nearly-equivalent nuclear spin singlet states than previous pulse sequence techniques, especially when triplet/singlet polarization transfer occurs on the same timescale as spin-lattice relaxation.

id: 1307.0858
title: Error models in quantum computation: an application of model selection
authors: Lucia Schwarz, Steven van Enk
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0858
abstract: Threshold theorems for fault-tolerant quantum computing assume that errors are of certain types. But how would one detect whether errors of the "wrong" type occur in one's experiment, especially if one does not even know what type of error to look for? The problem is that for many qubits a full state description is impossible to analyze, and a full process description is even more impossible to analyze. As a result, one simply cannot detect all types of errors. Here we show through a quantum state estimation example (on up to 25 qubits) how to attack this problem using model selection. We use, in particular, the Akaike Information Criterion. The example indicates that the number of measurements that one has to perform before noticing errors of the wrong type scales polynomially both with the number of qubits and with the error size.

id: 1307.0906
title: Analog Superconducting Quantum Simulator for Holstein Polarons
authors: Feng Mei, Vladimir M. Stojanovic, Irfan Siddiqi, Lin Tian
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; introduction changed substantially. this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 224502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0906
abstract: We propose an analog quantum simulator for the Holstein molecular-crystal model based on a superconducting circuit QED system in the dispersive regime. By varying the driving field on the superconducting resonators, one can readily access both the adiabatic and anti-adiabatic regimes of this model. Strong e-ph coupling required for small-polaron formation can also be reached. We show that small-polaron state of arbitrary quasimomentum can be generated by applying a microwave pulse to the resonators. We also show that significant squeezing in the resonator modes can be achieved in the polaron-crossover regime through a measurement-based scheme.

id: 1307.0948
title: Invariance of reduced density matrices under Local Unitary operations
authors: A. M. Martins
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0948
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for local unitary (LU) operators to leave invariant the set of 1-qubit reduced density matrices of a multi-qubit state. LU operators with this property are tensor products of {\it cyclic local} operators, and form a subgroup, the centralizer subgroup of the set of reduced states, of the Lie group $SU(2)^{\otimes n}$. The dimension of this subgroup depends on the type of reduced density matrices. It is maximum when all reduced states are maximally mixed and it is minimum when none of them is maximally mixed. For any given multi-qubit state, pure or mixed, we compute the LU operators that fix the corresponding reduced density matrices and determine the equivalence class of the given state.

id: 1307.0963
title: Ultrafast quantum random access memory utilizing single Rydberg atoms in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Kelly R. Patton, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 5 pages of RevTex4-1, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0963
abstract: We propose a long-lived and rapidly accessible quantum memory unit, for which the operational Hilbert space is spanned by states involving the two macroscopically occupied hyperfine levels of a miscible binary atomic Bose-Einstein condensate and the Rydberg state of a single atom. It is shown that an arbitrary qubit state, initially prepared using a flux qubit, can be rapidly transferred to and from the trapped atomic ensemble in approximately 10 ns and with a large fidelity of 97%, via an effective two-photon process using an external laser for the transition to the Rydberg level. The achievable ultrafast transfer of quantum information therefore enables a large number of storage and retrieval cycles from the highly controllable quantum optics setup of a dilute ultracold gas, even within the typically very short flux qubit lifetimes of the order of microseconds.

id: 1307.1001
title: Systems with stationary distribution of quantum correlations: open spin-1/2 chains with XY interaction
authors: E.B.Fel'dman, A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc V.13 (2014) 201-225
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1001
abstract: Although quantum correlations in a quantum system are characterized by the evolving quantities (which are entanglement and discord usually), we reveal such basis (i.e. the set of virtual particles) for the representation of the density matrix that the entanglement and/or discord between any two virtual particles in such representation are stationary. In particular, dealing with the nearest neighbor approximation, this system of virtual particles is represented by the $\beta$-fermions of the Jordan-Wigner transformation. Such systems are important in quantum information devices because the evolution of quantum entanglement/discord leads to the problems of realization of quantum operations. The advantage of stationary entanglement/discord is that they are completely defined by the initial density matrix and by the Hamiltonian governing the quantum dynamics in the system under consideration. Moreover, using the special initial condition together with the special system's geometry, we construct large cluster of virtual particles with the same pairwise entanglement/discord. In other words, the measure of quantum correlations is stationary in this system and correlations are uniformly "distributed" among all virtual particles. As examples, we use both homogeneous and non-homogeneous spin-1/2 open chains with XY-interaction although other types of interactions might be also of interest.

id: 1307.1021
title: On the spontaneous emission of electromagnetic radiation in the CSL model
authors: S. Donadi, A. Bassi, D.-A. Deckert
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX
journal: Annals of Physics 340, Issue 1, 70-86 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1021
abstract: Spontaneous photon emission in the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) model is studied one more time. In the CSL model each particle interacts with a noise field that induces the collapse of its wave function. As a consequence of this interaction, when the particle is electrically charged, it radiates. As discussed in [1], the formula for the emission rate, to first perturbative order, contains two terms: One is proportional to the Fourier component of the noise field at the same frequency as that of the emitted photon and one is proportional to the zero Fourier component of the noise field. As discussed in previous works, this second term seems unphysical. In [1], it was shown that the unphysical term disappears when the noises is confined to a bounded region and the final particle's state is a wave packet. Here we investigate the origin of the unphysical term and why it vanishes according to the previous prescription. For this purpose, the electrodynamic part of the equation of motion is solved exactly while the part due to the noise is treated perturbatively. We show that the unphysical term is connected to exponentially decaying function of time which dies out in the large time limit, however, approximates to 1 in the first perturbative order in the electromagnetic field.

id: 1307.1026
title: Entanglement Detection and Distillation for Arbitrary Bipartite Systems
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Ting-Gui Zhang, Xianqing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 11 pages
journal: Quant. Inform. Proc. 12 (2013) 2861-2870
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1026
abstract: We present an inequality for detecting entanglement and distillability of arbitrary dimensional bipartite systems. This inequality provides a sufficient condition of entanglement for bipartite mixed states, and a necessary and sufficient condition of entanglement for bipartite pure states. Moreover, the inequality also gives a necessary and sufficient condition for distillability.

id: 1307.1053
title: Inequalities for nonnegative numbers and information properties
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 16 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Vol. 34, pp. 203-218 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1053
abstract: We discuss some inequalities for N nonnegative numbers. We use these inequalities to obtain known inequalities for probability distributions and new entropic and information inequalities for quantum tomograms of qudit states. The inequalities characterize the degree of quantum correlations in addition to noncontextuality and quantum discord. We use the subadditivity and strong subadditivity conditions for qudit tomographic-probability distributions depending on the unitary-group parameters in order to derive new inequalities for Shannon, Renyi, and Tsallis entropies of spin states.

id: 1307.1081
title: Finite-key analysis for measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Marcos Curty, Feihu Xu, Wei Cui, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1081
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) promises unconditionally secure communications. However, as practical devices tend to deviate from their specifications, the security of some practical QKD systems is no longer valid. In particular, an adversary can exploit imperfect detectors to learn a large part of the secret key, even though the security proof claims otherwise. Recently, a practical approach---measurement-device-independent QKD (mdiQKD)---has been proposed to solve this problem. However, so far the security has only been fully proven under the assumption that the legitimate users of the system have unlimited resources. Here we fill this gap and provide a rigorous security proof of mdiQKD against general attacks in the finite-key regime. This is obtained by applying large deviation theory, specifically the Chernoff bound, to perform parameter estimation. For the first time we demonstrate the feasibility of long-distance implementations of mdiQKD within a reasonable time-frame of signal transmission.

id: 1307.1083
title: Discord in relation to resource states for measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Eleanor G. Rieffel, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 7 pages. Title changed again at request of editors. Significant expository changes. Technical content the same as before
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1083
abstract: We consider the issue of what should count as a resource for measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC). While a state that supports universal quantum computation clearly should be considered a resource, universality should not be necessary given the existence of interesting, but less computationally-powerful, classes of MBQCs. Here, we propose minimal criteria for a state to be considered a resource state for MBQC. Using these criteria, we explain why discord-free states cannot be resources for MBQC, contrary to recent claims [Hoban et al., arXiv:1304.2667v1]. Independently of our criteria, we also show that the arguments of Hoban et al., if correct, would imply that Shor's algorithm (for example) can be implemented by measuring discord-free states.

id: 1307.1104
title: Quantum Tunneling and Information Entropy in a Double Square Well Potential: Ammonia Molecule
authors: S.T. Tserkis, Ch.C. Moustakidis, S.E. Massen, C.P. Panos
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1104
abstract: Quantum tunneling is the quantum-mechanical effect where a particle tunnels through a classically forbidden region. Double Square Well Potential (DSWP) is a system where this phenomenon is feasible. Numerous phenomena can be illustrated by considering motion in a pair of wells that are separated by a barrier of finite height and width. The energy level splitting, resulting from barrier penetration, is the reason of the so-called inversion spectrum, which is an example of quantum tunneling. Out of several molecules ($NH_3$, $PH_3$, $AsH_3$, $NH_2CN$) where this inversion phenomenon occurs, ammonia molecule $NH_3$ provides a nice physical realization of a vibrational system with a DSWP. The main goal of the present work is to examine the implications of quantum tunneling on information entropy measures (Shannon's and Fisher's) and statistical complexity.

id: 1307.1114
title: Hearing the Shape of the Ising Model with a Programmable Superconducting-Flux Annealer
authors: Walter Vinci, Klas Markstr?m, Sergio Boixo, Aidan Roy, Federico M. Spedalieri, Paul A. Warburton, Simone Severini
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1114
abstract: Two objects can be distinguished if they have different measurable properties. Thus, distinguishability depends on the Physics of the objects. In considering graphs, we revisit the Ising model as a framework to define physically meaningful spectral invariants. In this context, we introduce a family of refinements of the classical spectrum and consider the quantum partition function. We demonstrate that the energy spectrum of the quantum Ising Hamiltonian is a stronger invariant than the classical one without refinements. For the purpose of implementing the related physical systems, we perform experiments on a programmable annealer with superconducting flux technology. Departing from the paradigm of adiabatic computation, we take advantage of a noisy evolution of the device to generate statistics of low energy states. The graphs considered in the experiments have the same classical partition functions, but different quantum spectra. The data obtained from the annealer distinguish non-isomorphic graphs via information contained in the classical refinements of the functions but not via the differences in the quantum spectra.

id: 1307.1122
title: Simulating GHZ Correlations Relaxing Physical Constraints
authors: Biswajit Paul, Kaushiki Mukherjee, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, revtex, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1122
abstract: Violation of Bell inequality (or, Bell-type inequalities) by nonlocal correlations is justified by relaxation of at least one of the plausible physical constraints used to model such inequality. Based on this fact, in this letter we present a procedure to simulate three-qubit GHZ correlation relaxing two constraints, determinism and no signaling simultaneously. We have also derived the minimum amount of indeterminism and signaling to be introduced in a system. The corresponding number of signaling and local bits of mutual information needed to communicate are also provided and thus we are able to focus on utility of relaxation of these two constraints as useful resources.

id: 1307.1136
title: Efficient Quantum Polar Codes Requiring No Preshared Entanglement
authors: Joseph M. Renes, David Sutter, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Renato Renner
comments: very welcome! 35 pages, 10 figures. v2: Improvements to presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1136
abstract: We construct an explicit quantum coding scheme which achieves a communication rate not less than the coherent information when used to transmit quantum information over a noisy quantum channel. For Pauli and erasure channels we also present efficient encoding and decoding algorithms for this communication scheme based on polar codes (essentially linear in the blocklength), but which do not require the sender and receiver to share any entanglement before the protocol begins. Due to the existence of degeneracies in the involved error-correcting codes it is indeed possible that the rate of the scheme exceeds the coherent information. We provide a simple criterion which indicates such performance. Finally we discuss how the scheme can be used for secret key distillation as well as private channel coding.

id: 1307.1142
title: Quantum Teleportation from a Propagating Photon to a Solid-State Spin Qubit
authors: Wei-bo Gao, P. Fallahi, E. Togan, A. Delteil, Y. S. Chin, J. Miguel-Sanchez, A. Imamoglu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1142
abstract: The realization of a quantum interface between a propagating photon used for transmission of quantum information, and a stationary qubit used for storage and manipulation, has long been an outstanding goal in quantum information science. A method for implementing such an interface between dissimilar qubits is quantum teleportation, which has attracted considerable interest not only as a versatile quantum-state-transfer method but also as a quantum computational primitive. Here, we experimentally demonstrate transfer of quantum information carried by a photonic qubit to a quantum dot spin qubit using quantum teleportation. In our experiment, a single photon in a superposition state of two colors -- a photonic qubit is generated using selective resonant excitation of a neutral quantum dot. We achieve an unprecedented degree of indistinguishability of single photons from different quantum dots by using local electric and magnetic field control. To teleport a photonic qubit, we generate an entangled spin-photon state in a second quantum dot located 5 meters away from the first and interfere the photons from the two dots in a Hong-Ou-Mandel set-up. A coincidence detection at the output of the interferometer heralds successful teleportation, which we verify by measuring the resulting spin state after its coherence time is prolonged by an optical spin-echo pulse sequence. The demonstration of successful inter-conversion of photonic and semiconductor spin qubits constitute a major step towards the realization of on-chip quantum networks based on semiconductor nano-structures.

id: 1307.1175
title: Scattering-Free Optical Levitation of a Cavity Mirror
authors: G. Guccione, M. Hosseini, S. Adlong, M. T. Johnsson, J. Hope, B. C. Buchler, P. K. Lam
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 183001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1175
abstract: We demonstrate the feasibility of levitating a small mirror using only radiation pressure. In our scheme, the mirror is supported by a tripod where each leg of the tripod is a Fabry-Perot cavity. The macroscopic state of the mirror is coherently coupled to the supporting cavity modes allowing coherent interrogation and manipulation of the mirror motion. The proposed scheme is an extreme example of the optical spring, where a mechanical oscillator is isolated from the environment and its mechanical frequency and macroscopic state can be manipulated solely through optical fields. We model the stability of the system and find a three-dimensional lattice of trapping points where cavity resonances allow for build up of optical field sufficient to support the weight of the mirror. Our scheme offers a unique platform for studying quantum and classical optomechanics and can potentially be used for precision gravitational field sensing and quantum state generation.

id: 1307.1183
title: Quantum computational algorithm for hidden symmetry subgroup problems on semi-direct product of cyclic groups
authors: Jeong San Kim, Eunok Bae, Soojoon Lee
comments: 12 pages, No figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1107.2189 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1183
abstract: We characterize the algebraic structure of semi-direct product of cyclic groups, $\Z_{N}\rtimes\Z_{p}$, where $p$ is an odd prime number which does not divide $q-1$ for any prime factor $q$ of $N$, and provide a polynomial-time quantum computational algorithm solving hidden symmetry subgroup problem of the groups.

id: 1307.1194
title: The Dual Roles of Quantum Discord in a Non-demolition Probing Task
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Jia-sen Jin, Heng Fan, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87, 022113(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1194
abstract: We present a non-demolition quantum information processing task of probing the information of a class of quantum state. In this task, the information is extracted by some unitary evolution with the introduced probing qubit assisted, but the probed quantum state (density matrix) is undisturbed at any time and independent of the choice of the initial probing state. We give a sufficient and necessary condition on the Hamiltonian that can lead to the successful realization of such a task. We prove that, for any feasible scheme, the probed plus probing system will always stay at a disentangled state with one side quantum discord absent and the other side one inevitably produced in the probing process. An explicit example is given for the demonstration, whilst the example shows that the ratio of quantum discord to the total correlation will have to reduce to zero for the maximal accessible information. In this sense, we say that quantum discord plays the dual roles in this case.

id: 1307.1196
title: Entangling Power in the Deterministic Quantum Computation with One Qubit
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages and 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A ,87,022322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1196
abstract: The deterministic quantum computing with one qubit (DQC1) is a mixed-state quantum computation algorithm that evaluates the normalized trace of a unitary matrix and is more powerful than the classical counterpart. We find that the normalized trace of the unitary matrix can be directly described by the entangling power of the quantum circuit of the DQC1, so the nontrivial DQC1 is always accompanied with the non-vanishing entangling power. In addition, it is shown that the entangling power also determines the intrinsic complexity of this quantum computation algorithm, i.e., the larger entangling power corresponds to higher complexity. Besides, it is also shown that the non-vanishing entangling power does always exist in other similar tasks of DQC1.

id: 1307.1197
title: Direct Measure of Quantum Correlation
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Heng Fan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A,84, 062123(2011) .The authors should be Chang-shui Yu and Haiqing Zhao
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1197
abstract: The quantumness of the correlation known as quantum correlation is usually measured by quantum discord. So far various quantum discords can be roughly understood as indirect measure by some special discrepancy of two quantities. We present a direct measure of quantum correlation by revealing the difference between the structures of classically and quantum correlated states. Our measure explicitly includes the contributions of the inseparability and local non-orthogonality of the eigenvectors of a density. Besides its relatively easy computability, our measure can provide a unified understanding of quantum correlation of all the present versions.

id: 1307.1216
title: Wavelength-Multiplexed Quantum Networks with Ultrafast Frequency Combs
authors: Jonathan Roslund, Renn¨¦ Medeiros De Araujo, Shifeng Jiang, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1216
abstract: Highly entangled quantum networks cluster states lie at the heart of recent approaches to quantum computing \cite{Nielsen2006,Lloyd2012}. Yet, the current approach for constructing optical quantum networks does so one node at a time \cite{Furusawa2008,Furusawa2009,Peng2012}, which lacks scalability. Here we demonstrate the \emph{single-step} fabrication of a multimode quantum network from the parametric downconversion of femtosecond frequency combs. Ultrafast pulse shaping \cite{weiner2000} is employed to characterize the comb's spectral entanglement \cite{vanLoock2003}. Each of the 511 possible bipartitions among ten spectral regions is shown to be entangled; furthermore, an eigenmode decomposition reveals that eight independent quantum channels \cite{Braunstein2005} (qumodes) are subsumed within the comb. This multicolor entanglement imports the classical concept of wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) to the quantum domain by playing upon frequency entanglement as a means to elevate quantum channel capacity. The quantum frequency comb is easily addressable, robust with respect to decoherence, and scalable, which renders it a unique tool for quantum information.

id: 1307.1235
title: From Classical Mechanics with Doubled Degrees of Freedom to Quantum Field Theory for Nonconservative System
authors: Y. Kuwahara, Y. Nakamura, Y. Yamanaka
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1235
abstract: The $2 \times 2$-matrix structure of Green's functions is a common feature for the real-time formalisms of quantum field theory under thermal situations, such as the closed time path formalism and Thermo Field Dynamics (TFD). It has been believed to originate from quantum nature. Recently, Galley has proposed the Hamilton's principle with initial data for nonconservative classical systems, doubling each degree of freedom [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 174301 (2013)]. We show that the Galley's Hamilton formalism can be extended to quantum field and that the resulting theory is naturally identical with nonequilibrium TFD.

id: 1307.1263
title: Calculation of the spiked harmonic oscillators through a generalized pseudospectral method
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 321, 231 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1263
abstract: The generalized pseudospectral method is employed for the accurate calculation of eigenvalues, densities and expectation values for the spiked harmonic oscillators. This allows \emph{nonuniform} and \emph{optimal} spatial discretization of the corresponding single-particle radial Schr\"odinger equation satisfying the Dirichlet boundary conditions leading to the standard diagonalization of the symmetric matrices. The present results for a large range of potential parameters are in excellent agreement with those from the other accurate methods available in the literature. The ground and excited states (both low as well as high angular momentum states) are obtained with equal ease and accuracy. Some new states including the higher excited states are reported here for the first time. This offers a simple, accurate and efficient method for the treatment of these and a wide variety of other singular potentials of physical and chemical interest in quantum mechanics.

id: 1307.1310
title: The Oxford Questions on the foundations of quantum physics
authors: G. A. D. Briggs, J. N. Butterfield, A. Zeilinger
comments: 8 pages
journal: Proc R Soc A 469: 20130299. 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1310
abstract: The twentieth century saw two fundamental revolutions in physics -- relativity and quantum. Daily use of these theories can numb the sense of wonder at their immense empirical success. Does their instrumental effectiveness stand on the rock of secure concepts or the sand of unresolved fundamentals? Does measuring a quantum system probe, or even create, reality, or merely change belief? Must relativity and quantum theory just co-exist or might we find a new theory which unifies the two? To bring such questions into sharper focus, we convened a conference on Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality. Some issues remain as controversial as ever, but some are being nudged by theory's secret weapon of experiment.

id: 1307.1325
title: Distribution of quantum discord in Heisenberg Antiferromagnets
authors: Aritra Kundu, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 435304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1325
abstract: The quantum discord, which quantifies the amount of quantum correlations present between parts of a system, is investigated for antiferromagnetic spin systems. The discord for a pair of spins in the many-spin ground state is related to the diagonal and off-diagonal spin-spin correlation functions and the local magnetization. For isotropic and translationally invariant states, the discord is shown to be a function of the diagonal correlation function only. Thus, near a thermal/quantum critical point, the discord for a pair of spins shows long-range behavior, analogously of the correlation function. The discord exhibits a kink singularity as a function of the anisotropy parameter for the the ground state of the Heisenberg model, for both nearest-neighbor spins as well as for well-separated spins. The preferred measurement basis for the minimum conditional entropy, which determines the discord, changes discontinuously across the critical point. The conditional entropy distribution over all possible the measurement basis is investigated. For the isotropic model, the distribution is just a delta-function, whereas it has a twin-peak structure for anisotropic model. It is shown that the average value and the mean-square fluctuation of the conditional entropy also show a signature of the critical-point behavior.

id: 1307.1350
title: Quantum state transfer and Hadamard gate for coherent states
authors: Thiago Prud¨ºncio
comments: 11 pages,4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1108.1240
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 11, 1350024 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1350
abstract: We propose a quantum state transfer from an atomic qubit to a cat-like qubit by means of one degenerate Raman interaction and one Hadamard gate operation for coherent states. We show that the coefficients of the atomic qubit can be mapped onto coherent state qubit, with an effective qubit state transfer.

id: 1307.1362
title: Geometry for separable states and construction of entangled states with positive partial transposes
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 88, 024302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1362
abstract: We construct faces of the convex set of all $2\otimes 4$ bipartite separable states, which are affinely isomorphic to the simplex $\Delta_{9}$ with ten extreme points. Every interior point of these faces is a separable state which has a unique decomposition into 10 product states, even though ranks of the state and its partial transpose are 5 and 7, respectively. We also note that the number 10 is greater than $2\times 4$, to disprove a conjecture on the lengths of qubit-qudit separable states. This face is inscribed in the corresponding face of the convex set of all PPT states so that sub-simplices $\Delta_k$ of $\Delta_{9}$ share the boundary if and only if $k\le 5$. This enables us to find a large class of $2\otimes 4$ PPT entangled edge states with rank five.

id: 1307.1375
title: Proposal for implementing the three-qubit refined Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithm
authors: Qi-Ping Su, Man Liu, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 82 (2013) 084802
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1375
abstract: We propose a way to implement a three-qubit refined Deutsh-Jozsa (DJ) algorithm. The present proposal is based on the construction of the 35 $f$-controlled phase gates, which uses single-qubit $\sigma_z$ gates and two-qubit {\it standard} controlled-phase (CP) gates only. This proposal is implementable because a single-qubit $\sigma_z$ gate can be easily realized by applying a single classical pulse and a two-qubit CP gate has been experimentally demonstrated in various physical systems. Finally, it is noted that this proposal is quite general, and can be applied to implement a three-qubit refined DJ algorithm in a cavity-based or noncavity-based physical system.

id: 1307.1405
title: Signatures of chaos in the dynamics of quantum discord
authors: Vaibhav Madhok, Vibhu Gupta, Angele M. Hamel, Shohini Ghose
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1405
abstract: We identify signatures of chaos in the dynamics of discord in a multiqubit system collectively modelled as a quantum kicked top. The evolution of discord between any two qubits is quasiperiodic in regular regions, while in chaotic regions, the quasiperiodicity is lost. As the initial wave function is varied from the regular regions to the chaotic sea, a contour plot of the time averaged discord remarkably reproduces the structures of the classical stroboscopic map. We also find surprisingly opposite behaviour of two-qubit discord versus two-qubit entanglement. Our calculations provide the first evidence of signatures of chaos in dynamically generated discord.

id: 1307.1419
title: Cumulative quantum work-deficit versus entanglement in the dynamics of an infinite spin chain
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Rupamanjari Ghosh, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, elsarticle, final accepted version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 1258 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1419
abstract: We find that the dynamical phase transition (DPT) in nearest-neighbor bipartite entanglement of time-evolved states of the anisotropic infinite quantum XY spin chain, in a transverse time-dependent magnetic field, can be quantitatively characterized by the dynamics of an information-theoretic quantum correlation measure, namely, quantum work-deficit (QWD). We show that only those nonequilibrium states exhibit entanglement resurrection after death, on changing the field parameter during the DPT, for which the cumulative bipartite QWD is above a threshold. The results point to an interesting inter-relation between two quantum correlation measures that are conceptualized from different perspectives.

id: 1307.1454
title: On the Volume of Separable Bipartite States
authors: Rajeev Singh, Ravi Kunjwal, R. Simon
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, This preliminary version will soon be updated, particularly the references. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1454
abstract: Every choice of orthonormal frame in the Hilbert space of a bipartite system corresponds to one set of all mutually commuting density matrices or, equivalently, classical state space of the system; the quantum state space itself can thus be profitably viewed as an orbit of classical state spaces, one for each orthonormal frame. We exploit this connection to study the relative volume of separable states of a quantum bipartite system. While the two-qubit case is analysed in considerable detail, for higher dimensional systems we fall back on Monte Carlo.

id: 1307.1490
title: Zitterbewegung and the Magnetic Moment of the Electron
authors: Basil S. Davis
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1490
abstract: Zitterbewegung of a Dirac electron is an oscillation between positive and negative energy states, and is thus distinct from the analogous phenomena exhibited by spin half charged particles in electric and magnetic fields. Quantum field theory offers an insight into the velocity operator and provides an interpretation of zitterbewegung. Applying stationary perturbation theory to these results the electron $g$ factor is obtained analytically up to the Schwinger correction ($g = 2 + \alpha/\pi $).

id: 1307.1498
title: Efficient Algorithms for Universal Quantum Simulation
authors: Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: 5th International Conference on Reversible Computation (RC 2013), Victoria, BC, Canada, July 4-5, 2013. Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 7948, 2013, pp 1-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1498
abstract: A universal quantum simulator would enable efficient simulation of quantum dynamics by implementing quantum-simulation algorithms on a quantum computer. Specifically the quantum simulator would efficiently generate qubit-string states that closely approximate physical states obtained from a broad class of dynamical evolutions. I provide an overview of theoretical research into universal quantum simulators and the strategies for minimizing computational space and time costs. Applications to simulating many-body quantum simulation and solving linear equations are discussed.

id: 1307.1523
title: Optimal multi-photon phase sensing with a single interference fringe
authors: G. Y. Xiang, H. F. Hofmann, G. J. Pryde
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3:2684 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1523
abstract: Quantum entanglement can help to increase the precision of optical phase measurements beyond the shot noise limit (SNL) to the ultimate Heisenberg limit. However, the N-photon parity measurements required to achieve this optimal sensitivity are extremely difficult to realize with current photon detection technologies, requiring high-fidelity resolution of N+1 different photon distributions between the output ports. Recent experimental demonstrations of precision beyond the SNL have therefore used only one or two photon-number detection patterns instead of parity measurements. Here we investigate the achievable phase sensitivity of the simple and efficient single interference fringe detection technique. We show that the maximally-entangled "NOON" state does not achieve optimal phase sensitivity when N > 4, rather, we show that the Holland-Burnett state is optimal. We experimentally demonstrate this enhanced sensitivity using a single photon-counted fringe of the six-photon Holland-Burnett state. Specifically, our single-fringe six-photon measurement achieves a phase variance three times below the SNL.

id: 1307.1525
title: Calculation of the bound states of power-law and logarithmic potentials through a generalized pseudospectral method
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 30, 269-278 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1525
abstract: Bound states of the power-law and logarithmic potentials are calculated using a generalized pseudospectral method. The solution of the single-particle Schr\"odinger equation in a nonuniform and optimal spatial discretization offers accurate eigenvalues, densities and expectation values. The calculations are carried out for states with arbitrary $n$ and $\ell$ quantum numbers. Comparisons are made with the available literature data and excellent agreement is observed. In all the cases, the present method yields considerably improved results over the other existing calculations. Some new states are reported.

id: 1307.1530
title: Nonclassicality in two-mode BEC
authors: Sandip Kumar Giri, Biswajit Sen, C H Raymond Ooi, Anirban Pathak
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 033628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1530
abstract: An analytic operator solution of a generalized quantum mechanical Hamiltonian of two-mode Bose Einstein condensates (BECs) is obtained and the same is used to investigate the nonclassical properties of the modes present in the system. Nonclassical characters are observed by means of single mode and intermodal squeezing, single mode and intermodal sub-Poissonian boson statistics and intermodal entanglement. In addition to the traditionally studied lower order nonclassical properties, signatures of higher order nonclassical characters of two-mode BEC systems are also obtained by investigating the possibility of higher order antibunching and higher order entanglement. The mutual relation among the observed nonclassicalities and their evolution (variation) with rescaled time and the ratio of the single boson tunneling amplitude ($\varepsilon$) and the coupling constant for the intra-modal interaction ($\kappa$) are also reported.

id: 1307.1536
title: Validity of rotating wave approximation in non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation
authors: Jakob Spiegelberg, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Changes, old figure replaced two new figures, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 054301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1536
abstract: We examine the validity of the rotating wave approximation (RWA) in non-adiabatic holonomic single-qubit gates [New J. Phys. {\bf 14}, 103035 (2012)]. We demonstrate that the adoption of RWA may lead to a sharp decline in fidelity for rapid gate implementation and small energy separation between the excited and computational states. The validity of the RWA in the recent experimental realization [Nature (London) {\bf 496}, 482 (2013)] of non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation for a superconducting qubit is examined.

id: 1307.1540
title: On a new Bell test with photons seemingly violating quantum predictions
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1540
abstract: A disagreement of the empirical results with quantum mechanical predictions is pointed out in the experiment by B. G. Christensen et al. The anomaly is quite similar to one present in the analogous experiment by M. Giustina et al. [arXiv:1306.5772].

id: 1307.1541
title: Particle-hole entanglement of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: H. T. Ng
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023621 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1541
abstract: We study the ground state of two-component bosonic atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice. By applying an external field to the atoms at one end of lattice, the atoms are transported and becomes localized at that site. The holes are then created in the remaining sites. The particle-hole superpositions are produced in this process. We investigate the entanglement entropy between the atoms in the two different parts of a lattice. A large degree of particle-hole entanglement is generated in the ground state. The particle-hole quantum correlations can be probed by the two-site parity correlation functions. The transport properties of the low-lying excited states are also discussed.

id: 1307.1557
title: A Quantum Biological Switch Based on Superradiance Transitions
authors: D. Ferrari, G.L. Celardo, G.P. Berman, R.T.Sayre, F. Borgonovi
comments: submitted to J. Phys. Chem. C
journal: J. Phys. Chem. C, 2014, 118 , 20
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1557
abstract: A linear chain of connected electron sites with two asymmetric sinks, one attached to each end, is used as a simple model of quantum electron transfer in photosynthetic bio-complexes. For a symmetric initial population in the middle of the chain, it is expected that electron transfer is mainly directed towards the strongest coupled sink. However, we show that quantum effects radically change this intuitive "classical" mechanism, so that electron transfer can occur through the weaker coupled sink with maximal efficiency. Using this capability, we show how to design a quantum switch that can transfer an electron to the left or right branch of the chain, by changing the coupling to the sinks. The operational principles of this quantum device can be understood in terms of superradiance transitions and subradiant states. This switching, being a pure quantum effect, can be used as a witness of wave--like behaviour of excitations in molecular chains. When realistic data are used for the photosystem II reaction center, this quantum biological switch is shown to retain its reliability, even at room temperature.

id: 1307.1558
title: Work extraction and thermodynamics for individual quantum systems
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Anthony J. Short, Sandu Popescu
comments: 11 pages, no figures. v2: published version. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1302.2811
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 4185 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1558
abstract: Thermodynamics is traditionally concerned with systems comprised of a large number of particles. Here we present a framework for extending thermodynamics to individual quantum systems, including explicitly a thermal bath and work-storage device (essentially a `weight' that can be raised or lowered). We prove that the second law of thermodynamics holds in our framework, and give a simple protocol to extract the optimal amount of work from the system, equal to its change in free energy. Our results apply to any quantum system in an arbitrary initial state, in particular including non-equilibrium situations. The optimal protocol is essentially reversible, similar to classical Carnot cycles, and indeed, we show that it can be used it to construct a quantum Carnot engine.

id: 1307.1569
title: Entanglement improves classical control
authors: Duy Nguyen Truong, Matthew McKague, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1569
abstract: Electronic devices all around us contain classical control circuits. Such circuits consist of a network of controllers which can read and write signals to wires of the circuit with the goal to minimize the cost function of the circuit's output signal. Here, we propose the use of shared entanglement between controllers as a resource to improve the performance of otherwise purely classical control circuits. We study a well-known example from the classical control literature and demonstrate that allowing two controllers to share entanglement improves their ability to control. More precisely, we exhibit a family of circuits in which the the cost function using entanglement stays constant, but the minimal cost function without entanglement grows arbitrarily large. This demonstrates that entanglement can be a powerful resource in a classical control circuit.

id: 1307.1631
title: Scalar, spinor, and photon fields under relativistic cavity motion
authors: Nicolai Friis, Antony R. Lee, Jorma Louko
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 064028 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1631
abstract: We analyse quantised scalar, spinor and photon fields in a mechanically rigid cavity that is accelerated in Minkowski spacetime, in a recently-introduced perturbative small acceleration formalism that allows the velocities to become relativistic, with a view to applications in relativistic quantum information. A scalar field is analysed with both Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions, and a photon field under perfect conductor boundary conditions is shown to decompose into Dirichlet-like and Neumann-like polarisation modes. The Dirac spinor is analysed with a nonvanishing mass and with dimensions transverse to the acceleration, and the MIT bag boundary condition is shown to exclude zero modes. Unitarity of time evolution holds for smooth accelerations but fails for discontinuous accelerations in spacetime dimensions (3+1) and higher. As an application, the experimental desktop mode-mixing scenario proposed for a scalar field by Bruschi et al. [New J. Phys. 15, 073052 (2013)] is shown to apply also to the photon field.

id: 1307.1714
title: Can Bohmian mechanics be made relativistic?
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Sheldon Goldstein, Travis Norsen, Ward Struyve, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 15 pages, no figures, LaTex; v2 minor additions
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 470, 20130699 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1714
abstract: In relativistic space-time, Bohmian theories can be formulated by introducing a privileged foliation of space-time. The introduction of such a foliation - as extra absolute space-time structure - would seem to imply a clear violation of Lorentz invariance, and thus a conflict with fundamental relativity. Here, we consider the possibility that, instead of positing it as extra structure, the required foliation could be covariantly determined by the wave function. We argue that this allows for the formulation of Bohmian theories that seem to qualify as fundamentally Lorentz invariant. We conclude with some discussion of whether or not they might also qualify as fundamentally relativistic.

id: 1307.1740
title: Minimum weight perfect matching of fault-tolerant topological quantum error correction in average $O(1)$ parallel time
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, version accepted for publication
journal: QIC 15, 0145-0158 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1740
abstract: Consider a 2-D square array of qubits of extent $L\times L$. We provide a proof that the minimum weight perfect matching problem associated with running a particular class of topological quantum error correction codes on this array can be exactly solved with a 2-D square array of classical computing devices, each of which is nominally associated with a fixed number $N$ of qubits, in constant average time per round of error detection independent of $L$ provided physical error rates are below fixed nonzero values, and other physically reasonable assumptions. This proof is applicable to the fully fault-tolerant case only, not the case of perfect stabilizer measurements.

id: 1307.1760
title: Bipartite concurrence and localized coherence
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1760
abstract: Based on a proposed coherence measure, we show that the local coherence of a bipartite quantum pure state (coherence of its reduced density matrix) is exactly the same as the minimal average co- herence with all potential pure-state realizations under consideration. In particular, it is shown that bipartite concurrence of pure states just captures the maximal difference between local coherence and the average coherence of one subsystem induced by local operations on the other subsystem with the assistance of classical communications, which provides an alternative operational meaning for bipartite concurrence of pure states. The relation between concurrence and the proposed coherence measure can also be extended to bipartite mixed states.

id: 1307.1761
title: Probing quantum entanglement, quantum discord, classical correlation, and the quantum state without disturbing them
authors: Zhen-ni Li, Jia-sen Jin, Chang-shui Yu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1761
abstract: In this paper, we present schemes for a type of one-parameter bipartite quantum states to probe the quantum entanglement, the quantum discord, the classical correlation and the quantum state based on the cavity QED. It is shown that our detection does not influence all these measured quantities. We also discuss how the spontaneous emission introduced by our probe atom influences our detection.

id: 1307.1764
title: A type of localized quadripartite entanglement
authors: Shao-xiong Wu, Chang-shui Yu
comments: 5 pages. (A tough version before publication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032332 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1764
abstract: In this paper, we show that the average three-tangle of the reduced tripartite density matrix for some quadripartite pure states can be increased by some potential measurements on the fourth subsystem, which means this type of quadripartite entanglement can be localized. In particular, we prove that the maximal increment with all potential measurements taken into account is a quadripartite entanglement monotone, so it quantifies this localized quadripartite entanglement. By analyzing quadripartite pure states based on the previous classification, we find that this quadripartite entanglement monotone is not only present in the standard GHZ state and absent in the standard W states. In addition, based on the proposed entanglement measure, we construct a new monogamy relation.

id: 1307.1844
title: Spectral Singularity in confined PT symmetric optical potential
authors: Anjana Sinha, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics vol. 54 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1844
abstract: We present an analytical study for the scattering amplitudes (Reflection $|R|$ and Transmission $|T|$), of the periodic ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric optical potential $ V(x) = \displaystyle W_0 \left( \cos ^2 x + i V_0 \sin 2x \right) $ confined within the region $0 \leq x \leq L$, embedded in a homogeneous medium having uniform potential $W_0$. The confining length $L$ is considered to be some integral multiple of the period $ \pi $. We give some new and interesting results. Scattering is observed to be normal ($|T| ^2 \leq 1, \ |R|^2 \leq 1$) for $V_0 \leq 0.5 $, when the above potential can be mapped to a Hermitian potential by a similarity transformation. Beyond this point ($ V_0 > 0.5 $) scattering is found to be anomalous ($|T| ^2, \ |R|^2 $ not necessarily $ \leq 1 $). Additionally, in this parameter regime of $V_0$, one observes infinite number of spectral singularities $E_{SS}$ at different values of $V_0$. Furthermore, for $L= 2 n \pi$, the transition point $V_0 = 0.5$ shows unidirectional invisibility with zero reflection when the beam is incident from the absorptive side ($Im [V(x)] < 0$) but finite reflection when the beam is incident from the emissive side ($Im [V(x)] > 0$), transmission being identically unity in both cases. Finally, the scattering coefficients $|R|^2$ and $|T|^2 $ always obey the generalized unitarity relation : $ ||T|^2 - 1| = \sqrt{|R_R|^2 |R_L|^2}$, where subscripts $R$ and $L$ stand for right and left incidence respectively.

id: 1307.1948
title: Effect of Quantum correlation on Perfect K pair Quantum Network Coding
authors: Mahmoud Mahdian, Roghayeh Bayramzadeh
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1012.4583, arXiv:0908.1457 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1948
abstract: We find a protocol transmitting K quantum states crossly in the quantum networks with K pair sender-receiver and one bottleneck channels only with sharing quantum correlations between senders. In these networks senders want to multi cast perfect quantum states to receivers. Perfect send on the quantum networks is impossible just using some additional resources like quantum correlation. This protocol has been used maximum entangled states and Quantum Discord which is best indicator of the quantum nature of the correlation to sharing between senders. At first, to send perfect K states in quantum network applied some maximum entanglement states to teleport quantum states, Enistein - Podolsky - Rosen (EPR) states as simple and two qubit states and Grrenberger- Horne - Zeilinger (GHZ) states and W states as kinds of three qubit states. Then reached that there is no difference between sharing these maximum entanglement states and must send same amount of classical bits in bottleneck channel. In the second part of this paper of sharing Quantum Correlation (quantum discord) perfect send of two quantum states is possible in the Butterfly network with fidelity equal one.

id: 1307.1992
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds for spin-boson lattice models and trapped ions
authors: J. Juenemann, A. Cadarso, D. Perez-Garcia, A. Bermudez, J.J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1992
abstract: We derive a Lieb-Robinson bound for the propagation of spin correlations in a model of spins interacting through a bosonic lattice field, which satisfies itself a Lieb-Robinson bound in the absence of spin-boson couplings. We apply these bounds to a system of trapped ions, and find that the propagation of spin correlations, as mediated by the phonons of the ion crystal, can be faster than the regimes currently explored in experiments. We propose a scheme to test the bounds by measuring retarded correlation functions via the crystal fluorescence.

id: 1307.2025
title: Eigenvalue statistics as indicator of integrability of non-equilibrium density operators
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 4+eps pages in RevTeX, with 5 eps-figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 124101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2025
abstract: We propose to quantify the complexity of non-equilibrium steady state density operators, as well as of long-lived Liouvillian decay modes, in terms of level spacing distribution of their spectra. Based on extensive numerical studies in a variety of models, some solvable and some unsolved, we conjecture that integrability of density operators (e.g., existence of an algebraic procedure for their construction in finitely many steps) is signaled by a Poissonian level statistics, whereas in the generic non-integrable cases one finds level statistics of a Gaussian unitary ensemble of random matrices. Eigenvalue statistics can therefore be used as an efficient tool to identify integrable quantum non-equilibrium systems.

id: 1307.2026
title: No causal order and quantum probability assignment
authors: Yeong Deok Han, Taeseung Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2026
abstract: We have studied how relativistic causality limits on the generalization of quantum probability assignment, which can give more nonlocal (superquantum) correlations than quantum correlations. We have shown that 'no causal order' condition between two spacelike separate events is stronger than no faster-than-light-signaling condition as the requirement of relativistic causality. Using no causal order condition we have proved that Born rule is the only probability assignment to quantum measurement on an arbitrary entangled quantum state described by the Hilbert space language, consistent with relativistic causality. We have also shown that all superquantum correlations, which preserve relativistic causality, can be understood as hypothetical correlations given by applying modified quantum probability assignments to quantum measurements on a Bell state.

id: 1307.2096
title: Immersing carbon nano-tubes in cold atomic gases
authors: C. T. Wei?, P. V. Mironova, J. Fort¨¢gh, W. P. Schleich, R. Walser
comments: 12 pages, 3 color eps figures refereed, improved version, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2096
abstract: We investigate the sympathetic relaxation of a free-standing, vibrating carbon nano-tube that is mounted on an atom chip and is immersed in a cloud of ultra-cold atoms. Gas atoms colliding with the nano-tube excite phonons via a Casimir-Polder potential. We use Fermi's Golden Rule to estimate the relaxation rates for relevant experimental parameters and develop a fully dynamic theory of relaxation for the multi-mode phononic field embedded in a thermal atomic reservoir. Based on currently available experimental data, we identify the relaxation rates as a function of atom density and temperature that are required for sympathetic ground state cooling of carbon nano-tubes.

id: 1307.2101
title: Continuous Measurement of a Non-Markovian Open Quantum System
authors: A. Shabani, J. Roden, K. B. Whaley
comments: Published version, the section on continuous state tomography will be published in a separate manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 113601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2101
abstract: Continuous quantum measurement is the backbone of various methods in quantum control, quantum metrology, and quantum information. Here, we present a generalized formulation of dispersive measurement of a complex quantum systems. We describe the complex system as an open quantum system that is strongly coupled to a non-Markovian environment, enabling the treatment of a broad variety of natural or engineered complex systems. The system is monitored via a probe resonator coupled to a broadband (Markovian) reservoir. Based on this model, we derive a formalism of Stochastic Hierarchy Equations of Motion (SHEM) describing the decoherence dynamics of the system conditioned on the measurement record. Furthermore, we demonstrate a spectroscopy method based on weak quantum measurement to reveal the non-Markovian nature of the environment, which we term weak spectroscopy.

id: 1307.2211
title: Optimal arbitrarily accurate composite pulse sequences
authors: Guang Hao Low, Theodore J. Yoder, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2211
abstract: Implementing a single qubit unitary is often hampered by imperfect control. Systematic amplitude errors $\epsilon$, caused by incorrect duration or strength of a pulse, are an especially common problem. But a sequence of imperfect pulses can provide a better implementation of a desired operation, as compared to a single primitive pulse. We find optimal pulse sequences consisting of $L$ primitive $\pi$ or $2\pi$ rotations that suppress such errors to arbitrary order $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{n})$ on arbitrary initial states. Optimality is demonstrated by proving an $L=\mathcal{O}(n)$ lower bound and saturating it with $L=2n$ solutions. Closed-form solutions for arbitrary rotation angles are given for $n=1,2,3,4$. Perturbative solutions for any $n$ are proven for small angles, while arbitrary angle solutions are obtained by analytic continuation up to $n=12$. The derivation proceeds by a novel algebraic and non-recursive approach, in which finding amplitude error correcting sequences can be reduced to solving polynomial equations.

id: 1307.2258
title: Preparing two-atom entangled state in a cavity and probing it via quantum non-demolition measurement
authors: D. Z. Rossatto, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2258
abstract: We propose a probabilistic scheme to prepare a maximally entangled state between a pair of two-level atoms inside a leaking cavity, without requiring precise time-controlling of the system evolution and initial atomic state. We show that the steady state of this dissipative system is a mixture of two parts: either the atoms being in their ground state or in a maximally entangled one. Then, by applying a weak probe field on the cavity mode we are able to distinguish those states without disturbing the atomic system, i.e., performing a quantum non-demolition measurement via the cavity transmission. In this scheme, one has nonzero cavity transmission only when the atomic system is in an entangled state so that a single click in the detector is enough to ensure that the atoms are in an maximally entangled state. Our scheme relies on an interference effect as it happens in electromagnetically induced transparency phenomenon so that it works out even in the limit of decay rate of the cavity mode much stronger than the atom-field coupling.

id: 1307.2283
title: Now Broadcasting in Planck Definition
authors: Craig Hogan
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX; to appear in "It from Bit or Bit from It?", Springer, 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2283
abstract: If reality has finite information content, space has finite fidelity. The quantum wave function that encodes spatial relationships may be limited to information that can be transmitted in a "Planck broadcast", with a bandwidth given by the inverse of the Planck time, about $2\times 10^{43}$ bits per second. Such a quantum system can resemble classical space-time on large scales, but locality emerges only gradually and imperfectly. Massive bodies are never perfectly at rest, but very slightly and slowly fluctuate in transverse position, with a spectrum of variation given by the Planck time. This distinctive new kind of noise associated with quantum geometry would not have been noticed up to now, but may be detectable in a new kind of experiment.

id: 1307.2314
title: From the Attempt of Certain Classical Reformulations of Quantum Mechanics to Quasi-Probability Representations
authors: Werner Stulpe
comments: 35 pages
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 55, 012109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2314
abstract: The concept of an injective affine embedding of the quantum states into a set of classical states, i.e., into the set of the probability measures on some measurable space, as well as its relation to statistically complete observables is revisited, and its limitation in view of a classical reformulation of the statistical scheme of quantum mechanics is discussed. In particular, on the basis of a theorem concerning a non-denseness property of a set of coexistent effects, it is shown that an injective classical embedding of the quantum states cannot be supplemented by an at least approximate classical description of the quantum mechanical effects. As an alternative approach, the concept of quasi-probability representations of quantum mechanics is considered.

id: 1307.2323
title: Bounding Polynomial Entanglement Measures for Mixed States
authors: Samuel Rodriques, Nilanjana Datta, Peter J. Love
comments: Generalized results in previous version to polynomial entanglement monotones beyond the three-tangle
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012340 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2323
abstract: We generalize the notion of the best separable approximation (BSA) and best W-class approximation (BWA) to arbitrary pure state entanglement measures, defining the best zero-$E$ approximation (BEA). We show that for any polynomial entanglement measure $E$, any mixed state $\rho$ admits at least one "$S$-decomposition," i.e., a decomposition in terms of a mixed state on which $E$ is equal to zero, and a single additional pure state with (possibly) non-zero $E$. We show that the BEA is not in general the optimal $S$-decomposition from the point of view of bounding the entanglement of $\rho$, and describe an algorithm to construct the entanglement-minimizing $S$-decomposition for $\rho$ and place an upper bound on $E(\rho)$. When applied to the three-tangle, the cost of the algorithm is linear in the rank $d$ of the density matrix and has accuracy comparable to a steepest descent algorithm whose cost scales as $d^8 \log d$. We compare the upper bound to a lower bound algorithm given by Eltschka and Siewert for the three-tangle, and find that on random rank-two three-qubit density matrices, the difference between the upper and lower bounds is $0.14$ on average. We also find that the three-tangle of random full-rank three qubit density matrices is less than $0.023$ on average.

id: 1307.2334
title: Notes on general SIC-POVMs
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Major revision. Basic results are unchanged
journal: Phys. Scr. 89, 085101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2334
abstract: An unavoidable task in quantum information processing is how to obtain data about the state of an individual system by suitable measurements. Informationally complete measurements are relevant in quantum state tomography, quantum cryptography, quantum cloning, and other questions. Symmetric informationally complete measurements (SIC-POVMs) form an especially important class of such measurements. We formulate some novel properties and relations for general SIC-POVMs in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. For a given density matrix and any general SIC-POVM, the so-called index of coincidence of generated probability distribution is exactly calculated. Using this result, we obtain state-dependent entropic bounds for a single general SIC-POVM. Lower entropic bounds are derived in terms of the R\'{e}nyi $\alpha$-entropies for $\alpha\in[2;\infty)$ and the Tsallis $\alpha$-entropies for $\alpha\in(0;2]$. A lower bound on the min-entropy of a SIC-POVM is separately examined. For a pair of general SIC-POVMs, entropic uncertainty relations of the Maassen-Uffink type are considered.

id: 1307.2371
title: Employing Circuit QED to Measure Nonequilibrium Work Fluctuations
authors: Michele Campisi, Ralf Blattmann, Sigmund Kohler, David Zueco, Peter H?nggi
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics in the Focus issue on Quantum Microwave Field Effects in Superconducting Circuits
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 105028
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2371
abstract: We study an interferometric method for the measurement of the statistics of work performed on a driven quantum system, which has been put forward recently [Dorner et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 230601 (2013), Mazzola et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 230602 (2013)]. The method allows replacing two projective measurements of the energy of the driven system with qubit tomography of an ancilla that is appropriately coupled to it. We highlight that this method could be employed to obtain the work statistics of closed as well as open driven system, even in the strongly dissipative regime. We then illustrate an implementation of the method in a circuit QED set-up, which allows one to experimentally obtain the work statistics of a parametrically driven harmonic oscillator. Our implementation is an extension of the original method, in which two ancilla-qubits are employed and the work statistics is retrieved through two-qubit state tomography. Our simulations demonstrate the experimental feasibility.

id: 1307.2386
title: Square wells, quantum wells and ultra-thin metallic films
authors: Victor Barsan
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2386
abstract: The eigenvalue equations for the energy of bound states of a particle in a square well are solved, and the exact solutions are obtained, as power series. Accurate analytical approximate solutions are also given. The application of these results in the physics of quantum wells are discussed,especially for ultra-thin metallic films, but also in the case of resonant cavities, heterojunction lasers, revivals and super-revivals.

id: 1307.2389
title: From the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard to the Dicke model
authors: Sebastian Schmidt, Gianni Blatter, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 224020 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2389
abstract: We discuss the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model (JCHM) describing the superfluid-Mott insulator transition of polaritons (i.e., dressed photon-qubit states) in coupled qubit-cavity arrays in the crossover from strong to weak correlations. In the strongly correlated regime the phase diagram and the elementary excitations of lattice polaritons near the Mott lobes are calculated analytically using a slave boson theory (SBT). The opposite regime of weakly interacting polariton superfluids is described by a weak-coupling mean-field theory (MFT) for a generalised multi-mode Dicke model. We show that a remarkable relation between the two theories exists in the limit of large photon bandwidth and large negative detuning, i.e., when the nature of polariton quasiparticles becomes qubit-like. In this regime, the weak coupling theory predicts the existence of a single Mott lobe with a change of the universality class of the phase transition at the tip of the lobe, in perfect agreement with the slave-boson theory. Moreover, the spectra of low energy excitations, i.e., the sound velocity of the Goldstone mode and the gap of the amplitude mode match exactly as calculated from both theories.

id: 1307.2405
title: Effects of anisotropy in a nonlinear crystal for squeezed vacuum generation
authors: A. M. P¨¦rez, F. Just, A. Cavanna, M.V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2405
abstract: Squeezed vacuum (SV) can be obtained by an optical parametric amplifier (OPA) with the quantum vacuum state at the input. We are interested in a degenerate type-I OPA based on parametric down-conversion (PDC) where due to phase matching requirements, an extraordinary polarized pump must impinge onto a birefringent crystal with a large \chi(2) nonlinearity. As a consequence of the optical anisotropy of the medium, the direction of propagation of the pump wavevector does not coincide with the direction of propagation of its energy, an effect known as transverse walk-off. For certain pump sizes and crystal lengths, the transverse walk-off has a strong influence on the spatial spectrum of the generated radiation, which in turn affects the outcome of any experiment in which this radiation is employed. In this work we propose a method that reduces the distortions of the two-photon amplitude (TPA) of the states considered, by using at least two consecutive crystals instead of one. We show that after anisotropy compensation the TPA becomes symmetric, allowing for a simple Schmidt expansion, a procedure that in practice requires states that come from experimental systems free of anisotropy effects.

id: 1307.2503
title: Entanglement generation and quantum information transfer between spatially-separated qubits in different cavities
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 115003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2503
abstract: The generation and control of quantum states of spatially-separated qubits distributed in different cavities constitute fundamental tasks in cavity quantum electrodynamics. An interesting question in this context is how to prepare entanglement and realize quantum information transfer between qubits located at different cavities, which are important in large-scale quantum information processing. In this paper, we consider a physical system consisting of two cavities and three qubits. Two of the qubits are placed in two different cavities while the remaining one acts as a coupler, which is used to connect the two cavities. We propose an approach for generating quantum entanglement and implementing quantum information transfer between the two spatially-separated intercavity qubits. The quantum operations involved in this proposal are performed by a virtual photon process, and thus the cavity decay is greatly suppressed during the operations. In addition, to complete the present tasks, only one coupler qubit and one operation step are needed. Moreover, there is no need of applying classical pulses, so that the engineering complexity is much reduced and the operation procedure is greatly simplified. Finally, our numerical results illustrate that high-fidelity implementation of this proposal using superconducting phase qubits and one-dimenstion transmision line resonators is feasible for current circuit QED implementations. This proposal can also be applied to other types of superconducting qubits, including flux and charge qubits.

id: 1307.2524
title: Preparing Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Entangled Photon Fock States of Three Cavities Coupled by a Superconducting Flux Qutrit
authors: Zhen-Fei Zheng, Qi-Ping Su, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 82 (2013) 084801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2524
abstract: We propose a way to prepare Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entangled photon Fock states of three cavities, by using a superconducting flux qutrit coupled to the cavities. This proposal does not require the use of classical microwave pulses and measurement during the entire operation. Thus, the operation is greatly simplified and the circuit engineering complexity and cost is much reduced. The proposal is quite general and can be applied to generate three-cavity GHZ entangled photon Fock states when the three cavities are coupled by a different three-level physical system such as a superconducting charge qutrit, a transmon qutrit, or a quantum dot.

id: 1307.2529
title: Particle exchange in post-quantum theories
authors: Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Andrew J. P. Garner, Jayne Thompson, Mile Gu, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages + 1 page appendix, 2 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2529
abstract: In quantum theory, particles in three spatial dimensions come in two different types: bosons or fermions, which exhibit sharply contrasting behaviours due to their different exchange statistics. Could more general forms of probabilistic theories admit more exotic types of particles? Here, we propose a thought experiment to identify more exotic particles in general post-quantum theories. We consider how in quantum theory the phase introduced by swapping indistinguishable particles can be measured. We generalise this to post-quantum scenarios whilst imposing indistinguishability and locality principles. We show that our ability to witness exotic particle exchange statistics depends on which symmetries are admitted within a theory. These exotic particles can manifest unusual behaviour, such as non-abelianicity even in topologically simple three-dimensional space.

id: 1307.2558
title: Protected state enhanced quantum metrology with interacting two-level ensembles
authors: Laurin Ostermann, Helmut Ritsch, Claudiu Genes
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 123601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2558
abstract: Ramsey interferometry is routinely used in quantum metrology for the most sensitive measurements of optical clock frequencies. Spontaneous decay to the electromagnetic vacuum ultimately limits the interrogation time and thus sets a lower bound to the optimal frequency sensitivity. In dense ensembles of two-level systems the presence of collective effects such as superradiance and dipole-dipole interaction tends to decrease the sensitivity even further. We show that by a redesign of the Ramsey-pulse sequence to include different rotations of individual spins that effectively fold the collective state onto a state close to the center of the Bloch sphere, partial protection from collective decoherence and dephasing is possible. This allows a significant improvement in the sensitivity limit of a clock transition detection scheme over the conventional Ramsey method for interacting systems and even for non-interacting decaying atoms.

id: 1307.2594
title: Microwave-activated conditional-phase gate for superconducting qubits
authors: Jerry M. Chow, Jay M. Gambetta, Andrew W. Cross, Seth T. Merkel, Chad Rigetti, M. Steffen
comments: 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 115012 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2594
abstract: We introduce a new entangling gate between two fixed-frequency qubits statically coupled via a microwave resonator bus which combines the following desirable qualities: all-microwave control, appreciable qubit separation for reduction of crosstalk and leakage errors, and the ability to function as a two-qubit conditional-phase gate. A fixed, always-on interaction is explicitly designed between higher energy (non-computational) states of two transmon qubits, and then a conditional-phase gate is `activated' on the otherwise unperturbed qubit subspace via a microwave drive. We implement this microwave-activated conditional-phase gate with a fidelity from quantum process tomography of 87%.

id: 1307.2630
title: Amplification limit of weak measurements: a variational approach
authors: Shengshi Pang, Todd A. Brun, Shengjun Wu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. v2 is a major revision of v1. The results are extended to more general interactions, and the degeneracy of the Hamiltonian is considered. Examples for qubit system and continuous-variable system are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2630
abstract: Post-selected weak measurement has been widely used in experiments to observe weak effects in various physical systems. However, it is still unclear how large the amplification ability of a weak measurement can be and what determines the limit of this ability, which is fundamental to understanding and applying weak measurements. The limitation of the conventional weak value formalism for this problem is the divergence of weak values when the pre- and post-selections are nearly orthogonal. In this paper, we study this problem by a variational approach for a general Hamiltonian $H_{\mathrm{int}}=gA\otimes\Omega\delta(t-t_{0}),\, g\ll1$. We derive a general asymptotic solution, and show that the amplification limit is essentially independent of $g$, and determined only by the initial state of the detector and the number of distinct eigenvalues of $A$ or $\Omega$. An example of spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ particles with a pair of Stern-Gerlach devices is given to illustrate the results. The limiting case of continuous variable systems is also investigated to demonstrate the influence of system dimension on the amplification limit.

id: 1307.2676
title: Efficiency of Entanglement Concentration by Photon Subtraction
authors: W. Maimaiti, S. Mancini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014028
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2676
abstract: We introduce a measure of efficiency for the photon subtraction protocol aimed at entanglement concentration on a single copy of bipartite continuous variable state. We then show that iterating the protocol does not lead to higher efficiency than a single application. In order to overcome this limit we present an adaptive version of the protocol able to greatly enhance its efficiency.

id: 1307.2683
title: Metrology with entangled coherent states - a quantum scaling paradox
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Entangled Coherent States and Its Application to Quantum Information Science (see also this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2683
abstract: There has been much interest in developing phase estimation schemes which beat the so-called Heisenberg limit, i.e., for which the phase resolution scales better than 1/n, where n is a measure of resources such as the average photon number or the number of atomic qubits. In particular, a number of nonlinear schemes have been proposed for which the resolution appears to scale as 1/n^k or even exp(-n), based on optimising the quantum Cramer-Rao bound. Such schemes include the use of entangled coherent states. However, it may be shown that the average root mean square errors of the proposed schemes (averaged over any prior distribution of phase shifts), cannot beat the Heisenberg limit, and that simple estimation schemes based on entangled coherent states cannot scale better than 1/n^{1/4}. This paradox is related to the role of 'bias' in Cramer-Rao bounds, and is only partially ameliorated via iterative implementations of the proposed schemes. The results are based on new information-theoretic bounds for the average information gain and error of any phase estimation scheme, and generalise to estimates of shifts generated by any operator having discrete eigenvalues.

id: 1307.2687
title: Studies on some singular potentials in quantum mechanics
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Chemistry 114, 861-870 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2687
abstract: A simple methodology is suggested for the efficient calculation of certain central potentials having singularities. The generalized pseudospectral method used in this work facilitates {\em nonuniform} and optimal spatial discretization. Applications have been made to calculate the energies, densities and expectation values for two singular potentials of physical interest, {\em viz.,} (i) the harmonic potential plus inverse quartic and sextic perturbation and (ii) the Coulomb potential with a linear and quadratic term for a broad range of parameters. The first 10 states belonging to a maximum of $\ell=8$ and 5 for (i) and (ii) have been computed with good accuracy and compared with the most accurate available literature data. The calculated results are in excellent agreement, especially in the light of the difficulties encountered in these potentials. Some new states are reported here for the first time. This offers a general and efficient scheme for calculating these and other similar potentials of physical and mathematical interest in quantum mechanics accurately.

id: 1307.2695
title: PT Symmetry via Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Huijun Li, Jianpeng Dou, Guoxiang Huang
comments: 
journal: Opt Express, 21(2013)32053
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2695
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize parity-time (PT) symmetry via electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The system we consider is an ensemble of cold four-level atoms with an EIT core. We show that the cross-phase modulation contributed by an assisted field, the optical lattice potential provided by a far-detuned laser field, and the optical gain resulted from an incoherent pumping can be used to construct a PT-symmetric complex optical potential for probe field propagation in a controllable way. Comparing with previous study, the present scheme uses only a single atomic species and hence is easy for the physical realization of PT-symmetric Hamiltonian via atomic coherence.

id: 1307.2697
title: Correlation Distance and Bounds for Mutual Information
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: Invited contribution for Special Issue on "Distance in Information and Statistical Physics", for the journal Entropy
journal: Entropy 15, 3698-3713 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2697
abstract: The correlation distance quantifies the statistical independence of two classical or quantum systems, via the distance from their joint state to the product of the marginal states. Tight lower bounds are given for the mutual information between pairs of two-valued classical variables and quantum qubits, in terms of the corresponding classical and quantum correlation distances. These bounds are stronger than the Pinsker inequality (and refinements thereof) for relative entropy. The classical lower bound may be used to quantify properties of statistical models that violate Bell inequalities. Entangled qubits can have a lower mutual information than can any two-valued classical variables having the same correlation distance. The qubit correlation distance also provides a direct entanglement criterion, related to the spin covariance matrix. Connections of results with classically-correlated quantum states are briefly discussed.

id: 1307.2727
title: Composability of partially entanglement breaking channels via entanglement assisted local operations and classical communication
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 064301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2727
abstract: We consider composability of quantum channels from a limited amount of entanglement via local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We show that any $k$-partially entanglement breaking channel can be composed from an entangled state with Schmidt number of $k$ via one-way LOCC. From the entanglement assisted construction we can reach an alternative definition of partially entanglement breaking channels.

id: 1307.2747
title: Impossibility of Local State Transformation via Hypercontractivity
authors: Payam Delgosha, Salman Beigi
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2747
abstract: Local state transformation is the problem of transforming an arbitrary number of copies of a bipartite resource state to a bipartite target state under local operations. That is, given two bipartite states, is it possible to transform an arbitrary number of copies of one of them to one copy of the other state under local operations only? This problem is a hard one in general since we assume that the number of copies of the resource state is arbitrarily large. In this paper we prove some bounds on this problem using the hypercontractivity properties of some super-operators corresponding to bipartite states. We measure hypercontractivity in terms of both the usual super-operator norms as well as completely bounded norms.

id: 1307.2835
title: Quantum-classical comparison: arrival times and statistics
authors: S. V. Mousavi, S. Miret-Art¨¦s
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 90 (2015) 025001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2835
abstract: Classical and quantum scattering of a non-Gaussian wave packet by a rectangular barrier is studied in terms of arrival times to a given detector location. A classical wave equation, proposed by N. Rosen [{\it{Am. J. Phys.}} {\bf 32} (1964) 377], is used to study the corresponding classical dynamics. Mean arrival times are then computed and compared for different values of initial wave packet parameters and barrier width. The agreement is improved in the large mass limit as one expects. A short comment on the possibility of generalization of Rosen's proposal to a two-body system is given. Differences in distributions of particles obeying different statistics are studied by considering a system composed of two free particles.

id: 1307.2844
title: Generating Robust Optical Entanglement in Weak Coupling Optomechanical Systems
authors: Mark C. Kuzyk, Steven J. van Enk, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2844
abstract: A pulsed scheme for generating robust optical entanglement via the coupling of two optical modes to a mechanical oscillator is proposed. This scheme is inspired by the S{\o}rensen-M{\o}lmer approach for entangling trapped ions in a thermal environment and is based on the use of optical driving pulses that are slightly detuned from the respective sideband resonance. We show that for certain pulse durations, the optomechanical interaction can return the mechanical oscillator to its initial state. The corresponding entanglement generation is robust against thermal mechanical noise in the weak as well as the strong coupling regimes. Significant optical entanglement can be generated in the weak coupling regime, even in the presence of a large thermal phonon occupation.

id: 1307.2847
title: Rotating effects on the Dirac oscillator in the cosmic string spacetime
authors: K. Bakke
comments: 15 pages. In General Relativity and Gravitation (2013). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1209.0369
journal: Gen. Relativ. Gravit. 45, 1847 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2847
abstract: In this contribution, we study the Dirac oscillator under the influence of noninertial effects of a rotating frame in the cosmic string spacetime. We show that both noninertial effects and the topology of the cosmic string spacetime restrict the physical region of the spacetime where the quantum particle can be placed, and discuss two different cases of bound states solutions of the Dirac equation by analysing the behaviour of the Dirac oscillator frequency.

id: 1307.2864
title: Theory of Quantum Friction
authors: Mario G. Silveirinha
comments: published in New Journal Physics, 2014 (in press)
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 063011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2864
abstract: Here, we develop a comprehensive quantum theory for the phenomenon of quantum friction. Based on a theory of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics for unstable systems, we calculate the quantum expectation of the friction force, and link the friction effect to the emergence of system instabilities related to the Cherenkov effect. These instabilities may occur due to the hybridization of particular guided modes supported by the individual moving bodies, and selection rules for the interacting modes are derived. It is proven that the quantum friction effect can take place even when the interacting bodies are lossless and made of nondispersive dielectrics.

id: 1307.2877
title: Wigner function and the successive measurement of position and momentum
authors: Pier A. Mello, Michael Revzen
comments: 24 pages; 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2877
abstract: Wigner function is a quasi-distribution that provides a representation of the state of a quantum mechanical system in the phase space of position and momentum. In this paper we find a relation between Wigner function and appropriate measurements involving the system position and momentum which generalize the von Neumann model of measurement. We introduce two probes coupled successively in time to projectors associated with the system position and momentum. We show that one can relate Wigner function to Kirkwood joint quasi-distribution of position and momentum, the latter, in turn, being a particular case of successive measurements. We first consider the case of a quantum mechanical system described in a continuous Hilbert space, and then turn to the case of a discrete, finite-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1307.2883
title: Cooling of atomic ensembles in optical cavities: Semiclassical limit
authors: Stefan Sch¨¹tz, Hessam Habibian, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033427 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2883
abstract: The semiclassical dynamics of atoms are theoretically studied, when the atoms are confined inside a standing-wave high-finesse resonator. The atoms are cooled by scattering processes in which the photons of a transverse laser are coherently scattered into the cavity mode. We derive a Fokker-Planck equation for the atomic center-of-mass variables which allows us to determine the equations of motion in the semiclassical limit for any value of the intensity of the laser field. We extract its prediction for the dynamics when the resonator is essentially in the vacuum state and the atoms are cooled by scattering photons into the cavity mode, which then decays. Its predictions for the stationary atomic distribution are compared with the ones of the Fokker-Planck equation in [P. Domokos, P. Horak, and H. Ritsch, J. Phys. B 34, 187 (2001)], which has been derived under different assumptions. We find full agreement in the considered parameter regime.

id: 1307.2885
title: Persistent spin currents in an elastic Landau system
authors: K. Bakke, C. Furtado
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2885
abstract: We consider a neutral particle with permanent magnetic dipole moment in an elastic medium with the presence of a uniform distribution of screw dislocations interacting with a radial electric field. We show that the uniform distribution of dislocations plays the role of an effective uniform magnetic field, and obtain a spectrum of energy which depends on the Aharonov-Casher geometric phase [Y. Aharonov and A. Casher, Phys. Rev. Lett. 53, 319 (1984)]. Moreover, from the dependence of energy levels on the Aharonov-Casher geometric phase, we calculate the persistent spin currents in this elastic Landau system.

id: 1307.2888
title: On the interaction of the Dirac oscillator with the Aharonov-Casher system in topological defect backgrounds
authors: K. Bakke, C. Furtado
comments: 23 pages, no figure
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 336, 489 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2888
abstract: In this paper, we study the influence of the Aharonov-Casher effect [Y. Aharonov and A. Casher, Phys. Rev. Lett. 53, 319 (1984).] on the Dirac oscillator in three different scenarios of general relativity: the Minkowski spacetime, the cosmic string spacetime and the cosmic dislocation spacetime. In this way, we solve the Dirac equation and obtain the energy levels for bound states and the Dirac spinors for positive-energy solutions. We show that the relativistic energy levels depend on the Aharonov-Casher geometric phase. We also discuss the influence of curvature and torsion on the relativistic energy levels and the Dirac spinors due to the topology of the cosmic string and cosmic dislocation spacetimes.

id: 1307.2913
title: Collective Effects in Linear Spectroscopy of Dipole-Coupled Molecular Arrays
authors: A.A. Kocherzhenko, J. Dawlaty, B. P. Abolins, F. Herrera, D. B. Abraham, K. B. Whaley
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures main text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2913
abstract: We present a consistent analysis of linear spectroscopy for arrays of nearest neighbor dipole-coupled two-level molecules that reveals distinct signatures of weak and strong coupling regimes separated for infinite size arrays by a quantum critical point. In the weak coupling regime, the ground state of the molecular array is disordered, but in the strong coupling regime it has (anti)ferroelectric ordering. We show that multiple molecular excitations (odd/even in weak/strong coupling regime) can be accessed directly from the ground state. We analyze the scaling of absorption and emission with system size and find that the oscillator strengths show enhanced superradiant behavior in both ordered and disordered phases. As the coupling increases, the single excitation oscillator strength rapidly exceeds the well known Heitler-London value. In the strong coupling regime we show the existence of a unique spectral transition with excitation energy that can be tuned by varying the system size and that asymptotically approaches zero for large systems. The oscillator strength for this transition scales quadratically with system size, showing an anomalous one-photon superradiance. For systems of infinite size, we find a novel, singular spectroscopic signature of the quantum phase transition between disordered and ordered ground states. We outline how arrays of ultra cold dipolar molecules trapped in an optical lattice can be used to access the strong coupling regime and observe the anomalous superradiant effects associated with this regime.

id: 1307.2933
title: General scheme for the construction of a protected qubit subspace
authors: N. Aharon, M. Drewsen, A. Retzker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230507 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2933
abstract: We present a new robust decoupling scheme suitable for levels with either half integer or integer angular momentum states. Through continuous dynamical decoupling techniques, we create a protected qubit subspace, utilizing a multi-state qubit construction. Remarkably, the multi-state system can also be comprised of multiple sub-states within a single level. Our scheme can be realized with state-of-the-art experimental setups and thus has immediate applications for quantum information science. While the scheme is general and relevant for a multitude of solid state and atomic systems, we analyze its performance for the case composed of trapped ions. Explicitly, we show how single qubit gates and an ensemble coupling to a cavity mode can be implemented efficiently. The scheme predicts a coherence time of ~1 second, as compared to typically a few milliseconds for the bare states.

id: 1307.2981
title: Nonlocal continuous variable correlations and violation of Bell's inequality for light beams with topological singularities
authors: Priyanka Chowdhury, A. S. Majumdar, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013830 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2981
abstract: We consider optical beams with topological singularities which possess Schmidt decomposition and show that such classical beams share many features of two mode entanglement in quantum optics. We demonstrate the coherence properties of such beams through the violations of Bell inequality for continuous variables using the Wigner function. This violation is a consequence of correlations between the $(x, p_x)$ and $(y, p_y)$ spaces which mathematically play the same role as nonlocality in quantum mechanics. The Bell violation for the LG beams is shown to increase with higher orbital angular momenta $l$ of the vortex beam. This increase is reminiscent of enhancement of nonlocality for many particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states or for higher spins. The states with large $l$ can be easily produced using spatial light modulators.

id: 1307.2983
title: Accurate calculation of the bound states of Hellmann potential
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Chemistry 44, 260-269 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2983
abstract: Bound states of the Hellmann potential, which is a superposition of the attractive Coulomb ($-A/r$) and the Yukawa ($Be^{-Cr}/r$) potential, are calculated by using a generalized pseudospectral method. Energy eigenvalues accurate up to thirteen to fourteen significant figures, and densities are obtained through a nonuniform, optimal spatial discretization of the radial Schr\"odinger equation. Both ground and excited states are reported for arbitrary values of the potential parameters covering a wide range of interaction. Calculations have been made for higher states as well as for stronger couplings. Some new states are reported here for the first time, which could be useful for future works. The present results are significantly improved in accuracy over all other existing literature values and offers a simple, accurate and efficient scheme for these and other singular potentials in quantum mechanics.

id: 1307.2993
title: Measurement-induced generation of spatial entanglement in a two-dimensional quantum walk with single-qubit coin
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Mc Gettrick, T. Machida, Th. Busch
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 10, 1613 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2993
abstract: One of the proposals for the exploitation of two-dimensional quantum walks has been the efficient generation of entanglement. Unfortunately, the technological effort required for the experimental realization of standard two-dimensional quantum walks is significantly demanding. In this respect, an alternative scheme with less challenging conditions has been recently studied, particularly in terms of spatial-entanglement generation [C. Di Franco, M. Mc Gettrick, and Th. Busch, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080502 (2011)]. Here, we extend the investigation to a scenario where a measurement is performed on the coin degree of freedom after the evolution, allowing a further comparison with the standard two-dimensional Grover walk.

id: 1307.3036
title: Formal features of a General Theoretical Framework for Decoherence in open and closed systems
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 16 pages
journal: Int J Theor Phys, Volume 52, pp 1379-1398, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3036
abstract: Two complementary decoherence formalisms, Environment Induced Decoherence (EID) for open systems and Self Induced Decoherence (SID) for close systems are compared under a common General Theoretical Formalism for Decoherence (GTFD). The differences and similarities of EID and SID are studied, e. g. that the main difference is that EID only considers the relevant information of the proper system S and neglects the rest, while SID considers all possible information available from a certain class of measurement instruments and neglects the non available information.

id: 1307.3070
title: Optimal probabilistic measurement of phase
authors: Petr Marek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3070
abstract: When measuring phase of quantum states of light, the optimal single-shot measurement implements projection on the un-physical phase states. If we want to improve the precision further we need to accept a reduced probability of success, either by implementing a probabilistic measurement or by probabilistically manipulating the measured quantum state by means of noiseless amplification. We analyze the limits of this approach by finding the optimal probabilistic measurement which, for a given rate of success, maximizes the precision with which the phase can be measured.

id: 1307.3078
title: Quantum-field-theoretical approach to phase-space techniques: Symmetric Wick theorem and multitime Wigner representation
authors: L I Plimak, M K Olsen
comments: Submitted to PRE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3078
abstract: In this work we present the formal background used to develop the methods used in earlier works to extend the truncated Wigner representation of quantum and atom optics in order to address multi-time problems. The truncated Wigner representation has proven to be of great practical use, especially in the numerical study of the quantum dynamics of Bose condensed gases. In these cases, it allows for the simulation of effects which are missed entirely by other approximations, such as the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, but does not suffer from the severe instabilities of more exact methods. The numerical treatment of interacting many-body quantum systems is an extremely difficult task, and the ability to extend the truncated Wigner beyond single-time situations adds another powerful technique to the available toolbox. This article gives the formal mathematics behind the development of our "time-Wigner ordering" which allows for the calculation of the multi-time averages which are required for such quantities as the Glauber correlation functions which are applicable to bosonic fields.

id: 1307.3089
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields -- V: Generalised Keldysh rotations and electromagnetic response of the Dirac sea
authors: L I Plimak, S Stenholm
comments: Technically this is the final published version of quant-ph:1104.3809. In fact it is an independent paper which has little in common with that one
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.), v. 327, p. 2691 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3089
abstract: The connection between real-time quantum field theory (RTQFT) [see, e.g., A.\ Kamenev and A.\ Levchenko, Advances in Physics {58} (2009) 197] and phase-space techniques [E.\ Wolf and L.\ Mandel, {\em Optical Coherence and Quantum Optics} (Cambridge, 1995)] is investigated. The Keldysh rotation that forms the basis of RTQFT is shown to be a phase-space mapping of the quantum system based on the symmetric (Weyl) ordering. Following this observation, we define generalised Keldysh rotations based on the class of operator orderings introduced by Cahill and Glauber [Phys.\ Rev.\ {177} (1969) 1882]. Each rotation is a phase-space mapping, generalising the corresponding ordering from free to interacting fields. In particular, response transformation [L.P.\ and S.S., Ann.\ Phys. (N.Y.) {323} (2008) 1989] extends the normal ordering of free-field operators to the time-normal ordering of Heisenberg\ operators. Structural properties of the response transformation, such as its association with the nonlinear quantum response problem and the related causality properties, hold for all generalised Keldysh rotations. Furthermore, we argue that response transformation is especially suited for RTQFT formulation of spatial, in particular, relativistic, problems, because it extends cancellation of zero-point fluctuations, characteristic of the normal ordering, to interacting fields. As an example, we consider quantised electromagnetic\ field in the Dirac sea. In the time-normally-ordered representation, dynamics of the field looks essentially classical (fields radiated by currents), without any contribution from zero-point fluctuations. For comparison, we calculate zero-point fluctuations of the interacting electromagnetic\ field under orderings other than time-normal. The resulting expression is physically inconsistent: it does not obey the Lorentz condition, nor Maxwell's equations.

id: 1307.3114
title: Nested composite NOT gates for quantum computation
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 4 pages, no figures; revised version in press at Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 2860-2862 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3114
abstract: Composite pulses provide a simple means for constructing quantum logic gates which are robust to small errors in the control fields used to implement them. Here I describe how antisymmetric composite NOT gates can be nested to produce gates with arbitrary tolerance of errors.

id: 1307.3160
title: Linear response relations in fluctuational electrodynamics
authors: Vladyslav A. Golyk, Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Mehran Kardar
comments: Main article: 5 pages, 2 figures; Supplemental Material: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3160
abstract: Near field radiative heat transfer and dynamic Casimir forces are just two instances of topics of technological and fundamental interest studied via the formalism of fluctuational electrodynamics. From the perspective of experiment and simulations, it is hard to precisely control and probe such non-equilibrium situations. Fluctuations in equilibrium are easier to measure, and can typically be related to non-equilibrium response functions by Green-Kubo relations. We consider a collection of arbitrary objects in vacuum, perturbed by changing the temperature or velocity of one object. Developing a method for computation of higher order correlation functions in fluctuational electrodynamics, we explicitly compare linear response and equilibrium fluctuations. We obtain a Green-Kubo relation for the radiative heat transfer, as well as a closed formula for the vacuum friction in arbitrary geometries in the framework of scattering theory. We comment on the signature of the radiative heat conductivity in equilibrium fluctuations.

id: 1307.3161
title: Input-output theory of the unconventional photon blockade
authors: H. Flayac, V. Savona
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033836 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3161
abstract: We study the unconventional photon blockade, recently proposed for a coupled-cavity system, in presence of input and output quantum fields. Mixing of the input or output channels still allows strong photon antibunching of the output field, but for optimal values of the system parameters that differ substantially from those that maximize antibunching of the intracavity field. This result shows that the specific input-output geometry in a photonic system determines the optimal design in view of single-photon device operation. We provide a compact analytical formula that allows finding the optimal parameters for each specific system geometry.

id: 1307.3179
title: Against the No-Go Philosophy of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Federico Laudisa
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0811.2862
journal: European Journal for Philosophy of Science, 4(1), 2014, pp. 1-17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3179
abstract: In the area of the foundations of quantum mechanics a true industry appears to have developed in the last decades, with the aim of proving as many results as possible concerning what there cannot be in the quantum realm. In principle, the significance of proving no-go results should consist in clarifying the fundamental structure of the theory, by pointing out a class of basic constraints that the theory itself is supposed to satisfy. In the present paper I will discuss some more recent no-go claims and I will argue against the deep significance of these results, with a two-fold strategy. First, I will consider three results concerning respectively local realism, quantum covariance and predictive power in quantum mechanics, and I will try to show how controversial the main conditions of the negative theorem turn out to be, something that strongly undermines the general relevance of these theorems. Second, I will try to discuss what I take to be a common feature of these theoretical enterprises, namely that of aiming at establishing negative results for quantum mechanics in absence of a deeper understanding of the overall ontological content and structure of the theory. I will argue that the only way toward such an understanding may be to cast in advance the problems in a clear and well-defined interpretational framework, which in my view means primarily to specify the ontology that quantum theory is supposed to be about, and after to wonder whether problems that seemed worth pursuing still are so in the framework.

id: 1307.3186
title: Localization and Recurrence of Quantum Walk in Periodic Potential on a Line
authors: C.-I. Chou, C.-L. Ho
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures. References updated, sign typos in Eqs. (2.2) and (2.5) corrected
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23 (2014) 110302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3186
abstract: We present numerical study of a model of quantum walk in periodic potential on the line. We take the simple view that different potentials affect differently the way the coin state of the walker is changed. For simplicity and definiteness, we assume the walker's coin state is unaffected at sites without potential, and is rotated in an unbiased way according to Hadamard matrix at sites with potential. This is the simplest and most natural model of a quantum walk in a periodic potential with two coins. Six generic cases of such quantum walks were studied numerically. It is found that of the six cases, four cases display significant localization effect, where the walker is confined in the neighborhood of the origin for sufficiently long times. Associated with such localization effect is the recurrence of the probability of the walker returning to the neighborhood of the origin.

id: 1307.3197
title: Heterogeneous teleportation with laser and quantum light sources
authors: R. M. Stevenson, J. Nilsson, A. J. Bennett, J. Skiba-Szymanska, I. Farrer, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 10 Pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3197
abstract: Quantum information technology is set to transform critical network security using quantum cryptography, and complex scientific and engineering simulations with quantum computing. Quantum computer nodes may be based on a variety of systems, such as linear optics, ions, or solid state architectures such as NV-centers in diamond, semiconductor quantum dots or spins in silicon. Interfacing any of these platforms with photonic qubits in secure quantum networks will require quantum teleportation protocols to transfer the information, and matter-light teleportation has for some of these systems been demonstrated. However, although it is conceivable that the input photon originates from a dissimilar source to that supplying the entangled resources, every demonstration so far of teleportation using linear optics use the same or identical sources for the input and entangled photons, often accompanied by a fourth heralding photon. Here we show that photons from fundamentally different sources can be used in the optical quantum teleportation protocol. Input photons are generated by a laser, and teleported using polarisation-entangled photon pairs electrically generated by an entangled-light-emitting diode (ELED). The sources have bandwidth differing by a factor 1000, different photon statistics and need not be precisely degenerate- but we still observe a teleportation fidelity of 0.77, beating the quantum limit by 10 standard deviations. This is a significant leap towards practical applications, such as extending the range of existing QKD systems using quantum relays and repeaters, which usually use weak coherent laser pulses for quantum information transport. The use of an ELED offers practical advantages of electrical control, and as we show erases the multi-photon character of the laser input field, thus eliminating errors if used in a quantum optics circuit.

id: 1307.3222
title: Experimental proposal for the generation of entangled photon triplets by third-order spontaneous parametric downconversion in optical fibers
authors: Maria Corona, Karina Garay-Palmett, Alfred U'Ren
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 36, 190-192 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3222
abstract: We present an experimental proposal for the generation of photon triplets based on third-order spontaneous para- metric downconversion in thin optical fibers. Our analysis includes expressions for the quantum state, which de- scribes the photon triplets and for the generation rate in terms of all experimental parameters. We also present, for a specific source design, numerically calculated generation rates.

id: 1307.3232
title: Small sets of locally indistinguishable orthogonal maximally entangled states
authors: Alessandro Cosentino, Vincent Russo
comments: 8 pages, single column, published version
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.14 No.13&14, 1098--1106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3232
abstract: We study the problem of distinguishing quantum states using local operations and classical communication (LOCC). A question of fundamental interest is whether there exist sets of $k \leq d$ orthogonal maximally entangled states in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$ that are not perfectly distinguishable by LOCC. A recent result by Yu, Duan, and Ying [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 020506 (2012) -- arXiv:1107.3224 [quant-ph]] gives an affirmative answer for the case $k = d$. We give, for the first time, a proof that such sets of states indeed exist even in the case $k < d$. Our result is constructive and holds for an even wider class of operations known as positive-partial-transpose measurements (PPT). The proof uses the characterization of the PPT-distinguishability problem as a semidefinite program.

id: 1307.3261
title: Third-order spontaneous parametric down-conversion in thin optical fibers as a photon-triplet source
authors: Maria Corona, Karina Garay-Palmett, Alfred U'Ren
comments: 
journal: PRA 84, 033823 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3261
abstract: We study the third order spontaneous parametric down conversion (TOSPDC) process, as a means to generate entangled photon triplets. Specifically, we consider thin optical fibers as the nonlinear medium to be used as the basis for TOSPDC in configurations where phase matching is attained through the use of more than one fiber transverse modes. Our analysis in this paper, which follows from our earlier paper Optics Letters 36, 190 (2011), aims to supply experimentalists with the details required in order to design a TOSPDC photon-triplet source. Specifically, our analysis focuses on the photon triplet state, on the rate of emission, and on the TOSPDC phasematching characteristics for the cases of frequency degenerate and frequency nondegenerate TOSPDC.

id: 1307.3266
title: Spontaneous parametric processes in optical fibers: a comparison
authors: Karina Garay-Palmett, Maria Corona, Alfred U'Ren
comments: 
journal: REVISTA MEXICANA DE FISICA S 57 (3) 6 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3266
abstract: We study the processes of spontaneous four wave mixing and of third-order spontaneous parametric downconversion in optical fibers, as the basis for the implementation of photon-pair and photon-triplet sources. We present a comparative analysis of the two processes including expressions for the respective quantum states and plots of the joint spectral intensity, a discussion of phasematching characteristics, and expressions for the conversion efficiency. We have also included a comparative study based on numerical results for the conversion efficiency for the two sources, as a function of several key experimental parameters.

id: 1307.3288
title: Theory of genuine tripartite nonlocality of Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Samanta Piano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3288
abstract: We investigate the genuine multipartite nonlocality of three-mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. For pure states, we present a simplified procedure to obtain the maximum violation of the Svetlichny inequality based on displaced parity measurements, and we analyze its interplay with genuine tripartite entanglement measured via Renyi-2 entropy. The maximum Svetlichny violation admits tight upper and lower bounds at fixed tripartite entanglement. For mixed states, no violation is possible when the purity falls below 0.86. We also explore a set of recently derived weaker inequalities for three-way nonlocality, finding violations for all tested pure states. Our results provide a strong signature for the nonclassical and nonlocal nature of Gaussian states despite their positive Wigner function, and lead to precise recipes for its experimental verification.

id: 1307.3318
title: Quantum simulations of a particle in one-dimensional potentials using NMR
authors: Ravi Shankar, Swathi S. Hegde, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 10 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3318
abstract: A classical computer simulating Schrodinger dynamics of a quantum system requires resources which scale exponentially with the size of the system, and is regarded as inefficient for such purposes. However, a quantum computer made up of a controllable set of quantum particles has the potential to efficiently simulate other quantum systems of matching dimensions. In this work we studied quantum simulations of single particle Schrodinger equation for certain one-dimensional potentials. In particular, we report the following cases: (i) spreading of wave-function of a free-particle, (ii) evolution of a particle in a potential-well, and (iii) reflection of a particle from a potential-barrier. Using a five-qubit NMR system, we achieve space discretization with four qubits, and the other qubit is used for preparation of initial states as well as measurement of spatial probabilities. The experimental relative probabilities compare favorably with the theoretical values, thus effectively mimicking a small-scale quantum simulator.

id: 1307.3323
title: Bound states of the generalized spiked harmonic oscillator
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mol. Structure: THEOCHEM 853, 27-32 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3323
abstract: Bound states of the generalized spiked harmonic oscillator potential are calculated accurately by using the generalized pseudospectral method. Energy eigenvalues, various expectation values, radial densities are obtained through a nonuniform, optimal spatial discretization of the radial Schr\"odinger equation efficiently. Ground and excited states corresponding to arbitrary values of $n$ and $\ell$ are reported for potential parameters covering a wide range of interaction. Both weak and strong coupling is considered. The effect of potential parameters on eigenvalues and densities are discussed. Almost all of the results are reported here for the first time, which could be useful for future studies.

id: 1307.3335
title: Universality and thermalization in the Unruh Effect
authors: Wilson G. Brenna, Eric G. Brown, Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. RevTex4. v2: minor update to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 064031 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3335
abstract: We explore the effects of different boundary conditions and coupling schemes on the response of a particle detector undergoing uniform acceleration in optical cavities. We analyze the thermalization properties of the accelerated detector via non-perturbative calculations. We prove non-perturbatively that if the switching process is smooth enough, the detector thermalizes to the Unruh temperature regardless of the boundary conditions and the form of the coupling considered.

id: 1307.3384
title: From Discrete Time Quantum Walk to Continuous Time Quantum Walk in Limit Distribution
authors: Yutaka Shikano
comments: This is the invited review paper on the special issue on Theoretical and Mathematical Aspects of Discrete Time Quantum Walk from Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 10, 1558-1570 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3384
abstract: The discrete time quantum walk defined as a quantum-mechanical analogue of the discrete time random walk have recently been attracted from various and interdisciplinary fields. In this review, the weak limit theorem, that is, the asymptotic behavior, of the one-dimensional discrete time quantum walk is analytically shown. From the limit distribution of the discrete time quantum walk, the discrete time quantum walk can be taken as the quantum dynamical simulator of some physical systems.

id: 1307.3397
title: Distillation of the two-mode squeezed state
authors: Yuri Kurochkin, Adarsh S. Prasad, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: v2: minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3397
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate entanglement distillation of the two mode squeezed state. Applying the annihilation operator to both modes, we increase the fraction of the two-photon component in the state, resulting in the increase of both squeezing and entanglement by about 50%.

id: 1307.3465
title: Noise to lubricate qubit transfer in a spin network
authors: Morteza Rafiee, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3465
abstract: We consider quantum state transfer in a fully connected spin network, in which the results indicate that it is impossible to achieve high fidelity by free dynamics. However, the addition of certain kinds of noise can be helpful for this purpose. In fact, we introduce a model of Gaussian white noise affecting the spin-spin couplings (edges), except those linked to the input and output node, and prove that it enhances the fidelity of state transfer. The observed noise benefit is scale free as it applies to a quantum network of any size. The amount of the fidelity enhancement, depending on the noise strength as well as on the number of edges to which it is applied, can be so high as to take the fidelity close to one.

id: 1307.3468
title: One-way deficit of SU(2) invariant states
authors: Yao-Kun Wang, Teng Ma, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Rep. Math. Phys., 73(2014), 165-175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3468
abstract: We calculate analytically the one-way deficit for systems consisting spin-$j$ and spin-${1}{2}$ subsystems with SU(2) symmetry. Comparing our results with the quantum discord of SU(2) invariant states, we show that the one-way deficit is equal to the quantum discord for half-integer $j$, and is larger than the quantum discord for integer $j$. Moreover, we also compare the one-way deficit with entanglement of formation. The quantum entanglement tends to zero as $j$ increases, while the one-way deficit can remain significantly large.

id: 1307.3509
title: Single-Photon Switch based on Rydberg Blockade
authors: Simon Baur, Daniel Tiarks, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan D¨¹rr
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 073901 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3509
abstract: All-optical switching is a technique in which a gate light pulse changes the transmission of a target light pulse without the detour via electronic signal processing. We take this to the quantum regime, where the incoming gate light pulse contains only one photon on average. The gate pulse is stored as a Rydberg excitation in an ultracold atomic gas using electromagnetically induced transparency. Rydberg blockade suppresses the transmission of the subsequent target pulse. Finally, the stored gate photon can be retrieved. A retrieved photon heralds successful storage. The corresponding postselected subensemble shows an extinction of 0.05. The single-photon switch offers many interesting perspectives ranging from quantum communication to quantum information processing.

id: 1307.3524
title: The Dirac equation as a quantum walk: higher dimensions, observational convergence
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Marcelo Forets, Vincent Nesme
comments: 8 pages, 2 appendices
journal: 2014 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 465302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3524
abstract: The Dirac equation can be modelled as a quantum walk, with the quantum walk being: discrete in time and space (i.e. a unitary evolution of the wave-function of a particle on a lattice); homogeneous (i.e. translation-invariant and time-independent), and causal (i.e. information propagates at a bounded speed, in a strict sense). This quantum walk model was proposed independently by Succi and Benzi, Bialynicki-Birula and Meyer: we rederive it in a simple way in all dimensions and for hyperbolic symmetric systems in general. We then prove that for any time t, the model converges to the continuous solution of the Dirac equation at time t, i.e. the probability of observing a discrepancy between the model and the solution is an O({\epsilon}^2), with {\epsilon} the discretization step. At the practical level, this result is of interest for the quantum simulation of relativistic particles. At the theoretical level, it reinforces the status of this quantum walk model as a simple, discrete toy model of relativistic particles. Keywords: Friedrichs symmetric hyperbolic systems, Quantum Walk, Quantum Lattice Gas Automata, Quantum Computation, Trotter-Kato, Baker-Campbell-Thomson, Operator splitting, Lax theorem

id: 1307.3541
title: The entropy vector formalism and the structure of multidimensional entanglement in multipartite systems
authors: Marcus Huber, Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3541
abstract: We review and generalize the recently introduced framework of entropy vectors for detecting and quantifying genuine multipartite entanglement in high dimensional multicomponent quantum systems. We show that these ideas can be extended to discriminate among other forms of multipartite entanglement. In particular, we develop methods to test whether density matrices are: decomposable, i.\ e.\ separable with respect to certain given partitions of the subsystems; $k$-separable, i.\ e.\ separable with respect to $k$ partitions of the subsystems; $k$-partite entangled, i.e. there is entanglement among a subset of at least $k$ parties. We also discuss how to asses the dimensionality of entanglement in all these cases.

id: 1307.3545
title: A master equation for a two-sided optical cavity
authors: Thomas M. Barlow, Robert Bennett, Almut Beige
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, simplified version
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 62:sup2, S11-S20 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3545
abstract: Quantum optical systems, like trapped ions, are routinely described by master equations. The purpose of this paper is to introduce a master equation for two-sided optical cavities with spontaneous photon emission. To do so, we use the same notion of photons as in linear optics scattering theory and consider a continuum of traveling-wave cavity photon modes. Our model predicts the same stationary state photon emission rates for the different sides of a laser-driven optical cavity as classical theories. Moreover, it predicts the same time evolution of the total cavity photon number as the standard standing-wave description in experiments with resonant and near-resonant laser driving. The proposed resonator Hamiltonian can be used, for example, to analyse coherent cavity-fiber networks [Kyoseva et al., New J. Phys. 14, 023023 (2012)].

id: 1307.3568
title: Optimal control under spectral constraints: Enforcing multi-photon absorption pathways
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Jos¨¦ P. Palao, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3568
abstract: Shaped pulses obtained by optimal control theory often possess unphysically broad spectra. In principle, the spectral width of a pulse can be restricted by an additional constraint in the optimization functional. However, it has so far been impossible to impose spectral constraints while strictly guaranteeing monotonic convergence. Here, we show that Krotov's method allows for simultaneously imposing temporal and spectral constraints without perturbing monotonic convergence, provided the constraints can be expressed as positive semi-definite quadratic forms. The optimized field is given by an integral equation which can be solved efficiently using the method of degenerate kernels. We demonstrate that Gaussian filters suppress undesired frequency components in the control of non-resonant two-photon absorption.

id: 1307.3575
title: Propagation in quantum walks and relativistic diffusions
authors: Fabrice Debbasch, Giuseppe Di Molfetta, David Espaze, Vincent Foulonneau
comments: 3 figures
journal: 2012 Phys. Scr. 2012 014044
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3575
abstract: Propagation in quantum walks is revisited by showing that very general 1D discrete-time quantum walks with time- and space-dependent coefficients can be described, at the continuous limit, by Dirac fermions coupled to electromagnetic fields. Short-time propagation is also established for relativistic diffusions by presenting new numerical simulations of the Relativistic Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Process. A geometrical generalization of Fick's law is also obtained for this process. The results suggest that relativistic diffusions may be realistic models of decohering or random quantum walks. Links with general relativity and geometrical flows are also mentioned.

id: 1307.3579
title: Geometric classical and total correlations via trace distance
authors: F. M. Paula, J. D. Montealegre, A. Saguia, Thiago R. de Oliveira, M. S. Sarandy
comments: v2: published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 103, 50008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3579
abstract: We introduce the concepts of geometric classical and total correlations through Schatten 1-norm (trace norm), which is the only Schatten p-norm able to ensure a well-defined geometric measure of correlations. In particular, we derive the analytical expressions for the case of two-qubit Bell-diagonal states, discussing the superadditivity of geometric correlations. As an illustration, we compare our results with the entropic correlations, discussing both their hierarchy and monotonicity properties. Moreover, we apply the geometric correlations to investigate the ground state of spin chains in the thermodynamic limit. In contrast to the entropic quantifiers, we show that the classical correlation is the only source of 1-norm geometric correlation that is able to signaling an infinite-order quantum phase transition.

id: 1307.3593
title: Quantum lattice gas model of Fermi systems with relativistic energy relations
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3593
abstract: Presented are several example quantum computing representations of quantum systems with a relativistic energy relation. Basic unitary representations of free Dirac particles and BCS superconductivity are given. Then, these are combined into a novel unitary representation of a Fermi condensate superfluid. The modeling approach employs an operator splitting method that is an analytically closed-form product decomposition of the unitary evolution operator, applied in the high-energy limit. This allows the relativistic wave equations to be cast as unitary finite-difference equations. The split evolution operators (comprising separate kinetic and interaction energy evolution terms) serve as quantum lattice gas models useful for efficient quantum simulation.

id: 1307.3595
title: Quantum lattice gas model of Dirac particles in 1+1 dimensions
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 33 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3595
abstract: Presented is a quantum computing representation of Dirac particle dynamics. The approach employs an operator splitting method that is an analytically closed-form product decomposition of the unitary evolution operator. This allows the Dirac equation to be cast as a unitary finite-difference equation in a high-energy limit. The split evolution operator (with separate kinetic and interaction terms) is useful for efficient quantum simulation. For pedagogical purposes, here we restrict the treatment to Dirac particle dynamics in 1+1 spacetime dimensions. Independent derivations of the quantum algorithm are presented and the model's validity is tested in several quantum simulations by comparing the numerical results against analytical predictions. Using the relativistic quantum algorithm in the case when mc^2 >> pc, quantum simulations of a nonrelativistic particle in an external scalar square well and parabolic potential is presented.

id: 1307.3604
title: A Note on Different Definitions of Momentum Disturbance
authors: Lee A. Rozema, Dylan H. Mahler, Alex Hayat, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3604
abstract: In [1], Busch et al. showed that it is possible to construct an error-disturbance relation having the same form as Heisenberg's original heuristic definition[2], in contrast to the theory proposed by Ozawa[3] which we and others recently confirmed experimentally[4,5]. With Ozawa's definitions of measurement error and disturbance, a relation of Heisenberg's form is not in general valid, and a new error-disturbance relationship can be derived. Here we explain the different physical significance of the two definitions, and suggest that Ozawa's definition better corresponds to the usual understanding of the disturbance that Heisenberg discussed.

id: 1307.3691
title: Contextuality: Wheeler's universal regulating principle
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Submitted to the 2013 FQXi Essay Contest "It From Bit or Bit From It?"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3691
abstract: In this essay I develop quantum contextuality as a potential candidate for Wheeler's universal regulating principle, arguing -- \textit{contrary} to Wheeler -- that this ultimately implies that `bit' comes from `it.' In the process I develop a formal definition of physical determinism in the languages of domain theory and category theory.

id: 1307.3726
title: Lieb-Robinson Bound and Adiabatic Evolution
authors: M. M. R. Koochakie, S. Alipour, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3726
abstract: We extend the concept of locality to enclose a situation where a tensor-product structure for the Hilbert space is not \textit {a priori} assumed; rather, this locality is related to a given matrix representation of the Hamiltonian associated to the system. As a result, we formulate a Lieb-Robinson-like bound for Hamiltonians local in a given basis. In particular, we employ this bound to obtain alternatively the adiabatic condition, where adiabaticity is naturally ensued from a locality in energy basis and a relatively small Lieb-Robinson bound.

id: 1307.3746
title: Coarsening Measurement References and the Quantum-to-Classical Transition
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Youngrong Lim, M. S. Kim
comments: Supplementary Material added, 7 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3746
abstract: We investigate the role of inefficiency in quantum measurements in the quantum-to-classical transition, and consistently observe the quantum-to-classical transition by coarsening the references of the measurements (e.g. when and where to measure). Our result suggests that the definition of measurement precision in quantum theory should include the degree of the observer's ability to precisely control the measurement references.

id: 1307.3772
title: Entanglement is Sometimes Enough
authors: X.-F. Qian, J.H. Eberly
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3772
abstract: For many decades the word "entanglement" has been firmly attached to the world of quantum mechanics. So is the phrase "Bell violation". Here we show, without contradicting quantum mechanics, that classical non-deterministic fields also provide a natural basis for entanglement and Bell analyses. Surprisingly, such fields are not eliminated by the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell violation test as viable alternatives to quantum theory. An experimental setup for verification is proposed.

id: 1307.3834
title: Generation and manipulation of entangled photons in a domain-engineered lithium niobate waveguide
authors: Yang Ming, Ai-hong Tan, Zi-jian Wu, Zhao-xian Chen, Fei Xu, Yan-qing Lu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3834
abstract: We propose to integrate the electro-optic tuning function into polarization-entangled photon pair generation process in a periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN). Due to the versatility of PPLN, both the spontaneously parametric down conversion and electro-optic polarization rotation effects could be realized simultaneously. Orthogonally-polarized and parallel-polarized photon pairs thus are instantly switchable by tuning the applied field. The characteristics of the source are investigated showing adjustable bandwidths and high entanglement degrees. Moreover, other kinds of reconfigurable entanglement are also achievable based on suitable domain-design. We believe the domain engineering is a very promising solution for next generation function-integrated quantum circuits.

id: 1307.3870
title: Nonequilibrium and nonperturbative dynamics of ultrastrong coupling in open lines
authors: B. Peropadre, D. Zueco, D. Porras, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 243602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3870
abstract: We study the time and space resolved dynamics of a qubit with an Ohmic coupling to propagating 1D photons, from weak coupling to the ultrastrong coupling regime. A nonperturbative study based on Matrix Product States (MPS) shows the following results: (i) The ground state of the combined systems contains excitations of both the qubit and the surrounding bosonic field. (ii) An initially excited qubit equilibrates through spontaneous emission to a state, which under certain conditions, is locally close to that ground state, both in the qubit and the field. (iii) The resonances of the combined qubit-photon system match those of the spontaneous emission process and also the predictions of the adiabatic renormalization [A. J. Leggett et al., Rev. Mod. Phys. 59, 1, (1987)]. Finally, a non-perturbative ab-initio calculations show that this physics can be studied using a flux qubit galvanically coupled to a superconducting transmission line.

id: 1307.3876
title: A detailed description of the experimental realisation of quantum illumination protocol
authors: E.D. Lopaeva, I. Ruo Berchera, S. Olivares, G. Brida, I.P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1303.4304
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3876
abstract: In the last years the exploitation of specific properties of quantum states has disclosed the possibility of realising tasks beyond classical limits, creating the new field of quantum technologies [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]. Among them, quantum metrology and imaging aim to improve the sensitivity and/or resolution of measurements exploiting non-classical features such as squeezing and quantum correlations (entanglement and discordant states) [10, 11, 12, 13, 14]. Nevertheless, in most of the realistic scenarios losses and noise are known to nullify the advantage of adopting quantum strategies [15]. In this paper we describe in detail the first experimental realization of quantum illumination protocol aimed to target detection in a noisy environment, that preserves a strong advantage over the classical counterparts even in presence of large amount of noise and losses. The experiment, inspired by the theoretical ideas elaborated in [16, 17, 18, 19] (see also [20, 21]), has been performed exploiting only photon number correlations in twin beams. Thus, for its simplicity it can find widespread use. Even more important by challenging the common believe that real application of quantum technologies is limited by their fragility to noise and losses, it paves the way to their real application.

id: 1307.3894
title: Entanglement in S states of two-electron quantum dots with Coulomb impurities at the center
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 2393
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3894
abstract: We study a system of two Coulombically interacting electrons in an external harmonic potential in the presence of an on-centre Coulomb impurity. Detailed results for the dependencies of the reduced von Neumann entropy on the control parameters of the system are provided for both the ground state and the triplet S states with the lowest energy. Among other features, it is found that in the weak confinement regime the entanglement is strongly affected by the presence of an acceptor impurity.

id: 1307.3927
title: On the equivalence of lossy evolution and POVM generalized quantum measurements
authors: Raam Uzdin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3927
abstract: Loss induced generalized measurements have been introduced years ago as a mean to implement generalized quantum measurements (POVM). Here the original idea is extended to a complete equivalence of lossy evolution and a certain widely used class of POVM. This class includes POVM used for unambiguous state discrimination and entanglement concentration. One implication of this equivalence is that unambiguous state discrimination schemes based on PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians have the same performance as those of standard POVM. After discussing several key points of this equivalence we illustrate our findings in two elementary physical realizations. Finally, we discuss several implications of this equivalence.

id: 1307.3931
title: MAX 2-SAT with up to 108 qubits
authors: Siddhartha Santra, Greg Quiroz, Greg Ver Steeg, Daniel Lidar
comments: 18 pages, 23 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 045006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3931
abstract: We experimentally study the performance of a programmable quantum annealing processor, the D-Wave One (DW1) with up to 108 qubits, on maximum satisfiability problem with 2 variables per clause (MAX 2-SAT) problems. We consider ensembles of random problems characterized by a fixed clause density, an order parameter which we tune through its critical value in our experiments. We demonstrate that the DW1 is sensitive to the critical value of the clause density. The DW1 results are verified and compared with akmaxsat, an exact, state-of-the-art algorithm. We study the relative performance of the two solvers and how they correlate in terms of problem hardness. We find that the DW1 performance scales more favorably with problem size and that problem hardness correlation is essentially non-existent. We discuss the relevance and limitations of such a comparison.

id: 1307.3952
title: Fast optical cooling of nanomechanical cantilever with the dynamical Zeeman effect
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Shuo Zhang, Jin-Hua Zou, Liang Chen, Wen Yang, Yong Li, Mang Feng
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures and all the typos have been corrected Accepted by Optics Express
journal: Optics Express Vol.21, 029695 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3952
abstract: We propose an efficient optical electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) cooling scheme for a cantilever with a nitrogen-vacancy center attached in a non-uniform magnetic field using dynamical Zeeman effect. In our scheme, the Zeeman effect combined with the quantum interference effect enhances the desired cooling transition and suppresses the undesired heating transitions. As a result, the cantilever can be cooled down to nearly the vibrational ground state under realistic experimental conditions within a short time. This efficient optical EIT cooling scheme can be reduced to the typical EIT cooling scheme under special conditions.

id: 1307.3953
title: Hierarchy and dynamics of trace distance correlations
authors: Benjamin Aaronson, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures. Published in New J Phys
journal: New J Phys 15, 093022 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3953
abstract: We define and analyze measures of correlations for bipartite states based on trace distance. For Bell diagonal states of two qubits, in addition to the known expression for quantum correlations using this metric, we provide analytic expressions for the classical and total correlations. The ensuing hierarchy of correlations based on trace distance is compared to the ones based on relative entropy and Hilbert-Schmidt norm. Although some common features can be found, the trace distance measure is shown to differentiate from the others in that the closest uncorrelated state to a given bipartite quantum state is not given by the product of the marginals, and further, the total correlations are strictly smaller than the sum of the quantum and classical correlations. We compare the various correlation measures in two dynamical non-Markovian models, locally applied phase-flip channels and random external fields. It is shown that the freezing behavior, observed across all known valid measures of quantum correlations for Bell diagonal states under local phase-flip channels, occurs for a larger set of starting states for the trace distance than for the other metrics.

id: 1307.3984
title: The classical limit of a physical theory and the dimensionality of space
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Caslav Brukner
comments: To appear in "Quantum Theory: Informational Foundations and Foils", Eds. G. Chiribella, and R. Spekkens
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3984
abstract: In the operational approach to general probabilistic theories one distinguishes two spaces, the state space of the "elementary systems" and the physical space in which "laboratory devices" are embedded. Each of those spaces has its own dimension- the minimal number of real parameters (coordinates) needed to specify the state of system or a point within the physical space. Within an operational framework to a physical theory, the two dimensions coincide in a natural way under the following "closeness" requirement: the dynamics of a single elementary system can be generated by the invariant interaction between the system and the "macroscopic transformation device" that itself is described from within the theory in the macroscopic (classical) limit. Quantum mechanics fulfils this requirement since an arbitrary unitary transformation of an elementary system (spin-1/2 or qubit) can be generated by the pairwise invariant interaction between the spin and the constituents of a large coherent state ("classical magnetic field"). Both the spin state space and the "classical field" are then embedded in the Euclidean three-dimensional space. Can we have a general probabilistic theory, other than quantum theory, in which the elementary system ("generalized spin") and the "classical fields" generating its dynamics are embedded in a higher-dimensional physical space? We show that as long as the interaction is pairwise, this is impossible, and quantum mechanics and the three-dimensional space remain the only solution. However, having multi-particle interactions and a generalized notion of "classical field" may open up such a possibility.

id: 1307.4016
title: Weak value amplification is suboptimal for estimation and detection
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joshua Combes
comments: This is a significant revision which is closer to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4016
abstract: We show using statistically rigorous arguments that the technique of weak value amplification (WVA) does not perform better than standard statistical techniques for the tasks of single parameter estimation and signal detection. Specifically we prove that post-selection, a necessary ingredient for WVA, decreases estimation accuracy and, moreover, arranging for anomalously large weak values is a suboptimal strategy. In doing so, we explicitly provide the optimal estimator, which in turn allows us to identify the optimal experimental arrangement to be the one in which all outcomes have equal weak values (all as small as possible) and the initial state of the meter is the maximal eigenvalue of the square of the system observable. Finally, we give precise quantitative conditions for when weak measurement (measurements without post-selection or anomalously large weak values) can mitigate the effect of uncharacterized technical noise in estimation.

id: 1307.4017
title: Information Geometry of Complex Hamiltonians and Exceptional Points
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 17 pages, invited contribution for a Special Issue on "Distance in Information and Statistical Physics"
journal: Entropy 15, 3361-3378 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4017
abstract: Information geometry provides a tool to systematically investigate parameter sensitivity of the state of a system. If a physical system is described by a linear combination of eigenstates of a complex (that is, non-Hermitian) Hamiltonian, then there can be phase transitions where dynamical properties of the system change abruptly. In the vicinities of the transition points, the state of the system becomes highly sensitive to the changes of the parameters in the Hamiltonian. The parameter sensitivity can then be measured in terms of the Fisher-Rao metric and the associated curvature of the parameter-space manifold. A general scheme for the geometric study of parameter-space manifolds of eigenstates of complex Hamiltonians is outlined here, leading to generic expressions for the metric.

id: 1307.4020
title: Ramsey-Bord¨¦ interferometer for electrons
authors: Karl-Peter Marzlin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043621 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4020
abstract: A scheme to realize an electron interferometer using low-intensity, bi-chromatic laser pulses as beam splitter is proposed. The splitting process is based on a modification of the Kapitza-Dirac effect, which produces a momentum kick for electrons with a specific initial momentum. A full interferometric setup in Ramsey-Bord\'e configuration is theoretically analyzed.

id: 1307.4144
title: The Origin of the Dynamical Quantum Non-locality
authors: Cesar E. Pachon, Leonardo A. Pachon
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4144
abstract: Non-locality is one of the hallmarks of quantum mechanics and is responsible for paradigmatic features such as entanglement[1] and the Aharonov-Bohm effect[2,3]. Non-locality comes in two "flavours": a \emph{kinematic non-locality}-- arising from the structure of the Hilbert space--[4-6] and a \emph{dynamical non-locality}-- arising from the quantum equations of motion--[2,3,5,6]. Despite of its main role in quantum information processing, kinematic non-locality is unable to induce any change in the probability distributions, so that the "action-at-a-distance" cannot manifest[5,6]. Conversely, dynamical non-locality does create explicit changes in probability, though in a "causality-preserving" manner[6,7]. Recently, the origin of the kinematic non-locality was related to the uncertainty principle[8], here we trace the origin of dynamical non-locality to the superposition principle. This relation adds to the more fundamental understanding of the nature of quantum dynamics and allows us to establish and identify how the uncertainty and the superposition principles determine the non-local character of the outcome of a quantum measurement. Thus, dynamical non-locality emerges as the responsible of the breakdown of the dynamical classical realism[9] and therefore, as key feature in the classical-quantum transition. Most importantly, being based on group theoretical and path integral formulations, our formulation admits immediate generalizations and extensions to, e.g., quantum field theory.

id: 1307.4182
title: Boosting work characteristics and overall heat engine performance via shortcuts to adiabaticity: quantum and classical systems
authors: Jiawen Deng, Qing-hai Wang, Zhihao Liu, Peter Hanggi, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, finalized version published in the December 2013 issue of Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 062122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4182
abstract: Under a general framework, shortcuts to adiabatic processes are shown to be possible in classical systems. We then study the distribution function of the work done on a small system initially prepared at thermal equilibrium. It is found that the work fluctuations can be significantly reduced via shortcuts to adiabatic processes. For example, in the classical case probabilities of having very large or almost zero work values are suppressed. In the quantum case negative work may be totally removed from the otherwise non-positive-definite work values. We also apply our findings to a micro Otto-cycle-based heat engine. It is shown that the use of shortcuts, which directly enhances the engine output power, can also increase the heat engine efficiency substantially, in both quantum and classical regimes.

id: 1307.4184
title: Classical Inversion of the CHSH Inequality
authors: Frederick H. Willeboordse
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4184
abstract: In general, the CHSH inequality $S \le 2$ is considered to provide an \textit{upper} bound for classical correlations. In this note it is shown that if incoming particles are allowed to be delayed ever so briefly, the inequality can be inverted to $S \ge 2$ thus becoming a \textit{lower} bound for classical correlations (maximum S=3). All interaction is strictly local and events are neither dropped nor re-sequenced thus strictly conforming to the standard CHSH setup. The key notion is that a (brief) delay in front of a detector is not a causative intervention.

id: 1307.4238
title: A variant of the Brillouin-Wigner perturbation theory with Epstein-Nesbet partitioning
authors: Sangyoub Lee, Cheol Ho Choi, Eunji Kim, Young Kyun Choi
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4238
abstract: We present an elementary pedagogical derivation of the Brillouin-Wigner and the Rayleigh-Schr\"odinger perturbation theories with Epstein-Nesbet partitioning. A variant of the Brillouin-Wigner perturbation theory is also introduced, which can be easily extended to the quasi-degenerate case. A main advantage of the new theory is that the computing time required for obtaining the successive higher-order results is negligible after the third-order calculation. We illustrate the accuracy of the new perturbation theory for some simple model systems like the perturbed harmonic oscillator and the particle in a box.

id: 1307.4265
title: Improved entropic uncertainty relations and information exclusion relations
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Marco Piani
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, v2: close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4265
abstract: The uncertainty principle can be expressed in entropic terms, also taking into account the role of entanglement in reducing uncertainty. The information exclusion principle bounds instead the correlations that can exist between the outcomes of incompatible measurements on one physical system, and a second reference system. We provide a more stringent formulation of both the uncertainty principle and the information exclusion principle, with direct applications for, e.g., the security analysis of quantum key distribution, entanglement estimation, and quantum communication. We also highlight a fundamental distinction between the complementarity of observables in terms of uncertainty and in terms of information.

id: 1307.4282
title: Single Polariton Optomechanics
authors: Juan Restrepo, Cristiano Ciuti, Ivan Favero
comments: PRL in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4282
abstract: This paper investigates a novel hybrid cavity QED-optomechanics situation. We solve the Hamiltonian problem of a cavity coupled both to a two-level atom via a Jaynes-Cummings coupling and to a mechanical motion via radiation pressure coupling. The atom-cavity polariton number operator commutes with the total Hamiltonian leading to an exact analytical solution involving tripartite atom-cavity-mechanics polarons. Under optical pumping of polaronic transitions the system displays unusual atom-assisted cooling and amplification of mechanical motion. We demonstrate the possibility to obtain enhanced optomechanical cooling at the single polariton level, strong bunching of phonons, and describe the peculiar quantum noise statistics of mechanical motion in the single polariton amplification limit.

id: 1307.4294
title: Are Micro and Macro Arrows of Time Connected Each Other?
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4294
abstract: The connection between the micro and macro-arrow of time is discussed in the frame of the stochastic quantum hydrodynamic analogy (SQHA). The presence of fluctuations that in the case on non-linear interactions leads to the breaking of the quantum mechanics on large scale and then to the macroscopic irreversibility with a defined arrow of time, gives also rise to the time reversal breaking in the micro-scale quantum evolution (micro-arrow of time). The quantum irreversibility with time reversal asymmetry is briefly discussed.

id: 1307.4295
title: Effective quantum number for describing nanosystems
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4295
abstract: An enormous variety of quantum nanoobjects and nanosystems calls for the development of new approaches to their description and parametrization. Corresponding methods should be simple, universal enough and ensuring the retention of essential part of information at small number of parameters. A universal effective quantum number was introduced earlier and successfully used for describing centrally symmetric systems. But in most cases nanosystems own a lower symmetry. In the present article we generalize and adapt this method for such systems.

id: 1307.4317
title: Zeno Dynamics and High-Temperature Master Equations Beyond Secular Approximation
authors: B. Militello, M. Scala, A. Messina
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 485301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4317
abstract: Complete positivity of a class of maps generated by master equations derived beyond the secular approximation is discussed. The connection between such class of evolutions and physical properties of the system is analyzed in depth. It is also shown that under suitable hypotheses a Zeno dynamics can be induced because of the high temperature of the bath.

id: 1307.4326
title: From transistor to trapped-ion computers for quantum chemistry
authors: M.-H. Yung, J. Casanova, A. Mezzacapo, J. McClean, L. Lamata, A. Aspuru-Guzik, E. Solano
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, and a 4-page appendix
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 3589 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4326
abstract: Over the last few decades, quantum chemistry has progressed through the development of computational methods based on modern digital computers. However, these methods can hardly fulfill the exponentially-growing resource requirements when applied to large quantum systems. As pointed out by Feynman, this restriction is intrinsic to all computational models based on classical physics. Recently, the rapid advancement of trapped-ion technologies has opened new possibilities for quantum control and quantum simulations. Here, we present an efficient toolkit that exploits both the internal and motional degrees of freedom of trapped ions for solving problems in quantum chemistry, including molecular electronic structure, molecular dynamics, and vibronic coupling. We focus on applications that go beyond the capacity of classical computers, but may be realizable on state-of-the-art trapped-ion systems. These results allow us to envision a new paradigm of quantum chemistry that shifts from the current transistor to a near-future trapped-ion-based technology.

id: 1307.4349
title: Stabilizing entanglement autonomously between two superconducting qubits
authors: S. Shankar, M. Hatridge, Z. Leghtas, K. M. Sliwa, A. Narla, U. Vool, S. M. Girvin, L. Frunzio, M. Mirrahimi, M. H. Devoret
comments: 39 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nature, Volume 504, Issue 7480, 2013, Pages 419-422
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4349
abstract: Quantum error-correction codes would protect an arbitrary state of a multi-qubit register against decoherence-induced errors, but their implementation is an outstanding challenge for the development of large-scale quantum computers. A first step is to stabilize a non-equilibrium state of a simple quantum system such as a qubit or a cavity mode in the presence of decoherence. Several groups have recently accomplished this goal using measurement-based feedback schemes. A next step is to prepare and stabilize a state of a composite system. Here we demonstrate the stabilization of an entangled Bell state of a quantum register of two superconducting qubits for an arbitrary time. Our result is achieved by an autonomous feedback scheme which combines continuous drives along with a specifically engineered coupling between the two-qubit register and a dissipative reservoir. Similar autonomous feedback techniques have recently been used for qubit reset and the stabilization of a single qubit state, as well as for creating and stabilizing states of multipartite quantum systems. Unlike conventional, measurement-based schemes, an autonomous approach counter-intuitively uses engineered dissipation to fight decoherence, obviating the need for a complicated external feedback loop to correct errors, simplifying implementation. Instead the feedback loop is built into the Hamiltonian such that the steady state of the system in the presence of drives and dissipation is a Bell state, an essential building-block state for quantum information processing. Such autonomous schemes, broadly applicable to a variety of physical systems as demonstrated by a concurrent publication with trapped ion qubits, will be an essential tool for the implementation of quantum-error correction.

id: 1307.4365
title: Bell's Theorem, Accountability and Nonlocality
authors: Nicola Vona, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: A better formulated version with added references and an appendix containing some simple but useful proofs (7 pages, 1 figure); to appear in Special issue: 50 years of Bell's theorem, Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424026 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4365
abstract: Bell's theorem is a fundamental theorem in physics concerning the incompatibility between some correlations predicted by quantum theory and a large class of physical theories. In this paper, we introduce the hypothesis of accountability, which demands that it is possible to explain the correlations of the data collected in many runs of a Bell experiment in terms of what happens in each single run. Under this assumption, and making use of a recent result by Colbeck and Renner [Nat. Commun. 2, 411 (2011)], we then show that any nontrivial account of these correlations in the form of an extension of quantum theory must violate parameter independence. Moreover, we analyze the violation of outcome independence of quantum mechanics and show that it is also a manifestation of nonlocality.

id: 1307.4366
title: What does one measure, when one measures the arrival times of a quantum particle?
authors: Nicola Vona, G¨¹nter Hinrichs, Detlef D¨¹rr
comments: 5 pages. Fixed an issue that prevented two figures to be correctly displayed by Acrobat
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4366
abstract: What is the right statistics for the measurements of arrival times of a quantum particle? Although this question is very old, it is still open. Usual experiments are performed in far-field regime and this question becomes unimportant, as a semiclassical analysis suffices. Nevertheless, the development in the detector technology will soon allow for near-field investigations, thus a better understanding of arrival time measurements is needed. Since outcomes of quantum measurements are always described by POVMs, various arrival time POVMs have been proposed. On the other hand many physicists would agree that the arrival time statistics is given by the quantum flux. This urges the question whether a POVM exists, which agrees approximately with the quantum flux values on a reasonable set of wave functions. We answer this question negatively for a very natural set of wave functions, but we remark that the answer is very sensitive to the choice of the set, and provide evidence for the existence of a POVM that agrees with the quantum flux on a more restrictive set.

id: 1307.4369
title: Density-Functional theory, finite-temperature classical maps, and their implications for foundational studies of quantum systems
authors: M.W.C. Dharma-wardana
comments: one figure, this http URL
journal: Journal of Physics (IOP) J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. vol. 442 012030 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4369
abstract: The advent of the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem in 1964, its extension to finite-T, Kohn-Sham theory, and relativistic extensions provide the well-established formalism of density-functional theory (DFT). This theory enables the calculation of all static properties of quantum systems {\it without} the need for an n-body wavefunction \psi. DFT uses the one-body density distribution instead of \psi. The more recent time-dependent formulations of DFT attempt to describe the time evolution of quantum systems without using the time-dependent wavefunction. Although DFT has become the standard tool of condensed-matter computational quantum mechanics, its foundational implications have remained largely unexplored. While all systems require quantum mechanics (QM) at T=0, the pair-distribution functions (PDFs) of such quantum systems have been accurately mapped into classical models at effective finite-T, and using suitable non-local quantum potentials (e.g., to mimic Pauli exclusion effects). These approaches shed light on the quantum \to hybrid \to classical models, and provide a new way of looking at the existence of non- local correlations without appealing to Bell's theorem. They also provide insights regarding Bohmian mechanics. Furthermore, macroscopic systems even at 1 Kelvin have de Broglie wavelengths in the micro-femtometer range, thereby eliminating macroscopic cat states, and avoiding the need for {\it ad hoc} decoherence models.

id: 1307.4404
title: Genuine hidden quantum nonlocality
authors: Flavien Hirsch, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Joseph Bowles, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4404
abstract: The nonlocality of certain quantum states can be revealed by using local filters before performing a standard Bell test. This phenomenon, known as hidden nonlocality, has been so far demonstrated only for a restricted class of measurements, namely projective measurements. Here we prove the existence of genuine hidden nonlocality. Specifically, we present a class of two-qubit entangled states, for which we construct a local model for the most general local measurements (POVMs), and show that the states violate a Bell inequality after local filtering. Hence there exist entangled states, the nonlocality of which can be revealed only by using a sequence of measurements. Finally, we show that genuine hidden nonlocality can be maximal. There exist entangled states for which a sequence of measurements can lead to maximal violation of a Bell inequality, while the statistics of non-sequential measurements is always local.

id: 1307.4407
title: More accurate and efficient bath spectral densities from super-resolution
authors: Thomas Markovich, Samuel M. Blau, John Parkhill, Christoph Kreisbeck, Jacob N. Sanders, Xavier Andrade, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4407
abstract: Quantum transport and other phenomena are typically modeled by coupling the system of interest to an environment, or bath, held at thermal equilibrium. Realistic bath models are at least as challenging to construct as models for the quantum systems themselves, since they must incorporate many degrees of freedom that interact with the system on a wide range of timescales. Owing to computational limitations, the environment is often modeled with simple functional forms, with a few parameters fit to experiment to yield semi-quantitative results. Growing computational resources have enabled the construction of more realistic bath models from molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. In this paper, we develop a numerical technique to construct these atomistic bath models with better accuracy and decreased cost. We apply a novel signal processing technique, known as super-resolution, combined with a dictionary of physically-motivated bath modes to derive spectral densities from MD simulations. Our approach reduces the required simulation time and provides a more accurate spectral density than can be obtained via standard Fourier transform methods. Moreover, the spectral density is provided as a convenient closed-form expression which yields an analytic time-dependent bath kernel. Exciton dynamics of the Fenna-Matthews-Olsen light-harvesting complex are simulated with a second order time-convolutionless master equation, and spectral densities constructed via super-resolution are shown to reproduce the dynamics using only a quarter of the amount of MD data.

id: 1307.4443
title: Dissipative production of a maximally entangled steady state
authors: Y. Lin, J. P. Gaebler, F. Reiter, T. R. Tan, R. Bowler, A. S. S?rensen, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature 504, 415-418 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4443
abstract: Entangled states are a key resource in fundamental quantum physics, quantum cryp-tography, and quantum computation [1].To date, controlled unitary interactions applied to a quantum system, so-called "quantum gates", have been the most widely used method to deterministically create entanglement [2]. These processes require high-fidelity state preparation as well as minimizing the decoherence that inevitably arises from coupling between the system and the environment and imperfect control of the system parameters. Here, on the contrary, we combine unitary processes with engineered dissipation to deterministically produce and stabilize an approximate Bell state of two trapped-ion qubits independent of their initial state. While previous works along this line involved the application of sequences of multiple time-dependent gates [3] or generated entanglement of atomic ensembles dissipatively but relied on a measurement record for steady-state entanglement [4], we implement the process in a continuous time-independent fashion, analogous to optical pumping of atomic states. By continuously driving the system towards steady-state, the entanglement is stabilized even in the presence of experimental noise and decoherence. Our demonstration of an entangled steady state of two qubits represents a step towards dissipative state engineering, dissipative quantum computation, and dissipative phase transitions [5-7]. Following this approach, engineered coupling to the environment may be applied to a broad range of experimental systems to achieve desired quantum dynamics or steady states. Indeed, concurrently with this work, an entangled steady state of two superconducting qubits was demonstrated using dissipation [8].

id: 1307.4449
title: Polynomial Supersymmetry for Matrix Hamiltonians
authors: Andrey V. Sokolov
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 377:9 (2013) 655-662
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4449
abstract: We study intertwining relations for matrix one-dimensional, in general, non-Hermitian Hamiltonians by matrix differential operators of arbitrary order. It is established that for any matrix intertwining operator Q_N^- of minimal order N there is a matrix operator Q_{N'}^+ of different, in general, order N' that intertwines the same Hamiltonians as Q_N^- in the opposite direction and such that the products Q_{N'}^+Q_N^- and Q_N^-Q_{N'}^+ are identical polynomials of the corresponding Hamiltonians. The related polynomial algebra of supersymmetry is constructed. The problems of minimization and of reducibility of a matrix intertwining operator are considered and the criteria of minimizability and of reducibility are presented. It is shown that there are absolutely irreducible matrix intertwining operators, in contrast to the scalar case.

id: 1307.4490
title: Thermalized Non-Equilibrated Matter against Random Matrix Theory, Quantum Chaos and Direct Interaction: Warming up
authors: S. Kun, Y. Li, M. H. Zhao, M. R. Huang
comments: 69 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4490
abstract: The idea of a thermalized non-equilibrated state of matter offers a conceptually new understanding of the strong angular asymmetry. In this compact review we present some clarifications, corrections and further developments of the approach, and provide a brief account of results previously discussed but not reported in the literature. The cross symmetry compound nucleus $S$-matrix correlations are obtained (i) starting from the unitary $S$-matrix representation, (ii) by explicitly taking into account a process of energy equilibration, and (iii) without taking the thermodynamic limit of an infinite number of particles in the thermalized system. It is conjectured that the long phase memory is due to the exponentially small total spin off-diagonal resonance intensity correlations. This manifestly implies that the strong angular asymmetry intimately relates to extremely small deviations of the eigenfunction distribution from Gaussian law. The spin diagonal resonance intensity correlations determine a new time/energy scale for a validity of random matrix theory. Its definition does not involve overlaps of the many-body interacting configurations with shell model non-interacting states and thus is conceptually different from the physical meaning (inverse energy relaxation time) of the spreading widths introduced by Wigner. Exact Gaussian distribution of the resonance wave functions corresponds to the instantaneous phase relaxation. We invite the nuclear reaction community for the competition to describe, as the first challenge, the strong forward peaking in the typically evaporation part of the proton spectra. This is necessary to initiate revealing long-term misconduct in the heavily cross-disciplinary field, also important for nuclear industry applications.

id: 1307.4524
title: Weak values and weak coupling maximizing the output of weak measurements
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: v4 close to published version; v3 provides a simpler, more elegant solution based on geometrical considerations; v2 extends the results for an arbitrary observable of the probe, which can be even a finite-dimensional system, and provides an upper bound to the output by exploiting the Schroedinger-Robertson uncertainty relation
journal: Annals of Physics 345, 178 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4524
abstract: In a weak measurement, the average output $\langle o\rangle$ of a probe that measures an observable $\hat{A}$ of a quantum system undergoing both a preparation in a state $\rho_i$ and a postselection in a state $E_\mathrm{f}$ is, to a good approximation, a function of the weak value $A_w=\mathrm{Tr} [E_f \hat{A} \rho_i]/\mathrm{Tr}[E_f\rho_i]$, a complex number. For a fixed coupling $\lambda$, when the overlap $\mathrm{Tr}[E_f\rho_i]$ is very small, $A_w$ diverges, but $\langle o\rangle$ stays finite, often tending to zero for symmetry reasons. This paper answers the questions: what is the weak value that maximizes the output for a fixed coupling? what is the coupling that maximizes the output for a fixed weak value? We derive equations for the optimal values of $A_w$ and $\lambda$, and provide the solutions. The results are independent of the dimensionality of the system, and they apply to a probe having a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension. Using the Schr\"{o}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relation, we demonstrate that, in an important case, the amplification $\langle o\rangle$ cannot exceed the initial uncertainty $\sigma_o$ in the observable $\hat{o}$, we provide an upper limit for the more general case, and a strategy to obtain $\langle o\rangle\gg \sigma_o$.

id: 1307.4571
title: Gaussian entanglement induced by an extended thermal environment
authors: Antonio A. Valido, Daniel Alonso, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 15 page, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A, V88, 042303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4571
abstract: We study stationary entanglement among three harmonic oscillators which are dipole coupled to a one-dimensional or a three-dimensional bosonic environment. The analysis of the open-system dynamics is performed with generalized quantum Langevin equations which we solve exactly in Fourier representation. The focus lies on Gaussian bipartite and tripartite entanglement induced by the highly non-Markovian interaction mediated by the environment. This environment-induced interaction represents an effective many-parties interaction with a spatial long-range feature: a main finding is that the presence of a passive oscillator is detrimental for the stationary two-mode entanglement. Furthermore, our results strongly indicate that the environment-induced entanglement mechanism corresponds to uncontrolled feedback which is predominantly coherent at low temperatures and for moderate oscillator-environment coupling as compared to the oscillator frequency.

id: 1307.4630
title: Quantum reading capacity under thermal and correlated noise
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Pirandola, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Mancini
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4630
abstract: Quantum communication theory sets the maximum rates at which information can be encoded and decoded reliably given the physical properties of the information carriers. Here we consider the problem of readout of a digital optical memory, where information is stored by means of the optical properties of the memory cells that are in turn probed by shining a laser beam on them. Interesting features arise in the regime in which the probing light has to be treated quantum mechanically. The maximum rate of reliable readout defines the quantum reading capacity, which is proven to overcome the classical reading capacity, obtained by probing with classical light, in several relevant settings. We consider a model of optical memory in which information is encoded in the (complex-valued) attenuation factor and study the effects on the reading rates of thermal and correlated noise. The latter type of noise arises when the effects of wave diffraction on the probing light beam are taken into account. We discuss the advantages of quantum reading over the classical one and show that the former is substantially more robust than the latter under thermal noise in the regime of low power per pulse.

id: 1307.4637
title: Quantum parameter estimation using general single-mode Gaussian states
authors: O. Pinel, P. Jian, N. Treps, C. Fabre, and D. Braun
comments: This paper has been withdrawn because of a double submission. See: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4637
abstract: We calculate the quantum Cram\'er--Rao bound for the sensitivity with which one or several parameters, encoded in a general single-mode Gaussian state, can be estimated. This includes in particular the interesting case of mixed Gaussian states. We apply the formula to the problems of estimating phase, purity, loss, amplitude, and squeezing. In the case of the simultaneous measurement of several parameters, we provide the full quantum Fisher information matrix. Our results unify previously known partial results, and constitute a complete solution to the problem of knowing the best possible sensitivity of measurements based on a single-mode Gaussian state.

id: 1307.4673
title: Practical Quantum Metrology
authors: Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Hugo Cable, Peter J. Shadbolt, Dylan J. Saunders, Gabriel A. Durkin, Geoff J. Pryde, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4673
abstract: Quantum metrology research promises approaches to build new sensors that achieve the ultimate level of precision measurement and perform fundamentally better than modern sensors. Practical schemes that tolerate realistic fabrication imperfections and environmental noise are required in order to realise quantum-enhanced sensors and to enable their real-world application. We have demonstrated the key enabling principles of a practical, loss-tolerant approach to photonic quantum metrology designed to harness all multi-photon components in spontaneous parametric downconversion---a method for generating multiple photons that we show requires no further fundamental state engineering for use in practical quantum metrology. We observe a quantum advantage of 28% in precision measurement of optical phase using the four-photon detection component of this scheme, despite 83% system loss. This opens the way to new quantum sensors based on current quantum-optical capabilities.

id: 1307.4750
title: On the role of the basis of measurement in quantum gate teleportation
authors: F. V. Mendes, R. V. Ramos
comments: 12 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4750
abstract: Quantum teleportation is a powerful protocol with applications in several schemes of quantum communication, quantum cryptography and quantum computing. The present work shows the required conditions for a two-qubit quantum gate to be deterministically and probabilistically teleported by a quantum gate teleportation scheme using different basis of measurement. Additionally, we present examples of teleportation of two-qubit gates that do not belong to Clifford group as well the limitations of the quantum gate teleportation scheme employing a four-qubit state with genuine four-way entanglement.

id: 1307.4770
title: Effects of Phase Fluctuations on Phase Sensitivity and Visibility of Path-Entangled Photon Fock States
authors: Bhaskar Roy Bardhan, Kebei Jiang, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023857 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4770
abstract: We study effects of phase fluctuations on phase sensitivity and visibility of a class of robust path-entangled photon Fock states (known as mm' states) as compared to the maximally path-entangled N00N states in presence of realistic phase fluctuations such as turbulence noise. Our results demonstrate that the mm' states, which are more robust than the N00N state against photon loss, perform equally well when subject to such fluctuations. We show that the phase sensitivity with parity detection for both of the above states saturates the quantum Cramer-Rao bound in presence of such noise, suggesting that the parity detection presents an optimal detection strategy.

id: 1307.4784
title: On the large interelectronic distance behavior of the correlation factor for explicitly correlated wave functions
authors: Micha? Lesiuk, Bogumi? Jeziorski, Robert Moszynski
comments: 42 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 134102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4784
abstract: In currently most popular explicitly correlated electronic structure theories the dependence of the wave function on the interelectronic distance rij is built via the correlation factor f(rij). While the short-distance behavior of this factor is well understood, little is known about the form of f(rij) at large rij. In this work we investigate the optimal form of f(r12) on the example of the helium atom and helium-like ions and several well-motivated models of the wave function. Using the Rayleigh-Ritz variational principle we derive a differential equation for f(r12) and solve it using numerical propagation or analytic asymptotic expansion techniques. We found that for every model under consideration, f(r12) behaves at large r12 as r12^{\rho} exp(B r12) and obtained simple analytic expressions for the system dependent values of {\rho} and B. For the ground state of the helium-like ions the value of B is positive, so that f(r12) diverges as r12 tends to infinity. The numerical propagation confirms this result. When the Hartree-Fock orbitals, multiplied by the correlation factor, are expanded in terms of Slater functions r^n exp(-{\beta}r), the numerical propagation reveals a minimum in f(r12) with depth increasing with N. For the lowest triplet state B is negative. Employing our analytical findings, we propose a new 'range-separated' form of the correlation factor with the short- and long-range r12 regimes approximated by appropriate asymptotic formulas connected by a switching function. Exemplary calculations show that this new form of f(r12) performs somewhat better than the correlation factors used thus far in the standard R12 or F12 theories.

id: 1307.4807
title: Realistic and verifiable coherent control of excitonic states in a light harvesting complex
authors: Stephan Hoyer, Filippo Caruso, Simone Montangero, Mohan Sarovar, Tommaso Calarco, Martin B. Plenio, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 045007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4807
abstract: We explore the feasibility of coherent control of excitonic dynamics in light harvesting complexes, analyzing the limits imposed by the open nature of these quantum systems. We establish feasible targets for phase and phase/amplitude control of the electronically excited state populations in the Fenna-Mathews-Olson (FMO) complex and analyze the robustness of this control with respect to orientational and energetic disorder, as well as decoherence arising from coupling to the protein environment. We further present two possible routes to verification of the control target, with simulations for the FMO complex showing that steering of the excited state is experimentally verifiable either by extending excitonic coherence or by producing novel states in a pump-probe setup. Our results provide a first step toward coherent control of these complex biological quantum systems in an ultrafast spectroscopy setup.

id: 1307.4848
title: General monogamy property of global quantum discord and the application
authors: Si-Yuan Liu, Yu-Ran Zhang, Li-Ming Zhao, Wen-Li Yang, Heng Fan
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 348, 256 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4848
abstract: We provide a family of general monogamy inequalities for global quantum discord (GQD), which can be considered as an extension of the usual discord monogamy inequality. It can be shown that those inequalities are satisfied under the similar condition for the holding of usual monogamy relation. We find that there is an intrinsic connection among them. Furthermore, we present a different type of monogamy inequality and prove that it holds under the condition that the bipartite GQDs do not increase when tracing out some subsystems. We also study the residual GQD based on the second type of monogamy inequality. As applications of those quantities, we investigate the GQDs and residual GQD in characterizing the quantum phase transition in the transverse field Ising model.

id: 1307.4906
title: Functional framework for representing and transforming quantum channels
authors: Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 5 pages, no figures, presented at ACA2013, should have 'towards' in the title
journal: J.L. Galan Garcia, G. Aguilera Venegas, P. Rodriguez Cielos (eds.), Proc. Applications of Computer Algebra (ACA2013), Malaga, July 2013, pp. 276-280
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4906
abstract: We develop a framework which aims to simplify the analysis of quantum states and quantum operations by harnessing the potential of function programming paradigm. We show that the introduced framework allows a seamless manipulation of quantum channels, in particular to convert between different representations of quantum channels, and thus that the use of functional programming concepts facilitates the manipulation of abstract objects used in the language of quantum theory. For the purpose of our presentation we will use Mathematica computer algebra system. This choice is motivated twofold. First, it offers a rich programming language based on the functional paradigm. Second, this programming language is combined with powerful symbolic and numeric manipulation capabilities.

id: 1307.4940
title: Microscopic scattering theory for interacting bosons in weak random potentials
authors: Tobias Geiger, Andreas Buchleitner, Thomas Wellens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4940
abstract: We develop a diagrammatic scattering theory for interacting bosons in a three-dimensional, weakly disordered potential. Based on a microscopic N-body scattering theory, we identify the relevant diagrams including elastic and inelastic collision processes that are sufficient to describe diffusive quantum transport. By taking advantage of the statistical properties of the weak disorder potential, we demonstrate how the N-body dynamics can be reduced to a nonlinear integral equation of Boltzmann type for the single-particle diffusive flux. Our theory reduces to the Gross-Pitaevskii mean field description in the limit where only elastic collisions are taken into account. However, even at weak interaction strength, inelastic collisions lead to energy redistribution between the bosons - initially prepared all at the same single-particle energy - and thereby induce thermalization of the single-particle current. In addition, we include also weak localization effects and determine the coherent corrections to the incoherent transport in terms of the coherent backscattering signal. We find that inelastic collisions lead to an enhancement of the backscattered cone in a narrow spectral window for increasing interaction strength.

id: 1307.4978
title: Accurate ro-vibrational spectroscopy of diatomic molecules in a Morse oscillator potential
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: Results in Physics 3, 103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4978
abstract: This work presents the bound-state spectra of Morse oscillator, which remains one of the oldest important model potentials for molecules. Accurate ro-vibrational energies are obtained by means of a generalized pseudospectral method that offers an optimal, non-uniform discretization of the radial grid. Both s-wave ($\ell=0$) and rotational ($\ell \neq 0$) states for low and high quantum numbers are calculated for four representative diatomic molecules, namely H$_2$, LiH, HCl and CO. First nine states belonging to a maximum of $n, \ell =2$ are computed with good accuracy, along with nine other high-lying states for each of these molecules. Present results \emph{surpass} the accuracy of \emph{all} hitherto published calculations found so far, except the tridiagonal J-matrix method, which produces similar accuracy as ours. Detailed variation of energies with respect to state indices $n,\ell$ show interesting behavior. A host of new states including the higher ones are reported as well. This offers a simple general efficient scheme for calculating these and other similar potentials in molecular physics.

id: 1307.4993
title: On the gap of Hamiltonians for the adiabatic simulation of quantum circuits
authors: Anand Ganti, Rolando Somma
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4993
abstract: The time or cost of simulating a quantum circuit by adiabatic evolution is determined by the spectral gap of the Hamiltonians involved in the simulation. In "standard" constructions based on Feynman's Hamiltonian, such a gap decreases polynomially with the number of gates in the circuit, L. Because a larger gap implies a smaller cost, we study the limits of spectral gap amplification in this context. We show that, under some assumptions on the ground states and the cost of evolving with the Hamiltonians (which apply to the standard constructions), an upper bound on the gap of order 1/L follows. In addition, if the Hamiltonians satisfy a frustration-free property, the upper bound is of order 1/L^2. Our proofs use recent results on adiabatic state transformations, spectral gap amplification, and the simulation of continuous-time quantum query algorithms. They also consider a reduction from the unstructured search problem, whose lower bound in the oracle cost translates into the upper bounds in the gaps. The impact of our results is that improving the gap beyond that of standard constructions (i.e., 1/L^2), if possible, is challenging.

id: 1307.5087
title: An Ideal Characterization of the Clifford Operators
authors: J. M. Farinholt
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, 2 appendices; Updates: v3: New title that better embodies the focus of the research; new abstract and introduction that more clearly motivate the research; new section added at the end on Clifford embeddings. All results unchanged. v4: Minor edits and additional references. This is close to the published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 305303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5087
abstract: The Clifford operators are an important and well-studied subset of quantum operations, in both the qubit and higher-dimensional qudit cases. While there are many ways to characterize this set, this paper aims to provide an ideal characterization, in the sense that it has the same characterization in every finite dimension, is characterized by a minimal set of gates, is constructive, and does not make any assumptions about non-Clifford operations or resources (such as the use of ancillas or the ability to make measurements). While most characterizations satisfy some of these properties, this appears to be the first characterization satisfying all of the above. As an application, we use these results to briefly analyze characterizations of Clifford embeddings, that is, the action of logical Clifford operations acting on qunits embedded in higher-dimensional qudits, inside the qudit Clifford framework.

id: 1307.5093
title: An efficient biologically-inspired photocell enhanced by quantum coherence
authors: C. Creatore, M. A. Parker, S. Emmott, A. W. Chin
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 253601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5093
abstract: Artificially reproducing the biological light reactions responsible for the remarkably efficient photon-to-charge conversion in photosynthetic complexes represents a new direction for the future development of photovoltaic devices. Here, we develop such a paradigm and present a model photocell based on the nanoscale architecture of photosynthetic reaction centres that explicitly harnesses the quantum mechanical effects recently discovered in photosynthetic complexes. Quantum interference of photon absorption/emission induced by the dipole-dipole interaction between molecular excited states guarantees an enhanced light-to-current conversion and power generation for a wide range of realistic parameters, opening a promising new route for designing artificial light-harvesting devices inspired by biological photosynthesis and quantum technologies.

id: 1307.5140
title: Measurement-Based Quantum Computation on Two-Body Interacting Qubits with Adiabatic Evolution
authors: Thi Ha Kyaw, Ying Li, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: title updated, introduction and discussions sections updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 180501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5140
abstract: A cluster state cannot be a unique ground state of a two-body interacting Hamiltonian. Here, we propose the creation of a cluster state of logical qubits encoded in spin-1/2 particles by adiabatically weakening two-body interactions. The proposal is valid for any spatial dimensional cluster states. Errors induced by thermal fluctuations and adiabatic evolution within finite time can be eliminated ensuring fault-tolerant quantum computing schemes.

id: 1307.5143
title: A polynomial-time algorithm for the ground state of 1D gapped local Hamiltonians
authors: Zeph Landau, Umesh Vazirani, Thomas Vidick
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5143
abstract: Computing ground states of local Hamiltonians is a fundamental problem in condensed matter physics. We give the first randomized polynomial-time algorithm for finding ground states of gapped one-dimensional Hamiltonians: it outputs an (inverse-polynomial) approximation, expressed as a matrix product state (MPS) of polynomial bond dimension. The algorithm combines many ingredients, including recently discovered structural features of gapped 1D systems, convex programming, insights from classical algorithms for 1D satisfiability, and new techniques for manipulating and bounding the complexity of MPS. Our result provides one of the first major classes of Hamiltonians for which computing ground states is provably tractable despite the exponential nature of the objects involved.

id: 1307.5158
title: Approximate solutions for N-body Hamiltonians with identical particles in D dimensions
authors: C. Semay, C. Roland
comments: Section 4 extended
journal: Res. Phys. 3, 231 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5158
abstract: A method based on the envelope theory is presented to compute approximate solutions for $N$-body Hamiltonians with identical particles in $D$ dimensions ($D\ge 2$). In some favorable cases, the approximate eigenvalues can be analytically determined and can be lower or upper bounds. An application to a $N$-body system with a minimal length is studied, and a semiclassical interpretation of the generic formula obtained for the eigenvalues is given.

id: 1307.5162
title: Protected quantum computing: Interleaving gate operations with dynamical decoupling sequences
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Alexandre M. Souza, Frederico Dias Brandao, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5162
abstract: Implementing precise operations on quantum systems is one of the biggest challenges for building quantum devices in a noisy environment. Dynamical decoupling (DD) attenuates the destructive effect of the environmental noise, but so far it has been used primarily in the context of quantum memories. Here, we present a general scheme for combining DD with quantum logical gate operations and demonstrate its performance on the example of an electron spin qubit of a single nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. We achieve process fidelities >98% for gate times that are 2 orders of magnitude longer than the unprotected dephasing time $T_{2}$.

id: 1307.5181
title: Photon correlations from ultra-strong optical nonlinearities
authors: Alessandro Ridolfo, Elena del Valle, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063812 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5181
abstract: We study the full field and frequency filtered output photon statistics of a resonator in thermal equilibrium with a bath and containing an arbitrarily large quartic nonlinearity. According to the general theory of photodetection, we derive general input-output relations valid for the ultra-anharmonic regime, where the nonlinearity becomes comparable to the energy of the resonator, and show how the emission properties are modified as compared to the generally assumed simple anharmonic regime. We analyse the impact of the nonlinearity on the full statistics of the emission and its spectral properties. In particular we derive a semi-analytical expression for the frequency resolved two-photon correlations or two-photon spectrum of the system in terms of the master equation coefficients and density matrix. This provides a very clear insight into the level structure and emission possibilities of the system.

id: 1307.5220
title: Simulation of mirror inversion of quantum states in an XY spin chain using NMR
authors: K. Rama Koteswara Rao, T. S. Mahesh, Anil Kumar
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5220
abstract: We report an experimental quantum simulation of unitary dynamics of an XY spin chain with pre-engineered couplings. Using this simulation, we demonstrate the mirror inversion of quantum states, proposed by Albanese et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 230502 (2004)]. The experiment is performed with a 5-qubit dipolar coupled spin system using nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. To perform quantum simulation we make use of the recently proposed unitary operator decomposition algorithm of Ajoy et al. [Phys. Rev. A 85, 030303 (2012)] along with numerical pulse optimization techniques. Further, using mirror inversion, we demonstrate that entangled states can be transferred from one end of the chain to the other end. The simulations are implemented with high experimental fidelity, which implies that these kind of simulations may be possible in larger systems.

id: 1307.5309
title: Arbitrarily large steady-state bosonic squeezing via dissipation
authors: Andreas Kronwald, Florian Marquardt, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures ; 6 pages supplemental information
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063833 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5309
abstract: We discuss how large amounts of steady-state quantum squeezing (beyond 3 dB) of a mechanical resonator can be obtained by driving an optomechanical cavity with two control lasers with differing amplitudes. The scheme does not rely on any explicit measurement or feedback, nor does it simply involve a modulation of an optical spring constant. Instead, it uses a dissipative mechanism with the driven cavity acting as an engineered reservoir. It can equivalently be viewed as a coherent feedback process, obtained by minimally perturbing the quantum nondemolition measurement of a single mechanical quadrature. This shows that in general the concepts of coherent feedback schemes and reservoir engineering are closely related. We analyze how to optimize the scheme, how the squeezing scales with system parameters, and how it may be directly detected from the cavity output. Our scheme is extremely general, and could also be implemented with, e.g., superconducting circuits.

id: 1307.5311
title: Perfect squeezing by damping modulation in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Nicolas Didier, Farzad Qassemi, Alexandre Blais
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013820 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5311
abstract: Dissipation-driven quantum state engineering uses the environment to steer the state of quantum systems and preserve quantum coherence in the steady state. We show that modulating the damping rate of a microwave resonator generates a vacuum squeezed state of arbitrary squeezing strength, thereby constituting a mechanism allowing perfect squeezing. Given the recent experimental realizations in circuit QED of a microwave resonator with a tunable damping rate [Yin et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 107001 (2013)], superconducting circuits are an ideal playground to implement this technique. By dispersively coupling a qubit to the microwave resonator, it is possible to obtain qubit-state dependent squeezing.

id: 1307.5315
title: Non-Abelian geometric phases in a system of coupled quantum bits
authors: Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: New title, minor revision, journal ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022177 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5315
abstract: A common strategy to measure the Abelian geometric phase for a qubit is to let it evolve along an 'orange slice' shaped path connecting two antipodal points on the Bloch sphere by two different semi- great circles. Since the dynamical phases vanish for such paths, this allows for direct measurement of the geometric phase. Here, we generalize the orange slice setting to the non-Abelian case. The proposed method to measure the non-Abelian geometric phase can be implemented in a cyclic chain of four qubits with controllable interactions.

id: 1307.5318
title: Quantum parameter estimation using general single-mode Gaussian states
authors: Olivier Pinel, Pu Jian, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps, Daniel Braun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5318
abstract: We calculate the quantum Cram\'er--Rao bound for the sensitivity with which one or several parameters, encoded in a general single-mode Gaussian state, can be estimated. This includes in particular the interesting case of mixed Gaussian states. We apply the formula to the problems of estimating phase, purity, loss, amplitude, and squeezing. In the case of the simultaneous measurement of several parameters, we provide the full quantum Fisher information matrix. Our results unify previously known partial results, and constitute a complete solution to the problem of knowing the best possible sensitivity of measurements based on a single-mode Gaussian state.

id: 1307.5368
title: Quantum enigma machines and the locking capacity of a quantum channel
authors: Saikat Guha, Patrick Hayden, Hari Krovi, Seth Lloyd, Cosmo Lupo, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Masahiro Takeoka, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 37 pages
journal: Physical Review X vol. 4, no. 1, page 011016 (January 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5368
abstract: The locking effect is a phenomenon which is unique to quantum information theory and represents one of the strongest separations between the classical and quantum theories of information. The Fawzi-Hayden-Sen (FHS) locking protocol harnesses this effect in a cryptographic context, whereby one party can encode n bits into n qubits while using only a constant-size secret key. The encoded message is then secure against any measurement that an eavesdropper could perform in an attempt to recover the message, but the protocol does not necessarily meet the composability requirements needed in quantum key distribution applications. In any case, the locking effect represents an extreme violation of Shannon's classical theorem, which states that information-theoretic security holds in the classical case if and only if the secret key is the same size as the message. Given this intriguing phenomenon, it is of practical interest to study the effect in the presence of noise, which can occur in the systems of both the legitimate receiver and the eavesdropper. This paper formally defines the locking capacity of a quantum channel as the maximum amount of locked information that can be reliably transmitted to a legitimate receiver by exploiting many independent uses of a quantum channel and an amount of secret key sublinear in the number of channel uses. We provide general operational bounds on the locking capacity in terms of other well-known capacities from quantum Shannon theory. We also study the important case of bosonic channels, finding limitations on these channels' locking capacity when coherent-state encodings are employed and particular locking protocols for these channels that might be physically implementable.

id: 1307.5370
title: Jarzynski equality for quantum stochastic maps
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 11 pages, one figure. Final minor changes are made. The version 4 matches the journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 012127 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5370
abstract: Jarzynski equality and related fluctuation theorems can be formulated for various setups. Such an equality was recently derived for nonunitary quantum evolutions described by unital quantum operations, i.e., for completely positive, trace-preserving maps, which preserve the maximally mixed state. We analyze here a more general case of arbitrary quantum operations on finite systems and derive the corresponding form of the Jarzynski equality. It contains a correction term due to nonunitality of the quantum map. Bounds for the relative size of this correction term are established and they are applied for exemplary systems subjected to quantum channels acting on a finite-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1307.5385
title: Frozen Gaussian quantum discord in photonic crystal cavity array system
authors: Ying-Qi L¨¹, Jun-Hong An, Xi-Meng Chen, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012129 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5385
abstract: Protecting quantum correlation from decoherence is one of the crucial issues in quantum information processing. It has been commonly recognized that any initial quantum correlation of a composite system diminishes asymptotically or abruptly to zero under local Markovian decoherence. Here we show that, contrary to this recognition, a noticeable Gaussian quantum discord of a continuous-variable bipartite system can be frozen in the steady state in the non-Markovian dynamics if each of the subsystems forms a localized mode with its local reservoir. The condition for this frozen quantum discord can be reached by appropriately engineering the structure of the reservoirs. The possible realization of our results in a coupled cavity array system formed by a photonic crystal is proposed.

id: 1307.5403
title: Entanglement-assisted capacities of time-correlated amplitude-damping channel
authors: Nigum Arshed, A. H. Toor
comments: 12 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5403
abstract: We calculate the information capacities of a time-correlated amplitude-damping channel, provided the sender and receiver share prior entanglement. Our analytical results show that the noisy channel with zero capacity can transmit information if it has finite memory. The capacities increase as the memory increases attaining maximum value for perfect memory channel.

id: 1307.5462
title: Demonstration of active routing of entanglement in a multi-user network
authors: I. Herbauts, B.Blauensteiner, A.Poppe, T.Jennewein, H. H¨¹bel
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5462
abstract: We implement an entanglement distribution network based on wavelength-multiplexing and optical switching for quantum communication applications. Using a high-brightness source based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion in periodically-poled lithium niobate waveguides, we generate polarisation entangled photon pairs with a broad spectrum covering the telecom wavelengths around 1550nm. The photon pairs have entanglement fidelities up to 99%, and are distributed via passive wavelength multiplexing in a static multi-user network. We furthermore demonstrate a possible network application in a scenario with a single centralised source dynamically allocating two-party entanglement to any pair of users by means of optical switches. The whole system, from the pump laser up to the receivers, is fibre and waveguide based, resulting in maximal stability, minimal losses and the advantage of readily integrable telecom components in the 1550nm range.

id: 1307.5472
title: Visualization of superposition states and Raman processes with two-dimensional atomic deflection
authors: Gor A. Abovyan, Gagik P. Djotyan, Gagik Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013846 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5472
abstract: Deflection of atoms in \Lambda-type configuration passing through two crossed standing light waves is proposed for probing and visualization of atomic superposition states. For this goal, we use both the large-dispersive and Raman-resonant regimes of atom-field interaction giving rise to a position-dependent phase shifts of fields and perform double simultaneous spatial measurements on an atom. In this way, it is demonstrated that the deflection spatial patterns of atoms in \Lambda-configuration passing through modes of standing waves are essentially modified if the atoms are initially prepared in a coherent superposition of its low levels states as well as when the superposition states are created during the process of deflection. The similar results take place for the joint momentum distribution of atoms. Further, considering both one-photon and two-photon excitation regimes of \Lambda-atoms we also illustrate that the two-dimensional patterns of defected atoms qualitatively reflects the efficiency of the Raman processes.

id: 1307.5508
title: Werner-like States and Strategic Form of Quantum Games
authors: Ahmad Nawaz
comments: 13 pages 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1012.1428
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5508
abstract: We quantize prisoners dilemma, chicken game and battle of sexes to explore the effect of quantization on their strategic form. The games start with Werner-like state as an initial state. We show that for the measurement in entangled basis the strategic forms of these games remain unaffected by quantization. On the other hand when measurement is performed in product basis then these games could not retain their strategic forms.

id: 1307.5532
title: Quantum entanglement for two electrons in the excited states of helium-like systems
authors: Yen-Chang Lin, Yew Kam Ho
comments: Final version to be published in Canadian Journal of Physics; more references added; more tables added; discussion expanded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5532
abstract: The quantum entanglement for the two electrons in the excited states of the helium-like atom/ions is investigated using the two-electron wave functions constructed by the B-spline basis. As a measure of the spatial (electron-electron orbital) entanglement, the von Neumann entropy and linear entropy of the reduced density matrix are calculated for the 1s2s 1,3S excited states for systems with some selected Z values from Z=2 to Z=100. Results for the helium atom are compared with other available calculations. We have also investigated the entropies for these excited states when the nucleus charge is reduced from Z=2 to Z=1. At such a critical charge, all the singly-excited states of this system become unbound, and the linear entropies and the von Neumann entropies for the excited states are approaching 1/2 and 1, respectively, the limits for the entropies when one electron is bound to the nucleus, and the other being free.

id: 1307.5544
title: Work and Quantum Phase Transitions: Is there Quantum Latency?
authors: E. Mascarenhas, H. Braganca, R. Dorner, M. Franca Santos, V. Vedral, K. Modi, J. Goold
comments: accepted in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 062103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5544
abstract: We study the physics of quantum phase transitions from the perspective of non-equilibrium thermodynamics. For first order quantum phase transitions, we find that the average work done per quench in crossing the critical point is discontinuous. This leads us to introduce the quantum latent work in analogy with the classical latent heat of first order classical phase transitions. For second order quantum phase transitions the irreversible work is closely related to the fidelity susceptibility for weak sudden quenches of the system Hamiltonian. We demonstrate our ideas with numerical simulations of first, second, and infinite order phase transitions in various spin chain models.

id: 1307.5546
title: Quantum group approach to steady states of boundary-driven open quantum systems
authors: Enej Ilievski, Bojan ?unkovi?
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5546
abstract: We present a systematic approach for constructing steady state density operators of Markovian dissipative evolution for open quantum chain models with integrable bulk interaction and boundary incoherent driving. The construction is based on fundamental solutions of the quantum Yang-Baxter equation pertaining to quantum algebra symmetries and their quantizations (q-deformations). In particular, we facilitate a matrix-product state description, by resorting to generic spin-s infinite-dimensional solutions associated with non-compact spins, serving as ancillary degrees of freedom. After formally deriving already known solutions for the anisotropic spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain from first symmetry principles, we obtain a class of solutions belonging to interacting quantum gases with SU(N)-symmetric Hamiltonians, using a restricted set of incoherent boundary jump processes, and point out how new non-trivial generalizations emerge from twists of quantum group structures. Finally, we discuss possibilities of analytic calculation of observables by employing algebraic properties of associated auxiliary vertex operators.

id: 1307.5567
title: Many-body nodal hypersurface and domain averages for correlated wave functions
authors: Shuming Hu, Kevin Rasch, Lubos Mitas
comments: 
journal: ACS Symposium Series, Volume 1094, pp 77-87, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5567
abstract: We outline the basic notions of nodal hypersurface and domain averages for antisymmetric wave functions. We illustrate their properties and analyze the results for a few electron explicitly solvable cases and discuss possible further developments.

id: 1307.5615
title: Comment on "System-environment coupling derived by Maxwell's boundary conditions from the weak to the ultrastrong light-matter coupling regime"
authors: Simone De Liberato
comments: Comment on: M. Bamba and T. Ogawa, Phys. Rev. A 88, 013814 (2013) [arXiv:1301.3960]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 017801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5615
abstract: In a recent work [arXiv:1301.3960], Bamba and Ogawa developed a microscopic model describing the field of a photonic cavity coupled to a matter exciton-like resonance. One of the results they obtain studying such a model is that, in the ultrastrong coupling regime, usually safe approaches can give wrong results for the dissipation rates of the polaritonic excitations. In particular the dissipation rates calculated applying the rotating wave approximation on the system-environment coupling qualitatively differ from the ones calculated using a microscopic theory based on the quantum electrodynamics for dielectric media. Here I show that this result is an artifact, caused by an inconsistent application of the rotating wave approximation and by a questionable parameter choice.

id: 1307.5646
title: On the Optimality of Basis Transformations to Secure Entanglement Swapping Based QKD Protocols
authors: Stefan Schauer, Martin Suda
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5646
abstract: In this article, we discuss the optimality of basis transformations as a security measure for quantum key distribution protocols based on entanglement swapping. To estimate the security, we focus on the information an adversary obtains on the raw key bits from a generic version of a collective attack strategy. In the scenario described in this article, the application of general basis transformations serving as a counter measure by one or both legitimate parties is analyzed. In this context, we show that the angles, which describe these basis transformations can be optimized compared to the application of a Hadamard operation, which is the standard basis transformation recurrently found in literature. As a main result, we show that the adversary's information can be reduced to an amount of approximately 0.20752 when using a single basis transformation and to an amount of approximately 0.0548 when combining two different basis transformations. This is less than half the information compared to other protocols using a Hadamard operation and thus represents an advantage regarding the security of entanglement swapping based protocols.

id: 1307.5681
title: Stabilizing Spin Coherence Through Environmental Entanglement in Strongly Dissipative Quantum Systems
authors: Soumya Bera, Serge Florens, Harold U. Baranger, Nicolas Roch, Ahsan Nazir, Alex W. Chin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplementary file attached. This article supersedes arXiv:1301.7430
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 121108(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5681
abstract: The key feature of a quantum spin coupled to a harmonic bath---a model dissipative quantum system---is competition between oscillator potential energy and spin tunneling rate. We show that these opposing tendencies cause environmental entanglement through superpositions of adiabatic and antiadiabatic oscillator states, which then stabilizes the spin coherence against strong dissipation. This insight motivates a fast-converging variational coherent-state expansion for the many-body ground state of the spin-boson model, which we substantiate via numerical quantum tomography.

id: 1307.5699
title: Breaking entanglement-breaking by classical correlations
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: See arXiv:1210.2119 for an extended version of this work
journal: Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Entangled Coherent States and Its Application to Quantum Information Science, pp. 83-92 (Tamagawa University, Tokyo, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5699
abstract: The inevitable interaction between quantum systems and environment induces effects of decoherence which may be so strong as to destroy any initial entanglement between the systems, a phenomenon known as "entanglement breaking". Here we show the simplest examples where the combination of two entanglement-breaking channels into a joint correlated-noise environment reactivates the distribution of entanglement, with classes of entangled states which are perfectly transmitted from a middle station (Charlie) to two remote stations (Alice and Bob). Surprisingly, this reactivation is induced by the presence of purely-classical correlations in the joint environment, whose state is separable with zero discord. This paradoxical effect is proven for quantum systems with Hilbert spaces of any dimension, both finite and infinite.

id: 1307.5733
title: Uniform continuity of POVMs
authors: Roberto Beneduci
comments: 16 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.0086
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5733
abstract: Recently a characterization of uniformly continuous POVMs and a necessary condition for a uniformly continuous POVM $F$ to have the norm-1 property have been provided. Moreover it was proved that in the commutative case, uniform continuity corresponds to the existence of a Feller Markov kernel. We apply such results to the analysis of some relevant physical examples; i.e., the phase space localization observables, the unsharp phase observable and the unsharp number observable of which we study the uniform continuity, the norm-1 property and the existence of a Feller Markov kernel.

id: 1307.5757
title: Prisoners' Dilemma in Presence of Collective Dephasing
authors: Ahmad Nawaz
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math.Theor. J. Phys. 45 (2012) 195304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5757
abstract: We quantize prisoner dilemma in presence of collective dephasing with dephasing rate $\gamma $. It is shown that for two parameters set of strategies $Q\otimes Q$ is Nash equilibrium below a cut-off value of time. Beyond this cut-off it bifurcates into two new Nash equilibria $Q\otimes D$ and $D\otimes Q$. Furthermore for maximum value of decoherence \ $C\otimes D$ and $D\otimes C$ also become Nash equilibria. At this stage the game has four Nash equilibria. On the other hand for three parameters set of strategies there is no pure strategy Nash equilibrium however there is mixed strategy (non unique) Nash equilibrium that is not affected by collective dephasing..

id: 1307.5768
title: Exact dynamics and thermalization of an open bosonic quantum system in presence of a quantum phase transition induced by the environment
authors: A. Rancon, J. Bonart
comments: 8 pages
journal: EPL, 104 50010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5768
abstract: We derive the exact out-of-equilibrium Wigner function of a bosonic mode linearly coupled to a bosonic bath of arbitrary spectral density. Our solution does not rely on any master equation approach and it therefore also correctly describes a bosonic mode which is initially entangled with its environment. It has been recently suggested that non-Markovian quantum effects lead to dissi- pationless dynamics in the case of a strong coupling to a bath whose spectral density has a support bounded from below. We show in this work that such a system undergoes a quantum phase transi- tion at some critical bath coupling strength. The apparent dissipationless dynamics then correspond to the relaxation towards the new ground-state.

id: 1307.5779
title: Certifying Separability in Symmetric Mixed States, and Superradiance
authors: Elie Wolfe, S.F. Yelin
comments: Updated to match published version. 4.5+5.5 pages, article+SOM merged into one document. The main text is somewhat sparser in this revision due to the PRL word limit. Wording and notation have been updated for clarity, also additional references. A graphical certification of separability is now included in the supplementary materials
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5779
abstract: Separability criteria are typically of the necessary, but not sufficient, variety, in that satisfying some separability criterion, such as positivity of eigenvalues under partial transpose, does not strictly imply separability. Certifying separability amounts to proving the existence of a decomposition of a target mixed state into some convex combination of separable states; determining the existence of such a decomposition is "hard." We show that it is effective to ask, instead, if the target mixed state "fits" some preconstructed separable form, in that one can generate a sufficient separability criterion relevant to all target states in some family by ensuring enough degrees of freedom in the preconstructed separable form. We demonstrate this technique by inducing a sufficient criterion for "diagonally symmetric" states of N qubits. A sufficient separability criterion opens the door to study precisely how entanglement is (not) formed; we use ours to prove that, counterintuitively, entanglement is not generated in idealized Dicke model superradiance despite its exemplification of many-body effects. We introduce a quantification of the extent to which a given preconstructed parametrization comprises the set of all separable states; for "diagonally symmetric" states our preconstruction is shown to be fully complete. This implies that our criterion is necessary in addition to sufficient, among other ramifications which we explore.

id: 1307.5855
title: Two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy for the quantum-optics enthusiast
authors: Agata M. Branczyk, Daniel B. Turner, Gregory D. Scholes
comments: Pedagogical guide; 20 pages, 6 figures; comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5855
abstract: Recent interest in the role of quantum mechanics in the primary events of photosynthetic energy transfer has led to a convergence of nonlinear optical spectroscopy and quantum optics on the topic of energy-transfer dynamics in pigment-protein complexes. The convergence of these two communities has unveiled a mismatch between the background and terminology of the respective fields. To make connections, we provide a pedagogical guide to understanding the basics of two-dimensional electronic spectra aimed at researchers with a background in quantum optics.

id: 1307.5891
title: Quantum Synchronization of Two Ensembles of Atoms
authors: Minghui Xu, D. A. Tieri, E. C. Fine, James K. Thompson, M. J. Holland
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5891
abstract: We propose a system for observing the correlated phase dynamics of two mesoscopic ensembles of atoms through their collective coupling to an optical cavity. We find a dynamical quantum phase transition induced by pump noise and cavity output-coupling. The spectral properties of the superradiant light emitted from the cavity show that at a critical pump rate the system undergoes a transition from the independent behavior of two disparate oscillators to the phase-locking that is the signature of quantum synchronization.

id: 1307.5892
title: Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation II: non-equilibrium dynamics
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Kevin C. Young
comments: 40 pages, 8 figures. Companion paper to "Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation I: techniques and challenges". Changes in version 4: updated references. Published version
journal: New. J. Phys., vol. 15, p. 125032 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5892
abstract: While adiabatic quantum computing (AQC) has some robustness to noise and decoherence it is widely believed that encoding, error suppression and error correction will be required to scale AQC to large problem sizes. Previous works have established at least two different techniques for error suppression in AQC. In this paper we derive a model for describing the dynamics of encoded AQC and show that previous constructions for error suppression can be unified with this dynamical model. In addition the model clarifies the mechanisms of error suppression and allow identification of its weaknesses. In the second half of the paper we utilize our description of non-equilibrium dynamics in encoded AQC to construct methods for error correction in AQC by cooling local degrees of freedom (qubits). While this is shown to be possible in principle, we also identify the key challenge to this approach: the requirement of high-weight Hamiltonians. Finally, we use our dynamical model to perform a simplified thermal stability analysis of concatenated-stabilizer-code encoded many-body systems for AQC or quantum memories. This work is a companion paper to "\textit{Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation I: techniques and challenges}" (Phys. Rev. X, 3, 041013 (2013)), which provides a quantum information perspective on the techniques and limitations of error suppression and correction in AQC. In this paper we couch the same results within a dynamical framework, which allows for detailed analysis of the non-equilibrium dynamics of error suppression and correction in encoded AQC.

id: 1307.5893
title: Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation I: techniques and challenges
authors: Kevin C. Young, Mohan Sarovar, Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Companion paper to "Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation II: non-equilibrium dynamics". Updated title, abstract, and bibliography to emphasize relation to companion paper. Updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 041013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5893
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) is known to possess some intrinsic robustness, though it is likely that some form of error correction will be necessary for large scale computations. Error handling routines developed for circuit-model quantum computation do not transfer easily to the AQC model since these routines typically require high-quality quantum gates, a resource not generally allowed in AQC. There are two main techniques known to suppress errors during an AQC implementation: energy gap protection and dynamical decoupling. Here we show that both these methods are intimately related and can be analyzed within the same formalism. We analyze the effectiveness of such error suppression techniques and identify critical constraints on the performance of error suppression in AQC, suggesting that error suppression by itself is insufficient for large-scale, fault-tolerant AQC and that a form of error correction is needed. We discuss progress towards implementing error correction in AQC and enumerate several key outstanding problems. This work is a companion paper to "Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation II: non-equilibrium dynamics"', which provides a dynamical model perspective on the techniques and limitations of error suppression and error correction in AQC. In this paper we discuss the same results within a quantum information framework, permitting an intuitive discussion of error suppression and correction in encoded AQC.

id: 1307.5922
title: Localized quantum walks as secured quantum memory
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: European Physics Letters 110, 10005 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5922
abstract: We show that a quantum walk process can be used to construct and secure quantum memory. More precisely, we show that a localized quantum walk with temporal disorder can be engineered to store the information of a single, unknown qubit on a compact position space and faithfully recover it on demand. Since the localization occurss with a finite spread in position space, the stored information of the qubit will be naturally secured from the simple eavesdropper. Our protocol can be adopted to any quantum system for which experimental control over quantum walk dynamics can be achieved.

id: 1307.5951
title: A universal setup for active control of a single-photon detector
authors: Qin Liu, Ant¨ªa Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov, Ilja Gerhardt
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 013108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5951
abstract: The influence of bright light on a single-photon detector has been described in a number of recent publications. The impact on quantum key distribution (QKD) is important, and several hacking experiments have been tailored to fully control single-photon detectors. Special attention has been given to avoid introducing further errors into a QKD system. We describe the design and technical details of an apparatus which allows to attack a quantum-cryptographic connection. This device is capable of controlling free-space and fiber-based systems and of minimizing unwanted clicks in the system. With different control diagrams, we are able to achieve a different level of control. The control was initially targeted to the systems using BB84 protocol, with polarization encoding and basis switching using beamsplitters, but could be extended to other types of systems. We further outline how to characterize the quality of active control of single-photon detectors.

id: 1307.5995
title: Direct quantum communication without actual transmission of the message qubits
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anirban Pathak
comments: 8 pages, 2 tables no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5995
abstract: Recently an orthogonal state based protocol of direct quantum communication without actual transmission of particles is proposed by Salih \emph{et al.}{[}Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{110} (2013) 170502{]} using chained quantum Zeno effect. As the no-transmission of particle claim is criticized by Vaidman {[}arXiv:1304.6689 (2013){]}, the condition (claim) of Salih \emph{et al.} is weaken here to the extent that transmission of particles is allowed, but transmission of the message qubits (the qubits on which the secret information is encoded) is not allowed. Remaining within this weaker condition it is shown that there exists a large class of quantum states, that can be used to implement an orthogonal state based protocol of secure direct quantum communication using entanglement swapping, where actual transmission of the message qubits is not required. The security of the protocol originates from monogamy of entanglement. As the protocol can be implemented without using conjugate coding its security is independent of non-commutativity.

id: 1307.6005
title: Experimental Detection of Quantum Channels
authors: Adeline Orieux, Linda Sansoni, Mauro Persechino, Paolo Mataloni, Matteo Rossi, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6005
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the possibility of efficiently detecting properties of quantum channels and quantum gates. The optimal detection scheme is first achieved for non entanglement breaking channels of the depolarizing form and is based on the generation and detection of polarized entangled photons. We then demonstrate channel detection for non separable maps by considering the CNOT gate and employing two-photon hyperentangled states.

id: 1307.6034
title: Scaling of quantum discord in spin models
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: latest and most updated version
journal: Physical Review B 89, 054410 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6034
abstract: We study the scaling of quantum discord (a measure of quantum correlation beyond entanglement) in spin models analytically and systematically. We find that at finite temperature the block scaling of quantum discord satisfies an area law for any two-local Hamiltonian. We show that generically and heuristically the two-site scaling of quantum discord is similar to that of correlation functions. In particular, at zero temperature it decays exponentially and polynomially in gapped and gapless (critical) systems, respectively; at finite temperature it decays exponentially in both gapped and gapless systems. We compute the two-site scaling of quantum discord in the XXZ chain, the XY chain (in a magnetic field), and the transverse field Ising chain at zero temperature.

id: 1307.6037
title: A Note on State Decomposition Independent Local Invariants
authors: Ting-Gui Zhang, Naihuan Jing, Xianqing Li-Jost, Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 
journal: Euro. Phys. J. D 67 (2013) 175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6037
abstract: We derive a set of invariants under local unitary transformations for arbitrary dimensional quantum systems. These invariants are given by hyperdeterminants and independent from the detailed pure state decompositions of a given quantum state. They also give rise to necessary conditions for the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations.

id: 1307.6041
title: Quantum Optical Realization of Classical Linear Stochastic Systems
authors: Shi Wang, H. I. Nurdin, Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Automatica J. IFAC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6041
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to show how a class of classical linear stochastic systems can be physically implemented using quantum optical components. Quantum optical systems typically have much higher bandwidth than electronic devices, meaning faster response and processing times, and hence has the potential for providing better performance than classical systems. A procedure is provided for constructing the quantum optical realization. The paper also describes the use of the quantum optical realization in a measurement feedback loop. Some examples are given to illustrate the application of the main results.

id: 1307.6077
title: Linear response of tripartite entanglement to infinitesimal noise
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 5 pages,1 figure. Accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6077
abstract: Recent experimental progress in prolonging the coherence time of a quantum system prompts us to explore the behavior of quantum entanglement at the beginning of the decoherence process. The response of the entanglement under an infinitesimal noise can serve as a signature of the robustness of entangled states. A crucial problem of this topic in multipartite systems is to compute the degree of entanglement in a mixed state. We find a family of global noise in three-qubit systems, which is composed of four W states. Under its influence, the linear response of the tripartite entanglement of a symmetrical three-qubit pure state is studied. A lower bound of the linear response is found to depend completely on the initial tripartite and bipartite entanglement. This result shows that the decay of tripartite entanglement is hastened by the bipartite one.

id: 1307.6083
title: Ontological aspects of the Casimir Effect
authors: William M. R. Simpson
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6083
abstract: The role of the vacuum, in the Casimir Effect, is a matter of some dispute: the Casimir force has been variously described as a phenomenon resulting "from the alteration, by the boundaries, of the zero-point electromagnetic energy", or a "Van der Waals force between the metal plates" that can be "computed without reference to zero point energies". Neither of these descriptions are grounded in a consistently quantum mechanical treatment of matter interacting with the electromagnetic field. However, the Casimir Effect has been canonically described within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. On this account, the force is seen to arise due to the coupling of fluctuating currents to the zero-point radiation, and it is in this restricted sense that the phenomenon requires the existence of zero-point fields. The conflicting descriptions of the Casimir Effect, on the other hand, appear to arise from inadequate ontologies in which an unwarranted metaphysical priority is assigned either to the matter or the fields. Such ontological errors may have a direct bearing on the problem of the cosmological constant and the correct prediction of the Casimir force in a state of thermal equilibrium.

id: 1307.6089
title: Efficient hybrid entanglement concentration for quantum communications
authors: Lan Zhou, Yu-Bo Sheng
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6089
abstract: We present two groups of practical entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for optical hybrid entangled state (HES). In the first group, it contains two ECPs and both ECPs do not need to know the initial coefficients of the less-entangled state. The second group contains three ECPs and they need to know the initial coefficients. It is shown that the yield of the entanglement concentration in the second group is greater than the first group. Moreover, some protocols are based on the linear optics and can be easily realized under current experiment condition. These protocols may be useful in current hybrid quantum communication.

id: 1307.6095
title: Universal quantum computation by the unitary control of ancilla qubits and using a fixed ancilla-register interaction
authors: Timothy J. Proctor, Erika Andersson, Viv Kendon
comments: 10 pages, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6095
abstract: We characterise a model of universal quantum computation where the register (computational) qubits are controlled by ancillary qubits, using only a single fixed interaction between register and ancillary qubits. No additional access is required to the computational register and the dynamics of both the register and ancilla are unitary. This scheme is inspired by the measurement-based ancilla-driven quantum computation of Anders et al. [PRA 82, 020301(R), 2010], but does not require measurements of the ancillas, and in this respect is similar to the original gate based model of quantum computation. We consider what possible forms this ancilla-register interaction can take, with a proof that the interaction is necessarily locally equivalent to SWAP combined with an entangling controlled gate. We further show which Hamiltonians can create such interactions and discuss two examples; the two-qubit XY Hamiltonian and a particular case of the XXZ Hamiltonian. We then give an example of a simple, finite and fault tolerant gate set for universal quantum computation in this model.

id: 1307.6108
title: Perceptions of the Schrodinger Equation
authors: Spyros Efthimiades
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6108
abstract: The Schrodinger equation has been considered to be a postulate of quantum physics, but it is also perceived and derived heuristically as the quantum equivalent of the classical energy relation. We indicate that the Schrodinger equation cannot be a physical postulate, and we show that the heuristic derivations wrongly consider that the particle kinetic energy is proportional to the square of the momentum operator acting on the wavefunction. The correct term is proportional to the square of the momentum. Analyzing particle interactions, we realize that particles have multiple virtual motions and that each motion is accompanied by a wave that has constant amplitude. Accordingly, we define the wavefunction as the superposition of the virtual waves of the particle. As a result, quantum mechanics becomes a local and global theory, while in the traditional formulation it is a local theory. In several interaction settings we can tell what particle motions arise and explain the outcomes in simple and tangible terms. Most importantly, the mathematical foundation of quantum mechanics becomes clear and justified, and we derive the Schrodinger, Dirac, etc. equations as the conditions the wavefunction must satisfy at each space-time point in order to fulfill the respective total energy equation.

id: 1307.6152
title: Frequency cavity pulling induced by a single semiconductor quantum dot
authors: Daniel Valente, Jan Suffczy¨½ski, Tomasz Jakubczyk, Adrien Dousse, Aristide Lema?tre, Isabelle Sagnes, Lo?c Lanco, Paul Voisin, Alexia Auffeves, Pascale Senellart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6152
abstract: We investigate the emission properties of a single semiconductor quantum dot deterministically coupled to a confined optical mode in the weak coupling regime. A strong pulling, broadening and narrowing of the cavity mode emission is evidenced when changing the spectral detuning between the emitter and the cavity. These features are theoretically accounted for by considering the phonon assisted emission of the quantum dot transition. These observations highlight a new situation for cavity quantum electrodynamics involving spectrally broad emitters.

id: 1307.6175
title: Relativistic calculations of the U91+(1s)-U92+ collision using the finite basis set of cubic Hermite splines on a lattice in coordinate space
authors: G. B. Deyneka, I. A. Maltsev, I. I. Tupitsyn, V. M. Shabaev, A. I. Bondarev, Y. S. Kozhedub, G. Plunien, Th. Stoehlker
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 258 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6175
abstract: A new method for solving the time-dependent two-center Dirac equation is developed. The approach is based on the using of the finite basis of cubic Hermite splines on a three-dimensional lattice in the coordinate space. The relativistic calculations of the excitation and charge-transfer probabilities in the U91+(1s)-U92+ collisions in two and three dimensional approaches are performed. The obtained results are compared with our previous calculations employing the Dirac-Sturm basis sets [I.I. Tupitsyn et al., Phys. Rev. A 82, 042701 (2010)]. The role of the negative-energy Dirac spectrum is investigated within the monopole approximation.

id: 1307.6182
title: Separable State Decompositions for a Class of Mixed States
authors: Ting-Gui Zhang, Xiaofen Huang, Xianqing Li-Jost, Naihuan Jing, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 9 pages
journal: Internat. J. Theoret. Phys. 52 (2013), no. 11, 4148-4154
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6182
abstract: We study certain quantum states for which the PPT criterion is both sufficient and necessary for separability. A class of $n\times n$ bipartite mixed states is presented and the conditions of PPT for these states are derived. The separable pure state decompositions of these states are explicitly constructed when they are PPT.

id: 1307.6222
title: Entropic Barriers for Two-Dimensional Quantum Memories
authors: Benjamin J. Brown, Abbas Al-Shimary, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome; v2 improved statistics in Figs. 3 and 4, references added; v3 new data and discussion added on the separation of defect line separation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6222
abstract: Comprehensive no-go theorems show that information encoded over local two-dimensional topologically ordered systems cannot support macroscopic energy barriers, and hence will not maintain stable quantum information at finite temperatures for macroscopic timescales. However, it is still well motivated to study low-dimensional quantum memories due to their experimental amenability. Here we introduce a grid of defect lines to Kitaev's quantum double model where different anyonic excitations carry different masses. This setting produces a complex energy landscape which entropically suppresses the diffusion of excitations that cause logical errors. We show numerically that entropically suppressed errors give rise to super-exponential inverse temperature scaling and polynomial system size scaling for small system sizes over a low-temperature regime. Curiously, these entropic effects are not present below a certain low temperature. We show that we can vary the system to modify this bound and potentially extend the described effects to zero temperature.

id: 1307.6229
title: Noisy Relativistic Quantum Games in Noninertial Frames
authors: Salman Khan, M. Khalid Khan
comments: 14 pages and 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12 1351 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6229
abstract: The influence of noise and of Unruh effect on quantum Prisoners' dilemma is investigated both for entangled and unentangled initial states. The noise is incorporated through amplitude damping channel. For unentangled initial state, the decoherence compensates for the adverse effect of acceleration of the frame and the effect of acceleration becomes irrelevant provided the game is fully decohered. It is shown that the inertial player always out scores the noninertial player by choosing defection. For maximally entangled initially state, we show that for fully decohered case every strategy profile results in either of the two possible equilibrium outcomes. Two of the four possible strategy profiles become Pareto Optimal and Nash equilibrium and no dilemma is leftover. It is shown that other equilibrium points emerge for different region of values of decoherence parameter that are either Pareto optimal or Pareto inefficient in the quantum strategic spaces. It is shown that the Eisert et al miracle move is a special move that leads always to distinguishable results compare to other moves. We show that the dilemma like situation is resolved in favor of one player or the other.

id: 1307.6264
title: Nonclassical Structures within the N-qubit Pauli Group
authors: Mordecai Waegell
comments: 92 Pages, 22 Figures, 38 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6264
abstract: Structures that demonstrate nonclassicality are of foundational interest in quantum mechanics, and can also be seen as resources for numerous applications in quantum information processing - particularly in the Hilbert space of $N$ qubits. The theory of entanglement, quantum contextuality, and quantum nonlocality within the $N$-qubit Pauli group is further developed in this thesis. The Strong Kochen-Specker theorem and the structures that prove it are introduced and explored in detail. The pattern of connections between structures that show entanglement, contextuality, and nonlocality is explained. Computational search algorithms and related tools were developed and used to perform complete searches for minimal nonclassical structures within the $N$-qubit Pauli group up to values of $N$ limited by our computational resources. Our results are surveyed and prescriptions are given for using the elementary nonclassical structures we have found to construct more complex types of such structures. Families of nonclassical structures are presented for all values of $N$, including the most compact family of projector-based parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem yet discovered in all dimensions of the form $2^N$, where $N\geq2$. The applications of our results and their connection with other work is also discussed.

id: 1307.6286
title: Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm via deterministic quantum computaion with one qubit model
authors: Marcio M. Santos, Eduardo I. Duzzioni
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6286
abstract: Quantum correlations have been pointed out as the most likely source of the speed-up in quantum computation. Here we study the presence of quantum correlations on the implementation of Deutsch- Jozsa algorithm running in the DQC1 model. We extend the analysis to a previous experimental realization of this computation presented in Phys. Rev. A 78, 022317 (2008). The Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, an oracle based problem, can efficiently be solved in this model. Although there is no quantum correlations in the initial and final states of the computation, we find quantum correlations in intermediate steps of the algorithm. The presence of quantum correlations is not a sufficient property for computational gain in this case, since the performance of the classical probabilistic algorithm is better than the quantum one. The reason for this unexpected result relies on the fact that we have access to the outcomes of the control qubit only. A comparison between the efficiency of DQC1 and DQCp circuits to solve the Deustch-Jozsa problem is also presented.

id: 1307.6288
title: Self-avoiding quantum walks: realisations in subspaces and limit theorems
authors: Takuya Machida, C. M. Chandrashekar, Norio Konno, Thomas Busch
comments: 4 + 3 pages, 4 figures. Revised version with new title, more clear analysis along with an inclusion of additional class of self-avoiding walk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6288
abstract: While completely self-avoiding quantum walks have the distinct property of leading to a trivial unidirectional transport of a quantum state, an interesting and non-trivial dynamics can be constructed by restricting the self-avoidance to a subspace of the complete Hilbert space. Here, we present a comprehensive study of three two-dimensional quantum walks, which are self-avoiding in coin space, in position space and in both, coin and position space. We discuss the properties of these walks and show that all result in delocalisation of the probability distribution for initial states which are strongly localised for a walk with a standard Grover coin operation. We also present analytical results for the evolution in the form of limit distributions for the self-avoiding walks in coin space and in both, coin and position space.

id: 1307.6301
title: Quantum metrology in the presence of spatially correlated noise: Restoring Heisenberg scaling
authors: Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole, Susana Huelga
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 073039 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6301
abstract: Environmental noise can hinder the metrological capabilities of entangled states. While the use of entanglement allows for Heisenberg-limited resolution, the largest permitted by quantum mechanics, deviations from strictly unitary dynamics quickly restore the standard scaling dictated by the central limit theorem. Product and maximally entangled states become asymptotically equivalent when the noisy evolution is both local and strictly Markovian. However, temporal correlations in the noise have been shown to lift this equivalence while fully (spatially) correlated noise allows for the identification of decoherence free subspaces. Here we analyze precision limits in the presence of noise with finite correlation length and show that there exist robust entangled state preparations which display persistent Heisenberg scaling despite the environmental decoherence, even for small correlation length. Our results emphasize the relevance of noise correlations in the study of quantum advantage and could be relevant beyond metrological applications.

id: 1307.6304
title: Measuring the orbital angular momentum of electron vortex beams using a forked grating
authors: Koh Saitoh, Yuya Hasegawa, Kazuma Hirakawa, Nobuo Tanaka, Masaya Uchida
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6304
abstract: The present study experimentally examines how an electron vortex beam with orbital angular momentum (OAM) undergoes diffraction through a forked grating. The nth-order diffracted electron vortex beam after passing through a forked grating with a Burgers vector of 1 shows an OAM transfer of nh. Hence, the diffraction patterns become mirror asymmetric owing to the size difference between the electron beams. Such a forked grating, when used in combination with a pinhole located at the diffraction plane, could act as an analyzer to measure the OAM of input electrons.

id: 1307.6364
title: Experimentally accessing the optimal temporal mode of traveling quantum light states
authors: Olivier Morin, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 213602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6364
abstract: The characterization or subsequent use of propagating optical quantum state requires the knowledge of its precise temporal mode. Defining this mode structure very often relies on a detailed a priori knowledge of the used resources, when available, and can additionally call for an involved theoretical modeling. In contrast, here we investigate a practical method enabling to infer the optimal temporal mode directly from experimental data acquired via homodyne detection, without any assumptions on the state. The approach is based on a multimode analysis using eigenfunction expansion of the autocorrelation function. This capability is illustrated by experimental data from Fock states and Schrodinger cat-like state preparation.

id: 1307.6390
title: Elemental and tight monogamy relations in nonsignalling theories
authors: R. Augusiak, M. Demianowicz, M. Paw?owski, J. Tura, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 11 pages (4.1+appendices), improved version, title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6390
abstract: Physical principles constrain the way nonlocal correlations can be distributed among distant parties. These constraints are usually expressed by monogamy relations that bound the amount of Bell inequality violation observed among a set of parties by the violation observed by a different set of parties. We prove here that much stronger monogamy relations are possible for nonsignalling correlations by showing how nonlocal correlations among a set of parties limit any form of correlations, not necessarily nonlocal, shared among other parties. In particular, we provide tight bounds between the violation of a family of Bell inequalities among an arbitrary number of parties and the knowledge an external observer can gain about outcomes of any single measurement performed by the parties. Finally, we show how the obtained monogamy relations offer an improvement over the existing protocols for device-independent quantum key distribution and randomness amplification.

id: 1307.6424
title: Pulse shaping with birefringent crystals: a tool for quantum metrology
authors: Guillaume Labroille, Olivier Pinel, Nicolas Treps, Manuel Joffre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6424
abstract: A method for time differentiation based on a Babinet-Soleil-Bravais compensator is introduced. The complex transfer function of the device is measured using polarization spectral interferometry. Time differentiation of both the pulse field and pulse envelope are demonstrated over a spectral width of about 100 THz with a measured overlap with the objective mode greater than 99.8%. This pulse shaping technique is shown to be perfectly suited to time metrology at the quantum limit.

id: 1307.6474
title: Quantum-Information Processing with Hybrid Spin-Photon Qubit Encoding
authors: S. Carretta, A. Chiesa, F. Troiani, D. Gerace, G. Amoretti, P. Santini
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 110501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6474
abstract: We introduce a scheme to perform quantum-information processing that is based on a hybrid spin-photon qubit encoding. The proposed qubits consist of spin-ensembles coherently coupled to microwave photons in coplanar waveguide resonators. The quantum gates are performed solely by shifting the resonance frequencies of the resonators on a ns timescale. An additional cavity containing a Cooper-pair box is exploited as an auxiliary degree of freedom to implement two-qubit gates. The generality of the scheme allows its potential implementation with a wide class of spin systems.

id: 1307.6475
title: On 'Bell violation using entangled photons without the fair-sampling assumption'
authors: Johannes Kofler, Sven Ramelow, Marissa Giustina, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 6 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6475
abstract: A recent experiment presented, for photons, the first violation of a Bell inequality closing the fair-sampling loophole, i.e., without having to assume that the sample of measured photons fairly represents the entire ensemble. In this note, we discuss a detailed quantum mechanical model for the experimental data. Within experimental error the experiment agrees with quantum mechanical prediction. We also discuss the effects of drifting laser intensity and show that it could not have mimicked a violation of the Bell inequality. Therefore, the experiment was immune to the "production-rate loophole."

id: 1307.6492
title: High-dynamic-range imaging of nanoscale magnetic fields using optimal control of a single qubit
authors: Thomas H?berle, Dominik Schmid-Lorch, Khaled Karrai, Friedemann Reinhard, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 8 pages, including 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6492
abstract: We present a novel spectroscopy protocol based on optimal control of a single quantum system. It enables measurements with quantum-limited sensitivity (\eta_\omega ~ 1/sqrt(T_2^*),T_2^* denoting the system's coherence time) but has an orders of magnitude larger dynamic range than pulsed spectroscopy methods previously employed for this task. We employ this protocol to image nanoscale magnetic fields with a single scanning NV center in diamond. Here, our scheme enables quantitative imaging of a strongly inhomogeneous field in a single scan without closed-loop control, which has previously been necessary to achieve this goal.

id: 1307.6493
title: A quantum optical valve in a nonlinear-linear resonator junction
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Daniel Valente, Simone Montangero, Alexia Auffeves, Dario Gerace, M. Franca Santos
comments: Accepted in EPL
journal: EPL 106, 54003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6493
abstract: Electronic diodes, which enable the rectification of an electrical energy flux, have played a crucial role in the development of current microelectronics after the invention of semiconductor p-n junctions. Analogously, signal rectification at specific target wavelengths has recently become a key goal in optical communication and signal processing. Here we propose a genuinely quantum device with the essential rectifying features being demonstrated in a general model of a nonlinear-linear junction of coupled resonators. It is shown that such a surprisingly simple structure is a versatile valve and may be alternatively tuned to behave as: a photonic diode, a single or two-photon rectified source turning a classical input into a quantum output depending on the input frequency, or a quantum photonic splitter. Given the relevance of non-reciprocal operations in integrated circuits, the nonlinear-linear junction realises a crucial building component in prospective quantum photonic applications.

id: 1307.6538
title: Period Finding with Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Itay Hen
comments: 6 pages
journal: EPL (Europhysics Letters), Volume 105, Number 5, 50005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6538
abstract: We outline an efficient quantum-adiabatic algorithm that solves Simon's problem, in which one has to determine the `period', or xor-mask, of a given black-box function. We show that the proposed algorithm is exponentially faster than its classical counterpart and has the same complexity as the corresponding circuit-based algorithm. Together with other related studies, this result supports a conjecture that the complexity of adiabatic quantum computation is equivalent to the circuit-based computational model in a stronger sense than the well-known, proven polynomial equivalence between the two paradigms. We also discuss the importance of the algorithm and its theoretical and experimental implications for the existence of an adiabatic version of Shor's integer factorization algorithm that would have the same complexity as the original algorithm.

id: 1307.6541
title: The strategic form of quantum prisoners' dilemma
authors: Ahmad Nawaz
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.5508
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 30, No. 5 (2013) 050302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6541
abstract: In its normal form prisoners' dilemma (PD) is represented by a payoff matrix showing players strategies and payoffs. To obtain distinguishing trait and strategic form of PD certain constraints are imposed on the elements of its payoff matrix. We quantize PD by generalized quantization scheme to analyze its strategic behavior in quantum domain. The game starts with general entangled state of the form $\left}\psi\right\rangle =\cos\frac{\xi}% {2}\left|00\right\rangle +i\sin\frac{\xi}{2}\left|11\right\rangle $ and the measurement for payoffs is performed in entangled and product bases. We show that for both measurements there exist respective cutoff values of entanglement of initial quantum state up to which strategic form of game remains intact. Beyond these cutoffs the quantized PD behaves like chicken game up to another cutoff value. For the measurement in entangled basis the dilemma is resolved for\ $\sin\xi>\frac{1}{7}$ with $Q\otimes Q$ as a NE but the quantized game behaves like PD when $\sin\xi>\frac{1}{3}$; whereas in the range $\frac{1}{7}<\sin\xi<\frac{1}{3}$ it behaves like chicken game (CG)\ with $Q\otimes Q$ as a NE. For the measurement in product basis the quantized PD behaves like classical PD for $\sin^{2}\frac{\xi}{2}<\frac{1}{3}$ with $D\otimes D$ as a NE. In region $\frac{1}{3}<\sin^{2}\frac{\xi}{2}% <\frac{3}{7}$ the quantized PD behaves like classical CG with $C\otimes D$ and $D\otimes C$ as NE.

id: 1307.6597
title: Changing quantum reference frames
authors: Matthew C. Palmer, Florian Girelli, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome; v2 added some references; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052121 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6597
abstract: We consider the process of changing reference frames in the case where the reference frames are quantum systems. We find that, as part of this process, decoherence is necessarily induced on any quantum system described relative to these frames. We explore this process with examples involving reference frames for phase and orientation. Quantifying the effect of changing quantum reference frames serves as a first step in developing a relativity principle for theories in which all objects including reference frames are necessarily quantum.

id: 1307.6617
title: Symmetry-Protected Topological Entanglement
authors: Iman Marvian
comments: 5 pages + 11 pages Supplementary Material. The paper is completely revised. Several new results are added. The previous results are presented more formally. A new interpretation of SPT Entanglement is provided
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6617
abstract: We propose an order parameter for the Symmetry-Protected Topological (SPT) phases which are protected by Abelian on-site symmetries. This order parameter, called the "SPT entanglement", is defined as the entanglement between A and B, two distant regions of the system, given that the total charge (associated with the symmetry) in a third region C is measured and known, where C is a connected region surrounded by A and B and the boundaries of the system. In the case of 1-dimensional systems we prove that at the limit where A and B are large and far from each other compared to the correlation length, the SPT entanglement remains constant throughout a SPT phase, and furthermore, it is zero for the trivial phase while it is nonzero for all the non-trivial phases. Moreover, we show that the SPT entanglement is invariant under the low-depth quantum circuits which respect the symmetry, and hence it remains constant throughout a SPT phase in the higher dimensions as well. Finally, we show that the concept of SPT entanglement leads us to a new interpretation of the string order parameters and based on this interpretation we propose an algorithm for extracting the relevant information about the SPT phase of the system from the string order parameters.

id: 1307.6631
title: Squeezing in Bose-Einstein condensates with large numbers of atoms
authors: Mattias T Johnsson, Graham R Dennis, Joseph J Hope
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6631
abstract: We examine the feasibility of creating and measuring large relative number squeezing in multicomponent trapped Bose-Einstein condensates. In the absence of multimode effects, this squeezing can be arbitrarily large for arbitrarily large condensates, but a range of processes limit the measurable squeezing in realistic trap configurations. We examine these processes, and suggest methods to mitigate them. We conclude that high levels of squeezing with large numbers of atoms is feasible, but can realistically only be achieved in particular trap geometries. We also introduce a method of maximising the measurable squeezing by using a $\pi$-pulse during the process to improve spatial mode-matching.

id: 1307.6656
title: Characterization of four-qubit states via Bell inequalities
authors: Hui Zhao, Xing-Hua Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 
journal: Chinese Science Bulletin, 58(19) 2334,2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6656
abstract: A set of Bell inequalities classifying the quantum entanglement of four-qubit states is presented. These inequalities involve only two measurement settings per observer and can characterize fully separable, bi-separable and tri-separable quantum states. In addition, a quadratic inequality of the Bell operators for four-qubit systems is derived.

id: 1307.6657
title: A Note on Resistance of NPT to Mixture of Separable States
authors: Bobo Hua, Xiu-Hong Gao, Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6657
abstract: We study the stability of NPT property of an arbitrary pure entangled state under the mixture of arbitrary pure separable states. For bipartite pure states with Schmidt number $n$ $(n>1)$ which is NPT, we show that this state is still NPT when it is mixed with no more than $\frac{n(n-1)}{2}-1$ arbitrary pure separable states. This result is generalized to multipartite case.

id: 1307.6659
title: Local unitary invariants for multipartite states
authors: Ting-Gui Zhang, Ming-Jing Zhao, Xianqing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6659
abstract: We study the invariants of arbitrary dimensional multipartite quantum states under local unitary transformations. For multipartite pure states, we give a set of invariants in terms of singular values of coefficient matrices. For multipartite mixed states, we propose a set of invariants in terms of the trace of coefficient matrices. For full ranked mixed states with nondegenerate eigenvalues, this set of invariants is also the necessary and sufficient conditions for the local unitary equivalence of such two states.

id: 1307.6660
title: One-way Unlocalizable Information Deficit
authors: Xue-Na Zhu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 46 (2013) 325303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6660
abstract: We introduce one-way unlocalizable information deficit with respect to the one-way information deficit, similar to the definition of one-way unlocalizable quantum discord with respect to one-way quantum discord. The properties of the one-way unlocalizable information deficit and the relations among one-way unlocalizable information deficit, one-way unlocalizable quantum discord, one-way quantum discord, one-way information deficit and other quantum correlations are investigated. Analytical formulas of the one-way unlocalizable quantum discord are given to detailed examples.

id: 1307.6680
title: Bell inequality and nonlocality in a two-dimensional mixed spin systems
authors: Z.Y. Sun, Y.Y. Wu, H.L. Huang, B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6680
abstract: In this paper, we use Bell inequality and nonlocality to study the bipartite correlation in an exactly soluble two-dimensional mixed spin system. Bell inequality turns out to be a valuable detector for phase transitions in this model. It can detect not only the quantum phase transition, but also the thermal phase transitions, of the system. The property of bipartite correlation in the system is also analyzed. In the quantum anti-ferromagnetic phase, the Bell inequality is violated thus nonlocality is present. It is interesting that the nonlocality is enhanced by thermal fluctuation, and similar results have not been observed in anti-ferromagnetic phase. In the ferromagnetic phase, the quantum correlation turns out to be very novel, which cannot be captured by entanglement or nonlocality.

id: 1307.6710
title: Fundamental monogamy relation between contextuality and nonlocality
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Adan Cabello, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 100401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6710
abstract: We show that the no-disturbance principle imposes a tradeoff between locally contextual correlations violating the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovski inequality and spatially separated correlations violating the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality. The violation of one inequality forbids the violation of the other. We also obtain the corresponding monogamy relation imposed by quantum theory for a qutrit-qubit system. Our results show the existence of fundamental monogamy relations between contextuality and nonlocality that suggest that entanglement might be a particular form of a more fundamental resource.

id: 1307.6744
title: New Spin Squeezing and Other Entanglement Tests for Two Mode Systems of Identical Bosons
authors: Bryan Dalton. Libby Heaney, John Goold, Barry Garraway, Thomas Busch
comments: V2. 12 pages, 0 figures. Published in New Journal of Physics 16, 013026 (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6744
abstract: For any quantum state representing a physical system of identical particles, the density operator must satisfy the symmetrisation principle (SP) and for massive particles also conform to super-selection rules (SSR) that prohibit coherences between differing total particle numbers. Here we consider bi-partitite states for systems of massive bosons, where both the system and subsystems are modes (or sets of modes), particles being associated with differing mode occupancies. To define non-entangled or separable states the subsystem density operators are also required to satisfy the SP and conform to SSR, in contrast to some other approaches. Whilst in the presence of these additional constraints some of the known entanglement criteria are still valid, we present a detailed treatment to establish the validity of known criteria and derive new ones.

id: 1307.6820
title: Generation of four-photon polarization entangled state based on EPR entanglers
authors: Meiyu Wang, Fengli Yan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6820
abstract: We show how to prepare four-photon polarization entangled states based on some Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglers. An EPR entangler consists of two single photons, linear optics elements, quantum non-demolition measurement using a weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity, and classical feed forward. This entangler which acts as the most primary part in the construction of our scheme allows us to make two separable polarization qubits entangled near deterministically. Therefore, the efficiency of the present device completely depends on that of EPR entanglers, and it has a high success probability.

id: 1307.6826
title: Preparation of $km$-photon concatenated GHZ states for observing distinct quantum effects at macroscopic scale
authors: Dong Ding, Fengli Yan, Ting Gao
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, 30 (11) (2013) 3075
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6826
abstract: As a class of multipartite entangled states, the multipartite concatenated GHZ (C-GHZ) states remain superior stability under the influence of decoherence. We propose two scalable experimental realization of the multiphoton C-GHZ states based on the entanglers of multiphoton GHZ state. Given a $km$-photon GHZ state as an input state, if $m$ is odd, one can create a $km$-photon C-GHZ state. Also, generally, we design a scheme to prepare $km$-photon C-GHZ states from $km$ single-photon states by using $k$ entanglers of $m$-photon GHZ state and $k$ $m$-control Toffoli gates.

id: 1307.6839
title: Bloch sphere colourings and Bell inequalities
authors: Adrian Kent, Dami¨¢n Pital¨²a-Garc¨ªa
comments: Typos and a couple of incorrect statements fixed; references added; title updated; discussion extended; reformatted. Lemmas and theorem unaltered. Published version
journal: Physical Review A 90, 062124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6839
abstract: We consider here the predictions of quantum theory and local hidden variables for the correlations obtained by measuring a pair of qubits by projections defined by randomly chosen axes separated by a given angle \theta. The predictions of local hidden variable models for projective measurements on qubits correspond to binary colourings of the Bloch sphere with antipodal points oppositely coloured. We prove Bell inequalities separating the predictions of all local hidden variable models from the singlet correlations predicted by quantum theory for all \theta in the range 0 < \theta < \pi/3. We raise and explore the possibility of proving stronger Bell inequalities directly from optimization results on sphere colourings. In particular, we explore strong and weak forms of the hemispherical colouring maximality hypothesis (HCMH) that, for a continuous range of \theta > 0, the maximum LHV anti-correlation is obtained by assigning to each qubit a colouring with one hemisphere black and the other white. Our results show that hemispherical colourings are near-optimal for small \theta; we also describe numerical tests consistent with the HCMH that bound the range of \theta. Finally, we note proofs of related results for binary colourings of R^n.

id: 1307.6858
title: Natural Orbitals and Occupation Numbers for Harmonium: Fermions vs. Bosons
authors: Christian Schilling
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6858
abstract: For a quantum system of N identical, harmonically interacting particles in a one-dimensional harmonic trap we calculate for the bosonic and fermionic ground state the corresponding 1-particle reduced density operator $\rho_1$ analytically. In case of bosons $\rho_1$ is a Gibbs state for an effective harmonic oscillator. Hence the natural orbitals are Hermite functions and their occupation numbers obey a Boltzmann distribution. Intriguingly, for fermions with not too large couplings the natural orbitals coincide up to just a very small error with the bosonic ones. In case of strong coupling this still holds qualitatively. Moreover, the decay of the decreasingly ordered fermionic natural occupation numbers is given by the bosonic one, but modified by an algebraic prefactor. Significant differences to bosons occur only for the largest occupation numbers. After all the "discontinuity" at the "Fermi level" decreases with increasing coupling strength but remains well pronounced even for strong interaction.

id: 1307.6871
title: Dephasing in coherent communication with weak signal states
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Konrad Banaszek, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 20 pages, final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 275302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6871
abstract: We analyze the ultimate quantum limit on the accessible information for an optical communication scheme when time bins carry coherent light pulses prepared in one of several orthogonal modes and the phase undergoes diffusion after each channel use. This scheme, an example of a quantum memory channel, can be viewed as noisy pulse position modulation (PPM) keying with phase fluctuations occurring between consecutive PPM symbols. We derive a general expression for the output states in the Fock basis and implement a numerical procedure to calculate the Holevo quantity. Using asymptotic properties of Toeplitz matrices, we also present an analytic expression for the Holevo quantity valid for very weak signals and sufficiently strong dephasing when the dominant contribution comes from the single-photon sector in the Hilbert space of signal states. Based on numerical results we conjecture an inequality for contributions to the Holevo quantity from multiphoton sectors which implies that in the asymptotic limit of weak signals, for arbitrarily small dephasing the accessible information scales linearly with the average number of photons contained in the pulse. Such behaviour presents a qualitative departure from the fully coherent case.

id: 1307.6912
title: Zitterbewegung in Bogoliubov's System
authors: Yan Li, Hong-Yi Su, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, L. C. Kwek
comments: four pages, no fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6912
abstract: We show that Bogoliubov's quasiparticle in superfluid $^3He-B$ undergoes the Zitterbewegung, as a free relativistic Dirac's electron does. The expectation value of position, as well as spin, of the quasiparticle is obtained and compared with that of the Dirac's electron. In particular, the Zitterbewegung of Bogoliubov's quasiparticle has a frequency approximately $10^5$ lower than that of an electron, rendering a more promising experimental observation.

id: 1307.6922
title: Superadiabatic dynamics in open quantum systems
authors: G. Vacanti, R. Fazio, S. Montangero, G. M. Palma, M. Paternostro, V. Vedral
comments: 11 pages, no Figures; accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 053017 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6922
abstract: We extend the concept of superadiabatic dynamics, or transitionless quantum driving, to quantum open systems whose evolution is governed by a master equation in the Lindblad form. We provide the general framework needed to determine the control strategy required to achieve superadiabaticity. We apply our formalism to two examples consisting of a two-level system coupled to environments with time-dependent bath operators.

id: 1307.6926
title: Quantum-information Division and an Optimal Uncorrelated Channel
authors: Yuji Sekino, Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 034304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6926
abstract: We consider quantum-information division, which is characterized by a channel whose outputs have no correlation and are not completely randomized. We show that the quantum-information division is possible in a probabilistic manner by optimizing the average fidelity in the channel with $M$ outputs in both deterministic and probabilistic cases. Moreover, we show that the optimal fidelities drastically change depending on the condition imposed on the outputs (symmetric and asymmetric), which is quite in contrast to the case of imperfect cloning.

id: 1307.6950
title: Phase-space interference of states optically truncated by quantum scissors: Generation of distinct superpositions of qudit coherent states by displacement of vacuum
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Malgorzata Paprzycka, Anirban Pathak, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033812 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6950
abstract: Conventional Glauber coherent states (CS) can be defined in several equivalent ways, e.g., by displacing the vacuum or, explicitly, by their infinite Poissonian expansion in Fock states. It is well known that these definitions become inequivalent if applied to finite $d$-level systems (qudits). We present a comparative Wigner-function description of the qudit CS defined (i) by the action of the truncated displacement operator on the vacuum and (ii) by the Poissonian expansion in Fock states of the Glauber CS truncated at $(d-1)$-photon Fock state. These states can be generated from a classical light by its optical truncation using nonlinear and linear quantum scissors devices, respectively. We show a surprising effect that a macroscopically distinguishable superposition of two qudit CS (according to both definitions) can be generated with high fidelity by displacing the vacuum in the qudit Hilbert space. If the qudit dimension $d$ is even (odd) then the superposition state contains Fock states with only odd (even) photon numbers, which can be referred to as the odd (even) qudit CS or the female (male) Schr\"odinger cat state. This phenomenon can be interpreted as an interference of a single CS with its reflection from the highest-energy Fock state of the Hilbert space, as clearly seen via phase-space interference of the Wigner function. We also analyze nonclassical properties of the qudit CS including their photon-number statistics and nonclassical volume of the Wigner function, which is a quantitative parameter of nonclassicality (quantumness) of states. Finally, we study optical tomograms, which can be directly measured in the homodyne detection of the analyzed qudit cat states and enable the complete reconstructions of their Wigner functions.

id: 1307.6970
title: Implementation of standard quantum error correction codes for solid-state qubits
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6970
abstract: In quantum error-correcting code (QECC), many quantum operations and measurements are necessary to correct errors in logical qubits. In the stabilizer formalism, which is widely used in QECC, generators $G_i (i=1,2,..)$ consist of multiples of Pauli matrices and perform encoding, decoding and measurement. In order to maintain encoding states, the stabilizer Hamiltonian $H_{\rm stab}=-\sum_i G_i$ is suitable because its ground state corresponds to the code space. On the other hand, Hamiltonians of most solid-state qubits have two-body interactions and show their own dynamics. In addition solid-state qubits are fixed on substrate and qubit-qubit operation is restricted in their neighborhood. The main purpose of this paper is to show how to directly generate the stabilizer Hamiltonian $H_{\rm stab}$ from conventional two-body Hamiltonians with Ising interaction and XY interaction by applying a pulse control method such as an NMR technique. We show that generation times of $H_{\rm stab}$ for nine-qubit code, five-qubit code and Steane code are estimated to be less than 300 ns when typical experimental data of superconducting qubits are used, and sufficient pulse control is assumed. We also show how to prepare encoded states from an initial state $|0....0>$. In addition, we discuss an appropriate arrangement of two- or three-dimensional arrayed qubits.

id: 1307.6986
title: Coexistence does not imply joint measurability
authors: David Reeb, Daniel Reitzner, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure; close to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 462002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6986
abstract: One of the hallmarks of quantum theory is the realization that distinct measurements cannot in general be performed simultaneously, in stark contrast to classical physics. In this context the notions of coexistence and joint measurability are employed to analyze the possibility of measuring together two general quantum observables, characterizing different degrees of compatibility between measurements. It is known that two jointly measurable observables are always coexistent, and that the converse holds for various classes of observables, including the case of observables with two outcomes. Here we resolve, in the negative, the open question whether this equivalence holds in general. Our resolution strengthens the notions of coexistence and joint measurability by showing that both are robust against small imperfections in the measurement setups.

id: 1307.6993
title: Classification scheme of pure multipartite states based on topological phases
authors: Markus Johansson, Marie Ericsson, Erik Sj?qvist, Andreas Osterloh
comments: Title changed, minor edits
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6993
abstract: We investigate the connection between the concept of affine balancedness (a-balancedness) introduced in [Phys. Rev A. {\bf 85}, 032112 (2012)] and polynomial local SU invariants and the appearance of topological phases respectively. It is found that different types of a-balancedness correspond to different types of local SU invariants analogously to how different types of balancedness as defined in [New J. Phys. {\bf 12}, 075025 (2010)] correspond to different types of local SL invariants. These different types of SU invariants distinguish between states exhibiting different topological phases. In the case of three qubits the different kinds of topological phases are fully distinguished by the three-tangle together with one more invariant. Using this we present a qualitative classification scheme based on balancedness of a state. While balancedness and local SL invariants of bidegree $(2n,0)$ classify the SL-semistable states [New J. Phys. {\bf 12}, 075025 (2010), Phys. Rev. A {\bf 83} 052330 (2011)], a-balancedness and local SU invariants of bidegree $(2n-m,m)$ gives a more fine grained classification. In this scheme the a-balanced states form a bridge from the genuine entanglement of balanced states, invariant under the SL-group, towards the entanglement of unbalanced states characterized by U invariants of bidegree $(n,n)$. As a by-product we obtain generalizations to the W-state, states that are entangled, but contain only globally distributed entanglement of parts of the system.

id: 1307.7012
title: Seeding patterns for self-organization of photons and atoms
authors: Wolfgang Niedenzu, Stefan Sch¨¹tz, Hessam Habibian, Giovanna Morigi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033830 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7012
abstract: When atoms scatter photons from a transverse laser into a high-finesse optical cavity, they form crystalline structures which maximize the intracavity light field and trap the atoms in the ordered array. Stable organization occurs when the laser field amplitude exceeds a certain threshold. For planar single-mode cavities there exist two equivalent possible atomic patterns, which determine the phase of the intracavity light field. Under these premises, we show that the effect of an additional laser pumping the cavity makes one pattern more favorable than the other and that it can dynamically force the system into a predetermined configuration. This is an instance of pattern formation and seeding in a nonlinear quantum-optical system.

id: 1307.7021
title: Testing quantum physics in space using optically trapped nanospheres
authors: Rainer Kaltenbaek
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted to SPIE proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7021
abstract: Recent developments in space technology like micro-propulsion systems for drag-free control, thermal shielding, ultra-stable laser sources and stable optical cavities set an ideal platform for quantum optomechanical experiments with optically trapped dielectric spheres. Here, we will provide an overview of the results of recent studies aiming at the realization of the space mission MAQRO to test the foundations of quantum physics in a parameter regime orders of magnitude beyond existing experiments. In particular, we will discuss DECIDE, which is an experiment to prepare and then study a Schr\"odinger-cat-type state, where a dielectric nanosphere of around 100nm radius is prepared in a superposition of being in two clearly distinct positions at the same time. This superposition leads to double-slit-type interference, and the visibility of the interference pattern will be compared to the predictions of quantum theory. This approach allows for testing for possible deviations from quantum theory as our test objects approach macroscopic dimensions. With DECIDE, it will be possible to distinctly test several prominent theoretical models that predict such deviations, for example: the Di\'osi-Pensrose model, the continuous-spontaneous-localization model of Ghirardi, Rimini, Weber and Pearle, and the model of K\'arolyh\'azy.

id: 1307.7025
title: The ZX-calculus is complete for stabilizer quantum mechanics
authors: Miriam Backens
comments: 26 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 093021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7025
abstract: The ZX-calculus is a graphical calculus for reasoning about quantum systems and processes. It is known to be universal for pure state qubit quantum mechanics, meaning any pure state, unitary operation and post-selected pure projective measurement can be expressed in the ZX-calculus. The calculus is also sound, i.e. any equality that can be derived graphically can also be derived using matrix mechanics. Here, we show that the ZX-calculus is complete for pure qubit stabilizer quantum mechanics, meaning any equality that can be derived using matrices can also be derived pictorially. The proof relies on bringing diagrams into a normal form based on graph states and local Clifford operations.

id: 1307.7027
title: Self-Consistent Projection Operator Theory for Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: Peter Degenfeld-Schonburg, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 245108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7027
abstract: We derive an exact equation of motion for the reduced density matrices of individual subsystems of quantum many-body systems of any lattice dimension and arbitrary system size. Our projection operator based theory yields a highly efficient analytical and numerical approach. Besides its practical use it provides a novel interpretation and systematic extension of mean-field approaches and an adaption of open quantum systems theory to settings where a dynamically evolving environment has to be taken into account. We show its high accuracy for two significant classes of complex quantum many-body dynamics, unitary evolutions of non-equilibrium states in closed and stationary states in driven-dissipative systems.

id: 1307.7048
title: Pivoting makes the ZX-calculus complete for real stabilizers
authors: Ross Duncan, Simon Perdrix
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 50-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7048
abstract: We show that pivoting property of graph states cannot be derived from the axioms of the ZX-calculus, and that pivoting does not imply local complementation of graph states. Therefore the ZX-calculus augmented with pivoting is strictly weaker than the calculus augmented with the Euler decomposition of the Hadamard gate. We derive an angle-free version of the ZX-calculus and show that it is complete for real stabilizer quantum mechanics.

id: 1307.7053
title: Physical characterization of quantum devices from nonlocal correlations
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Miguel Navascu¨¦s, Valerio Scarani, Tam¨¢s V¨¦rtesi, Tzyh Haur Yang
comments: 17+2 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022115 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7053
abstract: In the device-independent approach to quantum information theory, quantum systems are regarded as black boxes which, given an input (the measurement setting), return an output (the measurement result). These boxes are then treated regardless of their actual internal working. In this paper, we develop SWAP, a theoretical concept which, in combination with the tool of semi-definite methods for the characterization of quantum correlations, allows us to estimate physical properties of the black boxes from the observed measurement statistics. We find that the SWAP tool provides bounds orders of magnitude better than previously-known techniques (e.g.: for a CHSH violation larger than 2.57, SWAP predicts a singlet fidelity greater than 70%). This method also allows us to deal with hitherto intractable cases such as robust device-independent self-testing of non-maximally entangled two-qutrit states in the CGLMP scenario (for which Jordan's Lemma does not apply) and the device-independent certification of entangled measurements. We further apply the SWAP method to relate nonlocal correlations to work extraction and quantum dimensionality, hence demonstrating that this tool can be used to study a wide variety of properties relying on the sole knowledge of accessible statistics.

id: 1307.7073
title: Non-Abelian off-diagonal geometric phases in nano-engineered four-qubit systems
authors: Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Carlo M. Canali, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Some changes, journal reference added
journal: Europhys. Lett. 103, 60011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7073
abstract: The concept of off-diagonal geometric phase (GP) has been introduced in order to recover interference information about the geometry of quantal evolution where the standard GPs are not well-defined. In this Letter, we propose a physical setting for realizing non-Abelian off-diagonal GPs. The proposed non-Abelian off-diagonal GPs can be implemented in a cyclic chain of four qubits with controllable nearest-neighbor interactions. Our proposal seems to be within reach in various nano-engineered systems and therefore opens up for first experimental test of the non-Abelian off-diagonal GP.

id: 1307.7082
title: Relativistic Quantum Metrology: Exploiting relativity to improve quantum measurement technologies
authors: Mehdi Ahmadi, David Edward Bruschi, Carlos Sab¨ªn, Gerardo Adesso, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. I. F. previously published under I. Fuentes-Schuller and I. Fuentes-Guridi. v2: minor changes, published version
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4996 (2014),
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7082
abstract: We present a framework for relativistic quantum metrology that is useful for both Earth-based and space-based technologies. Quantum metrology has been so far successfully applied to design precision instruments such as clocks and sensors which outperform classical devices by exploiting quantum properties. There are advanced plans to implement these and other quantum technologies in space, for instance Space-QUEST and Space Optical Clock projects intend to implement quantum communications and quantum clocks at regimes where relativity starts to kick in. However, typical setups do not take into account the effects of relativity on quantum properties. To include and exploit these effects, we introduce techniques for the application of metrology to quantum field theory. Quantum field theory properly incorporates quantum theory and relativity, in particular, at regimes where space-based experiments take place. This framework allows for high precision estimation of parameters that appear in quantum field theory including proper times and accelerations. Indeed, the techniques can be applied to develop a novel generation of relativistic quantum technologies for gravimeters, clocks and sensors. As an example, we present a high precision device which in principle improves the state-of-the-art in quantum accelerometers by exploiting relativistic effects.

id: 1307.7171
title: The Resource Theory of Stabilizer Computation
authors: Victor Veitch, Seyed Ali Hamed Mousavian, Daniel Gottesman, Joseph Emerson
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 013009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7171
abstract: Recent results on the non-universality of fault-tolerant gate sets underline the critical role of resource states, such as magic states, to power scalable, universal quantum computation. Here we develop a resource theory, analogous to the theory of entanglement, for resources for stabilizer codes. We introduce two quantitative measures - monotones - for the amount of non-stabilizer resource. As an application we give absolute bounds on the efficiency of magic state distillation. One of these monotones is the sum of the negative entries of the discrete Wigner representation of a quantum state, thereby resolving a long-standing open question of whether the degree of negativity in a quasi-probability representation is an operationally meaningful indicator of quantum behaviour.

id: 1307.7193
title: Macroscopic Violation of Duality Generated on a Laser Beam
authors: Daniel Mirell, Stuart Mirell
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Summarizes the theoretical basis given in arXiv: 1107.1306 and reports newer, more precise experimental results
journal: Journal of Modern Physics Vol. 4, No. 7 pp.911-922 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7193
abstract: It is shown theoretically and experimentally that passage of a laser beam through particular conventional Ronchi gratings prepares the beam in an altered state that violates quantum duality. The violation is characterized by a readily measured net transfer of energy between the prepared beam and an unmodified beam from a similar, independent laser. Notably, the experiment is conducted with the beams at macroscopic power levels where measurability of the duality-violating transfer is vastly improved over that of the discrete photon regime. These results are consistent with other recently reported experiments that have challenged the validity of the duality-related principle of complementarity.

id: 1307.7207
title: A polarization maintaining scheme for 1.5 ¦Ìm polarization entangled photon pair generation in optical fibers
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Tianzhu Niu, Shuai Dong, Yidong Huang, Jiangde Peng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7207
abstract: In this paper, the generation of polarization entangled photon pairs at 1.5 {\mu}m is experimentally demonstrated utilizing a polarization maintaining all-fiber loop, consisting of a piece of commercial polarization maintaining fiber and a polarization beam splitter/combiner with polarization maintaining fiber pigtails. A quantum state tomography measurement is performed to analyze the entanglement characteristic of the generated quantum state. In the experiment, a polarization entangled Bell state is generated with a entanglement fidelity of 0.97+/-0.03 and a purity of 0.94+/-0.03 demonstrating that the proposed scheme can realize polarization entangled photon pair generation with polarization maintaining property which is desired in applications of quantum communication and quantum information.

id: 1307.7220
title: Multiple Network Alignment on Quantum Computers
authors: Anmer Daskin, Ananth Grama, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7220
abstract: Comparative analyses of graph structured datasets underly diverse problems. Examples of these problems include identification of conserved functional components (biochemical interactions) across species, structural similarity of large biomolecules, and recurring patterns of interactions in social networks. A large class of such analyses methods quantify the topological similarity of nodes across networks. The resulting correspondence of nodes across networks, also called node alignment, can be used to identify invariant subgraphs across the input graphs. Given $k$ graphs as input, alignment algorithms use topological information to assign a similarity score to each $k$-tuple of nodes, with elements (nodes) drawn from each of the input graphs. Nodes are considered similar if their neighbors are also similar. An alternate, equivalent view of these network alignment algorithms is to consider the Kronecker product of the input graphs, and to identify high-ranked nodes in the Kronecker product graph. Conventional methods such as PageRank and HITS (Hypertext Induced Topic Selection) can be used for this purpose. These methods typically require computation of the principal eigenvector of a suitably modified Kronecker product matrix of the input graphs. We adopt this alternate view of the problem to address the problem of multiple network alignment. Using the phase estimation algorithm, we show that the multiple network alignment problem can be efficiently solved on quantum computers. We characterize the accuracy and performance of our method, and show that it can deliver exponential speedups over conventional (non-quantum) methods.

id: 1307.7246
title: Tracking down localized modes in PT-symmetric Hamiltonians under the influence of a competing nonlinearity
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Subhrajit Modak, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 10pages, To be published in Acta Polytechnica
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7246
abstract: The relevance of parity and time reversal (PT)-symmetric structures in optical systems is known for sometime with the correspondence existing between the Schrodinger equation and the paraxial equation of diffraction where the time parameter represents the propagating distance and the refractive index acts as the complex potential. In this paper, we systematically analyze a normalized form of the nonlinear Schrodinger system with two new families of PT-symmetric potentials in the presence of competing nonlinearities. We generate a class of localized eigenmodes and carry out a linear stability analysis on the solutions. In particular, we find an interesting feature of bifurcation charaterized by the parameter of perturbative growth rate passing through zero where a transition to imaginary eigenvalues occurs.

id: 1307.7318
title: Secure quantum bit commitment against empty promises. II. The density matrix
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 10 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7318
abstract: We further study the security of the quantum bit commitment (QBC) protocol we previously proposed [Phys. Rev. A 74, 022332 (2006).], by analyzing the reduced density matrix \rho_{b}^{B} which describes the quantum state at Bob's side corresponding to Alice's committed bit b. It is shown that Alice will find \rho_{0}^{B}\perp \rho_{1}^{B} while the protocol remains concealing to Bob. On the contrary, the existing no-go theorem of unconditionally secure QBC is based on the condition \rho_{0}^{B}\simeq \rho_{1}^{B}. Thus the specific cheating strategy proposed in the no-go theorem does not necessarily applies to our protocol.

id: 1307.7329
title: Under-the-barrier electron-ion interaction during tunnel ionization
authors: Emilio Pisanty
comments: Report submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements of the degree of MRes of Imperial College London, at the Centre for Doctoral Training in Controlled Quantum Dynamics. An enhanced PDF version is supplied with tooltips on links to references, equations and figures (this works only on Adobe readers). Published online by the Centre for Doctoral Training in Controlled Quantum Dynamics (2013) at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7329
abstract: We consider tunnel ionization of an atom or molecule in a strong field within an analytical treatment of the R-matrix method, in which an imaginary boundary is set up inside the classically forbidden region that acts as a source of ionized electrons. These electrons are then propagated in the semiclassical approximation, and relying on a numerical solution of the inner region, which is accessible using quantum chemical techniques, we describe the subsequent evolution of the ionized electron and the ionic core. Importantly, we show that correlation interactions between the ionized electrons and those left behind in the core can play a role during ionization, and that interactions can occur while the electron is still inside the classically forbidden region that enable tunnelling from channels normally subject to far greater exponential suppression since they are subject to higher and wider tunnelling barriers. This interaction can be described analytically using saddle-point methods that ?find the dominant contributions to the temporal, spatial and momentum integrals that make up the expressions for the ionization yield. However, these methods yield results for the angular distributions of the ionized electron that do not necessarily match experiment and which yield physically unsatisfactory solutions. In this report we develop a formalism to evaluate these integrals exactly, which yields more precise calculations of the angular distributions while at the same time providing the language, in terms of exchange of angular momentum, with which to understand their origins and their differences from previous cases, thus giving an insight into the fundamental physics of the correlation interaction process.

id: 1307.7353
title: Quantum Fisher information of entangled coherent state in the presence of photon losses: exact solution
authors: Y. M. Zhang, X. W. Li, W. Yang, G. R. Jin
comments: 7 page, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 043832 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7353
abstract: We investigate the performance of entangled coherent state for quantum enhanced phase estimation. An exact analytical expression of quantum Fisher information is derived to show the role of photon losses on the ultimate phase sensitivity. We find a transition of the sensitivity from the Heisenberg scaling to the classical scaling due to quantum decoherence of the photon state. This quantum-classical transition is uniquely determined by the number of photons being lost, instead of the number of incident photons or the photon loss rate alone. Our results also reveal that a crossover of the sensitivity between the entangled coherent state and the NOON state can occur even for very small photon loss rate.

id: 1307.7367
title: Continuous-mode multi-photon filtering
authors: Hongting Song, Guofeng Zhang, Zairong Xi
comments: 32 pages, 6figures, first draft. Comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7367
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to derive filtering equations for an arbitrary open quantum system driven by a light wavepacket in a continuous-mode multi-photon state. A continuous-mode multi-photon state is a state of a travelling wavepacket that contains a definite number of photons and is characterised by a temporal (or spectral) profile. After the interaction with the system, the output light is measured by means of homodyne detection or photodetection. Filters for both cases are derived in this paper. Unlike the vacuum or the coherent case, the annihilation operator of the light field acting on a multi-photon state changes the state by annihilating a photon, which makes the traditional filtering techniques inapplicable. To circumvent this difficulty, we adopt a non-Markovian embedding technique proposed in [20]} for the study of single-photon filtering problem. However, the multi-photon nature of the problem makes the study more mathematically involved. Moreover, as illustrated by an example --- a two-level atom driven a continuous-mode two-photon state. Multi-photon filters can reveal interesting optical phenomena absent in either the single-photon filter case or the continuous-mode Fock state case.

id: 1307.7400
title: Mollow triplet for cavity-mediated laser cooling
authors: Oleg Kim, Almut Beige
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, improved version, new title
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7400
abstract: Here we analyse cavity-mediated laser cooling for an experimental setup with an external trap which strongly confines the motion of a particle in the direction of the cavity axis. It is shown that the stationary state phonon number exhibits three sharp minima as a function of the atom-cavity detuning due to a direct atom-phonon-photon coupling term in the system Hamiltonian. These resonances have the same origin as the Mollow triplet in the resonance fluorescence of a laser-driven atomic system. It is shown that a laser-Rabi frequency-dependent atom-cavity detuning yields the lowest stationary state phonon number for a wide range of experimental parameters.

id: 1307.7415
title: Optimal architecture for a non-deterministic noiseless linear amplifier
authors: N. A. McMahon, A. P. Lund, T. C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023846 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7415
abstract: Non-deterministic quantum noiseless linear amplifiers are a new technology with interest in both fundamental understanding and new applications. With a noiseless linear amplifier it is possible to perform tasks such as improving the performance of quantum key distribution and purifying lossy channels. Previous designs for noiseless linear amplifiers involving linear optics and photon counting are non-optimal because they have a probability of success lower than the theoretical bound given by the theory of generalised quantum measurement. This paper develops a theoretical model which reaches this limit. We calculate the fidelity and probability of success of this new model for coherent states and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entangled states.

id: 1307.7417
title: Equational characterization for two-valued states in orthomodular quantum systems
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes, Christian De Ronde
comments: 
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics 68 (2011) 65 - 83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7417
abstract: In this paper we develop an algebraic framework in which several classes of two-valued states over orthomodular lattices may be equationally characterized. The class of two-valued states and the subclass of Jauch-Piron two-valued states are among the classes which we study.

id: 1307.7428
title: Exciton propagation via quantum walks based on non-Hermitian coin flip operations
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 13 pages, 6 figs
journal: Journal of Mathematical Chemistry 52, 2141-2160 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7428
abstract: We examine the coherent propagation of the one-dimensional Frenkel exciton (correlated electron-hole pair system) based on a model of a quantum walker in multi-dimensional Hilbert space. The walk is governed by a non-Hermitian coin flip operation coupled to a generalized shift process. The dissipative coin flip operation is associated with amplitude leakages at occupied sites, typical of processes which occur when an exciton is transferred along dimer sites in photosynthetic protein complexes. We analyze the characteristics probability distribution of the one-dimensional quantum walk for various system parameters, and examine the complex interplay between non-Markovian signatures and amplitude leakages within the Hilbert position subspace. The visibility of topological defects such as exceptional points, and non-Markovian signatures via quantum tomography based spectroscopic measurements are discussed.

id: 1307.7476
title: Theoretical model and experimental setup for 3D imaging of cavity vacuum with single atoms confined by a nanohole aperture
authors: Moonjoo Lee, Kyungwon An
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7476
abstract: Supplementary information is presented on the recent work by Moonjoo Lee et al. on the sub-wavelength 3D imaging of the vacuum-field intensity in a cavity by using single atoms confined by a nanohole aperture as a nanoscopic probe.

id: 1307.7487
title: Detecting and estimating continuous-variable entanglement by local orthogonal observables
authors: Chengjie Zhang, Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 190501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7487
abstract: Entanglement detection and estimation are fundamental in quantum information science. Compared with discrete-variable states, for which lots of efficient entanglement detection criteria and lower bounds of entanglement measures have been proposed, the continuous-variable entanglement is much less understood. Here we shall present a family of entanglement witnesses based on continuous-variable local orthogonal observables (CVLOOs) to detect and estimate entanglement of Gaussian and non-Gaussian states, especially for bound entangled states. By choosing an optimal set of CVLOOs our entanglement witness is equivalent to the realignment criterion and can be used to detect bound entanglement of a class of 2+2 mode Gaussian states. Via our entanglement witness, lower bounds of two typical entanglement measures for arbitrary two-mode continuous-variable states are obtained.

id: 1307.7488
title: Measures of quantum computing speedup
authors: Anargyros Papageorgiou, Joseph F. Traub
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7488
abstract: We introduce the concept of strong quantum speedup. We prove that approximating the ground state energy of an instance of the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation, with $d$ degrees of freedom, $d$ large, enjoys strong exponential quantum speedup. It can be easily solved on a quantum computer. Some researchers in discrete complexity theory believe that quantum computation is not effective for eigenvalue problems. One of our goals in this paper is to explain this dissonance.

id: 1307.7541
title: Integrated optical waveplates for arbitrary operations on polarization-encoded single-qubits
authors: Giacomo Corrielli, Andrea Crespi, Roberto Osellame, Riccardo Geremia, Roberta Ramponi, Linda Sansoni, Andrea Santinelli, Paolo Mataloni, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4249 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7541
abstract: Integrated photonic technologies applied to quantum optics have recently enabled a wealth of breakthrough experiments in several quantum information areas. Path encoding was initially used to demonstrate operations on single or multiple qubits. However, a polarization encoding approach is often simpler and more effective. Two-qubits integrated logic gates as well as complex interferometric structures have been successfully demonstrated exploiting polarization encoding in femtosecond-laser-written photonic circuits. Still, integrated devices performing single-qubit rotations are missing. Here we demonstrate waveguide-based waveplates, fabricated by femtosecond laser pulses, capable to effectively produce arbitrary single-qubit operations in the polarization encoding. By exploiting these novel components we fabricate and test a compact device for the quantum state tomography of two polarization-entangled photons. The integrated optical waveplates complete the toolbox required for a full manipulation of polarization-encoded qubits on-chip, disclosing new scenarios for integrated quantum computation, sensing and simulation, and possibly finding application also in standard photonic devices.

id: 1307.7551
title: Semi-counterfactual Cryptography
authors: Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth, T. Srinivas
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 103 60008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7551
abstract: In counterfactual quantum key distribution (QKD), two remote parties can securely share random polarization-encoded bits through the blocking rather than the transmission of particles. We propose a semi-counterfactual QKD, i.e., one where the secret bit is shared, and also encoded, based on the blocking or non-blocking of a particle. The scheme is thus semi-counterfactual and not based on polarization encoding. As with other counterfactual schemes and the Goldenberg-Vaidman protocol, but unlike BB84, the encoding states are orthogonal and security arises ultimately from single-particle non-locality. Unlike any of them, however, the secret bit generated is maximally indeterminate until the joint action of Alice and Bob. We prove the general security of the protocol, and study the most general photon-number-preserving incoherent attack in detail.

id: 1307.7590
title: Improvement of two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution using optical amplifiers
authors: Yi-Chen Zhang, Zhengyu Li, Christian Weedbrook, Song Yu, Wanyi Gu, Maozhu Sun, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 035501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7590
abstract: The imperfections of a receiver's detector affect the performance of two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols and are difficult to adjust in practical situations. We propose a method to improve the performance of two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution by adding a parameter-adjustable optical amplifier at the receiver. A security analysis is derived against a two-mode collective entangling cloner attack. Our simulations show that the proposed method can improve the performance of protocols as long as the inherent noise of the amplifier is lower than a critical value, defined as the tolerable amplifier noise. Furthermore, the optimal performance can approach the scenario where a perfect detector is used.

id: 1307.7637
title: Signatures of the collapse and revival of a spin Schr?dinger cat state in a continuously monitored field mode
authors: R.D. Wilson, M.J. Everitt, W.J. Munro, Tim Spiller
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. SPIE 8773, Photon Counting Applications IV; and Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Transfer and Processing, 87730Y (May 6, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7637
abstract: We study the effects of continuous measurement of the field mode during the collapse and revival of spin Schr\"{o}dinger cat states in the Tavis-Cummings model of N qubits (two-level quantum systems) coupled to a field mode. We show that a compromise between relatively weak and relatively strong continuous measurement will not completely destroy the collapse and revival dynamics while still providing enough signal-to-noise resolution to identify the signatures of the process in the measurement record. This type of measurement would in principle allow the verification of the occurrence of the collapse and revival of a spin Schr\"{o}dinger cat state.

id: 1307.7653
title: Quantum Enhanced Multiple Phase Estimation
authors: Peter C. Humphreys, Marco Barbieri, Animesh Datta, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: Accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 070403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7653
abstract: We study the simultaneous estimation of multiple phases as a discretised model for the imaging of a phase object. We identify quantum probe states that provide an enhancement compared to the best quantum scheme for the estimation of each individual phase separately, as well as improvements over classical strategies. Our strategy provides an advantage in the variance of the estimation over individual quantum estimation schemes that scales as O(d) where d is the number of phases. Finally, we study the attainability of this limit using realistic probes and photon-number-resolving detectors. This is a problem in which an intrinsic advantage is derived from the estimation of multiple parameters simultaneously.

id: 1307.7743
title: Non-Markovian Dynamical Maps: Numerical Processing of Open Quantum Trajectories
authors: Javier Cerrillo, Jianshu Cao
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7743
abstract: The initial stages of the evolution of an open quantum system encode the key information of its underlying dynamical correlations, which in turn can predict the trajectory at later stages. We propose a general approach based on non-Markovian dynamical maps to extract this information from the initial trajectories and compress it into non-Markovian transfer tensors. Assuming time-translational invariance, the tensors can be used to accurately and efficiently propagate the state of the system to arbitrarily long timescales. The non-Markovian Transfer Tensor Method (TTM) demonstrates the coherent-to-incoherent transition as a function of the strength of quantum dissipation and predicts the non-canonical equilibrium distribution due to the system-bath entanglement. TTM is equivalent to solving the Nakajima-Zwanzig equation, and therefore can be used to reconstruct the dynamical operators (the system Hamiltonian and memory kernel) from quantum trajectories obtained in simulations or experiments. The concept underlying the approach can be generalized to physical observables with the goal of learning and manipulating the trajectories of an open quantum system.

id: 1307.7754
title: Experimental recovery of a qubit from partial collapse
authors: J. A. Sherman, M. J. Curtis, D. J. Szwer, D. T. C. Allcock, G. Imreh, D. M. Lucas, A. M. Steane
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7754
abstract: We describe and implement a method to restore the state of a single qubit, in principle perfectly, after it has partially collapsed. The method resembles the classical Hahn spin-echo, but works on a wider class of relaxation processes, in which the quantum state partially leaves the computational Hilbert space. It is not guaranteed to work every time, but successful outcomes are heralded. We demonstrate using a single trapped ion better performance from this recovery method than can be obtained employing projection and post-selection alone. The demonstration features a novel qubit implementation that permits both partial collapse and coherent manipulations with high fidelity.

id: 1307.7829
title: High Performance Information Reconciliation for QKD with CASCADE
authors: Thomas Brochmann Pedersen, Mustafa Toyran
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7829
abstract: It is widely accepted in the quantum cryptography community that interactive information reconciliation protocols, such as cascade, are ineffcient due to the communication overhead. Instead, non-interactive information reconciliation protocols based on i.e. LDPC codes or, more recently, polar codes have been proposed. In this work, we argue that interactive protocols should be taken into consideration in modern quantum key distribution systems. In particular, we demonstrate how to improve the performance of cascade by proper implementation and use. Our implementation of cascade reaches a throughput above 80 Mbps under realistic conditions. This is more than four times the throughput previously demonstrated in any information reconciliation protocol.

id: 1307.7876
title: Exceptional and regular spectra of a generalized Rabi model
authors: Michael Tomka, Omar El Araby, Mikhail Pletyukhov, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063839 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7876
abstract: We study the spectrum of the generalized Rabi model in which co- and counter-rotating terms have different coupling strengths. It is also equivalent to the model of a two-dimensional electron gas in a magnetic field with Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit couplings. Like in case of the Rabi model, the spectrum of the generalized Rabi model consists of the regular and the exceptional parts. The latter is represented by the energy levels which cross at certain parameters' values which we determine explicitly. The wave functions of these exceptional states are given by finite order polynomials in the Bargmann representation. The roots of these polynomials satisfy a Bethe ansatz equation of the Gaudin type. At the exceptional points the model is therefore quasi-exactly solvable. An analytical approximation is derived for the regular part of the spectrum in the weak- and strong-coupling limits. In particular, in the strong-coupling limit the spectrum consists of two quasi-degenerate equidistant ladders.

id: 1307.7902
title: Fermionic computation is non-local tomographic and violates monogamy of entanglement
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Franco Manessi, Paolo Perinotti, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 5 pages
journal: EPL 107 (2014) 20009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7902
abstract: We show that the computational model based on local Fermionic modes in place of qubits does not satisfy local tomography and monogamy of entanglement, and has mixed states with maximal entanglement of formation. These features directly follow from the parity conservation corresponding to the parity superselection rule. We generalize quantum superselection rules to general probabilistic theories as sets of linear constraints on the convex set of states. We then provide a link between the cardinality of the superselection rule and the degree of holism of the resulting theory.

id: 1307.7904
title: When Are Popescu-Rohrlich Boxes and Random Access Codes Equivalent?
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Karol Horodecki, Micha? Horodecki, Waldemar K?obus, Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 100401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7904
abstract: We study a problem of interconvertibility of two supra-quantum resources: one is so called PR-box, which violates CHSH inequality up to maximal algebraic bound, and second is so called random access code (RAC). The latter is a functionality that enables Bob (receiver) to choose one of two bits of Alice. It has been known, that PR-box supplemented with one bit of communication can be used to simulate RAC. We ask the converse question: to what extent RAC can simulate PR-box? To this end we introduce racbox: a box such that supplemented with one bit of communication offers RAC. As said, PR-box can simulate racbox. The question we raise, is whether any racbox can simulate PR-box. We show that a non-signaling racbox indeed can simulate PR-box, hence those two resources are equivalent. We also provide an example of signalling racbox which cannot simulate PR-box. We give a resource inequality between racbox es and PR-boxes, and show that it is saturated.

id: 1307.7927
title: Multi-User Non-Locality Amplification
authors: Helen Ebbe, Stefan Wolf
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1301.5875
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 60(2):1159-1167, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7927
abstract: Non-local correlations are among the most fascinating features of quantum theory from the point of view of information: Such correlations, although not allowing for signaling, are unexplainable by pre-shared information. The correlations have applications in cryptography, communication complexity, and sit at the very heart of many attempts of understanding quantum theory -- and its limits -- in terms of classical information. In these contexts, the question is crucial whether such correlations can be amplified or distilled, i.e., whether and how weak correlations can be used for generating (a smaller amount of) stronger. Whereas the question has been studied quite extensively for bipartite correlations (yielding both pessimistic and optimistic results), only little is known in the multi-partite case. We introduce a general framework of reductions between multi-party input-output systems. Within this formalism, we show that a natural n-party generalization of the well-known Popescu-Rohrlich box can be distilled, by an adaptive protocol, to the algebraic maximum.We use this result further to show that a much broader class of correlations, including all purely threepartite correlations, can be distilled from arbitrarily weak to almost maximal strength with partial communication, i.e., using only a subset of the channels required for the creation of the same correlation from scratch. Alternatively, this means that arbitrarily weak non-local correlations can have a "communication value" in the context of the generation of maximal non-locality.

id: 1307.7939
title: Post-selection free, integrated optical source of non-degenerate, polarization entangled photon pairs
authors: Harald Herrmann, Xu Yang, Abu Thomas, Andreas Poppe, Wolfgang Sohler, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7939
abstract: We present an integrated source of polarization entangled photon pairs in the telecom regime, which is based on type II-phasematched parametric down-conversion (PDC) in a Ti-indiffused waveguide in periodically poled lithium niobate. The domain grating -- consisting of an interlaced bi-periodic structure -- is engineered to provide simultaneous phase-matching of two PDC processes, and enables the direct generation of non-degenerate, polarization entangled photon pairs with a brightness of $B=7\times10^3$ pairs/(s mW GHz). The spatial separation of the photon pairs is accomplished by a fiber-optical multiplexer facilitating a high compactness of the overall source. Visibilities exceeding 95% and a violation of the Bell inequality with $S=2.57\pm0.06$ could be demonstrated.

id: 1307.7964
title: Speeding up and slowing down the relaxation of a qubit by optimal control
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Alberto Carlini, Andrea Mari, Tommaso Caneva, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7964
abstract: We consider a two-level quantum system prepared in an arbitrary initial state and relaxing to a steady state due to the action of a Markovian dissipative channel. We study how optimal control can be used for speeding up or slowing down the relaxation towards the fixed point of the dynamics. We analytically derive the optimal relaxation times for different quantum channels in the ideal ansatz of unconstrained quantum control (a magnetic field of infinite strength). We also analyze the situation in which the control Hamiltonian is bounded by a finite threshold. As byproducts of our analysis we find that: (i) if the qubit is initially in a thermal state hotter than the environmental bath, quantum control cannot speed up its natural cooling rate; (ii) if the qubit is initially in a thermal state colder than the bath, it can reach the fixed point of the dynamics in finite time if a strong control field is applied; (iii) in the presence of unconstrained quantum control it is possible to keep the evolved state indefinitely and arbitrarily close to special initial states which are far away from the fixed points of the dynamics.

id: 1307.7989
title: Ontological models, preparation contextuality and nonlocality
authors: Manik Banik, Some Sankar Bhattacharya, Sujit K Choudhary, Amit Mukherjee, Arup Roy
comments: Accepted in Foundations of Physics (close to accepted version). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0406166 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7989
abstract: The ontological model framework for an operational theory has generated much interest in recent years. The debate concerning reality of quantum states has been made more precise in this framework. With the introduction of generalized notion of contextuality in this framework, it has been shown that completely mixed state of a qubit is \emph{preparation contextual}. Interestingly, this new idea of preparation contextuality has been used to demonstrate nonlocality of some $\psi$-epistemic models without any use of Bell's inequality. In particular, nonlocality of a non maximally $\psi$-epistemic model has been demonstrated from preparation contextuality of a maximally mixed qubit and Schr\"{o}dinger's steerability of the maximally entangled state of two qubits [Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf 110}, 120401 (2013)]. In this paper, we, show that any mixed state is preparation contextual. We, then, show that nonlocality of any bipartite pure entangled state, with Schmidt rank two, follows from preparation contextuality and steerability provided we impose certain condition on the epistemicity of the underlying ontological model. More interestingly, if the pure entangled state is of Schmidt rank greater than two, its nonlocality follows without any further condition on the epistemicity. Thus our result establishes a stronger connection between nonlocality and preparation contextuality by revealing nonlocality of any bipartite pure entangled states without any use of Bell-type inequality.

id: 1307.8001
title: Non-Adiabatic Universal Holonomic Quantum Gates Based on Abelian Holonomies
authors: Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Yidun Wan, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 83, 034001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8001
abstract: We implement a non-adiabatic universal set of holonomic quantum gates based on abelian holonomies using dynamical invariants, by Lie-algebraic methods. Unlike previous implementations, presented scheme does not rely on secondary methods such as double-loop or spin-echo and avoids associated experimental difficulties. It turns out that such gates exist purely in the non-adiabatic regime for these systems.

id: 1307.8009
title: Quantum Fisher Information of Entangled Coherent States in a Lossy Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: Xiaoxing Jing, Jing Liu, Wei Zhong, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 61(01): 115-120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8009
abstract: We give an analytical result for the quantum Fisher information of entangled coherent States in a lossy Mach-Zehnder Interferometer recently proposed by J. Joo et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 083601(2011)]. For small loss of photons, we ?nd that the entangled coherent state can surpass the Heisenberg limit. Furthermore, The formalism developed here is applicable to the study of phase sensitivity of multipartite entangled coherent states.

id: 1307.8041
title: Resource Efficient Gadgets for Compiling Adiabatic Quantum Optimization Problems
authors: Ryan Babbush, Bryan O'Gorman, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Annalen der Physik: Volume 25, 10-11 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8041
abstract: We develop a resource efficient method by which the ground-state of an arbitrary k-local, optimization Hamiltonian can be encoded as the ground-state of a (k-1)-local optimization Hamiltonian. This result is important because adiabatic quantum algorithms are often most easily formulated using many-body interactions but experimentally available interactions are generally 2-body. In this context, the efficiency of a reduction gadget is measured by the number of ancilla qubits required as well as the amount of control precision needed to implement the resulting Hamiltonian. First, we optimize methods of applying these gadgets to obtain 2-local Hamiltonians using the least possible number of ancilla qubits. Next, we show a novel reduction gadget which minimizes control precision and a heuristic which uses this gadget to compile 3-local problems with a significant reduction in control precision. Finally, we present numerics which indicate a substantial decrease in the resources required to implement randomly generated, 3-body optimization Hamiltonians when compared to other methods in the literature.

id: 1307.8176
title: Impact of backscattered light in a squeezing-enhanced interferometric gravitational-wave detector
authors: S. S. Y. Chua, S. Dwyer, L. Barsotti, D. Sigg, R. M. S. Schofield, V. V. Frolov, K. Kawabe, M. Evans, G. D. Meadors, M. Factourovich, R. Gustafson, N. Smith-Lefebvre, C. Vorvick, M. Landry, A. Khalaidovski, M. S. Stefszky, C. M. Mow-Lowry, B. C. Buchler, D. A. Shaddock, P. K. Lam, R. Schnabel, N. Mavalvala, D. E. McClelland
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Classical Quantum Gravity
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31 035017 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8176
abstract: Squeezed states of light have been recently used to improve the sensitivity of laser interferometric gravitational-wave detectors beyond the quantum limit. To completely establish quantum engineering as a realistic option for the next generation of detectors, it is crucial to study and quantify the noise coupling mechanisms which injection of squeezed states could potentially introduce. We present a direct measurement of the impact of backscattered light from a squeezed-light source deployed on one of the 4 km long detectors of the Laser Interferometric Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO). We also show how our measurements inform the design of squeezed light sources compatible with the even more sensitive advanced detectors currently under construction, such as Advanced LIGO.

id: 1307.8190
title: Error corrected quantum annealing with hundreds of qubits
authors: Kristen L. Pudenz, Tameem Albash, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 7 pages, 10 pages appendix, 20 figures
journal: Nature Comm. 5, 3243 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8190
abstract: Quantum information processing offers dramatic speedups, yet is famously susceptible to decoherence, the process whereby quantum superpositions decay into mutually exclusive classical alternatives, thus robbing quantum computers of their power. This has made the development of quantum error correction an essential and inescapable aspect of both theoretical and experimental quantum computing. So far little is known about protection against decoherence in the context of quantum annealing, a computational paradigm which aims to exploit ground state quantum dynamics to solve optimization problems more rapidly than is possible classically. Here we develop error correction for quantum annealing and provide an experimental demonstration using up to 344 superconducting flux qubits in processors which have recently been shown to physically implement programmable quantum annealing. We demonstrate a substantial improvement over the performance of the processors in the absence of error correction. These results pave a path toward large scale noise-protected adiabatic quantum optimization devices.

id: 1307.8219
title: Freezing a Quantum Magnet by Repeated Quantum Interference: An Experimental Realization
authors: Swathi S. Hegde, Hemant Katiyar, T. S. Mahesh, Arnab Das
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 90, 174407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8219
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the phenomenon of dynamical many-body freezing in a periodically driven Ising chain. Theoretically [Phys. Rev. B 82, 172402 (2010)], for certain values of the drive parameters all fundamental degrees of freedom contributing to the response dynamics freeze for all time and for arbitrary initial states. Also, since the condition of freezing involves only the drive parameters and not on the quantization of the momentum (i.e., the system-size), our simulation with a small (3-spin) chain captures all salient features of the freezing phenomenon predicted for the infinite chain. Using optimal control techniques, we realize high-fidelity cosine modulated drive, and observe non-monotonic freezing of magnetization at specific frequencies of modulation. Time-evolution of the excitations in momentum space has been tracked directly through magnetization measurements.

id: 1307.8220
title: Single molecule NMR detection and spectroscopy using single spins in diamond
authors: Viktor S. Perunicic, Liam T. Hall, David A. Simpson, Charles D. Hill, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8220
abstract: Nanomagnetometry using the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre in diamond has attracted a great deal of interest because of the combined features of room temperature operation, nanoscale resolution and high sensitivity. One of the important goals for nano-magnetometry is to be able to detect nanoscale nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) in individual molecules. Our theoretical analysis shows how a single molecule at the surface of diamond, with characteristic NMR frequencies, can be detected using a proximate NV centre on a time scale of order seconds with nanometer precision. We perform spatio-temporal resolution optimisation and also outline paths to greater sensitivity. In addition, the method is suitable for application in low and relatively inhomogeneous background magnetic fields in contrast to both conventional liquid and solid state NMR spectroscopy.

id: 1307.8238
title: Spontaneous parametric down-conversion photon sources are scalable in the asymptotic limit for boson-sampling
authors: Keith R. Motes, Jonathan P. Dowling, Peter P. Rohde
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures; added reference to Meany et al
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063822 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8238
abstract: Boson-sampling has emerged as a promising avenue towards post-classical optical quantum computation, and numerous elementary demonstrations have recently been performed. Spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) is the mainstay for single-photon state preparation, the technique employed in most optical quantum information processing implementations to-date. Here we present a simple architecture for boson-sampling based on multiplexed SPDC sources and demonstrate that the architecture is limited only by the post-selection detection efficiency assuming that other errors, such as spectral impurity, dark counts, and interferometric instability are negligible. For any given number of input photons, there exists a minimum detector efficiency that allows post selection. If this efficiency is achieved, photon-number errors in the SPDC sources are sufficiently low as to guarantee correct boson-sampling most of the time. In this scheme the required detector efficiency must increase exponentially in the photon number. Thus, we show that idealised SPDC sources will not present a bottleneck for future boson-sampling implementations. Rather, photodetection efficiency is the limiting factor and thus future implementations may continue to employ SPDC sources.

id: 1307.8274
title: Absorption properties of identical atoms
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 336 (2013) 482
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8274
abstract: Emission rates and other optical properties of multiparticle systems in collective and entangled states differ from those in product ones. We show the existence of similar effects in the absorption probabilities for (anti)symmetrized states of two identical atoms. The effects strongly depend on the overlapping between the atoms and differ for bosons and fermions. We propose a viable experimental verification of these ideas.

id: 1307.8306
title: Approximate relativistic solutions for a new ring-shaped Hulth¨¦n potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 18 pages; 5 figures
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 68a (3-4) (2013) 279-290
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8306
abstract: Approximate bound state solutions of the Dirac equation with the Hulth\'en plus a new generalized ring-shaped (RS) potential are obtained for any arbitrary -state. The energy eigenvalue equation and the corresponding two-component wave function are calculated by solving the radial and angular wave equations within a recently introduced shortcut of Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The solutions of the radial and polar angular parts of the wave function are given in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. We use an exponential approximation in terms of the Hulthen potential parameters to deal with the strong singular centrifugal potential term Under the limiting case, the solution can be easily reduced to the solution of the Schrodinger equation with a new ring-shaped Hulth\'en potential.

id: 1307.8311
title: Relativistic symmetries in Rosen-Morse potential and tensor interaction using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, majid Hamzavi
comments: 16 pages ; 4 figures
journal: Chinese Physics B 22 (4) (2013) 040302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8311
abstract: Approximate analytical bound-state solutions of the Dirac particle in the field of both attractive and repulsive RM potentials including Coulomb-like tensor (CLT) potential are obtained for arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number The Pekeris approximation is used to deal with the spin-orbit coupling terms In the presence of exact spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetries, the energy eigenvalues and the corresponding normalized two-component wave functions are found by using the parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The numerical results show that the CLT interaction removes degeneracies between spin and p-spin state doublets.

id: 1307.8318
title: Approximate eigensolutions of the deformed Woods-Saxon potential via AIM
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Babatunde James Falaye, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.1218
journal: Chinese Physics letters 30 (2) (2013) 020305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8318
abstract: By using the Pekeris approximation, the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is solved for the nuclear deformed Woods-Saxon potential within the framework of the asymptotic iteration method (AIM). The energy levels are worked out and the corresponding normalized eigenfunctions are obtained in terms of hypergeometric function.

id: 1307.8424
title: Phase space hybrid theory of quantum measurement with nonlinear and stochastic dynamics
authors: N. Buric, D.B. Popovic, S. Prvanovic, M. Radonjic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8424
abstract: A novel theory of hybrid quantum-classical systems is developed, utilizing the mathematical framework of constrained dynamical systems on the quantum-classical phase space. Both, the quantum and the classical descriptions of the respective parts of the hybrid system are treated as fundamental. Therefore, the description of the quantum-classical interaction has to be postulated, and includes the effects of neglected degrees of freedom. Dynamical law of the theory is given in terms of nonlinear stochastic differential equations with Hamiltonian and gradient terms. The theory provides a successful dynamical description of the collapse during quantum measurement.

id: 1307.0002
title: Quantum quasicrystals of spin-orbit coupled dipolar bosons
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Ivar Martin, Eugene A. Demler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, plus supplementary information. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 185304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0002
abstract: We study quasi-two-dimensional dipolar Bose gases in which the bosons experience a Rashba spin-orbit coupling. We show that the degenerate dispersion minimum due to the spin-orbit coupling, combined with the long-range dipolar interaction, can stabilize a number of quantum crystalline and quasicrystalline ground states. Coupling the bosons to a fermionic species can further stabilize these phases. We estimate that the crystalline and quasicrystalline phases should be detectable in realistic dipolar condensates, e.g., dysprosium, and discuss their symmetries and excitations.

id: 1307.0006
title: Probing real-space and time resolved correlation functions with many-body Ramsey interferometry
authors: Michael Knap, Adrian Kantian, Thierry Giamarchi, Immanuel Bloch, Mikhail D. Lukin, Eugene Demler
comments: 5+4 pages, 4+3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 147205 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0006
abstract: We propose to use Ramsey interferometry and single-site addressability, available in synthetic matter such as cold atoms or trapped ions, to measure real-space and time resolved spin correlation functions. These correlation functions directly probe the excitations of the system, which makes it possible to characterize the underlying many-body states. Moreover they contain valuable information about phase transitions where they exhibit scale invariance. We also discuss experimental imperfections and show that a spin-echo protocol can be used to cancel slow fluctuations in the magnetic field. We explicitly consider examples of the two-dimensional, antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model and the one-dimensional, long-range transverse field Ising model to illustrate the technique.

id: 1307.0096
title: Elementary Particles as Gates for Universal Quantum Computation
authors: Deepak Vaid
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, submitted to FQXi 2013 essay contest ("It from Bit, or Bit from It?")
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0096
abstract: It is shown that there exists a mapping between the fermions of the Standard Model (SM) represented as braids in the Bilson-Thompson model, and a set of gates which can perform Universal Quantum Computation (UQC). This leads us to conjecture that the "Computational Universe Hypothesis" (CUH) can be given a concrete implementation in a new physical framework where elementary particles and the gauge bosons (which intermediate interactions between fermions) are interpreted as the components of a quantum computational network, with the particles serving as quantum computational gates and the gauge fields as the information carrying entities.

id: 1307.0139
title: $N$-representability in non-collinear spin-polarized density functional theory
authors: David Gontier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0139
abstract: The $N$-representability problem for non-collinear spin-polarized densities was left open in the pioneering work of von Barth and Hedin setting up the Kohn-Sham density functional theory for magnetic compounds. In this letter, we demonstrate that, contrarily to the non-polarized case, the sets of pure and mixed state $N$-representable densities are different in general. We provide a simple characterization of the latter by means of easily checkable necessary and sufficient conditions on the components $\rho^{\alpha \beta} (\br)$ of the spin-polarized density.

id: 1307.0149
title: Breaking of PT-symmetry in bounded and unbounded scattering systems
authors: Philipp Ambichl, Konstantinos G. Makris, Li Ge, Yidong Chong, A. Douglas Stone, Stefan Rotter
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures (final version, including newly added connection to the concept of "Smith charts")
journal: Physical Review X 3, 041030 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0149
abstract: PT-symmetric scattering systems with balanced gain and loss can undergo a symmetry-breaking transition in which the eigenvalues of the non-unitary scattering matrix change their phase shifts from real to complex values. We relate the PT-symmetry breaking points of such an unbounded scattering system to those of underlying bounded systems. In particular, we show how the PT-thresholds in the scattering matrix of the unbounded system translate into analogous transitions in the Robin boundary conditions of the corresponding bounded systems. Based on this relation, we argue and then confirm that the PT-transitions in the scattering matrix are, under very general conditions, entirely insensitive to a variable coupling strength between the bounded region and the unbounded asymptotic region, a result that can be tested experimentally and visualized using the concept of Smith charts.

id: 1307.0205
title: Implementation of STIRAP in degenerate systems by dimensionality reduction
authors: G. Bevilacqua, G. Schaller, T. Brandes, F. Renzoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0205
abstract: We consider the problem of the implementation of Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) processes in degenerate systems, with a view to be able to steer the system wave function from an arbitrary initial superposition to an arbitrary target superposition. We examine the case a $N$-level atomic system consisting of $ N-1$ ground states coupled to a common excited state by laser pulses. We analyze the general case of initial and final superpositions belonging to the same manifold of states, and we cover also the case in which they are non-orthogonal. We demonstrate that, for a given initial and target superposition, it is always possible to choose the laser pulses so that in a transformed basis the system is reduced to an effective three-level $\Lambda$ system, and standard STIRAP processes can be implemented. Our treatment leads to a simple strategy, with minimal computational complexity, which allows us to determine the laser pulses shape required for the wanted adiabatic steering.

id: 1307.0268
title: 80hk Momentum Separation with Bloch Oscillations in an Optically Guided Atom Interferometer
authors: Gordon D. McDonald, Carlos C. N. Kuhn, Shayne Bennetts, John E. Debs, Kyle S. Hardman, Mattias Johnsson, John D. Close, Nicholas P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053620 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0268
abstract: We demonstrate phase sensitivity in a horizontally guided, acceleration-sensitive atom interferometer with a momentum separation of 80hk between its arms. A fringe visibility of 7% is observed. Our coherent pulse sequence accelerates the cold cloud in an optical waveguide, an inherently scalable route to large momentum separation and high sensitivity. We maintain coherence at high momentum separation due to both the transverse confinement provided by the guide, and our use of optical delta-kick cooling on our cold-atom cloud. We also construct a horizontal interferometric gradiometer to measure the longitudinal curvature of our optical waveguide.

id: 1307.0431
title: Manipulation of a continuous beam of molecules by light pulses
authors: Paul Venn, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0431
abstract: We experimentally observe the action of multiple light pulses on the transverse motion of a continuous beam of fullerenes. The light potential is generated by non-resonant ultra-short laser pulses in perpendicular spatial overlap with the molecule beam. We observe a small but clear enhancement of the number of molecules in the center fraction of the molecular beam. Relatively low light intensity and short laser pulse duration prevent the molecule from fragmentation and ionization. Experimental results are confirmed by Monte Carlo trajectory simulations.

id: 1307.0465
title: Representability Conditions by Grassmann Integration
authors: Volker Bach, Hans Konrad Kn?rr, Edmund Menge
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0465
abstract: Representability conditions on the one- and two-particle density matrix for fermion systems are formulated by means of Grassmann integrals. A positivity condition for a certain kind of Grassmann integral is established which, in turn, induces the well-known G-, P- and Q-Conditions of quantum chemistry by an appropriate choice of the integrand. Similarly, the T1- and T2-Conditions are derived. Furthermore, quasifree Grassmann states are introduced and it is shown that every so-called generalized one-particle density matrix which is bounded between 0 and 1 corresponds to a unique quasifree Grassmann state.

id: 1307.0507
title: A simple model of many-body localization
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0507
abstract: We study a simple and tractable model of many-body localization. The main idea is to take a renormalization group perspective in which local entanglement is removed to reach a product state. The model is built from a random local unitary which implements a real space renormalization procedure and a fixed point Hamiltonian with random exponentially decaying interactions. We prove that every energy eigenstate is localized, that energy is not transported, and argue that despite being fine tuned, the model is stable to perturbations. We also show that every energy eigenstate obeys an area law for entanglement entropy and we consider the dynamics of entanglement entropy under perturbations. In the case of extensive pertubations we recover a logarithmic growth of entanglement observed in recent numerical simulations.

id: 1307.0557
title: Quantum Control of Qubits and Atomic Motion Using Ultrafast Laser Pulses
authors: J. Mizrahi, B. Neyenhuis, K. Johnson, W. C. Campbell, C. Senko, D. Hayes, C. Monroe
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0557
abstract: Pulsed lasers offer significant advantages over CW lasers in the coherent control of qubits. Here we review the theoretical and experimental aspects of controlling the internal and external states of individual trapped atoms with pulse trains. Two distinct regimes of laser intensity are identified. When the pulses are sufficiently weak that the Rabi frequency $\Omega$ is much smaller than the trap frequency $\otrap$, sideband transitions can be addressed and atom-atom entanglement can be accomplished in much the same way as with CW lasers. By contrast, if the pulses are very strong ($\Omega \gg \otrap$), impulsive spin-dependent kicks can be combined to create entangling gates which are much faster than a trap period. These fast entangling gates should work outside of the Lamb-Dicke regime and be insensitive to thermal atomic motion.

id: 1307.0572
title: On the time scales in the approach to equilibrium of macroscopic quantum systems
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Takashi Hara, Hal Tasaki
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Some small improvements in version 2. This version will appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0572
abstract: We prove two theorems concerning the time evolution in general isolated quantum systems. The theorems are relevant to the issue of the time scale in the approach to equilibrium. The first theorem shows that there can be pathological situations in which the relaxation takes an extraordinarily long time, while the second theorem shows that one can always choose an equilibrium subspace the relaxation to which requires only a short time for any initial state.

id: 1307.0590
title: Geometric Origin of Stokes Phenomenon for de Sitter Radiation
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex 6 pages, 3 figures; replaced by the version to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0590
abstract: We propose a geometric interpretation for the Stokes phenomenon in de Sitter spacetime that particles are produced in even dimensions but not in odd dimensions. The scattering amplitude for a quantum field between the in-vacuum and the transported one along a closed path in the complex-time plane gives the particle-production rate that explains not only the Boltzmann factor from the simple pole at infinity, corresponding to the cosmological horizon, but also the sinusoidal behavior from simple poles at the north and south poles of the Euclidean geometry. The Stokes phenomenon is a consequence of interference among four independent closed paths in the complex plane.

id: 1307.0610
title: Direct derivation of microcanonical ensemble average from many-particle quantum mechanics
authors: Tetsuro Saso
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0610
abstract: Starting from the quantum mechanics for $N$ particles, we show that we can directly derive the microcanonical ensemble average of the physical quantity $A$ by using only the long time average and the equal probability assumption for the equal energy states. The system is considered to be embedded in the outer world and we describe them in terms of the density matrix method.

id: 1307.0707
title: Revisiting additivity violation of quantum channels
authors: Motohisa Fukuda
comments: 16 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 332, 713-728 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0707
abstract: We prove additivity violation of minimum output entropy of quantum channels by straightforward application of \epsilon-net argument and L\'evy's lemma. The additivity conjecture was disproved initially by Hastings. Later, a proof via asymptotic geometric analysis was presented by Aubrun, Szarek and Werner, which uses Dudley's bound on Gaussian process (or Dvoretzky's theorem with Schechtman's improvement). In this paper, we develop another proof along Dvoretzky's theorem in Milman's view showing additivity violation in broader regimes than the existing proofs. Importantly, Dvoretzky's theorem works well with norms to give strong statements but these techniques can be extended to functions which have norm-like structures - positive homogeneity and triangle inequality. Then, a connection between Hastings' method and ours is also discussed. Besides, we make some comments on relations between regularized minimum output entropy and classical capacity of quantum channels.

id: 1307.0727
title: Quantum dissipative effects in graphene-like mirrors
authors: C.D. Fosco, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, M.L. Remaggi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Minor changes, version to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0727
abstract: We study quantum dissipative effects due to the accelerated motion of a single, imperfect, zero-width mirror. It is assumed that the microscopic degrees of freedom on the mirror are confined to it, like in plasma or graphene sheets. Therefore, the mirror is described by a vacuum polarization tensor $\Pi_{\alpha\beta}$ concentrated on a time-dependent surface. Under certain assumptions about the microscopic model for the mirror, we obtain a rather general expression for the Euclidean effective action, a functional of the time-dependent mirror's position, in terms of two invariants that characterize the tensor $\Pi_{\alpha\beta}$. The final result can be written in terms of the TE and TM reflection coefficients of the mirror, with qualitatively different contributions coming from them. We apply that general expression to derive the imaginary part of the `in-out' effective action, which measures dissipative effects induced by the mirror's motion, in different models, in particular for an accelerated graphene sheet.

id: 1307.0828
title: Dissipation induced macroscopic entanglement in an open optical lattice
authors: G. Kordas, S. Wimberger, D. Witthaut
comments: 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 100, 30007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0828
abstract: We introduce a method for the dissipative preparation of strongly correlated quantum states of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice via localized particle loss. The interplay of dissipation and interactions enables different types of dynamics. This ushers a new line of experimental methods to maintain the coherence of a Bose-Einstein condensate or to deterministically generate macroscopically entangled quantum states.

id: 1307.0834
title: Multichannel Framework for Singular Quantum Mechanics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Luis N. Epele, Huner Fanchiotti, Carlos A. Garcia Canal, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures. v2: conforms to the published version---notice style file was changed; significantly expanded Section 2 plus added miscellaneous explanatory comments in all sections; equations and references added; and several typos (including in equations) corrected
journal: Ann. Phys. 340 (2014) 267-292
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0834
abstract: A multichannel S-matrix framework for singular quantum mechanics (SQM) subsumes the renormalization and self-adjoint extension methods and resolves its boundary-condition ambiguities. In addition to the standard channel accessible to a distant ("asymptotic") observer, one supplementary channel opens up at each coordinate singularity, where local outgoing and ingoing singularity waves coexist. The channels are linked by a fully unitary S-matrix, which governs all possible scenarios, including cases with an apparent nonunitary behavior as viewed from asymptotic distances.

id: 1307.0836
title: Strong equivalence of reversible circuits is coNP-complete
authors: Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0836
abstract: It is well-known that deciding equivalence of logic circuits is a coNP-complete problem. As a corollary, the problem of deciding weak equivalence of reversible circuits, i.e. ignoring the ancilla bits, is also coNP-complete. The complexity of deciding strong equivalence, including the ancilla bits, is less obvious and may depend on gate set. Here we use Barrington's theorem to show that deciding strong equivalence of reversible circuits built from the Fredkin gate is coNP-complete. This implies coNP-completeness of deciding strong equivalence for other commonly used universal reversible gate sets, including any gate set that includes the Toffoli or Fredkin gate.

id: 1307.0842
title: Wavefunction reality, indeterminate properties and degrees of presence
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: Accepted for publication in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0842
abstract: The degree-of-presence (of the quantum system) concept, accompanying that of the wavefunction-reality postulate, is introduced and studied in two ways. To begin with, an incomplete exposition of the present author's views is given. Subsequently, a short historical and philosophical review of answers to the question about the meaning of indeterminate individual-system probabilities is presented from the literature. It is done in the form of a carefully selected collage of quotations mostly with polemic comments by the present author and with further elaboration of his point of view. The advocated notion of 'degree of presence' generalizes the intuitively most easily acceptable idea of 'delocalization' in (roughly called)wavelike behavior of a quantum system.

id: 1307.0886
title: Atomistic study of energy funneling in the light-harvesting complex of green sulfur bacteria
authors: Joonsuk Huh, Semion K. Saikin, Jennifer C. Brookes, St¨¦phanie Valleau, Takatoshi Fujita, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2014, 136 (5), pp 2048-2057
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0886
abstract: Phototrophic organisms such as plants, photosynthetic bacteria and algae use microscopic complexes of pigment molecules to absorb sunlight. Within the light-harvesting complexes, which frequently have several functional and structural subunits, the energy is transferred in the form of molecular excitations with very high efficiency. Green sulfur bacteria are considered to be amongst the most efficient light-harvesting organisms. Despite multiple experimental and theoretical studies of these bacteria the physical origin of the efficient and robust energy transfer in their light-harvesting complexes is not well understood. To study excitation dynamics at the systems level we introduce an atomistic model that mimics a complete light-harvesting apparatus of green sulfur bacteria. The model contains approximately 4000 pigment molecules and comprises a double wall roll for the chlorosome, a baseplate and six Fenna-Matthews-Olson trimer complexes. We show that the fast relaxation within functional subunits combined with the transfer between collective excited states of pigments can result in robust energy funneling. Energy transfer is robust on the initial excitation conditions and temperature changes. Moreover, the same mechanism describes the coexistence of multiple timescales of excitation dynamics frequently observed in ultrafast optical experiments. While our findings support the hypothesis of supertransfer, the model reveals energy transport through multiple channels on different length scales.

id: 1307.0893
title: Superconducting nanowire single-photon detector with ultralow dark count rate using cold optical filters
authors: H. Shibata, K. Shimizu, H. Takesue, Y. Tokura
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Express 6, 072801-1-4 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0893
abstract: We report the fabrication of a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector (SSPD or SNSPD) with an ultralow dark count rate. By introducing optical band-pass filters at the input of the SSPD and cooling the filters at 3 K, the dark count rate is reduced to less than 1/100 at low bias. An SSPD with 0.1 cps dark count rate and 5.6% system detection efficiency at 1550 nm wavelength is obtained. We show that a quantum key distribution (QKD) over 300 km of fiber is possible based on a numerical calculation assuming a differential phase shift QKD protocol implemented with our SSPDs.

id: 1307.0910
title: Non-polynomial extensions of solvable potentials a la Abraham-Moses
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 29 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 102106
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0910
abstract: Abraham-Moses transformations, besides Darboux transformations, are well-known procedures to generate extensions of solvable potentials in one-dimensional quantum mechanics. Here we present the explicit forms of infinitely many seed solutions for adding eigenstates at arbitrary real energy through the Abraham-Moses transformations for typical solvable potentials, e.g. the radial oscillator, the Darboux-P\"oschl-Teller and some others. These seed solutions are simple generalisations of the virtual state wavefunctions, which are obtained from the eigenfunctions by discrete symmetries of the potentials. The virtual state wavefunctions have been an essential ingredient for constructing multi-indexed Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials through multiple Darboux-Crum transformations. In contrast to the Darboux transformations, the virtual state wavefunctions generate non-polynomial extensions of solvable potentials through the Abraham-Moses transformations.

id: 1307.0949
title: A planar ion trap chip with integrated structures for an adjustable magnetic field gradient
authors: P. J. Kunert, D. Georgen, L. Bogunia, T. M. Baig, M. A. Baggash, M. Johanning, Ch. Wunderlich
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Applied Physics B on 21 June 2013. Version 2: Presentation, wording, and grammar improved. References added / changed
journal: Appl. Phys. B 114, 27-36 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.0949
abstract: We present the design, fabrication, and characterization of a segmented surface ion trap with integrated current carrying structures. The latter produce a spatially varying magnetic field necessary for magnetic gradient induced coupling between ionic effective spins. We demonstrate trapping of strings of 172Yb+ ions, characterize the performance of the trap and map magnetic fields by radio frequency-optical double resonance spectroscopy. In addition, we apply and characterize the magnetic gradient and demonstrate individual addressing in a string of three ions using RF radiation.

id: 1307.1002
title: Variational optimization of the 2DM: approaching three-index accuracy using extended cluster constraints
authors: Brecht Verstichel, Ward Poelmans, Stijn De Baerdemacker, Sebastian Wouters, Dimitri Van Neck
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: The European Physical Journal B, volume 87, issue 3, page 59 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1002
abstract: The reduced density matrix is variationally optimized for the two-dimensional Hubbard model. Exploiting all symmetries present in the system, we have been able to study $6\times6$ lattices at various fillings and different values for the on-site repulsion, using the highly accurate but computationally expensive three-index conditions. To reduce the computational cost we study the performance of imposing the three-index constraints on local clusters of $2\times2$ and $3\times3$ sites. We subsequently derive new constraints which extend these cluster constraints to incorporate the open-system nature of a cluster on a larger lattice. The feasibility of implementing these new constraints is demonstrated by performing a proof-of-principle calculation on the $6\times6$ lattice. It is shown that a large portion of the three-index result can be recovered using these extended cluster constraints, at a fraction of the computational cost.

id: 1307.1130
title: Controllable quantum spin glasses with magnetic impurities embedded in quantum solids
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Norman Y. Yao, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Hendrik Weimer, Steven D. Bennett, Takamasa Momose, Sarang Gopalakrishnan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 014426 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1130
abstract: Magnetic impurities embedded in inert solids can exhibit long coherence times and interact with one another via their intrinsic anisotropic dipolar interaction. We argue that, as a consequence of these properties, disordered ensembles of magnetic impurities provide an effective platform for realizing a controllable, tunable version of the dipolar quantum spin glass seen in LiHo$_x$Y$_{1-x}$F$_4$. Specifically, we propose and analyze a system composed of dysprosium atoms embedded in solid helium. We describe the phase diagram of the system and discuss the realizability and detectability of the quantum spin glass and antiglass phases.

id: 1307.1159
title: Tunability of microwave transitions as a signature of coherent parity mixing effects in the Majorana-Transmon qubit
authors: Eran Ginossar, Eytan Grosfeld
comments: New version with added citation
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 4772 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1159
abstract: Coupling Majorana fermion excitations to coherent external fields is an important stage towards their manipulation and detection. We analyse the charge and transmon regimes of a topological nano-wire embedded within a Cooper-Pair-Box, where the superconducting phase difference is coupled to the zero energy parity states that arise from Majorana quasi-particles. We show that at special gate bias points, the photon-qubit coupling can be switched off via quantum interference, and in other points it is exponentially dependent on the control parameter $E_J/E_C$. As well as a probe for topological-superconductor excitations, we propose that this type of device could be used to realise a tunable high coherence four-level system in the superconducting circuits architecture.

id: 1307.1162
title: Quantum fields with classical interactions
authors: Jan Derezi¨½ski
comments: revised version, major additions: discussion of the CPT Theorem, fermions interacting with variable mass, derivation of the Sucher formula; 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1162
abstract: We describe basic types of free fields (1) neutral scalar bosons; (2) massive vector bosons; (3) massless vector bosons; (4) charged scalar bosons; (5) Dirac fermions; (6) Majorana fermions. We also consider free field perturbed by a linear or quadratic perturbation involving a classical (c-number) function: (1) neutral scalar bosons interacting with a linear source; (2) neutral scalar bosons interacting with a mass-like perturbation; (3) massive photons interacting with an classical current; (4) massless photons interacting with an classical current. (5) charged scalar bosons interacting with an electromagnetic potential; (6) Dirac fermions interacting with an electromagnetic potential.

id: 1307.1181
title: Effective Field Theory for Finite Systems with Spontaneously Broken Symmetry
authors: T. Papenbrock, H. A. Weidenmueller
comments: 9 pages; considerably expanded presentation; example of emergent U(1) breaking added
journal: Phys. Rev. C 89, 014334 (2014)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1181
abstract: We extend effective field theory to the case of spontaneous symmetry breaking in genuinely finite quantum systems such as small superfluid systems, molecules or atomic nuclei, and focus on deformed nuclei. In finite superfluids, symmetry arguments alone relate the spectra of systems with different particle numbers. For systems with non-spherical intrinsic ground states such as atomic nuclei or molecules, symmetry arguments alone yield the universal features of the low-lying excitations as vibrations that are the heads of rotational bands. The low-lying excitations in deformed nuclei differ from those in molecules because of symmetry properties caused by pairing.

id: 1307.1233
title: Spectral analysis of a quantum system with a double line singular interaction
authors: Sylwia Kondej, David Krejcirik
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Publ. RIMS, Kyoto University
journal: Publ. RIMS, Kyoto University 49 (2013), 831-859
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1233
abstract: We consider a non-relativistic quantum particle interacting with a singular potential supported by two parallel straight lines in the plane. We locate the essential spectrum under the hypothesis that the interaction asymptotically approaches a constant value and find conditions which guarantee either the existence of discrete eigenvalues or Hardy-type inequalities. For a class of our models admitting a mirror symmetry, we also establish the existence of embedded eigenvalues and show that they turn into resonances after introducing a small perturbation.

id: 1307.1331
title: A new perspective on CP and T violation
authors: Abhay Ashtekar
comments: 10 pages; `Formal Response' to the talk "Three Merry Roads to T-Violation" by Bryan Roberts at the Workshop on Cosmology and Time, held at the Institute for Gravitation and the Cosmos, Penn State, in April 2013
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1331
abstract: It is shown that the results of CP and T violation experiments can be interpreted using a very general framework that does not require a Hilbert space of states or linear operators to represent the symmetries or dynamics. Analysis within this general framework brings out the aspects of quantum mechanics that are essential for this interpretation. More importantly, should quantum mechanics be eventually replaced by a new paradigm, this framework could \emph{still} be used to establish violation of CP and T invariance from the already known experimental results. This work arose as a `formal response' to a talk "Three Merry Roads to T-Violation" by Dr. Bryan Roberts [1]. Both talks were given at a "Workshop on Cosmology and Time" held at Penn State in April 2013, which brought together physicists and philosophers of science.

id: 1307.1452
title: Role of the orthogonal group in construction of osp(1|2n) representations
authors: Igor Salom
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1452
abstract: It is well known that the symmetric group has an important role (via Young tableaux formalism) both in labelling of the representations of the unitary group and in construction of the corresponding basis vectors (in the tensor product of the defining representations). We show that orthogonal group has a very similar role in the context of positive energy representations of osp(1|2n,R). In the language of parabose algebra, we essentially solve the long standing problem of reducibility of Green's ansatz representations.

id: 1307.1486
title: Quantum Entanglement of Interacting Fermions in Monte Carlo
authors: Tarun Grover
comments: 4 pages main text + 2 pages of appendix, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130402 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1486
abstract: Given a specific interacting quantum Hamiltonian in a general spatial dimension, can one access its entanglement properties, such as, the entanglement entropy corresponding to the ground state wavefunction? Even though progress has been made in addressing this question for interacting bosons and quantum spins, as yet there exist no corresponding methods for interacting fermions. Here we show that the entanglement structure of interacting fermionic Hamiltonians has a particularly simple form -- the interacting reduced density matrix can be written as a sum of operators that describe free fermions. This decomposition allows one to calculate the Renyi entropies for Hamiltonians which can be simulated via Determinantal Quantum Monte Carlo, while employing the efficient techniques hitherto available only for free fermion systems. The method presented works for the ground state, as well as for the thermally averaged reduced density matrix.

id: 1307.1491
title: Long time non-equilibrium dynamics of binary Bose condensates
authors: Stefan S. Natu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures and 9 subfigures. This manuscript contains an error and has been superseded by arXiv:1403.1284. Results and discussion thoroughly changed and co-author has been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1491
abstract: We explore the out-of-equilibrium temporal dynamics of demixing and phase separation in a two dimensional binary Bose fluid at zero temperature, following a sudden quench across the miscible-immiscible phase boundary. On short timescales, the system rapidly settles into a steady state characterized by short-range correlations in the relative density. The subsequent dynamics is extremely slow: domains of the relative density appear to grow with time, however, the rate of growth is much slower than that predicted by conventional theories of phase ordering kinetics. Moreover, we find that the growth dynamics slows down with increasing time, and is consistent with logarithmic growth. Our study sheds light on ongoing investigations of how isolated quantum systems approach equilibrium, and indicates that studying the quantum phase diagram of the binary Bose fluids following a quench, may be difficult due to equilibration problems.

id: 1307.1604
title: Can a wormhole be interpreted as an EPR pair?
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1604
abstract: Recently, Maldacena and Susskind arXiv:1306.0533 and Jensen and Karch arXiv:1307.1132 argued that a wormhole can be interpreted as an EPR pair. We point out that a convincing justification of such an interpretation would require a quantitative evidence that correlations between two ends of the wormhole are equal to those between the members of the EPR pair. As long as the existing results do not contain such evidence, the interpretation of wormhole as an EPR pair does not seem justified.

id: 1307.1641
title: ¦Á-Decay in Ultra-Intense Laser Fields
authors: Serban Misicu, Margarit Rizea
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, in press
journal: J.Phys.G:Nucl.Part.Phys. 40 (2013) 095101
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1641
abstract: We investigate the \alpha-decay of a spherical nucleus under the influence of an ultra-intense laser field for the case when the radius vector joining the center-of-masses of the \alpha-particle and the daughter is aligned with the direction of the external field. The time-independent part of the \alpha-daughter interaction is taken from elastic scattering compilations whereas the time-varying part describes the interaction between the decaying system with the laser field. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is solved numerically by appealing to a modified scheme of the Crank-Nicolson type where an additional first-order time derivative appears compared to the field-free case. The tunneling probability of the \alpha-cluster, and derived quantities (decay rate, total flux) is determined for various laser intensities and frequencies for either continous waves or few-cycle pulses of envelope function F(t)=1. We show that in the latter case pulse sequences containing an odd number of half-cycles determine an enhancement of the tunneling probability compared to the field-free case and the continuous wave case. The present study is carried out taking as example the alpha decaying nucleus $^{106}$Te.

id: 1307.1667
title: Excitation spectra of many-body systems by linear response: General theory and applications to trapped condensates
authors: Julian Grond, Alexej I. Streltsov, Axel U. J. Lode, Kaspar Sakmann, Lorenz S. Cederbaum, Ofir E. Alon
comments: 44 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1667
abstract: We derive a general linear-response many-body theory capable of computing excitation spectra of trapped interacting bosonic systems, e.g., depleted and fragmented Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). To obtain the linear-response equations we linearize the multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree for bosons (MCTDHB) method, which provides a self-consistent description of many-boson systems in terms of orbitals and a state vector (configurations), and is in principle numerically-exact. The derived linear-response many-body theory, which we term LR-MCTDHB, is applicable to systems with interaction potentials of general form. From the numerical implementation of the LR-MCTDHB equations and solution of the underlying eigenvalue problem, we obtain excitations beyond available theories of excitation spectra, such as the Bogoliubov-de Gennes (BdG) equations. The derived theory is first applied to study BECs in a one-dimensional harmonic potential. The LR-MCTDHB method contains the BdG excitations and, also, predicts a plethora of additional many-body excitations which are out of the realm of standard linear response. In particular, our theory describes the exact energy of the higher harmonic of the first (dipole) excitation not contained in the BdG theory. We next study a BEC in a very shallow one-dimensional double-well potential. We find with LR-MCTDHB low-lying excitations which are not accounted for by BdG, even though the BEC has only little fragmentation and, hence, the BdG theory is expected to be valid. The convergence of the LR-MCTDHB theory is assessed by systematically comparing the excitation spectra computed at several different levels of theory.

id: 1307.1697
title: Classical and Quantum-Mechanical Axioms with the Higher Time Derivative Formalism
authors: Timur Kamalov
comments: 8 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0212139
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 442 (2013) 012051
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1697
abstract: A Newtonian mechanics model is essentially the model of a point body in an inertial reference frame. How to describe extended bodies in non-inertial (vibrational) reference frames with the random initial conditions? One of the most general description (known as the higher derivatives formalism) consists in taking into account the infinite number of the higher order temporal derivatives of the coordinates in the Lagrange function. Such formalism describes physical objects in the in?finite dimensional space does not contradict quantum mechanics and infinite dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1307.1704
title: Exact Classification of Landau-Majorana-St¨¹ckelberg-Zener Resonances By Floquet Determinants
authors: Sriram Ganeshan, Edwin Barnes, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages+2 page supplementary material (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130405 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1704
abstract: Recent experiments have shown that Landau-Majorana-Stuckelberg-Zener (LMSZ) interferometry is a powerful tool for demonstrating and exploiting quantum coherence not only in atomic systems but also in a variety of solid state quantum systems such as spins in quantum dots, superconducting qubits, and nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond. In this work, we propose and develop a general (and, in principle, exact) theoretical formalism to identify and characterize the interference resonances that are the hallmark of LMSZ interferometry. Unlike earlier approaches, our scheme does not require any approximations, allowing us to uncover important and previously unknown features of the resonance structure. We also discuss the experimental observability of our results.

id: 1307.1781
title: Block entanglement and fluctuations in finite size correlated electron systems
authors: Archak Purkayastha, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 12 pages,8 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195125 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1781
abstract: The block entanglement entropy and fluctuations are investigated in one dimension in finite size correlated electron systems using the Gutzwiller wave function as a prototype correlated electron state. Entanglement entropy shows logarithmic divergence for all values of the correlation projection parameter $g$, as predicted by conformal field theories for critical systems, but the central charge requires finite size corrections. There is an infinite correlation length corresponding to correlation between same kinds of spins, for all values of $g$. A scaling form for the block entropy, as a function of $g$ and the system size $N$, is proposed which predicts a metal-insulator crossover at $N^{1/3} g\approx 0.24$. Bipartite fluctuations in the number of particles in a block, and the spin fluctuations also obey an approximate scaling. A relation is found between the block entropy and the bipartite spin fluctuations. Our results show some correspondence with an experiment on Ni nanochains.

id: 1307.1785
title: Harmonic analysis on Lagrangian manifolds of integrable Hamiltonian systems
authors: Julia Bernatska, Petro Holod
comments: 13 pages, XIVth International Conference 'Geometry, Integrability and Quantization', June 8-13, 2012, Varna, Bulgaria
journal: Journal of Geometry and Symmetry in Physics 29 (2013) P.39-51
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1785
abstract: For an integrable Hamiltonian system we construct a representation of the phase space symmetry algebra over the space of functions on a Lagrangian manifold. The representation is a result of the canonical quantization of the integrable system in terms of separation variables. The variables are chosen in such way that a half of them parameterizes the Lagrangian manifold, which coincides with the Liouville torus of the integrable system. The obtained representation is indecomposable and non-exponentiated.

id: 1307.1851
title: Attempt at perfecting quantum mechanics based on interaction
authors: Tian-Hai Zeng
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1851
abstract: Many wave phenomena are related to interactions. When preparing a particle in a superposed state starting from an eigenstate, we must let it interact with an apparatus or environment. Considering neglected interactions, states of apparatus and Newtonic idea about measurement, we attempt to modify some concepts of quantum mechanics. Our modifications include wave-particle duality, the principle of superposition of states, the meaning of the Schrodinger equation, the postulate of quantum measurement, and the uncertainty relations, without changing past correct results. These may help us to understand some typical quantum phenomena with near classical and intuitive ideas, to mediate some contradictions logically, and then to go a step further toward perfecting quantum mechanics. We also review the argument between Einstien and Bohr about quantum mechanics, and conclude that the result is a draw.

id: 1307.1853
title: The Majorana spinor representation of the Poincare group
authors: Leonardo Pedro
comments: 14 pages, Proposition 7.2 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1853
abstract: There are Poincare group representations on complex Hilbert spaces, like the Dirac spinor field, or real Hilbert spaces, like the electromagnetic field tensor. The Majorana spinor is an element of a 4 dimensional real vector space. The Majorana spinor field is a space-time dependent Majorana spinor, solution of the free Dirac equation. The Majorana-Fourier and Majorana-Hankel transforms of Majorana spinor fields are defined and related to the linear and angular momenta of a spin one-half representation of the Poincare group. We show that the Majorana spinor field with finite mass is an unitary irreducible projective representation of the Poincare group on a real Hilbert space. Since the Bargmann-Wigner equations are valid for all spins and are based on the free Dirac equation, these results open the possibility to study Poincare group representations with arbitrary spins on real Hilbert spaces.

id: 1307.1920
title: Comment on `Wedges, cones, cosmic strings and their vacuum energy'
authors: S. A. Fulling, F. D. Mera
comments: 4 pages. The paper being commented upon is the published version of arXiv:1205.1818 by Fulling, Trendafilova, Truong, and Wagner
journal: J. Phys. A 47 (2014) 059401
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1920
abstract: A recent paper (2012 \emph{J. Phys.\ A} \textbf{45} 374018) is extended by investigating the behavior of the regularized quantum scalar stress tensor near the axes of cones and their covering manifold, the Dowker space. A cone is parametrized by its angle $\theta_1$, where $\theta_1=2\pi$ for flat space. We find that the tensor components have singularities of the type $r^\gamma$, but the generic leading $\gamma$ equals ${4\pi \over \theta_1} - 2$, which is negative if and only if $\theta_1>2\pi$, and is a positive integer if $\theta_1={2\pi\over N}$. Thus the functions are analytic in those cases that can be solved by the method of images starting from flat space, and they are not divergent in the cases that interpolate between those. As a wedge of angle $\alpha$ can be solved by images starting from a cone of angle $2\alpha$, a divergent stress can arise in a wedge with $\pi <\alpha \le 2\pi$ but not in a smaller one.

id: 1307.1939
title: A useful way to obtain the central charge of entanglement Hamiltonian -- Nested entanglement entropy
authors: Shu Tanaka
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Interdisciplinary Information Sciences
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Vol. 19, pp. 101-105 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.1939
abstract: In this paper, we review how to obtain the central charge of a critical entanglement Hamiltonian through the nested entanglement entropy which was first introduced in [J. Lou et al. PRB 84, 245128 (2011)]. The critical phenomena of the entanglement Hamiltonian can be identified by the central charge obtained by the nested entanglement entropy. We review our previous studies[J. Lou et al. PRB 84, 245128 (2011), S. Tanaka et al. PRA 87, 214401 (2013)] in which we investigated certain entanglement nature of two-dimensional valence-bond-solid (VBS) state and quantum hard-square models on square and triangle ladders using the nested entanglement entropy.

id: 1307.2000
title: High resolution coherent population trapping on a single hole spin in a semiconductor
authors: Julien Houel, Jonathan H. Prechtel, Daniel Brunner, Christopher E. Kuklewicz, Brian D. Gerardot, Nick G. Stoltz, Pierre M. Petroff, Richard J. Warburton
comments: 
journal: PRL 112, 107401 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2000
abstract: We report high resolution coherent population trapping on a single hole spin in a semiconductor quantum dot. The absorption dip signifying the formation of a dark state exhibits an atomic physics-like dip width of just 10 MHz. We observe fluctuations in the absolute frequency of the absorption dip, evidence of very slow spin dephasing. We identify this process as charge noise by, first, demonstrating that the hole spin g-factor in this configuration (in-plane magnetic field) is strongly dependent on the vertical electric field, and second, by characterizing the charge noise through its effects on the optical transition frequency. An important conclusion is that charge noise is an important hole spin dephasing process.

id: 1307.2063
title: On the Physical Origin of the Anomalous Magnetic Moment of Electron
authors: N. B. Mandache
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2063
abstract: A simple physical insight into the origin of the magnetic moment anomaly of electron is presented. This approach is based on the assumption that the electromagnetic mass of the electron due to the electric field generated by electron charge in the exterior of the sphere of radius half of the Compton wavelength of the electron, does not contribute to the magnetic moment of the electron. This explanation is compatible with the well-known quantum electrodynamics approach. A formula is derived, which is similar to that obtained by quantum electrodynamics calculus of one loop contribution to anomalous part of the magnetic moment.

id: 1307.2073
title: The stochastic nature induced by laser noise in narrow transitions
authors: Yuan Sun, Chen Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2073
abstract: We use a probabilistic method to describe the effect of laser noise on the laser-atom interaction, in the case that the atom is a two level system without spontaneous emission. The stochastic differential equation for the laser-atom interaction is analyzed in the sense of perturbation approach, and we construct a stochastic process corresponding to the time evolution of the atom's wave function, whose extra randomness is induced by the laser noise. It also provides the layout of a theory for the possible experiment of measuring the laser line width by driving a narrow atomic transition.

id: 1307.2142
title: Analytic results for a quantum quench from free to hard-core one dimensional bosons
authors: M¨¢rton Kormos, Mario Collura, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013609 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2142
abstract: It is widely believed that the stationary properties after a quantum quench in integrable systems can be described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble (GGE), even if all the analytical evidence is based on free theories in which the pre- and post-quench modes are linearly related. In contrast, we consider the experimentally relevant quench of the one-dimensional Bose gas from zero to infinite interaction, in which the relation between modes is nonlinear, and consequently Wick's theorem does not hold. We provide exact analytical results for the time evolution of the dynamical density-density correlation function at any time after the quench and we prove that its stationary value is described by a GGE in which Wick's theorem is restored.

id: 1307.2248
title: Cooper-pair based photon entanglement without isolated emitters
authors: Alex Hayat, Hae-Young Kee, Kenneth S. Burch, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 094508 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2248
abstract: We propose a novel approach for efficient generation of entangled photons, based on Cooper-pair luminescence in semiconductors, which does not require isolated emitters such as single atoms or quantum dots. We show that in bulk materials, electron-spin entanglement in Cooper pairs should not be expected to be translated into pure entangled photons despite the selection rules, due to mixing introduced by light-hole heavy-hole degeneracy. Semiconductor quantum wells, however, remove this degeneracy, allowing efficient photon entanglement generation in simple electrically-driven structures, taking advantage of the superconducting macroscopic coherence. The second-order decay of two-electron states in Cooper-pair luminescence leaves no which-path information, resulting in perfect coherence between two pathways and hence in principle, perfect entanglement. We calculate the purity of the entangled-photon state and find that it increases for larger light-hole heavy-hole energy splitting and for lower temperatures. These results provide new insights into light-matter interaction in solids and enable realization of novel quantum photonics based on matter condensates.

id: 1307.2287
title: Dynamical symmetry approach and topological field theory for path integrals of quantum spin systems
authors: Matous Ringel, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062105 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2287
abstract: We develop a dynamical symmetry approach to path integrals for general interacting quantum spin systems. The time-ordered exponential obtained after the Hubbard-Stratonovich transformation can be disentangled into the product of a finite number of the usual exponentials. This procedure leads to a set of stochastic differential equations on the group manifold, which can be further formulated in terms of the supersymmetric effective action. This action has the form of the Witten topological field theory in the continuum limit. As a consequence, we show how it can be used to obtain the exact results for a specific quantum many-body system which can be otherwise solved only by the Bethe ansatz. To our knowledge this represents the first example of a many-body system treated exactly using the path integral formulation. Moreover, our method can deal with time-dependent parameters, which we demonstrate explicitly.

id: 1307.2288
title: Quantum Disentangled Liquids
authors: Tarun Grover, Matthew P. A. Fisher
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P10010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2288
abstract: We propose and explore a new finite temperature phase of translationally invariant multi-component liquids which we call a "Quantum Disentangled Liquid" (QDL) phase. We contemplate the possibility that in fluids consisting of two (or more) species of indistinguishable quantum particles with a large mass ratio, the light particles might "localize" on the heavy particles. We give a precise, formal definition of this Quantum Disentangled Liquid phase in terms of the finite energy density many-particle wavefunctions. While the heavy particles are fully thermalized, for a typical fixed configuration of the heavy particles, the entanglement entropy of the light particles satisfies an area law; this implies that the light particles have not thermalized. Thus, in a QDL phase, thermal equilibration is incomplete, and the canonical assumptions of statistical mechanics are not fully operative. We explore the possibility of QDL in water, with the light proton degrees of freedom becoming "localized" on the oxygen ions. We do not presently know whether a local, generic Hamiltonian can have eigenstates of the QDL form, and if it can not, then the non-thermal behavior discussed here will exist as an interesting crossover phenomena at time scales that diverge as the ratio of the mass of the heavy to the light species also diverges.

id: 1307.2362
title: Integral Quantum Fluctuation Theorems under Measurement and Feedback control
authors: Ken Funo, Yu Watanabe, Masahito Ueda
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 052121 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2362
abstract: We derive integral quantum fluctuation theorems and quantum Jarzynski equalities for a feedback-controlled system and a memory which registers outcomes of the measurement. The obtained equalities involve the information content, which reflects the information exchange between the system and the memory, and take into account the back action of a general measurement contrary to the classical case. The generalized second law of thermodynamics under measurement and feedback control are reproduced from these equalities.

id: 1307.2499
title: On the state complexity of semi-quantum finite automata
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Jozef Gruska, Daowen Qiu
comments: 19 pages. We improve (make stronger) the results in section 3
journal: RAIRO-Inf. Theor. Appl. 48 (2014) 187-207. Earlier versions at LATA'14
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2499
abstract: Some of the most interesting and important results concerning quantum finite automata are those showing that they can recognize certain languages with (much) less resources than corresponding classical finite automata \cite{Amb98,Amb09,AmYa11,Ber05,Fre09,Mer00,Mer01,Mer02,Yak10,ZhgQiu112,Zhg12}. This paper shows three results of such a type that are stronger in some sense than other ones because (a) they deal with models of quantum automata with very little quantumness (so-called semi-quantum one- and two-way automata with one qubit memory only); (b) differences, even comparing with probabilistic classical automata, are bigger than expected; (c) a trade-off between the number of classical and quantum basis states needed is demonstrated in one case and (d) languages (or the promise problem) used to show main results are very simple and often explored ones in automata theory or in communication complexity, with seemingly little structure that could be utilized.

id: 1307.2505
title: Dispersive regime of the Jaynes-Cummings and Rabi lattice
authors: Guanyu Zhu, Sebastian Schmidt, Jens Koch
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, 1 table, Published by NJP, Focus Issues "Focus on Quantum Microwave Field Effects in Superconducting Circuits"
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 115002
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2505
abstract: Photon-based strongly-correlated lattice models like the Jaynes-Cummings and Rabi lattices differ from their more conventional relatives like the Bose-Hubbard model by the presence of an additional tunable parameter: the frequency detuning between the pseudo-spin degree of freedom and the harmonic mode frequency on each site. Whenever this detuning is large compared to relevant coupling strengths, the system is said to be in the dispersive regime. The physics of this regime is well-understood at the level of a single Jaynes-Cummings or Rabi site. Here, we extend the theoretical description of the dispersive regime to lattices with many sites, for both strong and ultra-strong coupling. We discuss the nature and spatial range of the resulting qubit-qubit and photon-photon coupling, demonstrate the emergence of photon- pairing and squeezing, and illustrate our results by exact diagonalization of the Rabi dimer.

id: 1307.2510
title: Wave function perturbations propagation in multi-particle systems, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox and entanglement
authors: Isaac Shnaid
comments: 12 pages, 1 table. No principal changes are made, just stylistic corrections are introduced
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2510
abstract: If a one-particle or multi-particle non-relativistic quantum system is initially in a stationary state, and its wave function field is locally perturbed, then perturbed and non-perturbed subregions appear in the region. According to Schr\"odinger equation, borders of the perturbed subregion propagate with infinite speed, and the perturbation instantaneously affects all infinite region. It means that Schr\"odinger equation predicts infinite speed of the wave function perturbations propagation. This feature of classical Schr\"odinger equation is traditionally interpreted as non-locality of quantum mechanics. In reality speed of propagation of the perturbed subregion borders is equal speed of light. On this basis we develop and analyse finite propagation speed concept for non-relativistic quantum systems. It results in local interpretation of EPR paradox and entanglement. Formulated theory agrees with classical experiments on electron matter waves diffraction.

id: 1307.2535
title: Investigations of the torque anomaly in an annular sector. II. Global calculations, electromagnetic case
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, E. K. Abalo, Fardin Kheirandish, Klaus Kirsten
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 045030 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2535
abstract: Recently, it was suggested that there was some sort of breakdown of quantum field theory in the presence of boundaries, manifesting itself as a torque anomaly. In particular, Fulling et al. used the finite energy-momentum-stress tensor in the presence of a perfectly conducting wedge, calculated many years ago by Deutsch and Candelas, to compute the torque on one of the wedge boundaries, where the latter was cutoff by integrating the torque density down to minimum lower radius greater than zero. They observed that that torque is not equal to the negative derivative of the energy obtained by integrating the energy density down to the same minimum radius. This motivated a calculation of the torque and energy in an annular sector obtained by the intersection of the wedge with two coaxial cylinders. In a previous paper we showed that for the analogous scalar case, which also exhibited a torque anomaly in the absence of the cylindrical boundaries, the point-split regulated torque and energy indeed exhibit an anomaly, unless the point-splitting is along the axis direction. In any case, because of curvature divergences, no unambiguous finite part can be extracted. However, that ambiguity is linear in the wedge angle; if the condition is imposed that the linear term be removed, the resulting torque and energy is finite, and exhibits no anomaly. In this paper, we demonstrate the same phenomenon takes place for the electromagnetic field, so there is no torque anomaly present here either. This is a nontrivial generalization, since the anomaly found by Fulling et al. is linear for the Dirichlet scalar case, but nonlinear for the conducting electromagnetic case.

id: 1307.2577
title: Topological equivalence of crystal and quasicrystal band structures
authors: Kevin A. Madsen, Emil J. Bergholtz, Piet W. Brouwer
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures. Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 125118 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2577
abstract: A number of recent articles have reported the existence of topologically non-trivial states and associated end states in one-dimensional incommensurate lattice models that would usually only be expected in higher dimensions. Using an explicit construction, we here argue that the end states have precisely the same origin as their counterparts in commensurate models and that incommensurability does not in fact provide a meaningful connection to the topological classification of systems in higher dimensions. In particular, we show that it is possible to smoothly interpolate between states with commensurate and incommensurate modulation parameters without closing the band gap and without states crossing the band gap.

id: 1307.2596
title: Spin-noise correlations and spin-noise exchange driven by low-field spin-exchange collisions
authors: A. T. Dellis, M. Loulakis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 032705 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2596
abstract: The physics of spin exchange collisions have fueled several discoveries in fundamental physics and numerous applications in medical imaging and nuclear magnetic resonance. We here report on the experimental observation and theoretical justification of spin-noise exchange, the transfer of spin-noise from one atomic species to another. The signature of spin-noise exchange is an increase of the total spin-noise power at low magnetic fields, on the order of 1 mG, where the two-species spin-noise resonances overlap. The underlying physical mechanism is the two-species spin-noise correlation induced by spin-exchange collisions.

id: 1307.2597
title: Converting a real quantum bath to an effective classical noise
authors: Wayne M. Witzel, Kevin Young, Sankar Das Sarma
comments: Added significant statistical information from over 500 random problem instances (spatial configurations of bath spins)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115431 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2597
abstract: We present a cluster expansion method for approximating quantum spin-bath dynamics in terms of a classical Gaussian stochastic process. The cluster expansion produces the two-point correlation function of the approximate classical bath, permitting rapid evaluation of noise-mitigating quantum control strategies without resorting to computationally intensive dynamical decoupling models. Our approximation is valid for the wide class of models possessing negligible back-action and nearly-Gaussian noise. We study several instances of the central spin decoherence problem in which the central spin and randomly-located bath spins are alike and dipolarly coupled. For various pulse sequences, we compare the coherence echo decay computed explicitly quantum mechanically versus those computed using our approximate classical model, and obtain agreement in most, but not all, cases. We demonstrate the utility of these classical noise models by efficiently searching for the 4-pulse sequences that maximally mitigate decoherence in each of these cases, a computationally expensive task in the explicit quantum model.

id: 1307.2609
title: Quantum Mechanical Effects from Deformation Theory
authors: Albert Much
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 022302 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2609
abstract: We consider deformations of quantum mechanical operators by using the novel construction of warped convolutions. The deformation enables us to obtain several quantum mechanical effects where electromagnetic and gravitomagnetic fields play a role. Furthermore, a quantum plane can be defined by using the deformation techniques. This in turn gives an experimentally verifiable effect.

id: 1307.2654
title: Long range interactions of ytterbium in mixed quantum gases
authors: S.G. Porsev, M.S. Safronova, A. Derevianko, Charles W. Clark
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2654
abstract: We present methods for accurate evaluation of van der Waals coefficients of dimers with excited atoms that have a strong decay channel. We calculate C_6 coefficients for the Yb-Yb 1S_0+ 3P_{0,1}, 3P_0+3P_0 and Yb-Rb 3P_1+5s, 1S_0+ 5p_{1/2} dimers and C_8 coefficients for the Yb-Yb 1S_0+1S_0, 1S_0+3P_1 and Yb-Rb 1S_0+5s dimers. We evaluate uncertainties of all properties.

id: 1307.2656
title: Long range interaction coefficients for ytterbium dimers
authors: S.G. Porsev, M.S. Safronova, A. Derevianko, Charles W. Clark
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2656
abstract: We evaluate the electric-dipole and electric-quadrupole static and dynamic polarizabilities for the 6s^2 ^1S_0, 6s6p ^3P_0, and 6s6p ^3P_1 states and estimate their uncertainties. A methodology is developed for an accurate evaluation of the van der Waals coefficients of dimers involving excited state atoms with strong decay channel to the ground state. This method is used for evaluation of the long range interaction coefficients of particular experimental interest, including the C_6 coefficients for the Yb-Yb ^1S_0+^3P_{0,1} and ^3P_0+^3P_0 dimers and C_8 coefficients for the ^1S_0+^1S_0 and ^1S_0+^3P_1 dimers.

id: 1307.2762
title: Adiabatic Tracking of a State: a New Route to Nonequilibrium Physics
authors: M. Moliner, P. Schmitteckert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 120602 (2013), Editors' Suggestion
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2762
abstract: We present a novel numerical approach to track the response of a quantum system to an external perturbation that is progressively switched-on. The method is applied, within the framework of the density matrix renormalization group technique, to track current-carrying states of interacting fermions in one dimension and in presence of an Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux. This protocol allows us to access highly excited states. We also discuss the connection with the entanglement entropy of these excited states.

id: 1307.2854
title: Three-body recombination at finite energy within an optical model
authors: P. K. S?rensen, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042518 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2854
abstract: We investigate three-boson recombination of equal mass systems as function of (negative) scattering length, mass, finite energy, and finite temperature. An optical model with an imaginary potential at short distance reproduces experimental recombination data and allows us to provide a simple parametrization of the recombination rate as function of scattering length and energy. Using the two-body van der Waals length as unit we find that the imaginary potential range and also the potential depth agree to within thirty percent for Lithium and Cesium atoms. As opposed to recent studies suggesting universality of the threshold for bound state formation, our results suggest that the recombination process itself could have universal features.

id: 1307.2932
title: Holographic Entanglement in a Noncommutative Gauge Theory
authors: Willy Fischler, Arnab Kundu, Sandipan Kundu
comments: 28 pages, multiple figures; minor changes, conclusions unchanged
journal: JHEP 01 (2014) 137
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.2932
abstract: In this article we investigate aspects of entanglement entropy and mutual information in a large-N strongly coupled noncommutative gauge theory, both at zero and at finite temperature. Using the gauge-gravity duality and the Ryu-Takayanagi (RT) prescription, we adopt a scheme for defining spatial regions on such noncommutative geometries and subsequently compute the corresponding entanglement entropy. We observe that for regions which do not lie entirely in the noncommutative plane, the RT-prescription yields sensible results. In order to make sense of the divergence structure of the corresponding entanglement entropy, it is essential to introduce an additional cut-off in the theory. For regions which lie entirely in the noncommutative plane, the corresponding minimal area surfaces can only be defined at this cut-off and they have distinctly peculiar properties.

id: 1307.3183
title: Quantum entropy production in phase space
authors: Sebastian Deffner
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: EPL 103 (2013) 30001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3183
abstract: A fluctuation theorem for the nonequilibrium entropy production in quantum phase space is derived, which enables the consistent thermodynamic description of arbitrary quantum systems, open and closed. The new treatment naturally generalizes classical results to the quantum domain. As an illustration the harmonic oscillator dragged through a thermal bath is solved numerically. Finally, the significance of the new approach is discussed in detail, and the phase space treatment is opposed to the two time energy measurement approach.

id: 1307.3193
title: Stability of a unitary Bose gas
authors: Richard J. Fletcher, Alexander L. Gaunt, Nir Navon, Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 125303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3193
abstract: We study the stability of a thermal $^{39}$K Bose gas across a broad Feshbach resonance, focusing on the unitary regime, where the scattering length $a$ exceeds the thermal wavelength $\lambda$. We measure the general scaling laws relating the particle-loss and heating rates to the temperature, scattering length, and atom number. Both at unitarity and for positive $a \ll \lambda$ we find agreement with three-body theory. However, for $a<0$ and away from unitarity, we observe significant four-body decay. At unitarity, the three-body loss coefficient, $L_3 \propto \lambda^4$, is three times lower than the universal theoretical upper bound. This reduction is a consequence of species-specific Efimov physics and makes $^{39}$K particularly promising for studies of many-body physics in a unitary Bose gas.

id: 1307.3240
title: Axionic superconductivity in three dimensional doped narrow gap semiconductors
authors: Pallab Goswami, Bitan Roy
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, replaced by the version published by Phys Rev B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 041301(R), 2014
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3240
abstract: We consider the competition between the conventional s-wave and the triplet Balian-Werthamer or the B-phase pairings in the doped three dimensional narrow gap semiconductors, such as $\mathrm{Cu}_x\mathrm{Bi}_2\mathrm{Se}_3$ and $\mathrm{Sn}_{1-x}\mathrm{In}_x\mathrm{Te}$. When the coupling constants of the two contending channels are comparable, we find a simultaneously time-reversal and parity violating $p + is$ state at low temperatures, which provides an example of dynamic axionic state of matter. In contradistinction to the time-reversal invariant, topological B-phase, the $p + is$ state possesses gapped Majorana fermions as the surface Andreev bound states, which give rise to an anomalous surface thermal Hall effect. The anomalous gravitational and electrodynamic responses of the $p+is$ state can be described by the $\theta$ vacuum structure, where $\theta \neq 0$ or $\pi$.

id: 1307.3245
title: Algebra of Majorana Doubling
authors: Jaehoon Lee, Frank Wilczek
comments: 4 pages v2: minor changes, added reference; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 226402 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3245
abstract: Motivated by the problem of identifying Majorana mode operators at junctions, we analyze a basic algebraic structure leading to a doubled spectrum. For general (nonlinear) interactions the emergent mode creation operator is highly non-linear in the original effective mode operators, and therefore also in the underlying electron creation and destruction operators. This phenomenon could open up new possibilities for controlled dynamical manipulation of the modes. We briefly compare and contrast related issues in the Pfaffian quantum Hall state.

id: 1307.3260
title: Strong Hyperfine-Induced Modulation of an Optically-Driven Hole Spin in an InAs Quantum Dot
authors: Samuel G. Carter, Sophia E. Economou, Alex Greilich, Edwin Barnes, Timothy M. Sweeney, Allan S. Bracker, Daniel Gammon
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075316 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3260
abstract: Compared to electrons, holes in InAs quantum dots have a significantly weaker hyperfine interaction that leads to less dephasing from nuclear spins. Thus many recent studies have suggested that nuclear spins are unimportant for hole spin dynamics compared to electric field fluctuations. We show that the hole hyperfine interaction can have a strong effect on hole spin coherence measurements through a nuclear feedback effect. The nuclear polarization is generated through a unique process that is dependent on the anisotropy of the hole hyperfine interaction and the coherent precession of nuclear spins, giving rise to strong modulation at the nuclear precession frequency.

id: 1307.3438
title: Interaction quenches in the two-dimensional fermionic Hubbard model
authors: Simone A. Hamerla, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. B 89, 104301(2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3438
abstract: The generic non-equilibrium evolution of a strongly interacting fermionic system is studied. For strong quenches, a collective collapse-and-revival phenomenon is found extending over the whole Brillouin zone. A qualitatively distinct behavior occurs for weak quenches where only weak wiggling occurs. Surprisingly, no evidence for prethermalization is found in the weak coupling regime. In both regimes, indications for relaxation beyond oscillatory or power law behavior are found and used to estimate relaxation rates without resorting to a probabilistic ansatz. The relaxation appears to be fastest for intermediate values of the quenched interaction.

id: 1307.3458
title: Scrambling in the Black Hole Portrait
authors: Gia Dvali, Daniel Flassig, Cesar Gomez, Alexander Pritzel, Nico Wintergerst
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 124041 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3458
abstract: Recently a quantum portrait of black holes was suggested according to which a macroscopic black hole is a Bose-Einstein condensate of soft gravitons stuck at the critical point of a quantum phase transition. We explain why quantum criticality and instability are the key for efficient generation of entanglement and consequently of the scrambling of information. By studying a simple Bose-Einstein prototype, we show that the scrambling time, which is set by the quantum break time of the system, goes as $\log N \,$ for $N$ the number of quantum constituents or equivalently the black hole entropy.

id: 1307.3485
title: 3- and 4-body Interactions from 2-body interactions in Spin Models: A Route to Abelian and Non-Abelian Fractional Chern Insulators
authors: Eliot Kapit, Steven H. Simon
comments: 4 pages + references and supplemental information
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3485
abstract: We describe a method for engineering local $k+1$-body interactions ($k=1,2,3$) from two-body couplings in spin-${1}{2}$ systems. When implemented in certain systems with a flat single-particle band with a unit Chern number, the resulting many-body ground states are fractional Chern insulators which exhibit abelian and non-abelian anyon excitations. The most complex of these, with $k=3$, has Fibonacci anyon excitations; our system is thus capable of universal topological quantum computation. We then demonstrate that an appropriately tuned circuit of qubits could faithfully replicate this model up to small corrections, and further, we describe the process by which one might create and manipulate non-abelian vortices in these circuits, allowing for direct control of the system's quantum information content.

id: 1307.3510
title: Sharp crossover from composite fermionization to phase separation in mesoscopic mixtures of ultracold bosons
authors: M.A. Garcia-March, B. Julia-Diaz, G.E. Astrakharchik, Th. Busch, J. Boronat, A. Polls
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 063604 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3510
abstract: We show that a two-component mixture of a few repulsively interacting ultracold atoms in a one-dimensional trap possesses very different quantum regimes and that the crossover between them can be induced by tuning the interactions in one of the species. In the composite fermionization regime, where the interactions between both components are large, none of the species show large occupation of any natural orbital. Our results show that by increasing the interaction in one of the species, one can reach the phase-separated regime. In this regime, the weakly interacting component stays at the center of the trap and becomes almost fully phase coherent, while the strongly interacting component is displaced to the edges of the trap. The crossover is sharp, as observed in the in the energy and the in the largest occupation of a natural orbital of the weakly interacting species. Such a transition is a purely mesoscopic effect which disappears for large atom numbers.

id: 1307.3517
title: Holographic entanglement entropy in nonlocal theories
authors: Joanna L. Karczmarek, Charles Rabideau
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3517
abstract: We compute holographic entanglement entropy in two strongly coupled nonlocal field theories: the dipole and the noncommutative deformations of SYM theory. We find that entanglement entropy in the dipole theory follows a volume law for regions smaller than the length scale of nonlocality and has a smooth cross-over to an area law for larger regions. In contrast, in the noncommutative theory the entanglement entropy follows a volume law for up to a critical length scale at which a phase transition to an area law occurs. The critical length scale increases as the UV cutoff is raised, which is indicative of UV/IR mixing and implies that entanglement entropy in the noncommutative theory follows a volume law for arbitrary large regions when the size of the region is fixed as the UV cutoff is removed to infinity. Comparison of behaviour between these two theories allows us to explain the origin of the volume law. Since our holographic duals are not asymptotically AdS, minimal area surfaces used to compute holographic entanglement entropy have novel behaviours near the boundary of the dual spacetime. We discuss implications of our results on the scrambling (thermalization) behaviour of these nonlocal field theories.

id: 1307.3530
title: Vibrations, Quanta and Biology
authors: S.F. Huelga, M.B. Plenio
comments: 27 pages, 13 figures
journal: Contemp. Phys. 54, 181 - 207 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3530
abstract: Quantum biology is an emerging field of research that concerns itself with the experimental and theoretical exploration of non-trivial quantum phenomena in biological systems. In this tutorial overview we aim to bring out fundamental assumptions and questions in the field, identify basic design principles and develop a key underlying theme -- the dynamics of quantum dynamical networks in the presence of an environment and the fruitful interplay that the two may enter. At the hand of three biological phenomena whose understanding is held to require quantum mechanical processes, namely excitation and charge transfer in photosynthetic complexes, magneto-reception in birds and the olfactory sense, we demonstrate that this underlying theme encompasses them all, thus suggesting its wider relevance as an archetypical framework for quantum biology.

id: 1307.3601
title: Non-classical higher-order photon correlations with a quantum dot strongly coupled to a photonic-crystal nanocavity
authors: Armand Rundquist, Michal Bajcsy, Arka Majumdar, Tomas Sarmiento, Kevin Fischer, Konstantinos G. Lagoudakis, Sonia Buckley, Alexander Y. Piggott, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023846 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3601
abstract: We use the third- and fourth-order autocorrelation functions $g^{(3)}(\tau_1,\tau_2)$ and $g^{(4)}(\tau_1,\tau_2, \tau_3)$ to detect the non-classical character of the light transmitted through a photonic-crystal nanocavity containing a strongly-coupled quantum dot probed with a train of coherent light pulses. We contrast the value of $g^{(3)}(0, 0)$ with the conventionally used $g^{(2)}(0)$ and demonstrate that in addition to being necessary for detecting two-photon states emitted by a low-intensity source, $g^{(3)}$ provides a more clear indication of the non-classical character of a light source. We also present preliminary data that demonstrates bunching in the fourth-order autocorrelation function $g^{(4)}(\tau_1,\tau_2, \tau_3)$ as the first step toward detecting three-photon states.

id: 1307.3670
title: Quantum fluctuations in modulated nonlinear oscillators
authors: Vittorio Peano, M I Dykman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3670
abstract: With a modulated oscillator, we study several effects of quantum fluctuations far from thermal equilibrium. One of them is quantum heating, where quantum fluctuations lead to a finite-width distribution of a resonantly modulated oscillator over its quasienergy (Floquet) states. We also analyze large rare fluctuations responsible for the tail of the quasienergy distribution and switching between the states of forced vibrations. We find an observable characteristic of these fluctuations, the most probable paths followed by the quasienergy in rare events, and in particular in switching. We also explore the discontinuous change of the most probable switching path where the detailed balance condition is broken. For oscillators modulated by a nonresonant field, we compare different mechanisms of the field-induced cooling and heating of the oscillator.

id: 1307.3740
title: One-Dimensional Tunnel-Junction Formula for Schrodinger Particle
authors: Masao Hirokawa, Takuya Kosaka
comments: 14 pages; 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3740
abstract: We handle all the self-adjoint extensions of the minimal Schroedinger operator for the non-relativistic electron living in the one-dimensional configuration space with a junction. We are interested in every boundary condition corresponding to the individual self-adjoint extension. Thus, we clarify all the types of those boundary conditions of the wave functions of the non-relativistic electron. We find a tunnel-junction formula for the non-relativistic electron passing through the junction. Using this tunnel-junction formula, we propose a mathematical possibility of a tunnel-junction device for qubit.

id: 1307.3800
title: Optomechanical parameter estimation
authors: Shan Zheng Ang, Glen I. Harris, Warwick P. Bowen, Mankei Tsang
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures. v2: accepted by NJP
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 103028 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3800
abstract: We propose a statistical framework for the problem of parameter estimation from a noisy optomechanical system. The Cram\'er-Rao lower bound on the estimation errors in the long-time limit is derived and compared with the errors of radiometer and expectation-maximization (EM) algorithms in the estimation of the force noise power. When applied to experimental data, the EM estimator is found to have the lowest error and follow the Cram\'er-Rao bound most closely. Our analytic results are envisioned to be valuable to optomechanical experiment design, while the EM algorithm, with its ability to estimate most of the system parameters, is envisioned to be useful for optomechanical sensing, atomic magnetometry, and fundamental tests of quantum mechanics.

id: 1307.3803
title: Noether symmetries and the quantization of a Lienard-type nonlinear oscillator
authors: G. Gubbiotti, M.C. Nucci
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3803
abstract: The classical quantization of a Lienard-type nonlinear oscillator is achieved by a quantization scheme (M.C. Nucci. Theor. Math. Phys., 168:997--1004, 2011) that preserves the Noether point symmetries of the underlying Lagrangian in order to construct the Schr\"odinger equation. This method straightforwardly yields the correct Schr\"odinger equation in the momentum space (V. Chithiika Ruby, M. Senthilvelan, and M. Lakshmanan. J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 45:382002, 2012), and sheds light into the apparently remarkable connection with the linear harmonic oscillator.

id: 1307.3871
title: Multilayer wave functions: A recursive coupling of local excitations
authors: A. Ramezanpour
comments: 23 pages, including 3 appendices and 6 figures. A shortened version published in EPL
journal: Europhysics Letters, 104 (2013) 20003
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3871
abstract: Finding a succinct representation to describe the ground state of a disordered interacting system could be very helpful in understanding the interplay between the interactions that is manifested in a quantum phase transition. In this work we use some elementary states to construct recursively an ansatz of multilayer wave functions, where in each step the higher-level wave function is represented by a superposition of the locally "excited states" obtained from the lower-level wave function. This allows us to write the Hamiltonian expectation in terms of some local functions of the variational parameters, and employ an efficient message-passing algorithm to find the optimal parameters. We obtain good estimations of the ground-state energy and the phase transition point for the transverse Ising model with a few layers of mean-field and symmetric tree states. The work is the first step towards the application of local and distributed message-passing algorithms in the study of structured variational problems in finite dimensions.

id: 1307.3886
title: Estimating the HF coupling parameters of the avian compass by comprehensively considering the available experimental results
authors: Bao-Ming Xu, Jian Zou, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Phy. Rev. E 88, 032703 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3886
abstract: Migratory birds can utilize the geomagnetic field for orientation and navigation through a widely accepted radical-pair mechanism. Although many theoretical works have been done the available experimental results have not been fully considered, especially, the temporary disorientation induced by the field which is increased by 30% of geomagnetic field and the disorientation of the very weak resonant field of $15nT$. In this paper, we consider the monotonicity of the singlet yield angular profile as the prerequisite of direction sensitivity, and find that for some optimal values of the hyperfine coupling parameters, that is the order of $10^{-7}\sim10^{-6}meV$, the experimental results available by far can be satisfied. We also investigate the effects of two decoherence environments and demonstrate that, in order to satisfy the available experimental results, the decoherence rate should be much lower than the recombination rate. Finally we investigate the effects of the fluctuating magnetic noises, and find that the vertical noise destroys the monotonicity of the profile completely, but the parallel noise preserves the monotonicity perfectly and even can enhance the direction sensitivity.

id: 1307.3917
title: Simple vibration insensitive cavity for laser stabilization at the 10^{-16} level
authors: Jonas Keller, Stepan Ignatovich, Stephen A. Webster, Tanja E. Mehlst?ubler
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 116, 203 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3917
abstract: We present the design and realization of two reference cavities for ultra-stable lasers addressing narrow transitions in mixed-species (In+ / Yb+) Coulomb crystals. With a simple setup, we achieve a fractional frequency instability close to the thermal noise limit of a 12 cm long cavity, reaching 4.7 * 10^{-16} at 10 s with a linear drift of 53 mHz/s. We discuss the individual instability contributions and show that in a setup with a lower thermal noise floor and vibration sensitivity, an instability of 1 * 10^{-16} can be reached. To achieve this, we implement a vibration insensitive design for a 30 cm long cavity mounted horizontally and conduct first tests that show a sensitivity of 1.8 * 10^{-11} / ms^{-2} to vertical accelerations. This is about a factor of 20 less than the value observed for the short cavity. Mechanical tolerances and ways to further reduce the sensitivity are discussed.

id: 1307.3993
title: Conformal Field Theory of Critical Casimir Interactions in 2D
authors: G. Bimonte, T. Emig, M. Kardar
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL 104, 21001 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.3993
abstract: Thermal fluctuations of a critical system induce long-ranged Casimir forces between objects that couple to the underlying field. For two dimensional (2D) conformal field theories (CFT) we derive an exact result for the Casimir interaction between two objects of arbitrary shape, in terms of (1) the free energy of a circular ring whose radii are determined by the mutual capacitance of two conductors with the objects' shape; and (2) a purely geometric energy that is proportional to conformal charge of the CFT, but otherwise super-universal in that it depends only on the shapes and is independent of boundary conditions and other details.

id: 1307.4018
title: Quantum quenches and thermalization on scale-free graphs
authors: Francesco Caravelli
comments: 10 pages; 5 figures; accepted for publication in JTAP
journal: Journal of Theoretical and Applied Physics: Volume 8, Issue 4 (2014), Page 225-230
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4018
abstract: We show that after a quantum quench of the parameter controlling the number of particles in a Fermi-Hubbard model on scale free graphs, the distribution of energy modes follows a power law dependent on the quenched parameter and the connectivity of the graph. This paper contributes to the literature of quantum quenches on lattices, in which, for many integrable lattice models the distribution of modes after a quench thermalizes to a Generalized Gibbs Ensemble; this paper provides another example of distribution which can arise after relaxation. We argue that the main role is played by the symmetry of the underlying lattice which, in the case we study, is scale free, and to the distortion in the density of modes.

id: 1307.4026
title: Zero sound in a two-dimensional dipolar Fermi gas
authors: Zhen-Kai Lu, S.I. Matveenko, G. V. Shlyapnikov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033625 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4026
abstract: We study zero sound in a weakly interacting 2D gas of single-component fermionic dipoles (polar molecules or atoms with a large magnetic moment) tilted with respect to the plane of their translational motion. It is shown that the propagation of zero sound is provided by both mean field and many-body (beyond mean field) effects, and the anisotropy of the sound velocity is the same as the one of the Fermi velocity. The damping of zero sound modes can be much slower than that of quasiparticle excitations of the same energy. One thus has wide possibilities for the observation of zero sound modes in experiments with 2D fermionic dipoles, although the zero sound peak in the structure function is very close to the particle-hole continuum.

id: 1307.4092
title: Localization and topology protected quantum coherence at the edge of 'hot' matter
authors: Yasaman Bahri, Ronen Vosk, Ehud Altman, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: Typos corrected and appendix E added
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4092
abstract: Topological phases are often characterized by special edge states confined near the boundaries by an energy gap in the bulk. On raising temperature, these edge states are lost in a clean system due to mobile thermal excitations. Recently however, it has been established that disorder can localize an isolated many body system, potentially allowing for a sharply defined topological phase even in a highly excited state. Here we show this to be the case for the topological phase of a one dimensional magnet with quenched disorder, which features spin one-half excitations at the edges. The time evolution of a simple, highly excited, initial state is used to reveal quantum coherent edge spins. In particular, we demonstrate, using theoretical arguments and numerical simulation, the coherent revival of an edge spin over a time scale that grows exponentially bigger with system size. This is in sharp contrast to the general expectation that quantum bits strongly coupled to a 'hot' many body system will rapidly lose coherence.

id: 1307.4101
title: Decision Making for Inconsistent Expert Judgments Using Negative Probabilities
authors: J. Acacio de Barros
comments: 14 pages, revised version to appear in the Proceedings of the QI2013 (Quantum Interactions) conference
journal: 
subjects: Other Statistics (stat.OT); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4101
abstract: In this paper we provide a simple random-variable example of inconsistent information, and analyze it using three different approaches: Bayesian, quantum-like, and negative probabilities. We then show that, at least for this particular example, both the Bayesian and the quantum-like approaches have less normative power than the negative probabilities one.

id: 1307.4125
title: Associative detachment of rubidium hydroxide
authors: Jason N. Byrd, H. Harvey Michels, John A. Montgomery Jr., Robin C?t¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4125
abstract: We performed calculations of the optimized structure, harmonic vibrational frequencies and dissociation energies of RbOH and its anion, and investigate the interactions between Rb and OH$^-$ leading to possible associative detachment pathways. The electron affinity of RbOH was computed to be 0.2890 eV, with a bond energy of Rb+OH$^-$ half that of Rb+OH. To determine other possible charge loss pathways, the Rb+OH and Rb+OH$^-$ dissociation curves were computed using couple cluster methods along all possible collisional angles. An adiabatic curve crossing between the neutral and charged molecule was found at the inner wall of the molecular potential curve for linear geometries. Associative detachment rates were estimated using the Langevin ion capture cross-section for hydroxide. We find for $v\ge 2$ an associative detachment rate of $>2\times 10^{-9}$ cm$^3$s$^{-1}$, while for $v=0$ and 1 no appreciable rate exists. This strong dependence on vibrational level suggests the ability to control the associative detachment rate directly.

id: 1307.4161
title: Quantum-defect theory for $-1/r^4$ type of interactions
authors: Bo Gao
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022701 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4161
abstract: We present a quantum-defect theory (QDT) for the $-1/r^4$ type of long-range potential, as a foundation for a systematic understanding of charge-neutral quantum systems such as ion-atom, ion-molecule, electron-atom, and positron-atom interactions. The theory incorporates both conceptual and mathematical advances since earlier formulations of the theory. It also includes more detailed discussions of the concept of resonance spectrum and its representations, universal properties in charge-neutral quantum systems, and the QDT description of scattering resonances that is applicable to any $-1/r^n$ potential with $n>2$.

id: 1307.4176
title: Full Counting Statistics of Andreev Tunneling
authors: V. F. Maisi, D. Kambly, C. Flindt, J. P. Pekola
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 036801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4176
abstract: We employ a single-charge counting technique to measure the full counting statistics (FCS) of Andreev events in which Cooper pairs are either produced from electrons that are reflected as holes at a superconductor/normal-metal interface or annihilated in the reverse process. The FCS consists of quiet periods with no Andreev processes, interrupted by the tunneling of a single electron that triggers an avalanche of Andreev events giving rise to strongly super-Poissonian distributions.

id: 1307.4195
title: Modified Dispersion Relation, Photon's Velocity, and Unruh Effect
authors: Bibhas Ranjan Majhi, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: v1: 11 pages, LaTeX, no figures; v2: a typo corrected and references added to match published version in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys. Lett. B 725 (2013) 477
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4195
abstract: Motivated by the recently derived new form of generalized uncertainty principle we obtain the corresponding dispersion relation which is now modified. This modification can be interpreted as a possible mechanism that makes particles more massive. In addition, the modified velocity of photons is obtained and indicates that photons' propagation depends on their energy, thus superluminal photons are permitted due to generalized uncertainty principle. Furthermore, we derive and solve the two-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of GUP corrections, and therefore the GUP-corrected emission spectrum due to the Unruh effect is obtained.

id: 1307.4348
title: Double-Scaling Limit of the O(N)-Symmetric Anharmonic Oscillator
authors: Carl M. Bender, Sarben Sarkar
comments: ten pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4348
abstract: In an earlier paper it was argued that the conventional double-scaling limit of an O(N)-symmetric quartic quantum field theory is inconsistent because the critical coupling constant is negative and thus the integral representing the partition function of the critical theory does not exist. In this earlier paper it was shown that for an O(N)-symmetric quantum field theory in zero-dimensional spacetime one can avoid this difficulty if one replaces the original quartic theory by its PT-symmetric analog. In the current paper an O(N)-symmetric quartic quantum field theory in one-dimensional spacetime [that is, O(N)-symmetric quantum mechanics] is studied using the Schroedinger equation. It is shown that the global PT-symmetric formulation of this differential equation provides a consistent way to perform the double-scaling limit of the O(N)-symmetric anharmonic oscillator. The physical nature of the critical behavior is explained by studying the PT-symmetric quantum theory and the corresponding and equivalent Hermitian quantum theory.

id: 1307.4360
title: Unruh Effect under Non-equilibrium conditions: Oscillatory motion of an Unruh-DeWitt detector
authors: Jason Doukas, Shih-Yuin Lin, B. L. Hu, Robert B. Mann
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures. Minor revision, new references added
journal: JHEP 11 (2013) 119
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4360
abstract: The Unruh effect refers to the thermal fluctuations a detector experiences while undergoing linear motion with uniform acceleration in a Minkowski vacuum. This thermality can be demonstrated by tracing the vacuum state of the field over the modes beyond the accelerated detector's event horizon. However, the event horizon is well-defined only if the detector moves with eternal uniform linear acceleration. This idealized condition cannot be fulfilled in realistic situations when the motion unavoidably involves periods of non-uniform acceleration. Many experimental proposals to test the Unruh effect are of this nature. Often circular or oscillatory motion, which lacks an obvious geometric description, is considered in such proposals. The proper perspective for theoretically going beyond, or experimentally testing, the Unruh-Hawking effect in these more general conditions has to be offered by concepts and techniques in non-equilibrium quantum field theory. In this paper we provide a detailed analysis of how an Unruh-DeWitt detector undergoing oscillatory motion responds to the fluctuations of a quantum field. Numerical results for the late-time temperatures of the oscillating detector are presented. We comment on the digressions of these results from what one would obtain from a naive application of Unruh's result.

id: 1307.4498
title: Multi-photon absorption limits to heralded single photon sources
authors: Chad A. Husko, Alex S. Clark, Matthew J. Collins, Alfredo De Rossi, Sylvain Combrie, Gaelle Lehoucq, Isabella H. Rey, Thomas F. Krauss, Chunle Xiong, Benjamin J. Eggleton
comments: 6 figures, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4498
abstract: Single photons are of paramount importance to future quantum technologies, including quantum communication and computation. Nonlinear photonic devices using parametric processes o?er a straightforward route to generating photons, however additional nonlinear processes may come into play and interfere with these sources. Here we analyse these sources in the presence of multi-photon processes for the ?first time. We conduct experiments in silicon and gallium indium phosphide photonic crystal waveguides which display inherently di?fferent nonlinear absorption processes, namely two-photon (TPA) and three-photon absorption (ThPA), respectively. We develop a novel model capturing these diverse eff?ects which is in excellent quantitative agreement with measurements of brightness, coincidence-to-accidental ratio (CAR) and second-order correlation function g(2)(0), showing that TPA imposes an intrinsic limit on heralded single photon sources. We devise a new ?gure of merit, the quantum utility (QMU), enabling direct comparison and optimisation of single photon sources.

id: 1307.4513
title: Effective field theory of interactions on the lattice
authors: Manuel Valiente, Nikolaj T. Zinner
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4513
abstract: We consider renormalization of effective field theory interactions by discretizing the continuum on a tight-binding lattice. After studying the one-dimensional problem, we address s-wave collisions in three dimensions and relate the bare lattice coupling constants to the continuum coupling constants. Our method constitutes a very simple avenue for the systematic renormalization in effective field theory, and is especially useful as the number of interaction parameters increases.

id: 1307.4619
title: Real-time dynamics of string breaking
authors: Florian Hebenstreit, J¨¹rgen Berges, Daniil Gelfand
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Revised version: Discussion extended and one figure added, PRL Version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 201601 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4619
abstract: We study the real-time dynamics of string breaking in quantum electrodynamics in one spatial dimension. A two-stage process with a clear separation of time and energy scales for the fermion--antifermion pair creation and subsequent charge separation leading to the screening of external charges is found. Going away from the traditional setup of external static charges, we establish the phenomenon of multiple string breaking by considering dynamical charges flying apart.

id: 1307.4633
title: Nanodiamond Collective Electron States and their Localization
authors: Ivan A. Denisov, Andrey A. Zimin, Leslie A. Bursill, Peter I. Belobrov
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures. The article was submitted to the Journal of Siberian Federal University
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4633
abstract: The existence and localization of collective electron states for nanodiamond particles were studied both by solving a one-particle one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation in the Kronig-Penney potential and by ab initio computations of ground state wavefunctions of diamondoids C78H64, C123H100 and C211H140 at the DFT R-B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory. Three distinct classes of collective electron states have been found: collective bonding orbitals resembling the morphology of 3D-modulated particle in a box solutions; surface-localized non-bonding conductive Tamm states and subsurface-localized bonding states for non-uniformly compressed nanodiamond. Quantum-mechanical analysis shows that collective unpaired electrons are intrinsic to nanodiamond. Their subsurface localization is described in terms of surface compression arising from a self-consistency condition of the electron-nuclear wavefunction. Intrinsic spin existence is supposed to result from the collective and spread nature of subsurface orbitals, allowing spin-density fluctuation effects to become significant on this length scale. Suggested model allows to explain free spins of nanodiamond exhibited in experiments.

id: 1307.4676
title: Measurement of Quantum Geometry Using Laser Interferometry
authors: Craig Hogan
comments: 1 page, LateX. White paper for Community Summer Study
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4676
abstract: New quantum degrees of freedom of space-time, originating at the Planck scale, could create a coherent indeterminacy and noise in the transverse position of massive bodies on macroscopic scales. An experiment is under development at Fermilab designed to detect or rule out a transverse position noise with Planck spectral density, using correlated signals from an adjacent pair of Michelson interferometers. A detection would open an experimental window on quantum space-time.

id: 1307.4677
title: An application of Khovanov homology to quantum codes
authors: Benjamin Audoux
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4677
abstract: We use Khovanov homology to define families of LDPC quantum error-correcting codes: unknot codes with asymptotical parameters [[3^(2l+1)/sqrt(8{\pi}l);1;2^l]]; unlink codes with asymptotical parameters [[sqrt(2/2{\pi}l)6^l;2^l;2^l]] and (2,l)-torus link codes with asymptotical parameters [[n;1;d_n]] where d_n>\sqrt(n)/1.62.

id: 1307.4684
title: Thermal nonlinearities in a nanomechanical oscillator
authors: Jan Gieseler, Lukas Novotny, Romain Quidant
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics, 2013 Vol 9, Pages 806--810
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4684
abstract: Nano- and micromechanical oscillators with high quality (Q) factors have gained much attention for their potential application as ultrasensitive detectors. In contrast to micro-fabricated devices, optically trapped nanoparticles in vacuum do not suffer from clamping losses, hence leading to much larger Q-factors. We find that for a levitated nanoparticle the thermal energy suffices to drive the motion of the nanoparticle into the nonlinear regime. First, we experimentally measure and fully characterize the frequency fluctuations originating from thermal motion and nonlinearities. Second, we demonstrate that feedback cooling can be used to mitigate these fluctuations. The high level of control allows us to fully exploit the force sensing capabilities of the nanoresonator. Our approach offers a force sensitivity of 20 zN $Hz^{-1/2}$, which is the highest value reported to date at room temperature, sufficient to sense ultra-weak interactions, such as non-Newtonian gravity-like forces.

id: 1307.4739
title: Distributions of Off-Diagonal Scattering Matrix Elements: Exact Results
authors: Andr¨¦ Nock, Santosh Kumar, Hans-J¨¹rgen Sommers, Thomas Guhr
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures, Published version
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 342, Pages 103-132, Year 2014
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4739
abstract: Scattering is a ubiquitous phenomenon which is observed in a variety of physical systems which span a wide range of length scales. The scattering matrix is the key quantity which provides a complete description of the scattering process. The universal features of scattering in chaotic systems is most generally modeled by the Heidelberg approach which introduces stochasticity to the scattering matrix at the level of the Hamiltonian describing the scattering center. The statistics of the scattering matrix is obtained by averaging over the ensemble of random Hamiltonians of appropriate symmetry. We derive exact results for the distributions of the real and imaginary parts of the off-diagonal scattering matrix elements applicable to orthogonally-invariant and unitarily-invariant Hamiltonians, thereby solving a long standing problem.

id: 1307.4749
title: Casimir Energy Corrections by Light-Cone Fluctuations
authors: E. Arias, C. H. G. Bessa, J. G. Due?as, G. Menezes, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures, title changed, typos corrected, references and comments added. Accepted for publication in IJMPA
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4749
abstract: We study the effects of light-cone fluctuations on the renormalized zero-point energy associated with a free massless scalar field in the presence of boundaries. In order to simulate light-cone fluctuations we introduce a space-time dependent random coefficient in the Klein-Gordon operator. We assume that the field is defined in a domain with one confined direction. For simplicity, we choose the symmetric case of two parallel plates separated by a distance $a$. The correction to the renormalized vacuum energy density between the plates goes as $1/a^{8}$ instead of the usual $1/a^{4}$ dependence for the free case. In turn we also show that light-cone fluctuations break down the vacuum pressure homogeneity between the plates.

id: 1307.4774
title: Nonadiabatic Effects in Ultracold Molecules via Anomalous Linear and Quadratic Zeeman Shifts
authors: B. H. McGuyer, C. B. Osborn, M. McDonald, G. Reinaudi, W. Skomorowski, R. Moszynski, T. Zelevinsky
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 243003 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4774
abstract: Anomalously large linear and quadratic Zeeman shifts are measured for weakly bound ultracold $^{88}$Sr$_2$ molecules near the intercombination-line asymptote. Nonadiabatic Coriolis coupling and the nature of long-range molecular potentials explain how this effect arises and scales roughly cubically with the size of the molecule. The linear shifts yield nonadiabatic mixing angles of the molecular states. The quadratic shifts are sensitive to nearby opposite $f$-parity states and exhibit fourth-order corrections, providing a stringent test of a state-of-the-art \textit{ab initio} model.

id: 1307.4810
title: Stable He$^-$ can exist in a strong magnetic field
authors: A.V. Turbiner, J.C. Lopez Vieyra
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables, one reference added, typos corrected, small modifications done, to be published at Phys Rev Letters
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4810
abstract: The existence of bound states of the system $(\al,e,e,e)$ in a magnetic field $B$ is studied using the variational method. It is shown that for $B \gtrsim 0.13\,{\rm a.u.}$ this system gets bound with total energy below the one of the $(\al,e,e)$ system. It manifests the existence of the stable He$^-$ atomic ion. Its ground state is a spin-doublet $^2(-1)^{+}$ at $0.74\, {\rm a.u.} \gtrsim B \gtrsim 0.13\, {\rm a.u.}$ and it becomes a spin-quartet $^4(-3)^{+}$ for larger magnetic fields. For $0.8\, {\rm a.u.} \gtrsim B \gtrsim 0.7\, {\rm a.u.}$ the He$^-$ ion has two (stable) bound states $^2(-1)^{+}$ and $^4(-3)^{+}$.

id: 1307.4833
title: Hybrid Microwave-Cavity Heat Engine
authors: Christian Bergenfeldt, Peter Samuelsson, Bj?rn Sothmann, Christian Flindt, Markus B¨¹ttiker
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 076803, (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4833
abstract: We propose and analyze the use of hybrid microwave cavities as quantum heat engines. A possible realization consists of two macroscopically separated quantum dot conductors coupled capacitively to the fundamental mode of a microwave cavity. We demonstrate that an electrical current can be induced in one conductor through cavity-mediated processes by heating up the other conductor. The heat engine can reach Carnot efficiency with optimal conversion of heat to work. When the system delivers the maximum power, the efficiency can be a large fraction of the Carnot efficiency. The heat engine functions even with moderate electronic relaxation and dephasing in the quantum dots. We provide detailed estimates for the electrical current and output power using realistic parameters.

id: 1307.5062
title: The role of quantum recurrence in superconductivity, carbon nanotubes and related gauge symmetry breaking
authors: Donatello Dolce, Andrea Perali
comments: Published version. Comments welcome
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 44, Issue 9 (2014), Page 905-922
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5062
abstract: Pure quantum phenomena are characterized by intrinsic recurrences in space and time. We use such an intrinsic periodicity as a quantization condition to derive the essential phenomenology of superconductivity. The resulting description is based on fundamental quantum dynamics and geometrical considerations, rather than on microscopical characteristics of the superconducting materials. This allows for the interpretation of the related gauge symmetry breaking by means of the competition between quantum recurrence and thermal noise. We also test the validity of this approach to describe the case of carbon nanotubes.

id: 1307.5075
title: Driven nonlinear dynamics of two coupled exchange-only qubits
authors: Arijeet Pal, Emmanuel I. Rashba, Bertrand I. Halperin
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; One additional figure with changes to the text about the results. Additional references included
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011012 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5075
abstract: Inspired by creation of a fast exchange-only qubit (Medford et al., Phys. Rev. Lett., 111, 050501 (2013)), we develop a theory describing the nonlinear dynamics of two such qubits that are capacitively coupled, when one of them is driven resonantly at a frequency equal to its level splitting. We include conditions of strong driving, where the Rabi frequency is a significant fraction of the level splitting, and we consider situations where the splitting for the second qubit may be the same or different than the first. We demonstrate that coupling between qubits can be detected by reading the response of the second qubit, even when the coupling between them is only of about $1\%$ of their level splittings, and calculate entanglement between qubits. Patterns of nonlinear dynamics of coupled qubits and their entanglement are strongly dependent on the geometry of the system, and the specific mechanism of inter-qubit coupling deeply influences dynamics of both qubits. In particular, we describe the development of irregular dynamics in a two-qubit system, explore approaches for inhibiting it, and demonstrate existence of an optimal range of coupling strength maintaining stability during the operational time.

id: 1307.5175
title: Transverse spin diffusion in strongly interacting Fermi gases
authors: Tilman Enss
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033630 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5175
abstract: We compute spin diffusion in a dilute Fermi gas at arbitrary temperature, polarization and strong interaction in the normal phase using kinetic theory. While the longitudinal spin diffusivity depends weakly on polarization and diverges for small temperatures, the transverse spin diffusivity D_\perp has a strong polarization dependence and approaches a finite value for T->0 in the Fermi liquid phase. For a 3D unitary Fermi gas at infinite scattering length the diffusivities reach a minimum near the quantum limit of diffusion \hbar/m in the quantum degenerate regime and are strongly suppressed by medium scattering, and we discuss the importance of the spin-rotation effect. In two dimensions, D_\perp attains a minimum at strong coupling -1 < ln(kFa2D) < 1 and reaches D_\perp~0.2...0.3\hbar/m at large polarization. These values are consistent with recent measurements of two-dimensional ultracold atomic gases in the strong coupling regime.

id: 1307.5187
title: Quantum systems of ultra-cold bosons with customized inter-particle interactions
authors: Alexej I. Streltsov
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, supplementary material (12 pages, 2 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 041602(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5187
abstract: Recent progress in cooling and trapping of polarized clouds of chromium $^{52}Cr$, dysprosium $^{164}Dy$ and erbium $^{168}Er$ opens a road-map to quantum systems where shapes of inter-particle interactions can be customized. The main purpose of this work is to get a deeper insight on a role which the overall shape of the inter-particle interaction plays in a context of trapped ultra-cold bosons. We show that strong inter-particle repulsion inevitably leads to multi-hump fragmentation of the ground state. The fragmentation phenomenon is universal -- it takes place in traps of different dimensionality and topologies and for very broad classes of repulsive inter-particle potentials. The physics behind is identified and explained.

id: 1307.5206
title: Stimulated and spontaneous four-wave mixing in silicon-on-insulator coupled photonic wire nano-cavities
authors: Stefano Azzini, Davide Grassani, Matteo Galli, Dario Gerace, Maddalena Patrini, Marco Liscidini, Philippe Velha, Daniele Bajoni
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 031117 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5206
abstract: We report on four-wave mixing in coupled photonic crystal nano-cavities on a silicon-on-insulator platform. Three photonic wire cavities are side-coupled to obtain three modes equally separated in energy. The structure is designed to be self-filtering, and we show that the pump is rejected by almost two orders of magnitudes. We study both the stimulated and the spontaneous four-wave mixing processes: owing to the small modal volume, we find that signal and idler photons are generated with a hundred-fold increase in efficiency as compared to silicon micro-ring resonators.

id: 1307.5282
title: Analytic solution of the dynamics of quantum vortex reconnection
authors: Laurent Bou¨¦, Dmytro Khomenko, Victor S. L'vov, Itamar Procaccia
comments: 4 pages, 4 figs, PRL submitted
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5282
abstract: Experimental and simulational studies of the dynamics of vortex reconnections in quantum fluids showedthat the distance $d$ between the reconnecting vortices is close to a universal time dependence $d=D[\kappa|t_0-t|]^\alpha$ with $\alpha$ fluctuating around 1/2 and $\kappa=h/m$ is the quantum of circulation. Dimensional analysis, based on the assumption that the quantum of circulation $\kappa=h/m$ is the only relevant parameter in the problem, predicts $\alpha=1/2$. The theoretical calculation of the dimensionless coefficient $D$ in this formula remained an open problem. In this Letter we present an analytic calculation of $D$ in terms of the given geometry of the reconnecting vortices. We start from the numerically observed generic geometry on the way to vortex reconnection and demonstrate that the dynamics is well described by a self-similar analytic solution which provides the wanted information.

id: 1307.5291
title: Spin squeezing and EPR entanglement of two bimodal condensates in state-dependent potentials
authors: Hadrien Kurkjian, Krzysztof Pawlowski, Philipp Treutlein, Alice Sinatra
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5291
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme to entangle the collective spin states of two spatially separated bimodal Bose-Einstein condensates. Using a four-mode approximation for the atomic field, we show that elastic collisions in a state-dependent potential simultaneously create spin-squeezing in each condensate and entangle the collective spins of the two condensates. We investigate mostly analytically the non-local quantum correlations that arise in this system at short times and show that Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement is generated between the condensates. At long times we point out macroscopic entangled states and explain their structure. The scheme can be implemented with condensates in state-dependent microwave potentials on an atom chip.

id: 1307.5439
title: Thermal and transport properties of a non-relativistic quantum gas interacting through a delta-shell potential
authors: Sergey Postnikov, Madappa Prakash
comments: 79 pages, 55 figures, 3 tables, report (submitted to IJMP-E)
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics E Vol. 22 (2013) 1330023 (69 pages)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5439
abstract: This work extends the seminal work of Gottfried on the two-body quantum physics of particles interacting through a delta-shell potential to many-body physics by studying a system of non-relativistic particles when the thermal De-Broglie wavelength of a particle is smaller than the range of the potential and the density is such that average distance between particles is smaller than the range. The ability of the delta-shell potential to reproduce some basic properties of the deuteron are examined. Relations for moments of bound states are derived. The virial expansion is used to calculate the first quantum correction to the ideal gas pressure in the form of the second virial coefficient. Additionally, all thermodynamic functions are calculated up to the first order quantum corrections. For small departures from equilibrium, the net flows of mass, energy and momentum, characterized by the coefficients of diffusion, thermal conductivity and shear viscosity, respectively, are calculated. Properties of the gas are examined for various values of physical parameters including the case of infinite scattering length when the unitary limit is achieved.

id: 1307.5441
title: A class of exactly solvable models for the Schrodinger equation
authors: C. A. Downing
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 11, 977 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5441
abstract: We present a class of confining potentials which allow one to reduce the one-dimensional Schroodinger equation to a named equation of mathematical physics, namely either Bessel's or Whittaker's differential equation. In all cases, we provide closed form expressions for both the symmetric and antisymmetric wavefunction solutions, each along with an associated transcendental equation for allowed eigenvalues. The class of potentials considered contains an example of both cusp-like single wells and a double-well.

id: 1307.5445
title: Realization of BEC-BCS crossover physics in a compact oven-loaded magneto-optic trap apparatus
authors: Will Gunton, Mariusz Semczuk, Kirk W. Madison
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5445
abstract: We report on a simple oven-loaded magneto-optical trap (MOT) apparatus for the creation of both molecular Bose-Einstein condensates (mBEC) and degenerate Fermi gases (DFGs) of lithium. The apparatus does not require a Zeeman slower or a 2D MOT nor does it require any separation or differential pumping between the effusive atom source and the science chamber. The result is an exceedingly simple, inexpensive, and compact vacuum system ideal for miniaturization. We discuss our work in the context of other realizations of quantum degenerate gases by evaporation in optical dipole traps and illustrate that our apparatus meets the key requirements of atom number and trap lifetime. We also demonstrate with this system the production of a mBEC, and we use it to observe the pairing gap of a strongly interacting two-component DFG in the BEC-BCS crossover regime.

id: 1307.5590
title: Clustered Geometries Exploiting Quantum Coherence Effects for Efficient Energy Transfer in Light Harvesting
authors: Qing Ai, Tzu-Chi Yen, Bih-Yaw Jin, Yuan-Chung Cheng
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 4, 2577 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5590
abstract: Elucidating quantum coherence effects and geometrical factors for efficient energy transfer in photosynthesis has the potential to uncover non-classical design principles for advanced organic materials. We study energy transfer in a linear light-harvesting model to reveal that dimerized geometries with strong electronic coherences within donor and acceptor pairs exhibit significantly improved efficiency, which is in marked contrast to predictions of the classical F\"orster theory. We reveal that energy tuning due to coherent delocalization of photoexcitations is mainly responsible for the efficiency optimization. This coherence-assisted energy-tuning mechanism also explains the energetics and chlorophyll arrangements in the widely-studied Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex. We argue that a clustered network with rapid energy relaxation among donors and resonant energy transfer from donor to acceptor states provides a basic formula for constructing efficient light-harvesting systems, and the general principles revealed here can be generalized to larger systems and benefit future innovation of efficient molecular light-harvesting materials.

id: 1307.5596
title: Transition from ultrafast laser photo-electron emission to space charge limited current in a 1D gap
authors: Yangjie Liu, L. K. Ang
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, printed in {\itshape J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys.}
journal: 2014 JPhysD-100502.R1
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5596
abstract: A one-dimensional (1D) model has been constructed to study the transition of the time-dependent ultrafast laser photo-electron emission from a flat metallic surface to the space charge limited (SCL) current, including the effect of non-equilibrium laser heating on metals at the ultrafast time scale. At a high laser field, it is found that the space charge effect cannot be ignored and the SCL current emission is reached at a lower value predicted by a short pulse SCL current model that assumed a time-independent emission process. The threshold of the laser field to reach the SCL regime is determined over a wide range of operating parameters. The calculated results agree well with particle-in-cell (PIC) simulation. It is found that the space charge effect is more important for materials with lower work function like tungsten (4.4 eV) as compared to gold (5.4 eV). However for a flat surface, both materials will reach the space charge limited regime at the sufficiently high laser field such as $>$ 5 GV/m with a laser pulse length of tens to one hundred femtoseconds.

id: 1307.5649
title: Influence of Pulse width and Rabi frequency on the Population dynamics of three-level system in two-photon absorption process
authors: Nam-Chol Kim, Myong-Chol Ko, Song-Jin Im, Zhong-Hua Hao
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0402155 by other authors without attribution
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5649
abstract: We investigate the population dynamics of the three-level system in the two-photon absorption (TPA) process, mainly focusing the influence of pulse width and Rabi frequency on the population dynamics of the system. We observe the dependency of the population with the Rabi frequency and the pulse width. We also show that the arbitrary superposition state consisted in two states, upper state and lower state, is possible by controlling the pulse width and Rabi frequency. The results obtained can be used to the case of more complex multilevel system and they can be valuable for coherent quantum control in quantum information processing.

id: 1307.5663
title: Tuning inter-dot tunnel coupling of an etched graphene double quantum dot by adjacent metal gates
authors: Da Wei, Hai-Ou Li, Gang Cao, Gang Luo, Zhi-Xiong Zheng, Tao Tu, Ming Xiao, Guang-Can Guo, Hong-Wen Jiang, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 18pages,10 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 3175 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5663
abstract: Graphene double quantum open the possibility to use charge or spin degrees of freedom for storing and manipulating quantum information in this new electronic material. However, impurities and edge disorders in etched graphene nano-structures hinder the ability to control the inter-dot tunnel coupling, tc,the most important property of the artificial molecule. Here we report measurements of tc in an all-metal-gates-tuned graphene DQD. We find that tc can be controlled continuously about a factor of four by employing a single gate. Furthermore, tc, can be changed monotonically about another factor of four as electrons are gate-pumped into the dot one by one. The results suggest that the strength of tunnel coupling in etched DQDs can be varied in a rather broad range and in a controllable manner, which improves the outlook to use graphene as a base material for qubit applications.

id: 1307.5672
title: A scalable, fast and multichannel arbitrary waveform generator
authors: Muhammad Tanveer Baig, Michael Johanning, Andreas Wiese, Stefan Heidbrink, Michael Ziolkowski, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 124701 (2013)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5672
abstract: This article reports on development of a multichannel arbitrary waveform generator (MAWG), which simultaneously generates arbitrary voltage waveforms on 24 independent channels with a dynamic update rate of up to 25 Msps. A real-time execution of a single waveform and/or sequence of multiple waveforms in succession, with a user programmable arbitrary sequence order is provided under the control of a stand-alone sequencer circuit implemented using an FPGA. The device is operated using an internal clock and can be synced to other devices by means of the TTL pulses. The device can be used for output voltages in the range of up to +-9 V with a drift rate below +-10 uV/min and a maximum deviation less than +-300 uVpp over a period of two hours.

id: 1307.5696
title: Tensor renormalization of quantum many-body systems using projected entangled simplex states
authors: Z. Y. Xie, J. Chen, J. F. Yu, X. Kong, B. Normand, T. Xiang
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011025 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5696
abstract: We propose a new class of tensor-network states, which we name projected entangled simplex states (PESS), for studying the ground-state properties of quantum lattice models. These states extend the pair-correlation basis of projected entangled pair states (PEPS) to a simplex. PESS are an exact representation of the simplex solid states and provide an efficient trial wave function that satisfies the area law of entanglement entropy. We introduce a simple update method for evaluating the PESS wave function based on imaginary-time evolution and the higher-order singular-value decomposition of tensors. By applying this method to the spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice, we obtain accurate and systematic results for the ground-state energy, which approach the lowest upper bounds yet estimated for this quantity.

id: 1307.5726
title: Spin liquid phases of alkaline-earth-metal atoms at finite temperature
authors: P. Sinkovicz, A. Zamora, E. Szirmai, M. Lewenstein, G. Szirmai
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043619 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5726
abstract: We study spin liquid phases of spin-5/2 alkaline earth atoms on a honeycomb lattice at finite temperatures. Our analysis is based on a Gutzwiller projection variational approach recast to a path-integral formalism. In the framework of a saddle-point approximation we determine spin liquid phases with lowest free energy and study their temperature dependence. We identify a critical temperature, where all the spin liquid phases melt and the system goes to the paramagnetic phase. We also study the stability of the saddle-point solutions and show that a time-reversal symmetry breaking state, a so called chiral spin liquid phase is realized even at finite temperatures. We also determine the spin structure factor, which, in principle, is an experimentally measurable quantity and is the basic tool to map the spectrum of elementary excitations of the system.

id: 1307.5979
title: The Large-Volume Limit of a Quantum Tetrahedron is a Quantum Harmonic Oscillator
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; a few remarks (and pertaining references) added, version to appear in Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Class. Quant. Grav. 30, 235018 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5979
abstract: It is shown that the volume operator of a quantum tetrahedron is, in the sector of large eigenvalues, accurately described by a quantum harmonic oscillator. This result relies on the fact that (i) the volume operator couples only neighboring states of its standard basis, and (ii) its matrix elements show a unique maximum as a function of internal angular momentum quantum numbers. These quantum numbers, considered as a continuous variable, are the coordinate of the oscillator describing its quadratic potential, while the corresponding derivative defines a momentum operator. We also analyze the scaling properties of the oscillator parameters as a function of the size of the tetrahedron, and the role of different angular momentum coupling schemes.

id: 1307.5986
title: Trajectory eigenmodes of an orbiting wave source
authors: Emmanuel Fort, Yves Couder
comments: 
journal: EPL 102 16005 (2013)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5986
abstract: Resonances usually result from wave superpositions in cavities where they are due to the wave spatio-temporal folding imposed by the boundaries. These energy accumulations are the signature of the cavity eigenmodes. Here we study a situation in which wave superposition results from the motion of a source emitting sustained overlapping waves. It is found that resonances can be produced in an unbounded space, the boundary conditions being now defined by the trajectory. When periodic trajectories are investigated, it is found that for a discrete subset of orbits, resonant wave modes are excited. Trajectory eigenmodes thus emerge. These modes have three attributes. Their associated resonant wave fields are the Fourier transform of the source's trajectory. They are non-radiative and they satisfy the perimeter Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule.

id: 1307.6032
title: Charge qubit driven via the Josephson nonlinearity
authors: Jani Tuorila, Matti Silveri, Mika Sillanp??, Erkki Thuneberg, Yuriy Makhlin, Pertti Hakonen
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 26, 124001 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6032
abstract: We study the novel nonlinear phenomena that emerge in a charge qubit due to the interplay between a strong microwave flux drive and a periodic Josephson potential. We first analyze the system in terms of the linear Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg model, and show its inadequacy in a periodic system with several Landau-Zener crossings within a drive period. Experimentally, we probe the quasienergy levels of the driven qubit with an LC-cavity, which requires the use of linear response theory. We also show that our numerical calculations are in good agreement with the experimental data.

id: 1307.6057
title: Goos-H?nchen and Imbert-Fedorov shifts from a quantum-mechanical perspective
authors: Falk T?ppel, Marco Ornigotti, Andrea Aiello
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113059 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6057
abstract: We study the classical optics effects known as Goos-H\"anchen (GH) and Imbert-Fedorov (IF) shifts, occurring when reflecting a bounded light beam from a planar surface, by using a quantum-mechanical formalism. This new approach allows us to naturally separate the spatial shift into two parts, one independent on orbital angular momentum (OAM) and the other one showing OAM-induced spatial-vs-angular shift mixing. In addition, within this quantum-mechanical-like formalism, it becomes apparent that the angular shift is proportional to the beams angular spread, namely to the variance of the transverse components of the wave vector. Moreover, we extent our treatment to the enhancement of beam shifts via weak measurements and relate our results to recent experiments.

id: 1307.6128
title: Dynamically generated flat-band phases in optical kagome lattices
authors: Gia-Wei Chern, Chih-Chun Chien, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013609 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6128
abstract: Motivated by recent advances in the realization of complex two-dimensional optical lattices, we investigate theoretically the quantum transport of ultracold fermions in an optical kagome lattice. In particular, we focus on its extensively degenerate localized states (flat band). By loading fermions in a partial region of the lattice and depleting the mobile atoms at the far boundary of the initially unoccupied region, we find a dynamically generated flat-band insulator, which is also a population-inverted state. We further show that inclusion of weak repulsion leads to a dynamical stripe phase for two-component fermions in a similar setup. Finally, by preparing a topological insulating state in a partially occupied kagome lattice, we find that the topological chiral current decays but exhibits an interesting oscillating dynamics during the nonequilibrium transport. Given the broad variety of lattice geometries supporting localized or topological states, our work suggests new possibilities to use geometrical effects and their dynamics in atomtronic devices.

id: 1307.6214
title: Fock Parafermions and Self-Dual Representations of the Braid Group
authors: Emilio Cobanera, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 35 pages. Submitted to Nuclear Physics B
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012328 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6214
abstract: We introduce and describe in second quantization a family of particle species with \(p=2,3,\dots\) exclusion and \(\theta=2\pi/p\) exchange statistics. We call these anyons Fock parafermions, because they are the particles naturally associated to the parafermionic zero-energy modes, potentially realizable in mesoscopic arrays of fractional topological insulators. Their second-quantization description entails the concept of Fock algebra, i.e., a Fock space endowed with a statistical multiplication that captures and logically correlates these anyons' exclusion and exchange statistics. As a consequence normal-ordering continues to be a well-defined operation. Because of its relevance to topological quantum information processing, we also derive families of self-dual representations of the braid group for any $p$, with the Gaussian representation being a special case. The self-dual representations can be realized in terms of local quadratic combinations of either parafermions or Fock parafermions, an important requisite for physical implementation of quantum logic gates.

id: 1307.6271
title: Quantum mechanical perspectives and generalization of the fractional Fourier Transformation
authors: Jun-Hua Chen, Hong-Yi Fan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6271
abstract: Fourier and fractional-Fourier transformations are widely used in theoretical physics. In this paper we make quantum perspectives and generalization for the fractional Fourier transformation (FrFT). By virtue of quantum mechanical representation transformation and the method of integration within normal ordered product (IWOP) of operators, we find the key point for composing FrFT, and reveal the structure of FrFT. Following this procedure, a full family of generalized fractional transformations are discovered with the usual FrFT as one special case. The eigen-functions of arbitrary GFrT are derived explicitly.

id: 1307.6415
title: Metric deformation and boundary value problems in 3D
authors: Subhasis Panda, S. Pratik Khastgir
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures and 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6415
abstract: A novel perturbative method, proposed by Panda {\it et al.} [1] to solve the Helmholtz equation in two dimensions, is extended to three dimensions for general boundary surfaces. Although a few numerical works are available in the literature for specific domains in three dimensions such a general analytical prescription is presented for the first time. An appropriate transformation is used to get rid of the asymmetries in the domain boundary by mapping the boundary into an equivalent sphere with a deformed interior metric. The deformed metric produces new source terms in the original homogeneous equation. A deformation parameter measuring the deviation of the boundary from a spherical one is introduced as a perturbative parameter. With the help of standard Rayleigh-Schr{\"o}dinger perturbative technique the transformed equation is solved and the general solution is written down in a closed form at each order of perturbation. The solutions are boundary condition free and which make them widely applicable for various situations. Once the boundary conditions are applied to these general solutions the eigenvalues and the wavefunctions are obtained order by order. The efficacy of the method has been tested by comparing the analytic values against the numerical ones for three dimensional enclosures of various shapes. The method seems to work quite well for these shapes for both, Dirichlet as well as Neumann boundary conditions. The usage of spherical harmonics to express the asymmetries in the boundary surfaces helps us to consider a wide class of domains in three dimensions and also their fast convergence guarantees the convergence of the perturbative series for the energy. Direct applications of this method can be found in the field of quantum dots, nuclear physics, acoustical and electromagnetic cavities.

id: 1307.6416
title: The resolvent algebra: Ideals and dimension
authors: Detlev Buchholz
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6416
abstract: Let (X,\sigma) be a symplectic space admitting a complex structure and let R(X,\sigma) be the corresponding resolvent algebra, i.e. the C*-algebra generated by the resolvents of selfadjoint operators satisfying canonical commutation relations associated with (X,\sigma). In previous work this algebra was shown to provide a convenient framework for the analysis of quantum systems. In the present article its mathematical properties are elaborated with emphasis on its ideal structure. It is shown that R(X,\sigma) is always nuclear and, if X is finite dimensional, also of type I (postliminal). In the latter case dim(X) labels the isomorphism classes of the corresponding resolvent algebras. For X of arbitrary dimension, principal ideals are identified which are the building blocks for all other ideals. The maximal and minimal ideals of the resolvent algebra are also determined.

id: 1307.6497
title: The Heine-Stieltjes correspondence and a new angular momentum projection for many-particle systems
authors: Feng Pan, Bo Li, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Jerry P. Draayer
comments: 14 pages LaTeX with no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. C 88, 034305 (2013)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6497
abstract: A new angular momentum projection for systems of particles with arbitrary spins is formulated based on the Heine-Stieltjes correspondence, which can be regarded as the solutions of the mean-field plus pairing model in the strong pairing interaction G ->Infinity limit. Properties of the Stieltjes zeros of the extended Heine-Stieltjes polynomials, of which the roots determine the projected states, and the related Van Vleck zeros are discussed. The electrostatic interpretation of these zeros is presented. As examples, applications to n nonidentical particles of spin-1/2 and to identical bosons or fermions are made to elucidate the procedure and properties of the Stieltjes zeros and the related Van Vleck zeros. It is shown that the new angular momentum projection for n identical bosons or fermions can be simpli?ed with the branching multiplicity formula of U(N) supset O(3) and the special choices of the parameters used in the projection. Especially, it is shown that the solutions for identical bosons can always be expressed in terms of zeros of Jacobi polynomials. However, unlike non-identical particle systems, the n-coupled states of identical particles are non-orthogonal with respect to the multiplicity label after the projection.

id: 1307.6521
title: A quantum mechanical interpretation for the relativity of the space-time
authors: E. R. Cazaroto
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6521
abstract: In special relativity theory the physical quantities are generally expressed as function of the velocity. In the particular case of an extended object, the factor 1/gamma of Lorentz contraction of its length in the direction of motion is written as a function of the velocity of the extended object. The same happens with the Lorentz factor gamma of time interval dilation of a moving clock. In this paper we show that when gamma is written as a function of the relativistic energy of the considered object the resulting expressions for the length and for the time interval suggest that the contraction of length as well as the dilation of the time interval are manifestations of the wave behavior of matter.

id: 1307.6592
title: Entanglement spectroscopy of SU(2)-broken phases in two dimensions
authors: F. Kolley, S. Depenbrock, I.P. McCulloch, U. Schollw?ck, V. Alba
comments: 9 page, 6 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 144426 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6592
abstract: In magnetically ordered systems the breaking of SU(2) symmetry in the thermodynamic limit is associated with the appearance of a special type of low-lying excitations in finite size energy spectra, the so called tower of states (TOS). In the present work we numerically demonstrate that there is a correspondence between the SU(2) tower of states and the lower part of the ground state entanglement spectrum (ES). Using state-of-the-art DMRG calculations, we examine the ES of the 2D antiferromagnetic J1-J2 Heisenberg model on both the triangular and kagom\'e lattice. At large ferromagnetic J2 the model exhibits a magnetically ordered ground state. Correspondingly, its ES contains a family of low-lying levels that are reminiscent of the energy tower of states. Their behavior (level counting, finite size scaling in the thermodynamic limit) sharply reflects tower of states features, and is characterized in terms of an effective entanglement Hamiltonian that we provide. At large system sizes TOS levels are divided from the rest by an entanglement gap. Our analysis suggests that (TOS) entanglement spectroscopy provides an alternative tool for detecting and characterizing SU(2)-broken phases using DMRG.

id: 1307.6615
title: On the macroscopic quantization in mesoscopic rings and single-electron devices
authors: Andrew G. Semenov
comments: 4.5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6615
abstract: In this letter the phenomenon of macroscopic quantization is investigated using the particle on the ring interacting with the dissipative environment as an example. It is shown that the phenomenon of macroscopic quantization has the clear physical origin in that case. It follows from the angular momentum conservation combined with momentum quantization for bare particle on the ring . The existence an observable which can take only integer values in the zero temperature limit is rigorously proved. With the aid of the mapping between particle on the ring and Ambegaokar-Eckern-Schon model, which can be used to describe single-electron devices, it is demonstrated that this observable is analogous to the "effective charge" introduced by Burmistrov and Pruisken for the single-electron box problem. Different consequences of the revealed physics are discussed, as well as a generalization of the obtained results to the case of more complicated systems.

id: 1307.6725
title: Confinement and quantum anomaly in quasi-1D spinless fermion chains
authors: Thiago Prud¨ºncio
comments: 51 pages, 54 figures. Version 2 corrects authorship
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 27, 1350093 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6725
abstract: We consider the field renormalization group (RG) of two coupled one-spatial dimension (1D) spinless fermion chains under intraforward, interforward, interbackscattering and interumklapp interactions until two-loops order. Up to this order, we demonstrate the quantum confinement in the RG flow, where the interband chiral Fermi points reduce to single chiral Fermi points and the renormalized interaction couplings have Luttinger liquid fixed points. We show that this quasi-1D system is equivalently described in terms of one and two-color interactions and address the problem of quantum anomaly, inherent to this system, as a direct consequence of coupling 1+1 free Dirac fields to one and two-color interactions.

id: 1307.6813
title: Contact parameters in two dimensions for general three-body systems
authors: F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, M. T. Yamashita, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 013048
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6813
abstract: We study the two dimensional three-body problem in the general case of three distinguishable particles interacting through zero-range potentials. The Faddeev decomposition is used to write the momentum-space wave function. We show that the large-momentum asymptotic spectator function has the same functional form as derived previously for three identical particles. We derive analytic relations between the three different Faddeev components for three distinguishable particles. We investigate the one-body momentum distributions both analytically and numerically and analyze the tail of the distributions to obtain two- and three-body contact parameters. We specialize from the general cases to examples of two identical, interacting or non-interacting, particles. We find that the two-body contact parameter is not a universal constant in the general case and show that the universality is recovered when a subsystem is composed of two identical non-interacting particles. We also show that the three-body contact parameter is negligible in the case of one non-interacting subsystem compared to the situation where all subsystem are bound. As example, we present results for mixtures of Lithium with two Cesium or two Potassium atoms, which are systems of current experimental interest.

id: 1307.6833
title: Geometrical crossover in two-body systems in a magnetic field
authors: M. Cerkaski, R.G. Nazmitdinov
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures; corrected typos
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 46 (2013) 325304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6833
abstract: An algebraic approach is formulated in the harmonic approximation to describe a dynamics of two-fermion systems, confined in three-dimensional axially symmetric parabolic potential, in an external magnetic field. The fermion interaction is considered in the form U_(M)(r)= alpha_(M)r^{-M} (alpha_(M)>0, M>0). The formalism of a semi-simple Lie group is applied to analyse symmetries of the considered system. Explicit algebraic expressions are derived in terms of system's parameters and the magnetic field strength to trace the evolution of the equilibrium shape. It is predicted that the interplay of classical and quantum correlations may lead to a quantum shape transition from a lateral to a vertical localization of fermions in the confined system. The analytical results demonstrate a good agreement with numerical results for two-electron quantum dots in the magnetic field, when classical correlations dominate in the dynamics.

id: 1307.6852
title: One-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model with pure three-body interactions
authors: Tomasz Sowi¨½ski
comments: Author version. The original publication is available at this http URL
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 12, 473 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6852
abstract: The extended Bose-Hubbard model with pure three-body local interactions is studied using the Density Matrix Renormalization Group approach. The shapes of the first two insulating lobes are discussed, and the values of the critical tunneling for which the system undergoes the quantum phase transition from insulating to superfluid phase are predicted. It is shown that stability of insulating phases, in contrast to the standard Bose-Hubbard model, is enhanced for larger fillings. It is also shown that, on the tip of the boundary of the insulating phase, the model under consideration belongs to the Berenzinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless universality class.

id: 1307.6888
title: Casimir interaction at liquid nitrogen temperature: Comparison between experiment and theory
authors: R. Castillo-Garza, J. Xu, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.88, 075402 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6888
abstract: We have measured the normalized gradient of the Casimir force between Au-coated surfaces of the sphere and the plate and equivalent Casimir pressure between two parallel Au plates at T=77K. These measurements have been performed by means of dynamic force microscope adapted for operating at low temperatures in the frequency shift technique. It was shown that the measurement results at T=77K are in a very good agreement with those at T=300K and with computations at T=77K using both theoretical approaches to the thermal Casimir force proposed in the literature. No thermal effect in the Casimir pressure was observed in the limit of experimental errors with the increase of temperature from T=77K to T=300K. Taking this into account, we have discussed the possible role of patch potentials in the comparison between measured and calculated Casimir pressures.

id: 1307.6920
title: Droplets moving on a fluid surface: interference pattern from two slits
authors: Valeriy I. Sbitnev
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.6920
abstract: The Feynman path integral approach for solving the motion of a droplet along a silicon oil surface is developed by replacing the Planck constant by a surrogate parameter. The latter is proportional to the surface tension of the silicon oil multiplied by the area of the thin air film, separating the droplet from the oil, and by the half-period of the Faraday oscillations. It is shown that the Navier-Stokes equation together with the mass conservation equation can be reduced to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation when the surrogate parameter replaces the Planck constant. The Feynman path integral underlying the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is used then to calculate a wave function that plays the role of the de Broglie pilot-wave.

id: 1307.7036
title: Many-body Matter-wave Dark Soliton
authors: Dominique Delande, Krzysztof Sacha
comments: 4-5 pages, 4 figures, version accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7036
abstract: The Gross-Pitaevskii equation - which describes interacting bosons in the mean-field approximation - possesses solitonic solutions in dimension one. For repulsively interacting particles, the stationary soliton is dark, i.e. is represented by a local density minimum. Many-body effects may lead to filling of the dark soliton. Using quasi-exact many-body simulations, we show that, in single realizations, the soliton appears totally dark although the single particle density tends to be uniform.

id: 1307.7044
title: Quantum synchronization of a driven self-sustained oscillator
authors: Stefan Walter, Andreas Nunnenkamp, Christoph Bruder
comments: 4.5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 094102 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7044
abstract: Synchronization is a universal phenomenon that is important both in fundamental studies and in technical applications. Here we investigate synchronization in the simplest quantum-mechanical scenario possible, i.e., a quantum-mechanical self-sustained oscillator coupled to an external harmonic drive. Using the power spectrum we analyze synchronization in terms of frequency entrainment and frequency locking in close analogy to the classical case. We show that there is a step-like crossover to a synchronized state as a function of the driving strength. In contrast to the classical case, there is a finite threshold value in driving. Quantum noise reduces the synchronized region and leads to a deviation from strict frequency locking.

id: 1307.7194
title: Probing surface electric field noise with a single ion
authors: N. Daniilidis, S. Gerber, G. Bolloten, M. Ramm, A. Ransford, E. Ulin-Avila, I. Talukdar, H. H?ffner
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7194
abstract: We report room-temperature electric field noise measurements combined with in-situ surface characterization and cleaning of a microfabricated ion trap. We used a single-ion electric field noise sensor in combination with surface cleaning and analysis tools, to investigate the relationship between electric field noise from metal surfaces in vacuum and the composition of the surface. These experiments were performed in a novel setup that integrates ion trapping capabilities with surface analysis tools. We find that surface cleaning of an aluminum-copper surface significantly reduces the level of electric field noise, but the surface does not need to be atomically clean to show noise levels comparable to those of the best cryogenic traps. The post-cleaning noise levels are low enough to allow fault-tolerant trapped-ion quantum information processing on a microfabricated surface trap.

id: 1307.7277
title: Qualitative features of the rearrangement of molecular energy spectra from a "wall-crossing" perspective
authors: Boris Zhilinskii, Toshihiro Iwai
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, misprints corrected, published in Phys. Lett.A
journal: Physics Letters A, 377 (2013) 2481-2486
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7277
abstract: Qualitatively different systems of molecular energy bands are studied on example of a parametric family of effective Hamiltonians describing rotational structure of triply degenerate vibrational state of a cubic symmetry molecule. The modification of band structure under variation of control parameters is associated with a topological invariant "delta-Chern". This invariant is evaluated by using a local Hamiltonian for the control parameter values assigned at the boundary between adjacent parameter domains which correspond to qualitatively different band structures.

id: 1307.7285
title: Squeezing with a flux-driven Josephson parametric amplifier
authors: L. Zhong, E. P. Menzel, R. Di Candia, P. Eder, M. Ihmig, A. Baust, M. Haeberlein, E. Hoffmann, K. Inomata, T. Yamamoto, Y. Nakamura, E. Solano, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 24 pages, 18 PDF figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 125013 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7285
abstract: Josephson parametric amplifiers (JPA) are promising devices for applications in circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) and for studies on propagating quantum microwaves because of their good noise performance. In this work, we present a systematic characterization of a flux-driven JPA at millikelvin temperatures. In particular, we study in detail its squeezing properties by two different detection techniques. With the homodyne setup, we observe squeezing of vacuum fluctuations by superposing signal and idler bands. For a quantitative analysis we apply dual-path cross-correlation techniques to reconstruct the Wigner functions of various squeezed vacuum and thermal states. At 10 dB signal gain, we find 4.9+-0.2 dB squeezing below vacuum. In addition, we discuss the physics behind squeezed coherent microwave fields. Finally, we analyze the JPA noise temperature in the degenerate mode and find a value smaller than the standard quantum limit for phase-insensitive amplifiers.

id: 1307.7368
title: Universal scaling at non-thermal fixed points of a two-component Bose gas
authors: Markus Karl, Boris Nowak, Thomas Gasenzer
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063615 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7368
abstract: Quasi-stationary far-from-equilibrium critical states of a two-component Bose gas are studied in two spatial dimensions. After the system has undergone an initial dynamical instability it approaches a non-thermal fixed point. At this critical point the structure of the gas is characterised by ensembles of (quasi-)topological defects such as vortices, skyrmions and solitons which give rise to universal power-law behaviour of momentum correlation functions. The resulting power-law spectra can be interpreted in terms of strong-wave-turbulence cascades driven by particle transport into long-wave-length excitations. Scaling exponents are determined on both sides of the miscible-immiscible transition controlled by the ratio of the intra-species to inter-species couplings. Making use of quantum turbulence methods, we explain the specific values of the exponents from the presence of transient (quasi-)topological defects.

id: 1307.7380
title: Jacobi polynomials and SU(2,2)
authors: E. Celeghini, M.A. del Olmo, M.A. Velasco
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7380
abstract: A ladder structure of operators is presented for the Jacobi polynomials, J_n^(a,b)(x), with parameters n, a and b integers, showing that they are related to the unitary irreducible representation of SU(2,2) with quadratic Casimir C_SU(2,2)=-3/2. As they determine also a base of square-integrable functions, the universal enveloping algebra of su(2,2) is homomorphic to the space of linear operators acting on the L^2 functions defined on (-1,+1) x Z x Z/2.

id: 1307.7424
title: Triplet states in the Be atom: bound state spectrum and hyperfine structure
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, Maria Belen Ruiz
comments: A substantially more complete analysis of this problem can be found in our new publication arXiv:1310.2657 which also includes many other related results for the triplet bound state spectra of the Be-atom. See updated and extended version: ArXiv:1310.2657
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7424
abstract: The bound state spectrum of low-lying triplet states in the Be atom is investigated. In particular, we perform accurate computations of various bound triplet S, P, D, F, and G states in the four-electron Be atom. For the 23S(L=0) state in the Be atom we determine the hyperfine structure and a number of bound states properties by using results of highly accurate computations. The energies of the hyperfine structure levels for this state are {\epsilon}(F=12) = -13725.927(7) MHz, {\epsilon}(F=32) = -5490.371(7) MHz and {\epsilon}(F=52) = 8235.556(7) MHz, respectively. The observed hyperfine structure splittings for the the 23S(L=0) state in the 9Be atom must be {\Delta}12 = 8235.556(7) MHz and {\Delta}23 = 13725.927(7) MHz, respectively.

id: 1307.7535
title: Universal departure from Johnson-Nyquist relation caused by limited resolution
authors: Yasuhiro Yamada, Masatoshi Imada
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review B 89, 205421 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7535
abstract: Exploiting the two-point measurement statistics, we propose a quantum measurement scheme of current with limited resolution of electron counting. Our scheme is equivalent to the full counting statistics in the long-time measurement with the ideal resolution, but is theoretically extended to take into account the resolution limit of actual measurement devices. Applying our scheme to a resonant level model, we show that the limited resolution of current measurement gives rise to a positive excess noise, which leads to a deviation from the Johnson-Nyquist relation. The deviation exhibits universal single-parameter scaling with the scaling variable $Q\equiv S_{\rm{}M}/S_0$, which represents the degree of the insufficiency of the resolution. Here, $S_0$ is the intrinsic noise, and $S_{\rm{}M}$ is the positive quantity that has the same dimension as $S_0$ and is defined solely by the measurement scheme. For the lack of the ideal resolution, the deviation emerges for $Q<1$ as $2\exp[-(2\pi)^2/Q]$ having an essential singularity at $Q=0$, which followed by the square root dependence $\sqrt{Q/4\pi}$ for $Q\gg1$. Our findings offer an explanation for the anomalous enhancement of noise temperature observed in Johnson noise thermometry.

id: 1307.7598
title: Accurate Atom Counting in Mesoscopic Ensembles
authors: D. B. Hume, I. Stroescu, M. Joos, W. Muessel, H. Strobel, M. K. Oberthaler
comments: Published version. 5 pages, 4 figures main text + 3 pages, 1 figure supplemental information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 253001 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7598
abstract: Many cold atom experiments rely on precise atom number detection, especially in the context of quantum-enhanced metrology where effects at the single particle level are important. Here, we investigate the limits of atom number counting via resonant fluorescence detection for mesoscopic samples of trapped atoms. We characterize the precision of these fluorescence measurements beginning from the single-atom level up to more than one thousand. By investigating the primary noise sources, we obtain single-atom resolution for atom numbers as high as 1200. This capability is an essential prerequisite for future experiments with highly entangled states of mesoscopic atomic ensembles.

id: 1307.7694
title: Multimode model for an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a ring-shaped optical lattice
authors: D. M. Jezek, H. M. Cataldo
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013636 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7694
abstract: We study the population dynamics of a ring-shaped optical lattice with a high number of particles per site and a low, below ten, number of wells. Using a localized on-site basis defined in terms of stationary states, we were able to construct a multiple-mode model depending on relevant hopping and on-site energy parameters. We show that in case of two wells, our model corresponds exactly to the latest improvement of the two-mode model. We derive a formula for the self-trapping period, which turns out to be chiefly ruled by the on-site interaction energy parameter. By comparing to time dependent Gross-Pitaevskii simulations, we show that the multimode model results can be enhanced in a remarkable way over all the regimes by only renormalizing such a parameter. Finally, using a different approach which involves only the ground state density, we derive an effective interaction energy parameter that shows to be in accordance with the renormalized one.

id: 1307.7705
title: Compton Effect in the Medium with Non-unity Refractive Index
authors: S. G. Chefranov, A. G. Chefranov, Vinay Venugopal
comments: 6 pages, PIERS 2013 in Stockholm, 12-15 August, 2013
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7705
abstract: The foundations of the modern quantum theory of electro-magnetic radiation and its interaction with medium are constituted by the Einstein's theory of photo-effect and the theory of Compton effect. However, in the theory proposed by Compton and subsequent refinements, the medium features in explicit form are not generally accounted at all. This theory is based on the relationship between the photon momentum and its energy that may take place only in vacuum, but not in a medium with non-unity refractive index n. Here, we use Abraham's representation for the momentum of a photon in medium for the creation of a new consistent Compton effect theory accounting for media features. A new condition under which anomalous Compton effect is possible, is defined. In our case, due to the photon scattering on a moving electron, the photon's energy can increase when the electron velocity is above a threshold value, in analogy with the Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation effect. In our theory we also provide a new description of the parameters for scattered electrons, which is important for the experimental determination of the dependence of the Compton effect in medium on refractive index n.

id: 1307.7718
title: Universal aspects in the behavior of the entanglement spectrum in one dimension: scaling transition at the factorization point and ordered entangled structures
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, S. Montangero, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 125142 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7718
abstract: We investigate the scaling of the entanglement spectrum and of the R\'enyi block entropies and determine its universal aspects in the ground state of critical and noncritical one-dimensional quantum spin models. In all cases, the scaling exhibits an oscillatory behavior that terminates at the factorization point and whose frequency is universal. Parity effects in the scaling of the R\'enyi entropies for gapless models at zero field are thus shown to be a particular case of such universal behavior. Likewise, the absence of oscillations for the Ising chain in transverse field is due to the vanishing value of the factorizing field for this particular model. In general, the transition occurring at the factorizing field between two different scaling regimes of the entanglement spectrum corresponds to a quantum transition to the formation of finite-range, ordered structures of quasi-dimers, quasi-trimers, and quasi-polymers. This entanglement-driven transition is superimposed to and independent of the long-range magnetic order in the broken symmetry phase. Therefore, it conforms to recent generalizations that identify and classify the quantum phases of matter according to the structure of ground-state entanglement patterns. We characterize this form of quantum order by a global order parameter of entanglement defined as the integral, over blocks of all lengths, of the R\'enyi entropy of infinite order. Equivalently, it can be defined as the integral of the bipartite single-copy or geometric entanglement. The global entanglement order parameter remains always finite at fields below the factorization point and vanishes identically above it.

id: 1307.7726
title: Tensor network trial states for chiral topological phases in two dimensions
authors: J. Dubail, N. Read
comments: 5 pages plus 4 pages supplementary material, inc 3 figures. v2: improved no-go theorem, additional references
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7726
abstract: Trial wavefunctions that can be represented by summing over locally-coupled degrees of freedom are called tensor network states; they have seemed difficult to construct for two-dimensional topological phases that possess protected gapless edge excitations. We show it can be done for chiral states of free fermions, using a Gaussian Grassmann integral, yielding p_x \pm i p_y and Chern insulator states. We show that any strictly short-range quadratic parent Hamiltonian for these states is gapless. Further examples are analogs of fractional (including non-Abelian) quantum Hall phases.

id: 1307.7744
title: Dispelling the Quantum Spooks -- a Clue that Einstein Missed?
authors: Huw Price, Ken Wharton
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, 2 boxes
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7744
abstract: It is well-known that Bell's Theorem and other No Hidden Variable theorems have a "retrocausal loophole", because they assume that the values of pre-existing hidden variables are independent of future measurement settings. (This is often referred to, misleadingly, as the assumption of "free will".) However, it seems to have gone unnoticed until recently that a violation of this assumption is a straightforward consequence of time-symmetry, given an understanding of the quantization of light that would have seemed natural to Einstein after 1905. The new argument shows precisely why quantization makes a difference, and why time-symmetry alone does not imply retrocausality, in the classical context. It is true that later developments in quantum theory provide a way to avoid retrocausality, without violating time-symmetry; but this escape route relies on the "ontic" conception of the wave function that Einstein rejected. Had this new argument been noticed much sooner, then, it seems likely that retrocausality would have been regarded as the default option for hidden variables theories (a fact that would then have seemed confirmed by Bell's Theorem and the No Hidden Variable theorems). This paper presents these ideas at a level intended to be accessible to general readers.

id: 1307.7763
title: Twisted Injectivity in PEPS and the Classification of Quantum Phases
authors: Oliver Buerschaper
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 351, 447-476 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7763
abstract: We introduce a class of projected entangled pair states (PEPS) which is based on a group symmetry twisted by a 3-cocycle of the group. This twisted symmetry gives rise to a new standard form for PEPS from which we construct a family of local Hamiltonians which are gapped, frustration-free and include fixed points of the renormalization group flow. Moreover, we advance the classification of 2D gapped quantum spin systems by showing how this new standard form for PEPS determines the emergent topological order of these local Hamiltonians. Specifically, we identify their universality class as Dijkgraaf-Witten topological quantum field theory (TQFT).

id: 1307.7843
title: Effect of exchange interaction on the spin fluctuations of localized electrons
authors: D.S. Smirnov, M.M. Glazov, E.L. Ivchenko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics of the Solid State 56, No. 2, pp. 254-262 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7843
abstract: In this paper a microscopic theory of spin fluctuations in an ensemble of electrons localized on donors in a bulk semiconductor has been developed. Both the hyperfine interaction of the electron spin with spins of lattice nuclei and the exchange interaction between the electrons have been taken into account. We propose a model of clusters to calculate spin noise spectra of the ensemble of localized charge carriers. It has been shown that the electron-electron exchange interaction leads to an effective averaging of random nuclear fields and a shift of the peak in the spin-fluctuation spectrum towards lower frequencies.

id: 1307.7899
title: Harmonic oscillator with minimal length, minimal momentum, and maximal momentum uncertainties in SUSYQM framework
authors: M. Asghari, P. Pedram, K. Nozari
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys. Lett. B 725, 451 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7899
abstract: We consider a Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) framework which predicts a maximal uncertainty in momentum and minimal uncertainties both in position and momentum. We apply supersymmetric quantum mechanics method and the shape invariance condition to obtain the exact harmonic oscillator eigenvalues in this GUP context. We find the supersymmetric partner Hamiltonians and show that the harmonic oscillator belongs to a hierarchy of Hamiltonians with a shift in momentum representation and different masses and frequencies. We also study the effect of a uniform electric field on the harmonic oscillator energy spectrum in this setup.

id: 1307.7972
title: Generalization of the hypervirial and Feynman-Hellman theorems
authors: Teimuraz Nadareishvili, Anzor Khelashvili
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0907.1824
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7972
abstract: Using well-known methods we generalize (hyper)virial theorems to case of singular potential. Discussion is carried on for most general second order differential equation, which involves all physically interesting cases, such as Schr\"odinger and two-body Klein-Gordon equations with singular potentials. Some physical consequences are discussed. The connection with Feynman-Hellmann like theorems are also considered and some relevant differences are underlined.

id: 1307.8056
title: Landau level transitions indoped graphene in a time dependent magnetic field
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Pablo Bechthold, Paula Jasen, Estela Gonzalez, Oscar Nagel
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physica B, vol.427, 97-105, (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8056
abstract: The aim of this work is to describe the Landau levels transitions of Bloch electrons in doped graphene with an arbitrary time dependent magnetic field in the long wavelength approximation. In particular, transitions from the m Landau level to the m + 1 and m + 2 Landau levels are studied using time-dependent perturbation theory. Time intervals are computed in which transition probabilities tend to zero at low order in the coupling constant. In particular, Landau level transitions are studied in the case of Bloch electrons travelling in the direction of the applied magnetic force and the results are compared with classical and revival periods of electrical current in graphene. Finally, current probabilities are computed for the n = 0 and n = 1 Landau levels showing expected oscillating behavior with modified cyclotron frequency.

id: 1307.8078
title: Kinetic constraints, hierarchical relaxation and onset of glassiness in strongly interacting and dissipative Rydberg gases
authors: Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 215305 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8078
abstract: We show that the dynamics of a laser driven Rydberg gas in the limit of strong dephasing is described by a master equation with manifest kinetic constraints. The equilibrium state of the system is uncorrelated but the constraints in the dynamics lead to spatially correlated collective relaxation reminiscent of glasses. We study and quantify the evolution towards equilibrium in one and two dimensions, and analyze how the degree of glassiness and the relaxation time are controlled by the interaction strength between Rydberg atoms. We also find that spontaneous decay of Rydberg excitations leads to an interruption of glassy relaxation that takes the system to a highly correlated non-equilibrium stationary state. The results presented here, which are in principle also applicable other systems such as polar molecules and atoms with large magnetic dipole moments, show that the collective behavior of cold atomic and molecular ensembles can be similar to that found in soft condensed-matter systems.

id: 1307.8117
title: Entanglement does not generally decrease under renormalization
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 7 pages, fixed an incorrect reference
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8117
abstract: Renormalization is often described as the removal or "integrating out" of high energy degrees of freedom. In the context of quantum matter, one might suspect that quantum entanglement provides a sharp way to characterize such a loss of degrees of freedom. Indeed, for quantum many-body systems with Lorentz invariance, such entanglement monotones have been proven to exist in one, two, and three spatial dimensions. In each dimension d, a certain term in the entanglement entropy of a d-ball decreases along renormalization group (RG) flows. Given that most quantum many-body systems available in the laboratory are not Lorentz invariant, it is important to generalize these results if possible. In this work we demonstrate the impossibility of a wide variety of such generalizations. We do this by exhibiting a series of counterexamples with understood renormalization group flows which violate entanglement RG monotonicity. We discuss bosons at finite density, fermions at finite density, and majorization in Lorentz invariant theories, among other results.

id: 1307.8129
title: Manipulating scattering of ultracold atoms with light-induced dissipation
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko
comments: Associate Editor's inaugural article for Frontiers in Physical Chemistry and Chemical Physics
journal: Front. Physics 1, 17 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8129
abstract: Recently it has been shown that pairs of atoms can form metastable bonds due to non-conservative forces induced by dissipation [Lemeshko&Weimer, Nature Comm. 4, 2230 (2013)]. Here we study the dynamics of interaction-induced coherent population trapping - the process responsible for the formation of dissipatively bound molecules. We derive the effective dissipative potentials induced between ultracold atoms by laser light, and study the time evolution of the scattering states. We demonstrate that binding occurs on short timescales of ~10 microseconds, even if the initial kinetic energy of the atoms significantly exceeds the depth of the dissipative potential. Dissipatively-bound molecules with preordained bond lengths and vibrational wavefunctions can be created and detected in current experiments with ultracold atoms.

id: 1307.8185
title: Maximal Covariance Group of Wigner Transforms and Pseudo-Differential Operators
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Maurice A. de Gosson, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 10 pages, accepted for publication in Proc. Amer. Math. Soc
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8185
abstract: We show that the linear symplectic and anti-symplectic transformations form the maximal covariance group for both the Wigner transform and Weyl operators. The proof is based on a new result from symplectic geometry which characterizes symplectic and anti-symplectic matrices, and which allows us, in addition, to refine a classical result on the preservation of symplectic capacities of ellipsoids.

id: 1307.8282
title: An ultra-bright atom laser
authors: V. Bolpasi, N.K. Efremidis, M. J. Morrissey, P. Condylis, D. Sahagun, M. Baker, W. von Klitzing
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, supplementary material online at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8282
abstract: We present a novel, ultra-bright atom-laser and ultra-cold thermal atom beam. Using rf-radiation we strongly couple the magnetic hyperfine levels of 87Rb atoms in a magnetically trapped Bose-Einstein condensate. At low rf-frequencies gravity opens a small hole in the trapping potenital and a well collimated, extremely bright atom laser emerges from just below the condensate. As opposed to traditional atom lasers based on weak coupling, this technique allows us to outcouple atoms at an arbitrarily large rate. We demonstrate an increase in flux per atom in the BEC by a factor of sixteen compared to the brightest quasi-continuous atom laser. Furthermore, we produce by two orders of magnitude the coldest thermal atom beam to date (200 nK).

id: 1307.8378
title: Non-markovian polariton dynamics in organic strong coupling
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Cyriaque Genet, Astrid Lambrecht, Thomas W. Ebbesen, Serge Reynaud
comments: Expanded version: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 69 (2015) 24
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8378
abstract: Strongly coupled organic systems are characterized by unusually large Rabi splittings, even in the vacuum state. They show the counter-intuitive feature of a lifetime of the lower polariton state longer than for all other excited states. Here we build up a new theoretical framework to understand the dynamics of such coupled system. In particular, we show that the non-Markovian character of the relaxation of the dressed organic system explains the long lifetime of the lower polariton state.

id: 1307.8406
title: High-fidelity gates in quantum dot spin qubits
authors: Teck Seng Koh, S. N. Coppersmith, Mark Friesen
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110, 19695 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8406
abstract: Several logical qubits and quantum gates have been proposed for semiconductor quantum dots controlled by voltages applied to top gates. The different schemes can be difficult to compare meaningfully. Here we develop a theoretical framework to evaluate disparate qubit-gating schemes on an equal footing. We apply the procedure to two types of double-dot qubits: the singlet-triplet (ST) and the semiconducting quantum dot hybrid qubit. We investigate three quantum gates that flip the qubit state: a DC pulsed gate, an AC gate based on logical qubit resonance (LQR), and a gate-like process known as stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP). These gates are all mediated by an exchange interaction that is controlled experimentally using the interdot tunnel coupling $g$ and the detuning $\epsilon$, which sets the energy difference between the dots. Our procedure has two steps. First, we optimize the gate fidelity ($f$) for fixed $g$ as a function of the other control parameters; this yields an $f^\text{opt}(g)$ that is universal for different types of gates. Next, we identify physical constraints on the control parameters; this yields an upper bound $f^\text{max}$ that is specific to the qubit-gate combination. We show that similar gate fidelities ($ \sim 99.5$%) should be attainable for ST qubits in isotopically purified Si, and for hybrid qubits in natural Si. Considerably lower fidelities are obtained for GaAs devices, due to the fluctuating magnetic fields $\Delta B$ produced by nuclear spins.

id: 1307.8416
title: Improving the Gutzwiller Ansatz with Matrix Product States
authors: Sebastiano Peotta, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, a working code is available (see References)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8416
abstract: The Gutzwiller variational wavefunction (GVW) is commonly employed to capture correlation effects in condensed matter systems such as ferromagnets, ultracold bosonic gases, correlated superconductors, etc. By noticing that the grand-canonical and number-conserving Gutzwiller Ans\"atze are in fact the zero-order approximation of an expansion in the truncation parameter of a Matrix Product State (MPS), we argue that MPSs, and the algorithms used to operate on them, are not only flexible computational tools but also a unifying theoretical framework that can be used to generalize and improve on the GVW. In fact, we show that a number-conserving GVW is less efficient in capturing the ground state of a quantum system than a more general MPS which can be optimized with comparable computational resources. Moreover, we suggest a corrected time-dependent density matrix renormalization group algorithm that ensures the conservation of the expectation value of the number of particles when a GVW or a MPS are not explicitly number-conserving. The GVW dynamics obtained with our algorithm compares very well with the exact one in 1D. Most importantly, the algorithm works in any dimension for a GVW. We thus expect it to be of great value in the study of the dynamics of correlated quantum systems.

id: 1307.8417
title: Wigner distribution functions for complex dynamical systems: the emergence of the Wigner-Boltzmann equation
authors: Dries Sels, Fons Brosens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8417
abstract: The equation of motion for the reduced Wigner function of a system coupled to an external quantum system is presented for the specific case when the external quantum system can be modeled as a set of harmonic oscillators. The result is derived from the Wigner function formulation of the Feynman-Vernon influence functional theory. It is shown how the true self-energy for the equation of motion is connected with the influence functional for the path integral. Explicit expressions are derived in terms of the bare Wigner propagator. Finally, we show under which approximations the resulting equation of motion reduces to the Wigner-Boltzmann equation.

id: 1307.4038
title: An alternative Gospel of structure: order, composition, processes
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Introductory chapter to C. Heunen, M. Sadrzadeh, and E. Grefenstette. Quantum Physics and Linguistics: A Compositional, Diagrammatic Discourse. Oxford University Press, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4038
abstract: We survey some basic mathematical structures, which arguably are more primitive than the structures taught at school. These structures are orders, with or without composition, and (symmetric) monoidal categories. We list several `real life' incarnations of each of these. This paper also serves as an introduction to these structures and their current and potentially future uses in linguistics, physics and knowledge representation.

id: 1307.8007
title: Classical-Quantum Arbitrarily Varying Wiretap Channel - A Capacity Formula with Ahlswede Dichotomy - Resources
authors: Holger Boche, Minglai Cai, Christian Deppe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.8007
abstract: We establish Ahlswede Dichotomy for arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channels. This means that either the deterministic secrecy capacity of an arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channel is zero or it equals its randomness assisted secrecy capacity. We analyze the secrecy capacity of arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channels when the sender and the receiver use various resources. It turns out that having randomness, common randomness, and correlation as resources are very helpful for achieving a positive deterministic secrecy capacity of arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channels. We prove the phenomenon ?super-activation? for arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channels, i.e., if we use two arbitrarily varying classical-quantum wiretap channels, both with zero deterministic secrecy capacity together,they allow perfect secure transmission.

id: 1307.4233
title: Hamiltonian Path Integrals In Momentum Space Representation via White Noise Techniques
authors: Wolfgang Bock
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.0089, arXiv:1012.1125, arXiv:1307.3478
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.4233
abstract: The concepts of Feynman integrals in white noise analysis are used to construct the Feynman integrand for the harmonic oscillator in momentum space representation as a Hida distribution. Moreover it is shown that in a limit sense, the potential free case fulfills the conservation of momentum.

