id: 1308.0004
title: The Casimir Atomic Pendulum
authors: H. Razmi, M. Abdollahi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 372, 6761 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0004
abstract: We want to introduce an atomic pendulum whose driving force (torque) is due to the quantum vacuum fluctuations. Applying the well-known Casimir-Polder effect to a special configuration (a combined structure of an atomic nanostring and a conducting plate), an atomic pendulum (Casimir atomic pendulum) is designed. Using practically acceptable data corresponding to the already known world of nanotechnology and based on reasonable/reliable numerical estimates, the period of oscillation for the pendulum is computed. This pendulum can be considered as both a new Micro (Nano)-Eelectromechanical system and a new simple vacuum machine. Its design may be considered as a first step towards realizing the visualized vacuum (Casimir) clock!

id: 1308.0006
title: Casimir Torque for a Perfectly Conducting Wedge: A Canonical Quantum Field Theoretical Approach
authors: H. Razmi, S. M. Modarresi
comments: 6 pages
journal: IJTP 44 (2005) 229 (including the Erratum published in 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0006
abstract: The torque density per unit height exerted on a perfectly conducting wedge due to the quantum vacuum fluctuations (the Casimir torque) is obtained. A canonical quantum field theoretical approach with the method of calculating vacuum-to-vacuum propagator (Green function) [1] is used.

id: 1308.0007
title: The Covariant Electromagnetic Casimir Effect for Real Conducting Cylindrical Shells
authors: H. Razmi, N. Fadaei
comments: 15 pages, 2 tables
journal: Nucl. Phys. B 814 (2009) 582 (including the Erratum published in August 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0007
abstract: Using covariant quantization of the electromagnetic field, the Casimir force per unit area experienced by a long conducting cylindrical shell, under both Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions, is calculated. The renormalization procedure is based on the plasma cut-off frequency for real conductors. The real case of a gold (silver) cylindrical shell is considered and the corresponding electromagnetic Casimir pressure is computed. It is discussed that the Dirichlet and Neumann problems should be considered separately without adding their corresponding results.

id: 1308.0008
title: Relativistic symmetries in trigonometric Poschl-Teller potential plus tensor interaction
authors: Babatunde J. Falaye, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 24 pages; 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.8326
journal: Chinese Physics B 22 (6) (2013) 060305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0008
abstract: The Dirac equation is solved to obtain its approximate bound states for a spin-1/2 particle in the presence of trigonometric Poschl-Teller (tPT) potential including a Coulomb-like tensor interaction with arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number $\kappa$ using an approximation scheme to substitute the centrifugal terms k(k+1)/r^2. In view of spin and pseudo-spin (p-spin) symmetries, the relativistic energy eigenvalues and the corresponding two-component wave functions of a particle moving in the field of attractive and repulsive tPT potentials are obtained using the asymptotic iteration method (AIM). We present numerical results in the absence and presence of tensor coupling $A$ and for various values of spin and p-spin constants and quantum numbers n and k. The non-relativistic limit is also obtained.

id: 1308.0019
title: Quantum key distribution session with 16-dimensional photonic states
authors: S. Etcheverry, G. Ca?as, E. S. G¨®mez, W. A. T. Nogueira, C. Saavedra, G. B. Xavier, G. Lima
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0019
abstract: The secure transfer of information is an important problem in modern telecommunications. Quantum key distribution (QKD) provides a solution to this problem by using individual quantum systems to generate correlated bits between remote parties, that can be used to extract a secret key. QKD with D-dimensional quantum channels provides security advantages that grow with increasing D. However, the vast majority of QKD implementations has been restricted to two dimensions. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of using higher dimensions for real-world quantum cryptography by performing, for the first time, a fully automated QKD session based on the BB84 protocol with 16-dimensional quantum states. Information is encoded in the single-photon transverse momentum and the required states are dynamically generated with programmable spatial light modulators. Our setup paves the way for future developments in the field of experimental high-dimensional QKD.

id: 1308.0030
title: A brief discussion on the possible bound states for a class of singular potentials
authors: Douglas R.M. Pimentel, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, in Portuguese. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1304.0492
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0030
abstract: The one-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a class of potentials $V(|x|)$ which vanish at infinity and present dominant singularity at the origin in the form $\alpha /|x|^{\beta}$ ($0<\beta \leq 2$) is investigated. The Hermiticity of the operators related to observable physical quantities is used to determinate the proper boundary conditions. Double degeneracy and exclusion of symmetric solutions, consonant the value of $\beta $, are discussed. Explicit solutions for the hydrogen atom and the Kratzer potential are presented.

id: 1308.0038
title: The Casimir Forces in a Single Conducting Cylindrical Cavity
authors: H. Razmi, S. M. Shirazi
comments: 14 pages, 2 appendices, 4 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1302.1433
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0038
abstract: We want to study the Casimir effect for a single conducting microscopic cylindrical cavity. The mathematical technique is based on the Green function of the geometry of the inside of the cavity, and the integral regularization is based on the plasma frequency cutoff for real conductors. Using the symmetric electromagnetic energy-momentum tensor, in terms of four potential, the total Casimir energy for the inside of the Cavity is calculated. Considering the fundamental cutoff applied by the uncertainty relations' limit on virtual particles' frequency in the quantum vacuum, it is shown that the contribution of the external (outside of the cavity) Casimir energy is negligible. Finally, the forces experienced by the lateral surface of the cavity and its circular bases are calculated. The resulting expressions show that these forces are repulsive. The numerical computation is done for the real problem of a cavity with a basis of a radius in the same order of its height at the scale of 100 nanometers made of the best conducting materials already known.

id: 1308.0069
title: Spectral compression of single photons
authors: Jonathan Lavoie, John M. Donohue, Logan G. Wright, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 6 pages (4 figures) + 6 pages (3 figures)
journal: Nature Photonics 7 (2013) 363-366
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0069
abstract: Photons are critical to quantum technologies since they can be used for virtually all quantum information tasks: in quantum metrology, as the information carrier in photonic quantum computation, as a mediator in hybrid systems, and to establish long distance networks. The physical characteristics of photons in these applications differ drastically; spectral bandwidths span 12 orders of magnitude from 50 THz for quantum-optical coherence tomography to 50 Hz for certain quantum memories. Combining these technologies requires coherent interfaces that reversibly map centre frequencies and bandwidths of photons to avoid excessive loss. Here we demonstrate bandwidth compression of single photons by a factor 40 and tunability over a range 70 times that bandwidth via sum-frequency generation with chirped laser pulses. This constitutes a time-to-frequency interface for light capable of converting time-bin to colour entanglement and enables ultrafast timing measurements. It is a step toward arbitrary waveform generation for single and entangled photons.

id: 1308.0084
title: Device-independent certification of the teleportation of a qubit
authors: Melvyn Ho, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0084
abstract: We want to certify in a black box scenario that two parties simulating the teleportation of a qubit are really using quantum resources. If active compensation is part of the simulation, perfect teleportation can be faked with purely classical means. If active compensation is not implemented, a classical simulation is necessarily imperfect: in this case, we provide bounds for certification of quantumness using only the observed statistics. The usual figure of merit, namely the average fidelity of teleportation, turns out to be too much of a coarse-graining of the available statistical information in the case of a black-box assessment.

id: 1308.0086
title: Tunable single-photon frequency conversion in a Sagnac interferometer
authors: Wei-Bin Yan, Jin-Feng Huang, Heng Fan
comments: Welcome to comment! (5 pages, 4 figures)
journal: Scientific Reports 3, Article number: 3555 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0086
abstract: We study the single-photon frequency conversion of a five-level emitter coupled to a Sagnac interferometer. We show that the unity conversion efficiency can be achieved either in resonance or off-resonance case under the ideal condition. In particular, the frequency of the output photon can be controlled by the frequencies and Rabi frequencies of the external driving fields.

id: 1308.0110
title: A mechanical switch for state transfer in dual cavity optomechanical systems
authors: Satya Sainadh U, Andal Narayanan
comments: Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0110
abstract: Dual cavity opto-electromechanical systems (OEMS) are those where two electromagnetic cavities are connected by a common mechanical spring. These systems have been shown to facilitate high fidelity quantum state transfer from one cavity to another. In this paper, we explicitly calculate the e?ffect on the ?fidelity of state transfer, when an additional spring is attached to only one of the cavities. Our quantitative estimates of loss of fidelity, highlight the sensitivity of dual cavity OEMS when it couples to additional mechanical modes. We show that this sensitivity can be used to design an effective mechanical switch, for inhibition or high ?fidelity transmission of quantum states between the cavities.

id: 1308.0131
title: Violation of Bell inequality in perfect translation invariant systems
authors: Zhao-Yu Sun, Yu-Ying Wu, Hai-Lin Huang, Bo-Jun Chen, Bo Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0131
abstract: Bell inequalities and nonlocality have been widely studied in one-dimensional quantum systems. As a kind of quantum correlation, it is expected that bipartite nonlocaity should be present in quantum systems, just as bipartite entanglement does. Surprisingly, for various models, two-qubit states do not violate Bell inequalities, i.e., they are local. Recently, it is realized that the results are related to the monogamy trade-off obeyed by bipartite Bell correlations, thus it is believed that for general translation invariant systems, two-qubit states should not violate the Bell inequality(Oliveira, EPL 100, 60004 (2012)). In this report, we will demonstrate that in perfect translation invariant systems, the Bell inequality can be violated. A nontrivial model is constructed to confirm the conclusion.

id: 1308.0155
title: Approximate Analytical Solutions to Relativistic and Nonrelativistic P?schl-Teller Potential with its Thermodynamic Properties
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Babatunde J. Falaye
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. 421 (2013) 84-95
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0155
abstract: We apply the asymptotic iteration method (AIM) to obtain the solutions of Schrodinger equation in the presence of Poschl-Teller (PT) potential. We also obtain the solutions of Dirac equation for the same potential under the condition of spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetries. We show that in the nonrelativistic limits, the solution of Dirac system converges to that of Schrodinger system. Rotational-Vibrational energy eigenvalues of some diatomic molecules are calculated. Some special cases of interest are studied such as s-wave case, reflectionless-type potential and symmetric hyperbolic PT potential. Furthermore, we present a high temperature partition function in order to study the behavior of the thermodynamic functions such as the vibrational mean energy U, specific heat C, free energy F and entropy S.

id: 1308.0167
title: Zeros in Bosonic Wave-Function Result in Local Anti-Bunching: Refining Feynman's argument
authors: Avi Marchewka, E'rel Granot
comments: 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0167
abstract: The effect of boson bunching is frequently mentioned and discussed in the literature. This effect is the manifestation of bosons tendency to "travel" in clusters. One of the core arguments for boson bunching was formulated by Feynman in his well-known lecture series and has been frequently used ever since. By comparing the scattering probabilities of two bosons and of two non-identical particles, Feynman concluded: "We have the result that it is twice as likely to find two identical Bose particles scattered into the same state as you would calculate assuming the particles were different." [1]. Indeed, in most scenarios, this reasoning is valid, however, as it is shown in this paper, there are cases, even in the most ordinary scattering scenarios, where this reasoning is invalid, and in fact the opposite occurs: boson anti-bunching appears. Similarly, it is shown that at exactly the same scenarios, fermions bunch together.

id: 1308.0221
title: A model with two quantum particles similar to the hydrogen atom
authors: Ruslan Sharipov
comments: AmSTeX, 11 pages, amsppt style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0221
abstract: The hydrogen atom with the Coulomb interaction is one of the exactly solvable non-relativistic quantum models. Unlike many other exactly solvable models it describes a real physical object providing the formulas for energy levels and stationary state wave functions of a real hydrogen atom. In this paper we modify the model replacing the Coulomb interaction by the interaction of the proton and the electron with the classical electromagnetic field serving as an intermediary transmitting the electromagnetic interaction of these two charged quantum particles.

id: 1308.0225
title: Engineering three-body interaction and Pfaffian states in circuit QED systems
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Prabin Adhikari, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B. Rapid, 90, 060503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0225
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme to engineer the three-body interaction in circuit-QED systems by tuning a fluxonium qubit. Connecting such qubits in a square lattice and controlling the tunneling dynamics, in the form of a synthesized magnetic field, for the photon-like excitations of the system, allows the implementation of a parent Hamiltonian whose ground state is the Pfaffian wave function. Furthermore, we show that the addition of the next-nearest neighbor tunneling stabilizes the ground state, recovering the expected topological degeneracy even for small lattices. Finally, we discuss the implementation of these ideas with the current technology.

id: 1308.0238
title: A quantum memory for orbital angular momentum photonic qubits
authors: A. Nicolas, L. Veissier, L. Giner, E. Giacobino, D. Maxein, J. Laurat
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 234-238 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0238
abstract: Among the optical degrees of freedom, the orbital angular momentum of light provides unique properties, including mechanical torque action with applications for light manipulation, enhanced sensitivity in imaging techniques and potential high-density information coding for optical communication systems. Recent years have also seen a tremendous interest in exploiting orbital angular momentum at the single-photon level in quantum information technologies. In this endeavor, here we demonstrate the implementation of a quantum memory for quantum bits encoded in this optical degree of freedom. We generate various qubits with computer-controlled holograms, store and retrieve them on demand. We further analyse the retrieved states by quantum tomography and thereby demonstrate fidelities exceeding the classical benchmark, confirming the quantum functioning of our storage process. Our results provide an essential capability for future networks exploring the promises of orbital angular momentum of photons for quantum information applications.

id: 1308.0244
title: Effects of disorder on Coulomb-assisted braiding of Majorana zero modes
authors: I. C. Fulga, B. van Heck, M. Burrello, T. Hyart
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, this is the final, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155435 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0244
abstract: Majorana zero modes in one-dimensional topological superconductors obey non-Abelian braiding statistics. Braiding manipulations can be realized by controlling Coulomb couplings in hybrid Majorana-transmon devices. However, strong disorder may induce accidental Majorana modes, which are expected to have detrimental effects on braiding statistics. Nevertheless, we show that the Coulomb-assisted braiding protocol is efficiently realized also in the presence of accidental modes. The errors occurring during the braiding cycle are small if the couplings of the computational Majorana modes to the accidental ones are much weaker than the maximum Coulomb coupling.

id: 1308.0259
title: Reservoir engineering of a mechanical resonator: generating a macroscopic superposition state and monitoring its decoherence
authors: Muhammad Asjad, David Vitali
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 045502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0259
abstract: A deterministic scheme for generating a macroscopic superposition state of a nanomechanical resonator is proposed. The nonclassical state is generated through a suitably engineered dissipative dynamics exploiting the optomechanical quadratic interaction with a bichromatically driven optical cavity mode. The resulting driven dissipative dynamics can be employed for monitoring and testing the decoherence processes affecting the nanomechanical resonator under controlled conditions.

id: 1308.0270
title: Unification of Bell, Leggett-Garg and Kochen-Specker inequalities: A hybrid spatio-temporal inequality
authors: Siddhartha Das, S. Aravinda, R. Srikanth, Dipankar Home
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 104, 60006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0270
abstract: The Bell-type (spatial), Kochen-Specker (contextuality) or Leggett-Garg (temporal) inequalities are based on classically plausible but otherwise quite distinct assumptions. For any of these inequalities, satisfaction is equivalent to a joint probability distribution for all observables in the experiment. This implies a joint distribution for all pairs of observables, and is indifferent to whether or not they commute in the theory. This indifference underpins a unification of the above inequalities into a general framework of correlation inequalities. When the physical scenario is such that the correlated pairs are all compatible, the resulting correlation is non-signaling, which may be local or multi-particle, corresponding to contextuality or Bell-type inequalities. If the pairs are incompatible, the resulting correlation corresponds to Leggett-Garg (LG) inequalities. That quantum mechanics (QM) violates all these inequalities suggests a close connection between the local, spatial and temporal properties of the theory. As a concrete manifestation of the unification, we extend the method due to Roy and Singh (J. Phys. A, 11, L167 (1978)) to derive and study a new class of hybrid spatio-temporal inequalities, where the correlated pairs in the experiment are both compatible or incompatible. The implications for cryptography and monogamy inequalities of the unification are briefly touched upon.

id: 1308.0312
title: de Finetti reductions beyond quantum theory
authors: Rotem Arnon-Friedman, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0312
abstract: de Finetti-type theorems enable a substantially simplified analysis of information-processing tasks in various areas, such as quantum cryptography and quantum tomography. The idea is that instead of carrying out the analysis for any possible state it is sufficient to consider one particular de Finetti state, that is, a convex combination of i.i.d. states. It is thus interesting to see whether such de Finetti-type theorems are unique for quantum theory or whether they hold for more general theories. Here we prove a de Finetti-type theorem in the framework of conditional probability distributions. In this framework, a system is described by a conditional probability distribution P_A|X where X denotes the measurement and A the outcome. We show that any permutation invariant system P_A|X can be reduced to a de Finetti system. We then demonstrate how the theorem can be applied to security proofs of device independent cryptographic protocols.

id: 1308.0313
title: Compressing measurements in quantum dynamic parameter estimation
authors: Easwar Magesan, Alexandre Cooper, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0313
abstract: We present methods that can provide an exponential savings in the resources required to perform dynamic parameter estimation using quantum systems. The key idea is to merge classical compressive sensing techniques with quantum control methods to efficiently estimate time-dependent parameters in the system Hamiltonian. We show that incoherent measurement bases and, more generally, suitable random measurement matrices can be created by performing simple control sequences on the quantum system. Since random measurement matrices satisfying the restricted isometry property can be used to reconstruct any sparse signal in an efficient manner, and many physical processes are approximately sparse in some basis, these methods can potentially be useful in a variety of applications such as quantum sensing and magnetometry. We illustrate the theoretical results throughout the presentation with various practically relevant numerical examples.

id: 1308.0453
title: Entanglement generation in quantum networks of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alexey N. Pyrkov, Tim Byrnes
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 093019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0453
abstract: Two component (spinor) Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) are considered as the nodes of an interconnected quantum network. Unlike standard single-system qubits, in a BEC the quantum information is duplicated in a large number of identical bosonic particles, thus can be considered to be a "macroscopic" qubit. One of the difficulties with such a system is how to effectively interact such qubits together in order to transfer quantum information and create entanglement. Here we propose a scheme of cavities containing spinor BECs coupled by optical fiber in order to achieve this task. We discuss entanglement generation and quantum state transfer between nodes using such macroscopic BEC qubits.

id: 1308.0476
title: Separable states improve protocols with restricted randomness
authors: T. K. Chuan, T. Paterek
comments: 12 pages, 2 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093063 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0476
abstract: It is known from Bell's theorem that quantum predictions for some entangled states cannot be mimicked using local hidden variable (LHV) models. From a computer science perspective, LHV models may be interpreted as classical computers operating on a potentially infinite number of correlated bits originating from a common source. As such, Bell inequality violations achieved through entangled states are able to characterise the quantum advantage of certain tasks, so long as the task itself imposes no restriction on the availability of correlated bits. However, if the number of shared bits is limited, additional constraints are placed on the possible LHV models and separable, i.e. disentangled, states may become a useful resource. Bell violations are therefore no longer necessary to achieve a quantum advantage. Here we show that in particular, separable states may improve the so-called random access codes, which is a class of communication problems where one party tries to read a portion of the data held by another distant party in presence of finite shared randomness and limited classical communication. We also show how the bias of classical bits can be used to avoid wrong answers in order to achieve the optimal classical protocol and how the advantage of quantum protocols is linked to quantum discord.

id: 1308.0477
title: Nonlocality in sequential correlation scenarios
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Lars Erik W¨¹rflinger, Rafael Chaves, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Miguel Navascu¨¦s
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 033037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0477
abstract: As first shown by Popescu [S. Popescu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 2619 (1995)], some quantum states only reveal their nonlocality when subjected to a sequence of measurements while giving rise to local correlations in standard Bell tests. Motivated by this manifestation of "hidden nonlocality" we set out to develop a general framework for the study of nonlocality when sequences of measurements are performed. Similar to [R. Gallego et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 070401 (2013)] our approach is operational, i.e. the task is to identify the set of allowed operations in sequential correlation scenarios and define nonlocality as the resource that cannot be created by these operations. This leads to a characterisation of sequential nonlocality that contains as particular cases standard nonlocality and hidden nonlocality.

id: 1308.0512
title: 217 km long distance photon-counting optical time-domain reflectometry based on ultra-low noise up-conversion single photon detector
authors: Guo-Liang Shentu, Qi-Chao Sun, Xiao Jiang, Xiao-Dong Wang, Jason S. Pelc, M. M. Fejer, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, 21, 24674 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0512
abstract: We demonstrate a photon-counting optical time-domain reflectometry with 42.19 dB dynamic range using an ultra-low noise up-conversion single photon detector. By employing the long wave pump technique and a volume Bragg grating, we reduce the noise of our up-conversion single photon detector, and achieve a noise equivalent power of -139.7 dBm/sqrt(Hz). We perform the OTDR experiments using a fiber of length 216.95 km, and show that our system can identify defects along the entire fiber length with a distance resolution better than 10 cm in a measurement time of 13 minutes.

id: 1308.0520
title: Autler-Townes splitting in a three-dimensional transmon superconducting qubit
authors: S. Novikov, J. E. Robinson, Z. K. Keane, B. Suri, F. C. Wellstood, B. S. Palmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 060503(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0520
abstract: We have observed the Autler-Townes doublet in a superconducting Al/AlOx/Al transmon qubit that acts as an artificial atom embedded in a three-dimensional Cu microwave cavity at a temperature of 22 mK. Using pulsed microwave spectroscopy, the three lowest transmon levels are isolated, eliminating unwanted effects of higher qubit modes and cavity modes. The long coherence time (~40 us) of the transmon enables us to observe a clear Autler-Townes splitting at drive amplitudes much smaller than the transmon level anharmonicity (177 MHz). Three-level density matrix simulations with no free parameters provide excellent fits to the data. At maximum separation, the fidelity of a dark state achieved in this experiment is estimated to be 99.6-99.9%.

id: 1308.0528
title: Constrained dynamics via the Zeno effect in quantum simulation: Implementing non-Abelian lattice gauge theories with cold atoms
authors: K. Stannigel, P. Hauke, D. Marcos, M. Hafezi, S. Diehl, M. Dalmonte, P. Zoller
comments: 5+14 pages, 3+8 figures; v3: some added explanations; v4: added extensive numerical data showing the favourable scaling of the dissipative protection; as published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0528
abstract: We show how engineered classical noise can be used to generate constrained Hamiltonian dynamics in atomic quantum simulators of many-body systems, taking advantage of the continuous Zeno effect. After discussing the general theoretical framework, we focus on applications in the context of lattice gauge theories, where imposing exotic, quasi-local constraints is usually challenging. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the scheme for both Abelian and non-Abelian gauge theories, and discuss how engineering dissipative constraints substitutes complicated, non-local interaction patterns by global coupling to laser fields.

id: 1308.0539
title: Inequalities for the Ranks of Quantum States
authors: Josh Cadney, Marcus Huber, Noah Linden, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: Linear Algebra and Applications, vol. 452, pp. 153-171 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0539
abstract: We investigate relations between the ranks of marginals of multipartite quantum states. These are the Schmidt ranks across all possible bipartitions and constitute a natural quantification of multipartite entanglement dimensionality. We show that there exist inequalities constraining the possible distribution of ranks. This is analogous to the case of von Neumann entropy (\alpha-R\'enyi entropy for \alpha=1), where nontrivial inequalities constraining the distribution of entropies (such as e.g. strong subadditivity) are known. It was also recently discovered that all other \alpha-R\'enyi entropies for $\alpha\in(0,1)\cup(1,\infty)$ satisfy only one trivial linear inequality (non-negativity) and the distribution of entropies for $\alpha\in(0,1)$ is completely unconstrained beyond non-negativity. Our result resolves an important open question by showing that also the case of \alpha=0 (logarithm of the rank) is restricted by nontrivial linear relations and thus the cases of von Neumann entropy (i.e., \alpha=1) and 0-R\'enyi entropy are exceptionally interesting measures of entanglement in the multipartite setting.

id: 1308.0666
title: Time optimization and state-dependent constraints in the quantum optimal control of molecular orientation
authors: M. Ndong, C. Koch, D. Sugny
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Submitted J. Mod. Opt. (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0666
abstract: We apply two recent generalizations of monotonically convergent optimization algorithms to the control of molecular orientation by laser fields. We show how to minimize the control duration by a step-wise optimization and maximize the field-free molecular orientation using state-dependent constraints. We discuss the physical relevance of the different results.

id: 1308.0670
title: Controllable stimulation of retinal rod cells using single photons
authors: Nam Mai Phan, Mei Fun Cheng, Dmitri A. Bessarab, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures; Accepted for Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 213601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0670
abstract: New tools and approaches of quantum optics offer a unique opportunity to generate light pulses carrying a precise number of photons. Accurate control over the light pulses helps to improve the characterization of photo-induced processes. Here, we interface a specialized light source which provides flashes containing just one photon, with retinal rod cells of Xenopus laevis toads. We provide unambiguous proof of single photon sensitivity of rod cells without relying on the statistical modeling. We determined their quantum efficiencies without the use of any pre-calibrated detectors, and obtained the value of 29+-4.7 %. Our approach provides the path for future studies and applications of quantum properties of light in phototransduction, vision, and photosynthesis.

id: 1308.0707
title: Success probabilities for universal unambiguous discriminators between unknown pure states
authors: Tao Zhou
comments: 5 pages, no figure, introduction extended and technical part moved to appendix; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 014301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0707
abstract: A universal programmable discriminator can perform the discrimination between two unknown states, and the optimal solution can be approached via the discrimination between the two averages over the uniformly distributed unknown input pure states, which has been widely discussed in previous works. In this paper, we consider the success probabilities of the optimal universal programmable unambiguous discriminators when applied to the pure input states. More precisely, the analytic results of the success probabilities are derived with the expressions of the optimal measurement operators for the universal discriminators and we find that the success probabilities have nothing to do with the dimension d while the amounts of the copies in the two program registers are equal. The success probability of programmable unambiguous discriminator can asymptoticly approach to that of usual unambiguous discrimination (state comparison) as the number of copies in program registers (data register) goes to infinity.

id: 1308.0712
title: Quantum friction and fluctuation theorems
authors: F. Intravaia, R. O. Behunin, D. A. R. Dalvit
comments: 5+1 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 050101(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0712
abstract: We use general concepts of statistical mechanics to compute the quantum frictional force on an atom moving at constant velocity above a planar surface. We derive the zero-temperature frictional force using a non-equilibrium fluctuation-dissipation relation, and show that in the large-time, steady-state regime quantum friction scales as the cubic power of the atom's velocity. We also discuss how approaches based on Wigner-Weisskopf and quantum regression approximations fail to predict the correct steady-state zero temperature frictional force, mainly due to the low frequency nature of quantum friction.

id: 1308.0739
title: Angular momentum conservation in measurements on spin Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: F. Lalo?, W.J. Mullin
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0739
abstract: We discuss a thought experiment where two operators, Alice and Bob, perform transverse spin measurements on a quantum system; this system is initially in a double Fock spin state, which extends over a large distance in space so that the two operators are far away from each other. Standard quantum mechanics predicts that, when Alice makes a few measurements, a large transverse component of the spin angular momentum may appear in Bob's laboratory. A paradox then arises since local angular momentum conservation seems to be violated. It has been suggested that this angular momentum may be provided by the interaction with the measurement apparatuses. We show that this solution of the paradox is not appropriate, so that another explanation must be sought. The general question is the retroaction of a quantum system onto a measurement apparatus. For instance, when the measured system is entangled with another quantum system, can its reaction on a measurement apparatus be completely changed? Is angular momentum conserved only on average over several measurements, but not during one realization of the experiment?

id: 1308.0793
title: Real time imaging of quantum and thermal fluctuations: the case of a two-level system
authors: Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, to be published version
journal: Lett. Math. PHys. 104 (2014) 707
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0793
abstract: A quantum system in contact with a heat bath undergoes quantum transitions between energy levels upon absorption or emission of energy quanta by the bath. These transitions remain virtual unless the energy of the system is measured repeatedly, even continuously in time. Isolating the two indispensable mechanisms in competition, we describe in a synthetic way the main physical features of thermally activated quantum jumps. Using classical tools of stochastic analysis, we compute in the case of a two-level system the complete statistics of jumps and transition times in the limit when the typical measurement time is small compared to the thermal relaxation time. The emerging picture is that quantum trajectories are similar to those of a classical particle in a noisy environment, subject to transitions a la Kramer in a multi-well landscape, but with a large multiplicative noise.

id: 1308.0803
title: Cooling molecular vibrations with shaped laser pulses: Optimal control theory exploiting the timescale separation between coherent excitation and spontaneous emission
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 125028 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0803
abstract: Laser cooling of molecules employing broadband optical pumping involves a timescale separation between laser excitation and spontaneous emission. Here, we optimize the optical pumping step using shaped laser pulses. We derive two optimization functionals to drive population into those excited state levels that have the largest spontaneous emission rates to the target state. We show that, when using optimal control, laser cooling of molecules works even if the Franck-Condon map governing the transitions is preferential to heating rather than cooling. Our optimization functional is also applicable to the laser cooling of other degrees of freedom provided the cooling cycle consists of coherent excitation and dissipative deexcitation steps whose timescales are separated.

id: 1308.0804
title: Multi-channel scattering problems: Analytical approach for exact solution using Green's functions
authors: Diwaker, Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0804
abstract: We have proposed an analytical approach for exact solution of multi-channel scattering problems, in presence of Dirac Delta function couplings. Our solution is quite general and is valid for any set of potentials, if the Green's functions of the uncoupled potentials are known at the crossing point. Using our model, it is possible to express N-channel problem by N independent `single' channel problems and hence one can have a realistic solution of multi-channel scattering problem. In this paper we have shown that transition probability from first diabatic potential to any other potential can be easily evaluated using a very simple analytical formula - which only require value of eigenfunction of first uncoupled potential and value of Green's function of other uncoupled potential, at the crossing.

id: 1308.0806
title: A comparison of old and new definitions of the geometric measure of entanglement
authors: Lin Chen, Martin Aulbach, Michal Hajdusek
comments: 38 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0806
abstract: Several inequivalent definitions of the geometric measure of entanglement (GM) have been introduced and studied in the past. Here we review several known and new definitions, with the qualifying criterion being that for pure states the measure is a linear or logarithmic function of the maximal fidelity with product states. The entanglement axioms and properties of the measures are studied, and qualitative and quantitative comparisons are made between all definitions. Streltsov et al. [New J. Phys 12 123004 (2010)] proved the equivalence of two linear definitions of GM, whereas we show that the corresponding logarithmic definitions are distinct. Certain classes of states such as "maximally correlated states" and isotropic states are particularly valuable for this analysis. A little-known GM definition is found to be the first one to be both normalized and weakly monotonous, thus being a prime candidate for future studies of multipartite entanglement. We also find that a large class of graph states, which includes all cluster states, have a "universal" closest separable state that minimizes the quantum relative entropy, the Bures distance and the trace distance.

id: 1308.0815
title: Solving a two-electron quantum dot model in terms of polynomial solutions of a Biconfluent Heun Equation
authors: F. Caruso, J. Martins, V. Oguri
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0815
abstract: The effects on the non-relativistic dynamics of a system compound by two electrons interacting by a Coulomb potential and with an external harmonic oscillator potential, confined to move in a two dimensional Euclidean space, are investigated. In particular, it is shown that it is possible to determine exactly and in a closed form a finite portion of the energy spectrum and the associated eigeinfunctions for the Schr\"odinger equation describing the relative motion of the electrons, by putting it into the form of a biconfluent Heun equation. In the same framework, another set of solutions of this type can be straightforwardly obtained for the case when the two electrons are submitted also to an external constant magnetic field.

id: 1308.0831
title: Quantum noise eater for a single photonic qubit
authors: Miroslav Gavenda, Lucie ?elechovsk¨¢, Miloslav Du?ek, Radim Filip
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0831
abstract: We propose a quantum noise eater for a single qubit and experimentally verify its performance for recovery of a superposition carried by a dual-rail photonic qubit. We consider a case when only one of the rails (e.g., one of interferometric arms) is vulnerable to noise. A coherent but randomly arriving photon penetrating into this single rail causes a change of its state, which results in an error in a subsequent quantum information processing. We theoretically prove and experimentally demonstrate a conditional full recovery of the superposition by this quantum noise eater.

id: 1308.0833
title: Data Structures in Classical and Quantum Computing
authors: Maximilian Fillinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0833
abstract: This survey summarizes several results about quantum computing related to (mostly static) data structures. First, we describe classical data structures for the set membership and the predecessor search problems: Perfect Hash tables for set membership by Fredman, Koml\'{o}s and Szemer\'{e}di and a data structure by Beame and Fich for predecessor search. We also prove results about their space complexity (how many bits are required) and time complexity (how many bits have to be read to answer a query). After that, we turn our attention to classical data structures with quantum access. In the quantum access model, data is stored in classical bits, but they can be accessed in a quantum way: We may read several bits in superposition for unit cost. We give proofs for lower bounds in this setting that show that the classical data structures from the first section are, in some sense, asymptotically optimal - even in the quantum model. In fact, these proofs are simpler and give stronger results than previous proofs for the classical model of computation. The lower bound for set membership was proved by Radhakrishnan, Sen and Venkatesh and the result for the predecessor problem by Sen and Venkatesh. Finally, we examine fully quantum data structures. Instead of encoding the data in classical bits, we now encode it in qubits. We allow any unitary operation or measurement in order to answer queries. We describe one data structure by de Wolf for the set membership problem and also a general framework using fully quantum data structures in quantum walks by Jeffery, Kothari and Magniez.

id: 1308.0842
title: A compact entanglement distillery using realistic quantum memories
authors: Levon Chakhmakhchyan, St¨¦phane Gu¨¦rin, Joshua Nunn, Animesh Datta
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. Updated version for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0842
abstract: We adopt the beam splitter model for losses to analyse the performance of a recent compact continuous-variable entanglement distillation protocol [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 060502, (2012)] implemented using realistic quantum memories. We show that the decoherence undergone by a two-mode squeezed state while stored in a quantum memory can strongly modify the results of the preparatory step of the protocol. We find that the well-known method for locally increasing entanglement, phonon subtraction, may not result in entanglement gain when losses are taken into account. Thus, we investigate the critical number $m_c$ of phonon subtraction attempts from the matter modes of the quantum memory. If the initial state is not de-Gaussified within $m_c$ attempts, the protocol should be restarted to obtain any entanglement increase. Moreover, the condition $m_c>1$ implies an additional constraint on the subtraction beam splitter interaction transmissivity, viz. it should be about 50% for a wide range of protocol parameters. Additionally, we consider the average entanglement rate, which takes into account both the unavoidable probabilistic nature of the protocol and its possible failure as a result of a large number of unsuccessful subtraction attempts. We find that a higher value of the average entanglement can be achieved by increasing the subtraction beam splitter interaction transmissivity. We conclude that the compact distillation protocol with the practical constraints coming from realistic quantum memories allows a feasible experimental realization within existing technologies.

id: 1308.0901
title: Quantum discord in bipartite systems based on projection measurements
authors: M.Mahdian, F.Marahem
comments: Welcome to comment! (6 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0901
abstract: We propose a method to detect an exact quantum discord for some general bipartite quantum systems analytically. Here we show that for some density matrices, after the orthogonal projective measurement the state of the matrix will be diagonal and classic. So we can obtain the maximum amount of classical information in this case. Consequently, for these density matrices instead of using the positive operator valued measures (POVMs), projective operators can be used. Also we obtain the relation between quantum discord with relative entropy of discord for these states and show that for various examples of X-states such as on two qubit and qubit-qutrit density matrices, the relative entropy of discord is replaced by quantum discord.

id: 1308.0912
title: Quantum frequency conversion of quantum memory compatible photons to telecommunication wavelengths
authors: Xavier Fernandez-Gonzalvo, Giacomo Corrielli, Boris Albrecht, Marcelli Grimau, Matteo Cristiani, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures (To appear in Optics Express)
journal: Opt. Express 21, 19473-19487 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0912
abstract: We report an experiment demonstrating quantum frequency conversion of weak light pulses compatible with atomic quantum memories to telecommunication wavelengths. We use a PPLN nonlinear waveguide to convert weak coherent states at the single photon level with a duration of 30ns from a wavelength of 780nm to 1552nm. We measure a maximal waveguide internal (external) conversion efficiency eta_int = 0.41 (eta_ext = 0.25), and we show that the signal to noise ratio (SNR) is good enough to reduce the input photon number below 1. In addition, we show that the noise generated by the pump beam in the crystal is proportional to the spectral bandwidth of the device, suggesting that narrower filtering could significantly increase the SNR. Finally, we demonstrate that the quantum frequency converter can operate in the quantum regime by converting a time-bin qubit and measuring the qubit fidelity after conversion.

id: 1308.0946
title: Quantum probability rule: a generalisation of the theorems of Gleason and Busch
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, James D. Cresser, John Jeffers, David T. Pegg
comments: 11 pages, no figures Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0946
abstract: Busch's theorem deriving the standard quantum probability rule can be regarded as a more general form of Gleason's theorem. Here we show that a further generalisation is possible by reducing the number of quantum postulates used by Busch. We do not assume that the positive measurement outcome operators are effects or that they form a probability operator measure. We derive a more general probability rule from which the standard rule can be obtained from the normal laws of probability when there is no measurement outcome information available, without the need for further quantum postulates. Our general probability rule has prediction-retrodiction symmetry and we show how it may be applied in quantum communications and in retrodictive quantum theory.

id: 1308.0952
title: Global geometric difference between separable and Positive partial transpose states
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol. 21, No. 04, 1450009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0952
abstract: In the convex set of all $3\ot 3$ states with positive partial transposes, we show that one can take two extreme points whose convex combinations belong to the interior of the convex set. Their convex combinations may be even in the interior of the convex set of all separable states. In general, we need at least $mn$ extreme points to get an interior point by their convex combination, for the case of the convex set of all $m\ot n$ separable states. This shows a sharp distinction between PPT states and separable states. We also consider the same questions for positive maps and decomposable maps.

id: 1308.1007
title: The Fate of the Quantum
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 14 pages (excl. title page), 1 figure, subm. to the Conference on "Time and Matter", Venice 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1007
abstract: Although the suspicion that quantum mechanics is emergent has been lingering for a long time, only now we begin to understand how a bridge between classical and quantum mechanics might be squared with Bell's inequalities and other conceptual obstacles. Here, it is shown how mappings can be formulated that relate quantum systems to classical systems. By generalizing these ideas, one gets quite general models in which quantum mechanics and classical mechanics can merge. It is helpful to have some good model examples such as string theory. It is suggested that notions such as 'super determinism' and 'conspiracy' should be looked at much more carefully than in the, by now, standard arguments.

id: 1308.1011
title: Maintenance-free Operation of WDM Quantum Key Distribution System through a Field Fiber over 30 Days
authors: Ken-ichiro Yoshino, Takao Ochi, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki, Akio Tajima
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1011
abstract: Maintenance-free wavelength-division-multiplexing quantum key distribution for 30 days was achieved through a 22-km field fiber. Using polarization-independent interferometers and stabilization techniques, we attained a quantum bit error rate as low as 1.70% and a key rate as high as 229.8 kbps, making the record of total secure key of 595.6 Gbits accumulated over an uninterrupted operation period.

id: 1308.1043
title: Decoherence in a Pair of Long-Lived Cooper-Pair Boxes
authors: V. Zaretskey, S. Novikov, B. Suri, Z. Kim, F. C. Wellstood, B. S. Palmer
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 114, 094305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1043
abstract: We have investigated the decoherence of quantum states in two Al/AlOx/Al Cooper-pair boxes coupled to lumped element superconducting LC resonators. At 25 mK, the first qubit had an energy relaxation time T1 that varied from 30 us to 200 us between 4 and 8 GHz and displayed an inverse correlation between T1 and the coupling to the microwave drive line. The Ramsey fringe decay times T2* were in the 200-500 ns range while the spin echo envelope decay times Techo varied from 2.4-3.3 us, consistent with 1/f charge noise with a high frequency cutoff of 0.2 MHz. A second Cooper-pair box qubit with similar parameters showed T1=4-30 us between 4-7.3 GHz, and that the T1 and the coupling were again inversely correlated. Although the lifetime of the second device was shorter than that of the first device, the dependence on coupling in both devices suggests that further reduction in coupling should lead to improved qubit performance.

id: 1308.1065
title: Multi-Time Schr?dinger Equations Cannot Contain Interaction Potentials
authors: S?ren Petrat, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 46 pages, 6 figures, LaTex; v2: introduction expanded
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55: 032302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1065
abstract: Multi-time wave functions are wave functions that have a time variable for every particle, such as $\phi(t_1,x_1,\ldots,t_N,x_N)$. They arise as a relativistic analog of the wave functions of quantum mechanics but can be applied also in quantum field theory. The evolution of a wave function with N time variables is governed by N Schr\"odinger equations, one for each time variable. These Schr\"odinger equations can be inconsistent with each other, i.e., they can fail to possess a joint solution for every initial condition; in fact, the N Hamiltonians need to satisfy a certain commutator condition in order to be consistent. While this condition is automatically satisfied for non-interacting particles, it is a challenge to set up consistent multi-time equations with interaction. We prove for a wide class of multi-time Schr\"odinger equations that the presence of interaction potentials (given by multiplication operators) leads to inconsistency. We conclude that interaction has to be implemented instead by creation and annihilation of particles, which, in fact, can be done consistently, as we show elsewhere [17]. We also prove the following result: When a cut-off length $\delta>0$ is introduced (in the sense that the multi-time wave function is defined only on a certain set of spacelike configurations, thereby breaking Lorentz invariance), then the multi-time Schr\"odinger equations with interaction potentials of range $\delta$ are consistent; however, in the desired limit $\delta\to 0$ of removing the cut-off, the resulting multi-time equations are interaction-free, which supports the conclusion expressed in the title.

id: 1308.1149
title: Atom-molecule conversion system subject to phase noises
authors: H. Z. Shen, Xiao-Ming Xiu, X. X. Yi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063613 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1149
abstract: The dynamics of atom-molecule conversion system subject to dephasing noises is studied in this paper. With the dephasing master equation and the mean-field theory, we drive a Bloch equation for the system, this equation is compared with the Bloch equation derived by the Bogoliubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon (BBGKY) hierarchy truncation approach. Fixed points of the system are calculated by solving both the Bloch equations and the master equation, comparison between these two calculations suggests that while in a short time the mean-field theory is a good approximation for the atom-molecule conversion system, a high order hierarchy truncation approach is necessary for the system in a long time scale. Although the MFT can not predict correctly the fixed points, its prediction on the stability of the fixed points are consistent with the BBGKY theory for a wide range of parameters.

id: 1308.1245
title: Thermodynamics of quantum coherence
authors: C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Thomas Frauenheim, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1245
abstract: Quantum decoherence is seen as an undesired source of irreversibility that destroys quantum resources. Quantum coherences seem to be a property that vanishes at thermodynamic equilibrium. Away from equilibrium, quantum coherences challenge the classical notions of a thermodynamic bath in a Carnot engines, affect the efficiency of quantum transport, lead to violations of Fourier's law, and can be used to dynamically control the temperature of a state. However, the role of quantum coherence in thermodynamics is not fully understood. Here we show that the relative entropy of a state with quantum coherence with respect to its decohered state captures its deviation from thermodynamic equilibrium. As a result, changes in quantum coherence can lead to a heat flow with no associated temperature, and affect the entropy production rate. From this, we derive a quantum version of the Onsager reciprocal relations that shows that there is a reciprocal relation between thermodynamic forces from coherence and quantum transport. Quantum decoherence can be useful and offers new possibilities of thermodynamic control for quantum transport.

id: 1308.1270
title: PT-symmetry and Transparency
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 8 pages no Figure This paper is being withdrawn since we used an in-appropriate s-matrix for transparency for coherent injection. We will soon submit our investigation of transparency here and elsewhere
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1270
abstract: It is known that the perfect absorption of two identical waves incident on a complex potential from left and right can occur at a fixed real energy and that the time-reversed setting of this system would act as a laser at threshold at the same energy. Here, we argue and show that PT-symmetric potentials are exceptional in this regard which do not allow Coherent Perfect Absorption without lasing as the modulus of the determinant of the $S$-matrix, $|\det S|$, becomes 1, for all positive energies. Next we show that in the parametric regimes where the PT-symmetry is unbroken, the eigenvalues, $s_\pm$ of $S$, can become unitary (uni-modular) for all energies. Then the potential becomes coherent perfect emitter on both sides for any energy of coherent injection. We call this property Transparency.

id: 1308.1306
title: Proof of the Gour-Wallach conjecture
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 6 pages, minor revision
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1306
abstract: The absolute value of the hyperdeterminant of four qubits is a useful measure of genuine entanglement. We prove a recent conjecture of Gour and Wallach describing the pure maximally entangled four-qubit states with respect to this measure.

id: 1308.1339
title: Single-photon transport in a one dimentional waveguide coupling to a hybrid atom-optomechanical system
authors: W. Z. Jia, Z. D. Wang
comments: 7pages, 8figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063821 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1339
abstract: We explore theoretically the single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide that is coupled to a hybrid atom-optomechanical system in a strong optomechanical coupling regime. Using a full quantum real-space approach, transmission and reflection coefficients of the propagating single-photon in the waveguide are ob- tained. The influences of atom-cavity detuning and the dissipation of atom on the transport are also studied. Intriguingly, the obtained spectral features can reveal the strong light-matter interaction in this hybrid system.

id: 1308.1378
title: Programmable discrimination with an error margin
authors: G. Sent¨ªs, E. Bagan, J. Calsamiglia, R. Mu?oz-Tapia
comments: Published version, typos corrected. 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1378
abstract: The problem of optimally discriminating between two completely unknown qubit states is generalized by allowing an error margin. It is visualized as a device---the programmable discriminator---with one data and two program ports, each fed with a number of identically prepared qubits---the data and the programs. The device aims at correctly identifying the data state with one of the two program states. This scheme has the unambiguous and the minimum-error schemes as extremal cases, when the error margin is set to zero or it is sufficiently large, respectively. Analytical results are given in the two situations where the margin is imposed on the average error probability---weak condition---or it is imposed separately on the two probabilities of assigning the state of the data to the wrong program---strong condition. It is a general feature of our scheme that the success probability rises sharply as soon as a small error margin is allowed, thus providing a significant gain over the unambiguous scheme while still having high confidence results.

id: 1308.1383
title: Imposing system-observer symmetry on the von Neumann description of measurement
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; v2 minor clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1383
abstract: By imposing system-observer symmetry on the von Neumann description of measurement, it is shown that the quantum measurement problem is structurally equivalent to a familiar reverse-engineering problem: that of describing the behavior of an arbitrary physical device as algorithm instantiation. It is suggested that this problem can at best be given a relational solution.

id: 1308.1391
title: Scalar Reconciliation for Gaussian Modulation of Two-Way Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 42 pages, 20 figures, 1 table; minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1391
abstract: The two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD) systems allow higher key rates and improved transmission distances over standard telecommunication networks in comparison to the one-way CVQKD protocols. To exploit the real potential of two-way CVQKD systems a robust reconciliation technique is needed. It is currently unavailable, which makes it impossible to reach the real performance of a two-way CVQKD system. The reconciliation process of correlated Gaussian variables is a complex problem that requires either tomography in the physical layer that is intractable in a practical scenario, or high-cost calculations in the multidimensional spherical space with strict dimensional limitations. To avoid these issues, we propose an efficient logical layer-based reconciliation method for two-way CVQKD to extract binary information from correlated Gaussian variables. We demonstrate that by operating on the raw-data level, the noise of the quantum channel can be corrected in the scalar space and the reconciliation can be extended to arbitrary high dimensions. We prove that the error probability of scalar reconciliation is zero in any practical CVQKD scenario, and provides unconditional security. The results allow to significantly improve the currently available key rates and transmission distances of two-way CVQKD. The proposed scalar reconciliation can also be applied in one-way systems as well, to replace the existing reconciliation schemes.

id: 1308.1415
title: A quantum polylog algorithm for non-normal maximal cyclic hidden subgroups in the affine group of a finite field
authors: Nolan Wallach
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1415
abstract: We give an algorithm to solve the quantum hidden subgroup problem for maximal cyclic non-normal subgroups of the affine group of a finite field (if the field has order $q$ then the group has order $q(q-1)$) with probability $1-\varepsilon$ with (polylog) complexity $O(\log(q)^{R}\log(\varepsilon)^{2})$ where $R<\infty.$

id: 1308.1424
title: Generalised Dicke non-equilibrium dynamics in trapped ions
authors: Sam Genway, Weibin Li, Cenap Ates, Benjamin P. Lanyon, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 023603(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1424
abstract: We explore trapped ions as a setting to investigate non-equilibrium phases in a generalised Dicke model of dissipative spins coupled to phonon modes. We find a rich dynamical phase diagram including superradiant-like regimes, dynamical phase-coexistence and phonon-lasing behaviour. A particular advantage of trapped ions is that these phases and transitions among them can be probed in situ through fluorescence. We demonstrate that the main physical insights are captured by a minimal model and consider an experimental realisation with Ca+ ions trapped in a linear Paul trap.

id: 1308.1454
title: Sampling-based learning control of inhomogeneous quantum ensembles
authors: Chunlin Chen, Daoyi Dong, Ruixing Long, Ian R. Petersen, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1454
abstract: Compensation for parameter dispersion is a significant challenge for control of inhomogeneous quantum ensembles. In this paper, we present a systematic methodology of sampling-based learning control (SLC) for simultaneously steering the members of inhomogeneous quantum ensembles to the same desired state. The SLC method is employed for optimal control of the state-to-state transition probability for inhomogeneous quantum ensembles of spins as well as $\Lambda$ type atomic systems. The procedure involves the steps of (i) training and (ii) testing. In the training step, a generalized system is constructed by sampling members according to the distribution of inhomogeneous parameters drawn from the ensemble. A gradient flow based learning and optimization algorithm is adopted to find the control for the generalized system. In the process of testing, a number of additional ensemble members are randomly selected to evaluate the control performance. Numerical results are presented showing the success of the SLC method.

id: 1308.1463
title: The computational power of matchgates and the XY interaction on arbitrary graphs
authors: Daniel J. Brod, Andrew M. Childs
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 14, 901-916 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1463
abstract: Matchgates are a restricted set of two-qubit gates known to be classically simulable when acting on nearest-neighbor qubits on a path, but universal for quantum computation when the qubits are arranged on certain other graphs. Here we characterize the power of matchgates acting on arbitrary graphs. Specifically, we show that they are universal on any connected graph other than a path or a cycle, and that they are classically simulable on a cycle. We also prove the same dichotomy for the XY interaction, a proper subset of matchgates related to some implementations of quantum computing.

id: 1308.1505
title: Weak Schmidt decomposition and generalized Bell basis related to Hadamard matrices
authors: Bobo Hua, Shaoming Fei, Juergen Jost, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 13 pages, we corrected the references in the previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1505
abstract: We study the mathematical structures and relations among some quantities in the theory of quantum entanglement, such as separability, weak Schmidt decompositions, Hadamard matrices etc.. We provide an operational method to identify the Schmidt-correlated states by using weak Schmidt decomposition. We show that a mixed state is Schmidt-correlated if and only if its spectral decomposition consists of a set of pure eigenstates which can be simultaneously diagonalized in weak Schmidt decomposition, i.e. allowing for complex-valued diagonal entries. For such states, the separability is reduced to the orthogonality conditions of the vectors consisting of diagonal entries associated to the eigenstates, which is surprisingly related to the so-called complex Hadamard matrices. Using the Hadamard matrices, we provide a variety of generalized maximal entangled Bell bases.

id: 1308.1511
title: Role of complementarity in superdense coding
authors: Patrick J. Coles
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, title changed, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1511
abstract: The complementarity of two observables is often captured in uncertainty relations, which quantify an inevitable tradeoff in knowledge. Here we study complementarity in the context of an information processing task: we link the complementarity of two observables to their usefulness for superdense coding (SDC). In SDC, Alice sends two classical dits of information to Bob by sending a single qudit. However, we show that encoding with commuting unitaries prevents Alice from sending more than one dit per qudit, implying that complementarity is necessary for SDC to be advantagous over a classical strategy for information transmission. When Alice encodes with products of Pauli operators for the $X$ and $Z$ bases, we quantify the complementarity of these encodings in terms of the overlap of the $X$ and $Z$ basis elements. Our main result explicitly solves for the SDC capacity as a function of the complementarity, showing that the entropy of the overlap matrix gives the capacity, when the preshared state is maximally entangled. We generalise this equation to resources with symmetric noise such as a preshared Werner state. In the most general case of arbitrary noisy resources, we obtain an analogous lower bound on the SDC capacity. Our results shed light on the role of complementarity in determining the quantum advantage in SDC and also seem fundamentally interesting since they bear a striking resemblance to uncertainty relations.

id: 1308.1525
title: Composite Particles and the Szilard Engine
authors: T.K. Chuan, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1525
abstract: The Szilard engine is the simplest possible engine, composed only of one or more particles in a box. The box is then immersed in a heat bath and partitioned into two parts by a wall. It is known that in the cold temperature limit, one may extract more work out of elementary boson than out of elementary fermions. In this paper, we consider the amount of work that can be extracted out of a system of composite particles -- particles which are composed of two interacting elementary fermions of different species. We demonstrate that the amount of work extracted is closely tied to the amount of entanglement within the composite particles

id: 1308.1528
title: Almost quantum adiabatic dynamics and generalized time dependent wave operators
authors: David Viennot
comments: This second version contains another example with higher dimensionality (the molecule H2+)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 065302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1528
abstract: We consider quantum dynamics for which the strict adiabatic approximation fails but which do not escape too far from the adiabatic limit. To treat these systems we introduce a generalisation of the time dependent wave operator theory which is usually used to treat dynamics which do not escape too far from an initial subspace called the active space. Our generalisation is based on a time dependent adiabatic deformation of the active space. The geometric phases associated with the almost adiabatic representation are also derived. We use this formalism to study the adiabaticity of a dynamics surrounding an exceptional point of a non-hermitian hamiltonian. We show that the generalized time dependent wave operator can be used to correct easily the adiabatic approximation which is very unperfect in this situation.

id: 1308.1615
title: Witnessing spin-orbit thermal entanglement in rare-earth ions
authors: O. S. Duarte, C. S. Castro, D. O. Soares-Pinto, M. S. Reis
comments: accepted for publication in EPL
journal: EPL 103, 40002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1615
abstract: We explore spin-orbit thermal entanglement in rare-earth ions, based on a witness obtained from mean energies. The entanglement temperature $T_{E}$, below which entanglement emerges, is found to be thousands of kelvin above room temperature for all light rare earths. This demonstrate the robustness to environmental fluctuations of entanglement between internal degrees of freedom of a single ion.

id: 1308.1665
title: Protecting quantum states from decoherence of finite temperature using weak measurement
authors: S.C. Wang, Z.W. Yu, X.B. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1665
abstract: We show how to optimally protect quantum states and quantum entanglement under non-zero temperature based on measurement reversal from weak measurement. In particular, we present explicit formulas of the protection.

id: 1308.1680
title: Experimental entanglement activation from discord in a programmable quantum measurement
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Eleonora Nagali, Marco Piani, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 5 + 6 pages, 3 + 2 figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1680
abstract: In quantum mechanics, observing is not a passive act. Consider a system of two quantum particles A and B: if a measurement apparatus M is used to make an observation on B, the overall state of the system AB will typically be altered. When this happens no matter which local measurement is performed, the two objects A and B are revealed to possess peculiar correlations known as quantum discord. Here we demonstrate experimentally that the very act of local observation gives rise to an activation protocol which converts discord into distillable entanglement, a stronger and more useful form of quantum correlations, between the apparatus M and the composite system AB. We adopt a flexible two-photon setup to realize a three-qubit system (A,B,M) with programmable degrees of initial correlations, measurement interaction, and characterization processes. Our experiment demonstrates the fundamental mechanism underpinning the ubiquitous act of observing the quantum world, and establishes the potential of discord in entanglement generation.

id: 1308.1709
title: Quantum Speed Limit and optimal evolution time in a two-level system
authors: P. M. Poggi, F. C. Lombardo, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: (6 pages, 5 figures). The paper has been modified after discussion with peers, which revealed misconceptions about the ideas of quantum speed limit and optimal evolution time. The focus of the article has been moved to the relation between both concepts in a quantum control scenario
journal: EPL 104 (2013) 40005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1709
abstract: Quantum mechanics establishes a fundamental bound for the minimum evolution time between two states of a given system. Known as the quantum speed limit (QSL), it is a useful tool in the context of quantum control, where the speed of some control protocol is usually intended to be as large as possible. While QSL expressions for time-independent hamiltonians have been well studied, the time-dependent regime has remained somewhat unexplored, albeit being usually the relevant problem to be compared with when studying systems controlled by external fields. In this paper we explore the relation between optimal times found in quantum control and the QSL bound, in the (relevant) time-dependent regime, by discussing the ubiquitous two-level Landau-Zener type hamiltonian.

id: 1308.1717
title: Equilibration of quantum chaotic systems
authors: Quntao Zhuang, Biao Wu
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1717
abstract: Quantum ergordic theorem for a large class of quantum systems was proved by von Neumann [Z. Phys. {\bf 57}, 30 (1929)] and again by Reimann [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 190403 (2008)] in a more practical and well-defined form. However, it is not clear whether the theorem applies to quantum chaotic systems. With the rigorous proof still elusive, we illustrate and verify this theorem for quantum chaotic systems with examples. Our numerical results show that a quantum chaotic system with an initial low-entropy state will dynamically relax to a high-entropy state and reach equilibrium. The quantum equilibrium state reached after dynamical relaxation bears a remarkable resemblance to the classical micro-canonical ensemble. However, the fluctuations around equilibrium are distinct: the quantum fluctuations are exponential while the classical fluctuations are Gaussian.

id: 1308.1730
title: Optimizing scheme of probabilistic remote preparation state
authors: Xin-wei Zha, Jia-fan Xia, Jian-xia Qi
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1730
abstract: We propose a new generalized remote state preparation protocol for using non-maximally entangled state as a shared resource. Different from the previous schemes, the parameters of measurement basis depend on not only the state of preparation but also the state of quantum channel. The advantage of the present protocols is that, by constructing a set of appropriate mutually orthogonal measurement basis, the success probability is improved. It is worthwhile noticing that the probability of success is determined by Alice's measurement. If Alice's measurement is appropriate, the remote preparation can be successfully realized with the maximal probability.

id: 1308.1737
title: When do Local Operations and Classical Communication Suffice for Two-Qubit State Discrimination?
authors: Eric Chitambar, Runyao Duan, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol.60, no.3, pp. 1549 - 1561, Mar.(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1737
abstract: In this paper we consider the conditions under which a given ensemble of two-qubit states can be optimally distinguished by local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We begin by completing the \emph{perfect} distinguishability problem of two-qubit ensembles - both for separable operations and LOCC - by providing necessary and sufficient conditions for the perfect discrimination of one pure and one mixed state. Then for the well-known task of minimum error discrimination, it is shown that \textit{almost all} two-qubit ensembles consisting of three pure states cannot be optimally discriminated using LOCC. This is surprising considering that \textit{any} two pure states can be distinguished optimally by LOCC. Special attention is given to ensembles that lack entanglement, and we prove an easy sufficient condition for when a set of three product states cannot be optimally distinguished by LOCC, thus providing new examples of the phenomenon known as "non-locality without entanglement". We next consider an example of $N$ parties who each share the same state but who are ignorant of its identity. The state is drawn from the rotationally invariant "trine ensemble", and we establish a tight connection between the $N$-copy ensemble and Shor's "lifted" single-copy ensemble. For any finite $N$, we prove that optimal identification of the states cannot be achieved by LOCC; however as $N\to\infty$, LOCC can indeed discriminate the states optimally. This is the first result of its kind. Finally, we turn to the task of unambiguous discrimination and derive new lower bounds on the LOCC inconclusive probability for symmetric states. When applied to the double trine ensemble, this leads to a rather different distinguishability character than when the minimum-error probability is considered.

id: 1308.1764
title: Dynamics of a two-level system under the simultaneous influence of a spin bath and a boson bath
authors: Ning Wu, Yang Zhao
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 054118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1764
abstract: We study dynamics of a two-level system coupled simultaneously to a pair of dissimilar reservoirs, namely, a spin bath and a boson bath, which are connected via finite interbath coupling. It is found that the steady-state energy transfer in the two-level system increases with its coupling to the spin bath while optimal transfer occurs at intermediate coupling in the transient process. If the two-level system is strongly coupled to the spin bath, the population transfer is unidirectional barring minor population oscillations of minute amplitudes. If the spin bath is viewed as an atomic ensemble, robust generation of macroscopic superposition states exists against parameter variations of the two-level system and the boson bath.

id: 1308.1793
title: Fast and simple scheme for generating NOON states of photons in circuit QED
authors: Qi-Ping Su, Chui-Ping Yang, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 3898 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1793
abstract: The generation, manipulation and fundamental understanding of entanglement lies at very heart of quantum mechanics. Among various types of entangled states, the NOON states are a kind of special quantum entangled states with two orthogonal component states in maximal superposition, which have a wide range of potential applications in quantum communication and quantum information processing. Here, we propose a fast and simple scheme for generating NOON states of photons in two superconducting resonators by using a single superconducting transmon qutrit. Because only one superconducting qutrit and two resonators are used, the experimental setup for this scheme is much simplified when compared with the previous proposals requiring a setup of two superconducting qutrits and three cavities. In addition, this scheme is easier and faster to implement than the previous proposals, which require using a complex microwave pulse, or a small pulse Rabi frequency in order to avoid nonresonant transitions.

id: 1308.1837
title: Ultrabroadband direct detection of nonclassical photon statistics at telecom wavelength
authors: Kentaro Wakui, Yujiro Eto, Hugo Benichi, Tetsufumi Yanagida, Shuro Izumi, Kazuhiro Ema, Takayuki Numata, Daiji Fukuda, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1837
abstract: Broadband light sources play essential roles in diverse fields, such as high-capacity optical communications, optical coherence tomography, optical spectroscopy, and spectrograph calibration. Though an ultrabroadband nonclassical state from standard spontaneous parametric down-conversion may serve as a quantum counterpart, its detection and quantum characterization have been a challenging task. Here we demonstrate the quantitative characterization of a multimode structure in such an ultrabroadband (150 nm FWHM) squeezed state at telecom wavelength (1.5 \mu m). The nonclassical photon distribution of our highly multimode state is directly observed using a superconducting transition-edge sensor. From the observed photon correlation functions, we show that several tens of different squeezers are coexisting in the same spatial mode. We anticipate our results and technique open up a new possibility to generate and characterize nonclassical light sources for a large-scale optical quantum network in the frequency domain.

id: 1308.1843
title: Mechanisms in Environmentally-Assisted One-photon Phase Control
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Paul Brumer
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures. Minor changes. It matches the published version
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 164123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1843
abstract: The ability of an environment to assist in one-photon phase control relies upon entanglement between the system and bath and on the breaking of the time reversal symmetry. Here, one photon phase control is examined analytically and numerically in a model system, allowing an analysis of the relative strength of these contributions. Further, the significant role of non-Markovian dynamics and of moderate system-bath coupling in enhancing one-photon phase control is demonstrated, and an explicit role for quantum mechanics is noted in the existence of initial non-zero stationary coherences. Finally, desirable conditions are shown to be required to observe such environmentally assisted control, since the system will naturally equilibrate with its environment at longer times, ultimately resulting in the loss of phase control.

id: 1308.1914
title: Purifications of multipartite states: limitations and constructive methods
authors: Gemma De las Cuevas, Norbert Schuch, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 11 pages (+3 of appendices), 10 figures. Minor changes; very similar to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 123021 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1914
abstract: We analyze the description of quantum many-body mixed states using matrix product states and operators. We consider two such descriptions: (i) as a matrix product density operator of bond dimension D, and (ii) as a purification that is written as a matrix product state of bond dimension D'. We show that these descriptions are inequivalent in the sense that D' cannot be upper bounded by D only. Then we provide two constructive methods to obtain (ii) out of (i). The sum of squares (sos) polynomial method scales exponentially in the number of different eigenvalues, and its approximate version is formulated as a Semidefinite Program, which gives efficient approximate purifications whose D' only depends on D. The eigenbasis method scales quadratically in the number of eigenvalues, and its approximate version is very efficient for rapidly decaying distributions of eigenvalues. Our results imply that a description of mixed states which is both efficient and locally positive semidefinite does not exist, but that good approximations do.

id: 1308.1919
title: Quantum Computation in Noiseless Subsystems with Fast Non-Abelian Holonomies
authors: J. Zhang, L.-C. Kwek, Erik Sj?qvist, D.M. Tong, P. Zanardi
comments: Minor corrections, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1919
abstract: Quantum information processing requires a high degree of isolation from the detrimental effects of the environment as well as an extremely precise level of control on the way quantum dynamics unfolds in the information-processing system. In this paper, we show how these two goals can be ideally achieved by hybridizing the concepts of noiseless subsystems and of holonomic quantum computation. An all-geometric universal computation scheme based on non-adiabatic and non-Abelian quantum holonomies embedded in a four-qubit noiseless subsystem for general collective decoherence is proposed. The implementation details of this synergistic scheme along with the analysis of its stability against symmetry-breaking imperfections are presented.

id: 1308.1967
title: Improving Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering Inequalities with State Information
authors: James Schneeloch, Curtis J. Broadbent, John C. Howell
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A, Volume 378, Issue 10, 14 Feb. 2014, pp. 766-769
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1967
abstract: We discuss the relationship between entropic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR)-steering inequalities and their underlying uncertainty relations, along with the hypothesis that improved uncertainty relations lead to tighter EPR-steering inequalities. In particular, we discuss how the intrinsic uncertainty in a mixed quantum state is used to improve existing uncertainty relations and how this information affects one's ability to witness EPR-steering. As an example, we consider the recent improvement (using a quantum memory) to the entropic uncertainty relation between pairs of discrete observables (Nat. Phys. 6, 659 (2010)) and show that a trivial substitution of the tighter bound in the steering inequality leads to contradictions, due in part to the fact that the improved bound depends explicitly on the state being measured. By considering the assumptions that enter into the development of a steering inequality, we derive correct steering inequalities from these improved uncertainty relations and find that they are identical to ones already developed (Phys. Rev. A, 87, 062103 (2013)). In addition, we consider how one can use the information about the quantum state to improve our ability to witness EPR-steering, and develop a new symmetric EPR-steering inequality as a result.

id: 1308.2008
title: Extended Techniques for Feedback Control of A Single Qubit
authors: Y. Yang, X. Y. Zhang, J. Ma, X. X. Yi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012333(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2008
abstract: The protection of quantum states is challenging for non-orthogonal states especially in the presence of noises. The recent research breakthrough shows that this difficulty can be overcome by feedback control with weak measurements. However, the state-protection schemes proposed recently work optimally only for special quantum states. In this paper, {by applying different weak measurements, we extend the idea of the state-protection scheme to protect general states.} We calculate numerically the optimal parameters and discuss the performance of the scheme. Comparison between this extended scheme and the earlier scheme is also presented.

id: 1308.2011
title: Waveguide QED: controllable channel from quantum interference
authors: Qiong Li, Lan Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2011
abstract: We study a waveguide QED system with a rectangular waveguide and a two-level system (TLS) inside, where the transverse modes TMmn define the quantum channels of guided photons. It is discovered that the loss of photons in the TM11 channel into the others can be overcome by replacing it with a certain coherent superposition of TMmn channels, which is named as the controllable channel (CC) as the photons in CC can be perfectly reflected or transmitted by the TLS, and never lost into the other channels. The dark state emerges when the photon is incident from one of the scattering-free channels (SFCs) orthogonal to CC. The underlying physics mechanism is the multi-channel interference associated with Fano resonance.

id: 1308.2022
title: Non-classical paths in interference experiments
authors: Rahul Sawant, Joseph Samuel, Aninda Sinha, Supurna Sinha, Urbasi Sinha
comments: v2: 5 pages + 3 pages supplementary, title changed, version to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2022
abstract: In a double slit interference experiment, the wave function at the screen with both slits open is not exactly equal to the sum of the wave functions with the slits individually open one at a time. The three scenarios represent three different boundary conditions and as such, the superposition principle should not be applicable. However, most well known text books in quantum mechanics implicitly and/or explicitly use this assumption which is only approximately true. In our present study, we have used the Feynman path integral formalism to quantify contributions from non-classical paths in quantum interference experiments which provide a measurable deviation from a naive application of the superposition principle. A direct experimental demonstration for the existence of these non-classical paths is hard. We find that contributions from such paths can be significant and we propose simple three-slit interference experiments to directly confirm their existence.

id: 1308.2036
title: Performance gain of displacement receiver with optimized prior probability
authors: M. Fujiwara, S. Izumi, M. Takeoka, M. Sasaki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2036
abstract: We numerically study the performance of the displacement based quantum receiver for the discrimination of weak 3- and 4-phase-shift keyed (PSK) coherent state signals. We show that due to the nontrivial asymmetry of the receiver structure, optimization of the prior probability increases the mutual information and achieves sub-shot-noise limit discrimination. Moreover, we estimate the cutoff rate for a 4-PSK signal and confirm that the prior probability optimization shortens the code length for a given decoding error criterion. Such consideration for the asymmetric channel matrix is essential in a study of the compassable quantum receiver.

id: 1308.2078
title: Microwave control electrodes for scalable, parallel, single-qubit operations in a surface-electrode ion trap
authors: D. P. L. Aude Craik, N. M. Linke, T. P. Harty, C. J. Ballance, D. M. Lucas, A. M. Steane, D. T. C. Allcock
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2078
abstract: We propose a surface ion trap design incorporating microwave control electrodes for near-field single-qubit control. The electrodes are arranged so as to provide arbitrary frequency, amplitude and polarization control of the microwave field in one trap zone, while a similar set of electrodes is used to null the residual microwave field in a neighbouring zone. The geometry is chosen to reduce the residual field to the 0.5% level without nulling fields; with nulling, the crosstalk may be kept close to the 0.01% level for realistic microwave amplitude and phase drift. Using standard photolithography and electroplating techniques, we have fabricated a proof-of-principle electrode array with two trapping zones. We discuss requirements for the microwave drive system and prospects for scalability to a large two-dimensional trap array.

id: 1308.2083
title: Informationally complete sets of Gaussian measurements
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Jussi Schultz
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 485303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2083
abstract: We prove necessary and sufficient conditions for the informational completeness of an arbitrary set of Gaussian observables on continuous variable systems with finite number of degrees of freedom. In particular, we show that an informationally complete set either contains a single informationally complete observable, or includes infinitely many observables. We show that for a single informationally complete observable, the minimal outcome space is the phase space, and the observable can always be obtained from the quantum optical $Q$-function by linear postprocessing and Gaussian convolution, in a suitable symplectic coordinatization of the phase space. In the case of projection valued Gaussian observables, e.g., generalized field quadratures, we show that an informationally complete set of observables is necessarily infinite. Finally, we generalize the treatment to the case where the measurement coupling is given by a general linear bosonic channel, and characterize informational completeness for an arbitrary set of the associated observables.

id: 1308.2089
title: Pre- and post-selected quantum states: density matrices, tomography, and Kraus operators
authors: Ralph Silva, Yelena Guryanova, Nicolas Brunner, Noah Linden, Anthony J. Short, Sandu Popescu
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012121 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2089
abstract: We present a general formalism for charecterizing 2-time quantum states, describing pre- and post-selected quantum systems. The most general 2-time state is characterized by a `density vector' that is independent of measurements performed between the preparation and post-selection. We provide a method for performing tomography of an unknown 2-time density vector. This procedure, which cannot be implemented by weak or projective measurements, brings new insight to the fundamental role played by Kraus operators in quantum measurements. Finally, after showing that general states and measurements are isomorphic, we show that any measurement on a 2-time state can be mapped to a measurement on a preselected bipartite state.

id: 1308.2093
title: Aharonov-Bohm effect, local field interaction, and Lorentz invariance
authors: Kicheon Kang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures;
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2093
abstract: Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect [1,2], known as a milestone in our understanding of electromagnetic interactions, describes a quantum interference of a charged particle moving under the influence of a potential. In sharp contrast with classical theory of electrodynamics, AB effect qualifies potential as a physical reality, rather than as a mere mathematical tool, because the interference is affected by a potential even when a charged particle moves in a field-free region. Aharonov-Casher (AC) effect [3], dual to the AB phenomenon, shows a phase shift of a fluxon moving around a charge (in two-dimensional case). It has been shown that AC effect is also free of force [4,5], but standard view draws a clear distinction between the two phenomena in that the fluxon moves under a nonvanishing field generated by the charge in the case of AC effect [6]. Despite the fact that the observable phenomena depend only on the relative motion of a charge and a fluxon, a unified picture, fully consistent with the principle of relativity, is lacking. Here, we provide a unified theory which resolves the question of relativity, based on a Lorentz-invariant field-interaction between a charge and a localized flux. The AB effect can be understood in this fully relativistic viewpoint. The AB phase shift is derived from the Lorentz-covariant interaction Lagrangian, and the force-free nature of the effect is also confirmed.

id: 1308.2102
title: Gaussian error correction of quantum states in a correlated noisy channel
authors: Mikael Lassen, Adriano Berni, Lars S. Madsen, Radim Filip, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: New references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2102
abstract: Noise is the main obstacle for the realization of fault tolerant quantum information processing and secure communication over long distances. In this work, we propose a communication protocol relying on simple linear optics that optimally protects quantum states from non-Markovian or corre- lated noise. We implement the protocol experimentally and demonstrate the near ideal protection of coherent and entangled states in an extremely noisy channel. Since all real-life channels are exhibit- ing pronounced non-Markovian behavior, the proposed protocol will have immediate implications in improving the performance of various quantum information protocols.

id: 1308.2146
title: Quantum benchmarks for pure single-mode Gaussian states
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 5 + 7 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2146
abstract: Teleportation and storage of continuous variable states of light and atoms are essential building blocks for the realization of large scale quantum networks. Rigorous validation of these implementations require identifying, and surpassing, benchmarks set by the most effective strategies attainable without the use of quantum resources. Such benchmarks have been established for special families of input states, like coherent states and particular subclasses of squeezed states. Here we solve the longstanding problem of defining quantum benchmarks for general pure Gaussian single-mode states with arbitrary phase, displacement, and squeezing, randomly sampled according to a realistic prior distribution. As a special case, we show that the fidelity benchmark for teleporting squeezed states with totally random phase and squeezing degree is 1/2, equal to the corresponding one for coherent states. We discuss the use of entangled resources to beat the benchmarks in experiments.

id: 1308.2164
title: Superfluid Optomechanics: Coupling of a Superfluid to a Superconducting Condensate
authors: L.A. DeLorenzo, K.C. Schwab
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2164
abstract: We investigate the low loss acoustic motion of superfluid $^4$He parametrically coupled to a very low loss, superconducting Nb, TE$_{011}$ microwave resonator, forming a gram-scale, sideband resolved, optomechanical system. We demonstrate the detection of a series of acoustic modes with quality factors as high as $7\cdot 10^6$. At higher temperatures, the lowest dissipation modes are limited by an intrinsic three phonon process. Acoustic quality factors approaching $10^{11}$ may be possible in isotopically purified samples at temperatures below 10 mK. A system of this type may be utilized to study macroscopic quantized motion and as an ultra-sensitive sensor of extremely weak displacements and forces, such as continuous gravity wave sources.

id: 1308.2168
title: Freudenthal ranks: GHZ vs. W
authors: L. Borsten
comments: 8 pages. Typos corrected. Updated to match published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 455303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2168
abstract: The Hilbert space of three-qubit pure states may be identified with a Freudenthal triple system. Every state has an unique \emph{Freudenthal rank} ranging from 1 to 4, which is determined by a set of automorphism group covariants. It is shown here that the optimal success rates for winning a three-player non-local game, varying over all local strategies, are strictly ordered by the Freudenthal rank of the shared three-qubit resource.

id: 1308.2208
title: Quantum nondemolition detection of a propagating microwave photon
authors: Sankar R. Sathyamoorthy, L. Tornberg, Anton F. Kockum, Ben Q. Baragiola, Joshua Combes, C.M. Wilson, Thomas M. Stace, G. Johansson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 093601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2208
abstract: The ability to nondestructively detect the presence of a single, traveling photon has been a long-standing goal in optics, with applications in quantum information and measurement. Realising such a detector is complicated by the fact that photon-photon interactions are typically very weak. At microwave frequencies, very strong effective photon-photon interactions in a waveguide have recently been demonstrated. Here we show how this type of interaction can be used to realize a quantum nondemolition measurement of a single propagating microwave photon. The scheme we propose uses a chain of solid-state 3-level systems (transmons), cascaded through circulators which suppress photon backscattering. Our theoretical analysis shows that microwave-photon detection with fidelity around 90% can be realized with existing technologies.

id: 1308.2212
title: Security limitation on a class of device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2212
abstract: Recently there were many proposals on device-independent (DI) quantum key distribution protocol whose security is based on the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality. However, as a statistical law, a certain extent of fluctuation has to be allowed. We show that the eavesdropper can make use of this property to obtain a remarkable part of the secret key by replacing some of the DI nonlocal boxes with local ones. On the contrary, the same cheating strategy does not apply to the device-dependent (DD) version of the protocol. Thus such kind of DI protocol is less secure than its DD counterpart.

id: 1308.2233
title: Frame Transformations for Fermions
authors: Chris W Patterson, William G Harter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2233
abstract: The analog to the Legendre addition theorem is found for half-integral angular momentum using frame transformations for rotor states.

id: 1308.2246
title: Observation of Autler-Townes effect in a dispersively dressed Jaynes-Cummings system
authors: B. Suri, Z. K. Keane, R. Ruskov, Lev S. Bishop, Charles Tahan, S. Novikov, J. E. Robinson, F. C. Wellstood, B. S. Palmer
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 125007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2246
abstract: Photon number splitting is observed in a transmon coupled to a superconducting quasi-lumped-element resonator in the strong dispersive limit. A thermal population of 5.474 GHz photons at an effective resonator temperature of T = 120mK results in a weak n = 1 photon peak along with the n = 0 photon peak in the qubit spectrum in the absence of a coherent drive on the resonator. Two-tone spectroscopy using independent coupler and probe tones reveals an Autler-Townes splitting in the thermal n = 1 photon peak. The observed effect is explained accurately using the four lowest levels of the dispersively dressed qubit-resonator system and compared to results from numerical simulations of the steady-state master equation for the coupled system.

id: 1308.2266
title: Decoherence via coupling to a finite quantum heat bath
authors: O. Fialko
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 045302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2266
abstract: Decoherence of a quantum state coupled to an exterior environment is at the foundation of our understanding of the emergence of classical behavior from the quantum world, but how does it emerge in a finite closed quantum system? Here this is studied by modeling an isolated quantum system of a handful of ultracold atoms confined to a double well potential and coupled to a single atom of a different type. The ultracold atoms thermalize and serve as an environmental bath for the single atom. We observe accelerated decoherence of the single atom when ultracold atoms have thermalized. This is explained by the emergence of chaotic eigenstates in the thermalized system.

id: 1308.2294
title: Countermeasure against tailored bright illumination attack for DPS-QKD
authors: Toshimori Honjo, Mikio Fujiwara, Kaoru Shimizu, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 21(3), 266-2673 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2294
abstract: We propose a countermeasure against the so-call tailored bright illumination attacl dor Differential-Phase-Shift QKD (DPS-QKD). By Monitoring a rate of coincidence detection at a pair of superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SSPDs) which is connected at each of the output ports of Bob's Mach-Zehnder interferometer, Alice and Bob can detect and defeat this kind of attack.

id: 1308.2295
title: Characteristics of superconducting single photon detector in DPS-QKD system under bright illumination blinding attack
authors: Mikio Fujiwara, Toshimori Honjo, Kaoru Shimizu, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, 21(5), 6304-6312(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2295
abstract: We derive the time-dependent photo-detection probability equation of a superconducting single photon detector (SSPD) to study the responsive property for a pulse train at high repetition rate. Using this equation, we analyze the characteristics of SSPDs when illuminated by bright pulses in blinding attack on a quantum key distribution (QKD). We obtain good agreement between expected values based on our equation and actual experimental values. Such a time-dependent probability analysis contributes to security analysis.

id: 1308.2305
title: The Quantum State of Classical Matter I: Solids and Measurements
authors: Clifford E Chafin
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2305
abstract: Using the kinematic constraints of classical bodies we construct the allowable wavefunctions corresponding to classical solids. These are shown to be long lived metastable states that are qualitatively far from eigenstates of the true Hamiltonian. Extensions of this give an explicit description of phonon oscillations in terms of the wavefunction itself and some consequences for the general validity of the quasiparticle picture are presented. An intrinsic theory of quantum measurement naturally arises based on Schr\"{o}dinger evolution that is local, consistent with relativity and extends to the case of noninertial and deformable measurement devices that can have time changing internal properties. This theory agrees with the Born interpretation in the limit of static measuring devices. Care is given to the transport of conserved quantities during measurement.

id: 1308.2318
title: Generation of Massive Entanglement Through Adiabatic Quantum Phase Transition in a spinor condensate
authors: Z. Zhang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2318
abstract: We propose a method to generate massive entanglement in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate from an initial product state through adiabatic sweep of magnetic field across a quantum phase transition induced by competition between the spin-dependent collision interaction and the quadratic Zeeman effect. The generated many-body entanglement is characterized by the experimentally measurable entanglement depth in the proximity of the Dicke state. We show that the scheme is robust to practical noise and experimental imperfection and under realistic conditions it is possible to generate genuine entanglement for hundreds of atoms.

id: 1308.2348
title: Integral quantizations with two basic examples
authors: Jean Pierre Gazeau, Herve Bergeron
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2348
abstract: The paper is devoted to integral quantization, a procedure based on operator-valued measure and resolution of the identity. We insist on covariance properties in the important case where group representation theory is involved. We also insist on the inherent probabilistic aspects of this classical-quantum map. The approach includes and generalizes coherent state quantization. Two applications based on group representation are carried out. The first one concerns the Weyl-Heisenberg group and the euclidean plane viewed as the corresponding phase space. We show that there exists a world of quantizations which yield the canonical commutation rule and the usual quantum spectrum of the harmonic oscillator. The second one concerns the affine group of the real line and gives rise to an interesting regularization of the dilation origin in the half-plane viewed as the corresponding phase space.

id: 1308.2366
title: Space-time coupling in the up-conversion of broadband down-converted light
authors: E. Brambilla, O. Jedrkiewicz, P. Di Trapani, A. Gatti
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2366
abstract: We investigate the up-conversion process of broadband light from parametric down-conversion (PDC), focusing on the spatio-temporal spectral properties of the sum-frequency generated (SFG) radiation. We demonstrate that the incoherent component of the SFG spectrum is characterized by a skewed cigar-shaped geometry in space-time due to the compensation of spatial walk-off and group-velocity mismatch between the fundamental and the generated SFG fields. The results are illustrated both by a theoretical modeling of the optical system and by experimental measurements.

id: 1308.2395
title: A Scalable Maximum Likelihood Method for Quantum State Tomography
authors: Tillmann Baumgratz, Alexander N¨¹?eler, Marcus Cramer, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 125004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2395
abstract: The principle of maximum likelihood reconstruction has proven to yield satisfactory results in the context of quantum state tomography for many-body systems of moderate system sizes. Until recently, however, quantum state tomography has been considered to be infeasible for systems consisting of a large number of subsystems due to the exponential growth of the Hilbert space dimension with the number of constituents. Several reconstruction schemes have been proposed since then to overcome the two main obstacles in quantum many-body tomography: experiment time and postprocessing resources. Here we discuss one strategy to address these limitations for the maximum likelihood principle by adopting a particular state representation to merge a well established reconstruction algorithm maximizing the likelihood with techniques known from quantum many-body theory.

id: 1308.2431
title: Tunable non-Gaussian resources for continuous-variable quantum technologies
authors: F. Dell'Anno, D. Buono, G. Nocerino, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043818 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2431
abstract: We introduce and discuss a set of tunable two-mode states of continuous-variable systems, as well as an efficient scheme for their experimental generation. This novel class of tunable entangled resources is defined by a general ansatz depending on two experimentally adjustable parameters. It is very ample and flexible as it encompasses Gaussian as well as non-Gaussian states. The latter include, among others, known states such as squeezed number states and de-Gaussified photon-added and photon-subtracted squeezed states, the latter being the most efficient non-Gaussian resources currently available in the laboratory. Moreover, it contains the classes of squeezed Bell states and even more general non-Gaussian resources that can be optimized according to the specific quantum technological task that needs to be realized. The proposed experimental scheme exploits linear optical operations and photon detections performed on a pair of uncorrelated two--mode Gaussian squeezed states. The desired non-Gaussian state is then realized via ancillary squeezing and conditioning. Two independent, freely tunable experimental parameters can be exploited to generate different states and to optimize the performance in implementing a given quantum protocol. As a concrete instance, we analyze in detail the performance of different states considered as resources for the realization of quantum teleportation in realistic conditions. For the fidelity of teleportation of an unknown coherent state, we show that the resources associated to the optimized parameters outperform, in a significant range of experimental values, both Gaussian twin beams and photon-subtracted squeezed states.

id: 1308.2436
title: Polynomial invariants of degree 4 for even-$n$ qubits and their applications in entanglement classification
authors: Xiangrong Li, Dafa Li
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2436
abstract: We develop a simple method for constructing polynomial invariants of degree 4 for even-$n$ qubits and give explicit expressions for these polynomial invariants. We demonstrate the invariance of the polynomials under stochastic local operations and classical communication and exemplify the use of the invariance in classifying entangled states. The absolute values of these polynomial invariants are entanglement monotones, thereby allowing entanglement measures to be built. Finally, we discuss the properties of these entanglement measures.

id: 1308.2493
title: On quantum circuits employing roots of the Pauli matrices
authors: Mathias Soeken, D. Michael Miller, Rolf Drechsler
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2493
abstract: The Pauli matrices are a set of three 2x2 complex Hermitian, unitary matrices. In this article, we investigate the relationships between certain roots of the Pauli matrices and how gates implementing those roots are used in quantum circuits. Techniques for simplifying such circuits are given. In particular, we show how those techniques can be used to find a circuit of Clifford+T gates starting from a circuit composed of gates from the well studied NCV library.

id: 1308.2513
title: Schmidt modes and entanglement of biphoton polarization qutrits
authors: Mikhail Fedorov, Nikolai Miklin
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2513
abstract: Polarization features and entanglement of biphoton polarization qutrits are briefly outlined. Schmidt modes of qutrits are found analytically and in a general form by the method different from the standard one and based on the original approach of Erhard Schmidt (1906)

id: 1308.2527
title: Multi-Colour Quantum Metrology with Entangled Photons
authors: Bryn Bell, Srikanth Kannan, Alex McMillan, Alex S. Clark, William J. Wadsworth, John G. Rarity
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 093603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2527
abstract: Entangled photons can be used to make measurements with an accuracy beyond that possible with classical light. While most implementations of quantum metrology have used states made up of a single colour of photons, we show that entangled states of two colours can show supersensitivity to optical phase and path-length by using a photonic crystal fibre source of photon pairs inside an interferometer. This setup is relatively simple and robust to experimental imperfections. We demonstrate sensitivity beyond the standard quantum limit and show super-resolved interference fringes using entangled states of two, four, and six photons.

id: 1308.2554
title: Quantum walks of correlated photon pairs in two-dimensional waveguide arrays
authors: Konstantinos Poulios, Robert Keil, Daniel Fry, Jasmin D. A. Meinecke, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Alberto Politi, Mirko Lobino, Markus Gr?fe, Matthias Heinrich, Stefan Nolte, Alexander Szameit, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 143604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2554
abstract: We demonstrate quantum walks of correlated photons in a 2D network of directly laser written waveguides coupled in a 'swiss cross' arrangement. The correlated detection events show high-visibility quantum interference and unique composite behaviour: strong correlation and independence of the quantum walkers, between and within the planes of the cross. Violations of a classically defined inequality, for photons injected in the same plane and in orthogonal planes, reveal non-classical behaviour in a non-planar structure.

id: 1308.2603
title: Canonical Transformations in Crystals
authors: Emerson Sadurn¨ª
comments: Presented at the symposium Quantum Theory and Symmetries VIII. 14 pages
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 512 (2014) 012013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2603
abstract: The space representations of linear canonical transformations were studied by Moshinsky and Quesne in 1972. For a few decades, the bilinear hamiltonian remained as the only exactly solvable representative for such problems. In this work we show that the Mello-Moshinsky equations can be solved exactly for a class of problems with discrete symmetry, leading to exact propagators for Wannier-Stark ladders in one and two dimensional crystals. We give a detailed study for a particle in a triangular lattice under the influence of a time-dependent electric field. A more general set of Mello-Moshinsky equations for arbitrary lattices is presented.

id: 1308.2609
title: Biorthogonal Quantum Mechanics
authors: Dorje C. Brody
comments: 26 pages, final version to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2609
abstract: The Hermiticity condition in quantum mechanics required for the characterisation of (a) physical observables and (b) generators of unitary motions can be relaxed into a wider class of operators whose eigenvalues are real and whose eigenstates are complete. In this case, the orthogonality of eigenstates is replaced by the notion of biorthogonality that defines the relation between the Hilbert space of states and its dual space. The resulting quantum theory, which might appropriately be called 'biorthogonal quantum mechanics', is developed here in some detail in the case for which the Hilbert space dimensionality is finite. Specifically, characterisations of probability assignment rules, observable properties, pure and mixed states, spin particles, measurements, combined systems and entanglements, perturbations, and dynamical aspects of the theory are developed. The paper concludes with a brief discussion on infinite-dimensional systems.

id: 1308.2645
title: Improving photon detector efficiency using a high-fidelity optical CNOT gate
authors: Katherine L Brown, Robinjeet Singh, Joshua H. Mendez Plaskus, Hanna E. Broadus, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022327 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2645
abstract: A significant problem for optical quantum computing is inefficient, or inaccurate photo-detectors. It is possible to use CNOT gates to improve a detector by making a large cat state then measuring every qubit in that state. In this paper we develop a code that compares five different schemes for making multiple measurements, some of which are capable of detecting loss and some of which are not. We explore how each of these schemes performs in the presence of different errors, and derive a formula to find at what probability of qubit loss is it worth detecting loss, and at what probability does this just lead to further errors than the loss introduces.

id: 1308.2650
title: Continuous-variable dense coding by optomechanical cavities
authors: Shabir Barzanjeh, Stefano Pirandola, Christian Weedbrook
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2650
abstract: In this paper, we show how continuous-variable dense coding can be implemented using entangled light generated from a membrane-in-the-middle geometry. The mechanical resonator is assumed to be a high reflectivity membrane hung inside a high quality factor cavity. We show that the mechanical resonator is able to generate an amount of entanglement between the optical modes at the output of the cavity, which is strong enough to approach the capacity of quantum dense coding at small photon numbers. The suboptimal rate reachable by our optomechanical protocol is high enough to outperform the classical capacity of the noiseless quantum channel.

id: 1308.2653
title: Structure and properties of the algebra of partially transposed permutation operators
authors: Marek Mozrzymas, Micha? Horodecki, Micha? Studzi¨½ski
comments: 34 pages, 1 table
journal: Journal Of Mathematical Physics 55, 032202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2653
abstract: We consider the structure of algebra of operators, acting in $n-$fold tensor product space, which are partially transposed on the last term. Using purely algebraical methods we show that this algebra is semi-simple and then, considering its regular representation, we derive basic properties of the algebra. In particular, we describe all irreducible representations of the algebra of partially transposed operators and derive expressions for matrix elements of the representations. It appears that there are two types of irreducible representations of the algebra. The first one is strictly connected with the representations of the group $S(n-1)$ induced by irreducible representations of the group $S(n-2)$. The second type is structurally connected with irreducible representations of the group $S(n-1)$.

id: 1308.2735
title: Precision Measurements of Temperature and Chemical Potential of Quantum Gases
authors: Ugo Marzolino, Daniel Braun
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063609 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2735
abstract: We investigate the sensitivity with which the temperature and the chemical potential characterizing quantum gases can be measured. We calculate the corresponding quantum Fisher information matrices for both fermionic and bosonic gases. For the latter, particular attention is devoted to the situation close to the Bose-Einstein condensation transition, which we examine not only for the standard scenario in three dimensions, but also for generalized condensation in lower dimensions, where the bosons condense in a subspace of Hilbert space instead of a unique ground state, as well as condensation at fixed volume or fixed pressure. We show that Bose Einstein condensation can lead to sub-shot noise sensitivity for the measurement of the chemical potential. We also examine the influence of interactions on the sensitivity in three different models, and show that mean-field and contact interactions deteriorate the sensitivity but only slightly for experimentally accessible weak interactions.

id: 1308.2758
title: Decoherence of quantum gates based on Aharonov-Anandan phases in a multistep scheme
authors: Xin Li, Yu Shi
comments: 7 pages, published in EPL
journal: EPL 102, 40011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2758
abstract: We study quantum decoherence of single-qubit and two-qubit Aharonov-Anandan (AA) geometric phase gates realized in a multistep scheme. Each AA gate is also compared with the dynamical phase gate performing the same unitary transformation within the same time period and coupled with the same environment, which is modeled as harmonic oscillators. It is found that the fidelities and the entanglement protection of the AA phase gates are enhanced by the states being superpositions of different eigenstates of the environmental coupling, and the noncommutativity between the qubit interaction and the environmental coupling.

id: 1308.2763
title: Controllable optical bistability based on photons and phonons in a two-mode optomechanical system
authors: Cheng Jiang, Hongxiang Liu, Yuanshun Cui, Xiaowei Li, Guibin Chen, Xuemin Shuai
comments: under revision in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 055801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2763
abstract: We explore theoretically the bistable behavior of intracavity photon number in a two-mode cavity optomechanical system, where two cavity modes are coupled to a common mechanical resonator. When the two cavity modes are driven by two pump laser beams, respectively, we find that the optical bistability can be controlled by tuning the power and frequency of the pump beams. The common interaction to a mechanical mode enables one to control the bistable behavior in one cavity by adjusting the pump laser beam driving another cavity. We also show that both branches of optical bistability at photon numbers below unity can be observed in this two-mode optomechanical system. This phenomenon can find potential applications in controllable optical switch.

id: 1308.2777
title: Cryptanalysis of a multi-party quantum key agreement protocol with single particles
authors: Wei Huang, Qiao-Yan Wen, Bin Liu, Qi Su, Fei Gao
comments: 7 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 13, 1651-1657 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2777
abstract: Recently, Sun et al. [Quant Inf Proc DOI: 10.1007/s11128-013-0569-x] presented an efficient multi-party quantum key agreement (QKA) protocol by employing single particles and unitary operations. The aim of this protocol is to fairly and securely negotiate a secret session key among $N$ parties with a high qubit efficiency. In addition, the authors claimed that no participant can learn anything more than his/her prescribed output in this protocol, i.e., the sub-secret keys of the participants can be kept secret during the protocol. However, here we points out that the sub-secret of a participant in Sun et al.'s protocol can be eavesdropped by the two participants next to him/her. In addition, a certain number of dishonest participants can fully determine the final shared key in this protocol. Finally, we discuss the factors that should be considered when designing a really fair and secure QKA protocol.

id: 1308.2782
title: Single-photon nonlinearity with intracavity electromagnetically induced transparency in blockaded Rydberg ensemble
authors: G. W. Lin, J. Yang, X. M. Lin, Y. P. Niu, S. Q. Gong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2782
abstract: A scheme is presented to realize strong single-photon nonlinearity with intracavity electromagnetically induced transparency in blockaded Rydberg ensemble. In our scheme, the photons in the cavity are in the form of cavity dark-state polaritons and thus the effect of tuning the control field is equivalent to that of changing the cavity quality factors $Q$. Profiting from this especial feature, the system behaves very strong single-photon nonlinearity, and the nonlinear strength would be three orders of magnitude larger than both the effective cavity decay rate and atomic decay rate. We also show the application of the strong nonlinearity to strong photon blockade effect.

id: 1308.2788
title: Quantum dynamics of the harmonic oscillator on a cylinder
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembieli¨½ski
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2788
abstract: Evolution of coherent states is considered for a particle confined to a cylinder moving in a harmonic oscillator potential. Because of the discontinuous changes as time goes by of the phase representing the position of a particle on a parallel (circle) the trajectory pattern of quantum averages specifying coordinates on a cylinder is very complex and in some aspects resembles chaotic one.

id: 1308.2812
title: Light-matter decoupling in the deep strong coupling regime: The breakdown of the Purcell effect
authors: Simone De Liberato
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 016401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2812
abstract: Improvements both in the photonic confinement and in the emitter design have led to a steady increase in the strength of the light-matter coupling in cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments. This has allowed to access interaction-dominated regimes in which the state of the system can only be described in terms of mixed light-matter excitations. Here we show that, when the coupling between light and matter becomes strong enough, this picture breaks down, and light and matter degrees of freedom totally decouple. A striking consequence of such a counter-intuitive phenomenon is that the Purcell effect is reversed and the spontaneous emission rate, usually thought to increase with the light-matter coupling strength, plummets instead for large enough couplings.

id: 1308.2815
title: Relevance of rank for a mixed state quantum teleportation resource
authors: K.G. Paulson, S.V.M. Satyanarayana
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2815
abstract: Mixed entangled states are generic resource for quantum teleportation. Optimal teleportation fidelity measures the success of quantum teleportation. The relevance of rank in the teleportation process is investigated by constructing three new maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS) of different ranks. Linear entropy, concurrence, optimal teleportation fidelity and Bell function are obtained for each of the state analytically. It is found that mixed states with higher rank are better resource for teleportation. In order to achieve a fixed value of optimal teleportation fidelity, we find that low rank states must have high concurrence. Further, for each of ranks 2, 3 and 4, we numerically generate 30000 maximally entangled mixed states. The analysis of these states reveals the existence of a rank dependent upper bound on optimal teleportation fidelity for a fixed purity. In order to achieve a fixed optimal teleportation fidelity, we find MEMS exhibit a rank dependent lower bound on concurrence. MEMS are classified in terms of their degree of nonlocality.

id: 1308.2821
title: Effect of decoherence on the Berry phase of a spin-half in a rotating magnetic field
authors: Xin Li, Yu Shi
comments: 6 pages, published in EPL
journal: EPL 103, 20005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2821
abstract: We investigate the decoherence effect of a bosonic bath on the Berry phase of a spin-1/2 in a time-dependent magnetic field, without making the Markovian approximation. A two-cycle process resulting in a pure Berry phase is considered. The low-frequency quantum noise significantly affects the Berry phase. In the adiabatic limit, the high-frequency quantum noise only has a small effect. The result is also valid in some more general situations.

id: 1308.2822
title: Density cubes and higher-order interference theories
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Tomasz Paterek, Caslav Brukner
comments: section on the state update (L\"uders's) rule and new figures added, accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 023028 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2822
abstract: Can quantum theory be seen as a special case of a more general probabilistic theory, similarly as classical theory is a special case of the quantum one? We study here the class of generalized probabilistic theories defined by the order of interference they exhibit as proposed by Sorkin. A simple operational argument shows that the theories require higher-order tensors as a representation of physical states. For the third-order interference we derive an explicit theory of "density cubes" and show that quantum theory, i.e. theory of density matrices, is naturally embedded in it. We derive the genuine non-quantum class of states and non-trivial dynamics for the case of three-level system and show how one can construct the states of higher dimensions. Additionally to genuine third-order interference, the density cubes are shown to violate the Leggett-Garg inequality beyond the quantum Tsirelson bound for temporal correlations.

id: 1308.2832
title: Vibrational mode multiplexing of ultracold atoms
authors: S. Mart\'\inez-Garaot, E. Torrontegui, Xi Chen, M. Modugno, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, Shuo-Yen Tseng, J. G. Muga
comments: 5 pages
journal: PRL 111, 213001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2832
abstract: Sending multiple messages on qubits encoded in different vibrational modes of cold atoms or ions along a transmission waveguide requires to merge first and then separate the modes at input and output ends. Similarly, different qubits can be stored in the modes of a trap and be separated later. We design the fast splitting of a harmonic trap into an asymmetric double well so that the initial ground vibrational state becomes the ground state of one of two final wells, and the initial first excited state becomes the ground state of the other well. This might be done adiabatically by slowly deforming the trap. We speed up the process by inverse engineering a double-function trap using dynamical invariants. The separation (demultiplexing) followed by an inversion of the asymmetric bias and then by the reverse process (multiplexing) provides a population inversion protocol based solely on trap reshaping.

id: 1308.2852
title: Remote Tomography Via von Neumann-Arthurs-Kelly Interaction
authors: S. M. Roy, Abhinav Deshpande, Nitica Sakharwade
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2852
abstract: Teleportation usually involves entangled particles 1,2 shared by Alice and Bob, Bell-state measurement on particle 1 and system particle by Alice, classical communication to Bob, and unitary transformation by Bob on particle 2. We propose a novel method: interaction-based remote tomography. Alice arranges an entanglement generating von Neumann-Arthurs-Kelly interaction between the system and two apparatus particles, and then teleports the latter to Bob. Bob reconstructs the unknown initial state of the system not received by him by quadrature measurements on the apparatus particles .

id: 1308.2882
title: Towards experimental tests and applications of Lieb-Robinson bounds
authors: Kolja Them
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 022126 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2882
abstract: Spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy is identified as a suitable experimental technique to investigate the quantitative quality of Lieb-Robinson bounds on the signal velocity. The latest, most general bound is simplified and it is shown that there is a discrepancy by a factor of approximately 4 between the corresponding limit speed and some estimated exact velocities in atomic spin chains. The observed discrepancy facilitates conclusions for a further mathematical improvement of Lieb-Robinson bounds. The real signal propagation can be modified with several experimental parameters from which the bounds are independent. This enables the application of Lieb-Robinson bounds as upper limits on the enhancement of the real signal speed for information transport in spintronic devices.

id: 1308.2884
title: On the computation of Casimir stresses in open media and Lifshitz theory
authors: Shin-itiro Goto, Robin W Tucker, Timothy J Walton
comments: 39 pages, 6 figues; minor corrections to the appendices due to typographical errors
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 405301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2884
abstract: A classification of the electromagnetic modes on open and closed spatial domains containing media with piecewise homogeneous permittivities is used to facilitate the derivation of quantum induced Casimir stresses in dielectrics. By directly exploiting the complex analytic properties of solutions of the macroscopic Maxwell equations for open systems it is shown how regular expressions for such stresses can be expressed in terms of double integrals involving either real or pure imaginary frequencies associated with harmonic modes in conformity with the Lifshitz theory for separated planar dielectric half-spaces. The derivation is self-contained without recourse to the Krein formula for a density of states or mode regularization and offers a more direct approach to other open systems.

id: 1308.2896
title: Two-boson composites
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Peter Alexander Bouvrie, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5+4 pages, 4 figures, new title, minor modifications, version accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 061602(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2896
abstract: Composite bosons made of two bosonic constituents exhibit deviations from ideal bosonic behavior due to their substructure. This deviation is reflected by the normalization ratio of the quantum state of N composites. We find a set of saturable, efficiently evaluable bounds for this indicator, which quantifies the bosonic behavior of composites via the entanglement of their constituents. We predict an abrupt transition between ordinary and exaggerated bosonic behavior in a condensate of two-boson composites.

id: 1308.2897
title: Spectral Singularities in the Surface Modes of a Spherical Gain Medium
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Mustafa Sarisaman
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, 6 tables; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033810 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2897
abstract: We study the surface modes of a homogeneous spherical gain medium and provide a comprehensive analytic treatment of a special class of these modes that support spectral singularities. Because the latter have a divergent quality factor, we call them the singular gallery modes. We show that they can be excited using arbitrarily small amounts of gain, and as a result, the system lacks a lasing threshold, effectively. This shows that we can realize spectral singularities in the surface modes of extremely small spherical samples with modest amounts of gain. We also examine the possibility of exciting singular gallery modes with different wavelengths using the same amount of gain. This corresponds to the situation where the system undergoes simultaneous lasing at different wavelengths.

id: 1308.2928
title: Investigating the limits of randomized benchmarking protocols
authors: Jeffrey M. Epstein, Andrew W. Cross, Easwar Magesan, Jay M. Gambetta
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062321 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2928
abstract: In this paper, we analyze the performance of randomized benchmarking protocols on gate sets under a variety of realistic error models that include systematic rotations, amplitude damping, leakage to higher levels, and 1/f noise. We find that, in almost all cases, benchmarking provides better than a factor-of-two estimate of average error rate, suggesting that randomized benchmarking protocols are a valuable tool for verification and validation of quantum operations. In addition, we derive new models for fidelity decay curves under certain types of non-Markovian noise models such as 1/f and leakage errors. We also show that, provided the standard error of the fidelity measurements is small, only a small number of trials are required for high confidence estimation of gate errors.

id: 1308.2939
title: Relative entropy is an exact measure of non-Gaussianity
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 88, art. 012322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2939
abstract: We prove that the closest Gaussian state to an arbitrary $N$-mode field state through the relative entropy is built with the covariance matrix and the average displacement of the given state. Consequently, the relative entropy of an $N$-mode state to its associate Gaussian one is an exact distance-type measure of non-Gaussianity. In order to illustrate this finding, we discuss the general properties of the $N$-mode Fock-diagonal states and evaluate their exact entropic amount of non-Gaussianity.

id: 1308.2943
title: Entanglement Generation Using Discrete Solitons in Coulomb Crystals
authors: H. Landa, A. Retzker, T. Schaetz, B. Reznik
comments: 7 pages with appendix, 3 figures, v3 corresponds to the final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 053001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2943
abstract: Laser cooled and trapped ions can crystallize and feature discrete solitons, that are nonlinear, topologically-protected configurations of the Coulomb crystal. Such solitons, as their continuum counterparts, can move within the crystal, while their discreteness leads to the existence of a gap-separated, spatially-localized motional mode of oscillation above the spectrum. Suggesting that these unique properties of discrete solitons can be used for generating entanglement between different sites of the crystal, we study a detailed proposal in the context of state-of-the-art experimental techniques. We analyze the interaction of periodically-driven planar ion crystals with optical forces, revealing the effects of micromotion in radio-frequency traps inherent to such structures, as opposed to linear ion chains. The proposed method requires Doppler cooling of the crystal and sideband cooling of the soliton's localized modes alone. Since the gap separation of the latter is nearly independent of the crystal size, this approach could be particularly useful for producing entanglement and studying system-environment interactions in large, two- and possibly three-dimensional systems.

id: 1308.3000
title: Generalized conditional entropy in bipartite quantum systems
authors: N. Gigena, R. Rossignoli
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures; References added
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 015302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3000
abstract: We analyze, for a general concave entropic form, the associated conditional entropy of a quantum system A+B, obtained as a result of a local measurement on one of the systems (B). This quantity is a measure of the average mixedness of A after such measurement, and its minimum over all local measurements is shown to be the associated entanglement of formation between A and a purifying third system C. In the case of the von Neumann entropy, this minimum determines also the quantum discord. For classically correlated states and mixtures of a pure state with the maximally mixed state, we show that the minimizing measurement can be determined analytically and is universal, i.e., the same for all concave forms. While these properties no longer hold for general states, we also show that in the special case of the linear entropy, an explicit expression for the associated conditional entropy can be obtained, whose minimum among projective measurements in a general qudit-qubit state can be determined analytically, in terms of the largest eigenvalue of a simple 3x3 correlation matrix. Such minimum determines the maximum conditional purity of A, and the associated minimizing measurement is shown to be also universal in the vicinity of maximal mixedness. Results for X states, including typical reduced states of spin pairs in XY chains at weak and strong transverse fields, are also provided and indicate that the measurements minimizing the von Neumann and linear conditional entropies are typically coincident in these states, being determined essentially by the main correlation. They can differ, however, substantially from that minimizing the geometric discord.

id: 1308.3007
title: Cavity linewidth narrowing with dark-state polaritons
authors: G. W. Lin, J. Yang, X. M. Lin, Y. P. Niu, S. Q. Gong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3007
abstract: We perform a quantum-theoretical treatment of cavity linewidth narrowing with intracavity electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). By means of intracavity EIT, the photons in the cavity are in the form of cavity polaritons: bright-state polariton and dark-state polariton. Strong coupling of the bright-state polariton to the excited state induces an effect known as vacuum Rabi splitting, whereas the dark-state polariton decoupled from the excited state induce a narrow cavity transmission window. Our analysis would provide a quantum theory of linewidth narrowing with a quantum field pulse at the single-photon level.

id: 1308.3042
title: Excitation- and state-transfer through spin chains in the presence of spatially correlated noise
authors: Jan Jeske, Nicolas Vogt, Jared H. Cole
comments: 8 pages + references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3042
abstract: We investigate the influence of environmental noise on spin networks and spin chains. In addition to the common model of an independent bath for each spin in the system we also consider noise with a finite spatial correlation length. We present the emergence of new dynamics and decoherence-free subspaces with increasing correlation length for both dephasing and dissipating environments. This leads to relaxation blocking of one spin by uncoupled surrounding spins. We then consider perfect state transfer through a spin chain in the presence of decoherence and discuss the dependence of the transfer quality on spatial noise correlation length. We identify qualitatively different features for dephasing and dissipative environments in spin-transfer problems.

id: 1308.3049
title: Reentrant classicality of a damped system
authors: Benjamin Spreng, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Ulrich Weiss
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL 103, 60007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3049
abstract: For a free particle, the coupling to its environment can be the relevant mechanism to induce quantum behavior as the temperature is lowered. We study general linear environments with a spectral density proportional to {\omega}^s at low frequencies and consider in particular the specific heat of the free damped particle. For super-Ohmic baths with s>=2, a reentrant classical behavior is found. As the temperature is lowered, the specific heat decreases from the classical value of k_B/2, thereby indicating the appearence of quantum effects. However, the classical value of the specific heat is restored as the temperature approaches zero. This surprising behavior is due to the suppressed density of bath degrees of freedom at low frequencies. For s<2, the specific heat at zero temperature increases linearly with s from -k_B/2 to k_B/2. An Ohmic bath, s=1, is thus very special in the sense that it represents the only case where the specific heat vanishes at zero temperature.

id: 1308.3096
title: A quantum information processor with trapped ions
authors: Philipp Schindler, Daniel Nigg, Thomas Monz, Julio T. Barreiro, Esteban Martinez, Shannon X. Wang, Stephan Quint, Matthias F. Brandl, Volckmar Nebendahl, Christian F. Roos, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich, Rainer Blatt
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 123012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3096
abstract: Quantum computers hold the promise to solve certain problems exponentially faster than their classical counterparts. Trapped atomic ions are among the physical systems in which building such a computing device seems viable. In this work we present a small-scale quantum information processor based on a string of $^{40}$Ca${^+}$ ions confined in a macroscopic linear Paul trap. We review our set of operations which includes non-coherent operations allowing us to realize arbitrary Markovian processes. In order to build a larger quantum information processor it is mandatory to reduce the error rate of the available operations which is only possible if the physics of the noise processes is well understood. We identify the dominant noise sources in our system and discuss their effects on different algorithms. Finally we demonstrate how our entire set of operations can be used to facilitate the implementation of algorithms by examples of the quantum Fourier transform and the quantum order finding algorithm.

id: 1308.3098
title: Evidence of entanglement, or: Is Schr?dinger's cat really entangled?
authors: Kedar S. Ranade, Kaled Dechoum
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3098
abstract: Quantum effects and, in particular, entanglement are by now widely recognized in all areas of physics and related fields. However, we feel that the precise notion of entanglement---though mathematically well-defined---still generates confusion even in the academic environment. Our aim in this article is to point out and clarify some aspects of the notion of entanglement, in particular with respect to observable quantities. We do this by illustrating common misconceptions with Schr\"{o}dinger's cat paradox, explain them in mathematical terms and provide examples where misunderstandings arise and how they can be solved.

id: 1308.3117
title: Dual-Path Methods for Propagating Quantum Microwaves
authors: R. Di Candia, E. P. Menzel, L. Zhong, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross, E. Solano
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 015001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3117
abstract: We study quantum state tomography, entanglement detection, and channel noise reconstruction of propagating quantum microwaves via dual-path methods. The presented schemes make use of the following key elements: propagation channels, beam splitters, linear amplifiers, and field quadrature detectors. Remarkably, our methods are tolerant to the ubiquitous noise added to the signals by phase-insensitive microwave amplifiers. Furthermore, we analyze our techniques with numerical examples and experimental data, and compare them with the scheme developed in Eichler $et$ $al$ (2011 Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 220503; 2011 Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 113601), based on a single path. Our methods provide key toolbox components that may pave the way towards quantum microwave teleportation and communication protocols.

id: 1308.3121
title: Proposed Entanglement of X-ray Nuclear Polaritons as a Potential Method for Probing Matter at the Subatomic Scale
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Adriana P¨¢lffy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 057401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3121
abstract: A setup for generating the special superposition of a simultaneously forward- and backward-propagating collective excitation in a nuclear sample is studied. We show that by actively manipulating the scattering channels of single x-ray quanta with the help of a normal incidence x-ray mirror, a nuclear polariton which propagates in two opposite directions can be generated. The two counterpropagating polariton branches are entangled by a single x-ray photon. The quantum nature of the nuclear excitation entanglement gives rise to a subangstrom-wavelength standing wave excitation pattern that can be used as a flexible tool to probe matter dynamically on the subatomic scale.

id: 1308.3125
title: Subrecoil cavity cooling towards degeneracy: A numerical study
authors: Raimar M. Sandner, Wolfgang Niedenzu, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 2013 EPL 104 43001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3125
abstract: We present a detailed numerical analysis of the temperature limit and timescale of cavity cooling of a dilute gas in the quantum regime for particles and light. For a cavity with a linewidth smaller than the recoil frequency efficient cooling towards quantum degeneracy is facilitated by applying a tailored sequence of laser pulses transferring the particles towards lower momenta. Two-particle Monte Carlo wave function simulations reveal strongly improved cooling properties for a ring versus a standing-wave geometry. Distinct quantum correlations and cooling limits for bosons and fermions demonstrate quantum statistical effects. In particular, in ring cavities the photon-mediated long-range interaction favours momentum-space pairing of bosons, while fermion pairs exhibit anti-correlated or uncorrelated momenta. The results are consistent with recent experiments and give encouraging prospects to achieve sufficient conditions for the condensation of a wide class of polarisable particles via cavity cooling.

id: 1308.3126
title: Heralded entanglement of two ions in an optical cavity
authors: B. Casabone, A. Stute, K. Friebe, B. Brandst?tter, K. Sch¨¹ppert, R. Blatt, T. E. Northup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3126
abstract: We demonstrate precise control of the coupling of each of two trapped ions to the mode of an optical resonator. When both ions are coupled with near-maximum strength, we generate ion--ion entanglement heralded by the detection of two orthogonally polarized cavity photons. The entanglement fidelity with respect to the Bell state $\Psi^+$ reaches $F \geq (91.9\pm2.5)%$. This result represents an important step toward distributed quantum computing with cavities linking remote atom-based registers.

id: 1308.3154
title: On coexistence and joint measurability of rank-1 quantum observables
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: Theorem 2 of v1 and Example 1 of v2 are incorrect
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 052002 (12 pp) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3154
abstract: We show that a rank-1 quantum observable (POVM) M is jointly measurable with a quantum observable M' exactly when M' is a smearing of M. If M is extreme, rank-1 and discrete then M and M' are coexistent if and only if they are jointly measurable.

id: 1308.3241
title: Experimental reconstruction of work distribution and verification of fluctuation relations at the full quantum level
authors: Tiago Batalh?o, Alexandre M. Souza, Laura Mazzola, Ruben Auccaise, Ivan S. Oliveira, John Goold, Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro, Roberto M. Serra
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3241
abstract: Research on the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of quantum systems has so far produced important statements on the thermodynamics of small systems undergoing quantum mechanical evolutions. Key examples are provided by the Crooks and Jarzynski relations: taking into account fluctuations in non-equilibrium dynamics, such relations connect equilibrium properties of thermodynamical relevance with explicit non-equilibrium features. Although the experimental verification of such fundamental relations in the classical domain has encountered some success, their quantum mechanical version requires the assessment of the statistics of work performed by or onto an evolving quantum system, a step that has so far encountered considerable difficulties in its implementation due to the practical difficulty to perform reliable projective measurements of instantaneous energy states. In this paper, by exploiting a radical change in the characterization of the work distribution at the quantum level, we report the first experimental verification of the quantum Jarzynski identity and the Tasaki-Crooks relation following a quantum process implemented in a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) system. Our experimental approach has enabled the full characterisation of the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of a quantum spin in a statistically significant way, thus embodying a key step towards the grounding of quantum-systems thermodynamics.

id: 1308.3254
title: Optimal processing of reversible quantum channels
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Michal Sedlak
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 378, p. 1797 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3254
abstract: We consider the general problem of the optimal transformation of N uses of (possibly different) unitary channels to a single use of another unitary channel in any finite dimension. We show how the optimal transformation can be fully parallelized, consisting in a preprocessing channel followed by a parallel action of all the N unitaries and a final postprocessing channel. Our techniques allow to achieve an exponential reduction in the number of the free parameters of the optimization problem making it amenable to an efficient numerical treatment. Finally, we apply our general results to find the analytical solution for special cases of interest like the cloning of qubit phase gates.

id: 1308.3287
title: The CHSH-type inequalities for infinite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Yu Guo
comments: 9 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1006.3557 by other authors
journal: Modern Physics Letters B Vol. 27, No. 21 (2013) 1350151
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3287
abstract: By establishing CHSH operators and CHSH-type inequalities, we show that any entangled pure state in infinite-dimensional systems is entangled in a $2\otimes2$ subspace. We find that, for infinite-dimensional systems, the corresponding properties are similar to that of the two-qubit case: (i) The CHSH-type inequalities provide a sufficient and necessary condition for separability of pure states; (ii) The CHSH operators satisfy the Cirel'son inequalities; (iii) Any state which violates one of these Bell inequalities is distillable.

id: 1308.3295
title: Experimental realization of a quantum phase transition of polaritonic excitations
authors: Kenji Toyoda, Yuta Matsuno, Atsushi Noguchi, Shinsuke Haze, Shinji Urabe
comments: 12 pages for the main part and 2 pages for the supplementary information, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3295
abstract: We report an experimental realization of the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) model using the internal and radial phonon states of two trapped ions. An adiabatic transfer corresponding to a quantum phase transition from a localized insulator ground state to a delocalized superfluid (SF) ground state is demonstrated. The SF phase of polaritonic excitations characteristic of the interconnected Jaynes-Cummings (JC) system is experimentally explored, where a polaritonic excitation refers to a combination of an atomic excitation and a phonon interchanged via a JC coupling.

id: 1308.3318
title: Entanglement and tensor network states
authors: J. Eisert
comments: Invited lecture notes for the "Autumn School on Correlated Electrons: Emergent Phenomena in Correlated Matter", E. Pavarini, E. Koch, and U. Schollwoeck Eds., Juelich, September 23-27, 2013. 39 pages, 33 figures (v2: reference added)
journal: Modeling and Simulation 3, 520 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3318
abstract: These lecture notes provide a brief overview of methods of entanglement theory applied to the study of quantum many-body systems, as well as of tensor network states capturing quantum states naturally appearing in condensed-matter systems.

id: 1308.3319
title: Affecting Non-Markovian behaviour by changing bath structures
authors: V. Venkataraman, A.D.K. Plato, Tommaso Tufarelli, M.S. Kim
comments: 10 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 015501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3319
abstract: For many open quantum systems, a master equation approach employing the Markov approximation cannot reliably describe the dynamical behaviour. This is the case, for example, in a number of solid state or biological systems, and it has motivated a line of research aimed at quantifying the amount of non-Markovian behaviour in a given model. Within this framework, we investigate the dynamics of a quantum harmonic oscillator linearly coupled to a bosonic bath. We focus on Gaussian states, which are suitably treated using a covariance matrix approach. Concentrating on an entanglement based non-Markovian behaviour quantifier (NMBQ) proposed by Rivas et. al. [1], we consider the role that near resonant and off-resonant modes play in affecting the NMBQ. By using a large but finite bath of oscillators for both Ohmic and super Ohmic spectral densities we find, by systematically increasing the coupling strength, initially the near resonant modes provide the most significant non-Markovian effects, while after a certain threshold of coupling strength the off-resonant modes play the dominant role. We also consider the NMBQ for two other models where we add a single strongly coupled oscillator to the model in extra bath mode and 'buffer' configurations, which affects the modes that determine non-Markovian behaviour.

id: 1308.3337
title: Information-Based Physics and the Influence Network
authors: Kevin H. Knuth
comments: Submitted to the FQXi 2013 Essay Contest titled: "It from Bit or Bit from It?"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3337
abstract: This essay considers a simple model of observers that are influenced by the world around them. Consistent quantification of information about such influences results in a great deal of familiar physics. The end result is a new perspective on relativistic quantum mechanics, which includes both a way of conceiving of spacetime as well as particle "properties" that may be amenable to a unification of quantum mechanics and gravity. Rather than thinking about the universe as a computer, perhaps it is more accurate to think about it as a network of influences where the laws of physics derive from both consistent descriptions and optimal information-based inferences made by embedded observers.

id: 1308.3347
title: Phase-encoded measurement device independent quantum key distribution with practical spontaneous parametric-down-conversion sources
authors: Chun Zhou, Wan-Su Bao, Wei Chen, Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yang Wang, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Published on Physical Review A 88, 052333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3347
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) with weak coherent sources has been widely and meticulously analyzed. However, the analysis for MDI-QKD with spontaneous parametric-down-conversion sources (SPDCS) is incomplete. In this paper, by accounting for practical parameters of SPDCS with thermal distribution, we presents an investigation on the performances of MDI-QKD under the active three-intensity decoy protocol and the passive one-intensity decoy protocol respectively. Phase randomization, inherently prerequisite for decoy protocol, is taken into consideration for evaluating the overall quantum bit gain and quantum bit error rate. The numerical simulations show that MDI-QKD using SPDCS with practical decoy protocols can be demonstrated comparable to the asymptotical case with infinite decoy states and has apparent superiority both in transmission distance and key generation rate compared to the MDI-QKD using weak coherent sources. Our results also indicate that MDI-QKD using thermal distributed SPDCS with active three-intensity decoy protocol performs better than the one with passive one-intensity decoy protocol.

id: 1308.3410
title: Characterization of quantum correlations with local dimension constraints and its device-independent applications
authors: Miguel Navascues, Gonzalo de la Torre, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 9+3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011011 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3410
abstract: The future progress of semi-device independent quantum information science depends crucially on our ability to bound the strength of the nonlocal correlations achievable with finite dimensional quantum resources. In this work, we characterize quantum nonlocality under local dimension constraints via a complete hierarchy of semidefinite programming relaxations. In the bipartite case, we find that the first level of the hierarchy returns non-trivial bounds in all cases considered, allowing to study nonlocality scenarios with four measurement settings on one side and twelve (12) on the other in a normal desktop. In the tripartite case, we apply the hierarchy to derive a Bell-type inequality that can only be violated when each of the three parties has local dimension greater than two, hence certifying three-dimensional tripartite entanglement in a device independent way. Finally, we show how the new method can be trivially modified to detect non-separable measurements in two-qubit scenarios.

id: 1308.3436
title: Reference frame independent quantum key distribution server with telecom tether for on-chip client
authors: P. Zhang, K. Aungskunsiri, E. Mart¨ªn-L¨®pez, J. Wabnig, M. Lobino, R. W. Nock, J. Munns, D. Bonneau, P. Jiang, H. W. Li, A. Laing, J. G. Rarity, A. O. Niskanen, M. G. Thompson, J. L. O'Brien
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3436
abstract: We demonstrate a client-server quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme, with large resources such as laser and detectors situated at the server-side, which is accessible via telecom-fibre, to a client requiring only an on-chip polarisation rotator, that may be integrated into a handheld device. The detrimental effects of unstable fibre birefringence are overcome by employing the reference frame independent QKD protocol for polarisation qubits in polarisation maintaining fibre, where standard QKD protocols fail, as we show for comparison. This opens the way for quantum enhanced secure communications between companies and members of the general public equipped with handheld mobile devices, via telecom-fibre tethering.

id: 1308.3455
title: A Stronger Bell Argument for Quantum Non-Locality
authors: Paul M. N?ger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3455
abstract: It is widely accepted that the violation of Bell inequalities excludes local theories of the quantum realm. This paper presents a stronger Bell argument which even forbids certain non-local theories. The remaining non-local theories, which can violate Bell inequalities, are characterised by the fact that at least one of the outcomes in some sense probabilistically depends both on its distant as well as on its local setting. While this is not to say that parameter dependence in the usual sense necessarily holds, it shows that some kind of parameter dependence cannot be avoided, even if the outcomes depend on another. Our results are the strongest possible consequences from the violation of Bell inequalities on a qualitative probabilistic level.

id: 1308.3471
title: Time-Reversal Symmetrization of Spontaneous Emission for High Fidelity Quantum State Transfer
authors: Srikanth J. Srinivasan, Neereja M. Sundaresan, Darius Sadri, Yanbing Liu, Jay M. Gambetta, Terri Yu, S. M. Girvin, Andrew A. Houck
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033857 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3471
abstract: We demonstrate the ability to control the spontaneous emission from a superconducting qubit coupled to a cavity. The time domain profile of the emitted photon is shaped into a symmetric truncated exponential. The experiment is enabled by a qubit coupled to a cavity, with a coupling strength that can be tuned in tens of nanoseconds while maintaining a constant dressed state emission frequency. Symmetrization of the photonic wave packet will enable use of photons as flying qubits for transfering the quantum state between atoms in distant cavities.

id: 1308.3522
title: An all-optical feedback assisted steady state of an optomechanical array
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Uzma Akram, G. J. Milburn
comments: 23 pages (single column), 9 figures. Significantly revised and close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 023009, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3522
abstract: We explore the effect of all-optical feedback on the steady state dynamics of optomechanical arrays arising from various topologies. First we consider an array comprised of a pair of independent optomechanical cavities coupled reversibly via their optical modes. Next we consider an optomechanical network formed from coupling two optical modes with interactions mediated via a common mechanical mode. Finally we extend the analysis to a large network of N-coupled optomechanical systems. Our results show implementing an-all optical feedback loop in each arrangement can enhance the degree of steady state entanglement between inter cavity optical and mechanical modes.

id: 1308.3540
title: Disproving Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3540
abstract: Recently, Busch, Lahti, and Werner (arXiv:1306.1565v1 [quant-ph]) claimed that Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation can be proved in its original form with new formulations of error and disturbance, in contrast to the theory proposed by the present author and confirmed by recent experiments. Despite their claim, it is shown here that a class of solvable models of position measurement with explicit interaction Hamiltonians escape the Busch-Lahti-Werner relation. It is also made clear where their proof fails. Those models have unambiguously defined zero root-mean-square error and finite root-mean-square disturbance in every input state and are naturally considered to violate Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation in any conceivable formulation.

id: 1308.3545
title: Nonlocal cancellation of dispersion in Franson interferometry
authors: Tian Zhong, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3545
abstract: Dispersion and its cancellation in entanglement-based nonlocal quantum measurements are of fundamental and practical interests. We report the first demonstration of cancellation of femtosecond-level dispersion by inverting the sign of the differential dispersion between the long and short paths in only one arm of a fiber-based Franson interferometer. We restore the otherwise limited quantum visibility to an unprecedented 99.6%, and put time-energy entanglement at the same level of quality as polarization entanglement for use in quantum information processing applications.

id: 1308.3569
title: Bose-Hubbard dimers, Viviani's windows and pendulum dynamics
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch, Martin P. Strzys
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 47 (2014) 085304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3569
abstract: The two-mode Bose-Hubbard model in the mean-field approximation is revisited emphasizing a geometric interpretation where the system orbits appear as intersection curves of a (Bloch) sphere and a cylinder oriented parallel to the mode axis, which provide a generalization of Viviani's curve studied already in 1692. In addition, the dynamics is shown to agree with the simple mathematical pendulum. The areas enclosed by the generalised Viviani curves, the action integrals, which can be used to semiclassically quantize the N-particle eigenstates, are evaluated. Furthermore the significance of the original Viviani curve for the quantum system is demonstrated.

id: 1308.3576
title: Optomechanical interface for probing matter-wave coherence
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Hendrik Ulbricht, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 3378 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3576
abstract: We combine matter-wave interferometry and cavity optomechanics to propose a coherent matter--light interface based on mechanical motion at the quantum level. We demonstrate a mechanism that is able to transfer non-classical features imprinted on the state of a matter-wave system to an optomechanical device, transducing them into distinctive interference fringes. This provides a reliable tool for the inference of quantum coherence in the particle beam. Moreover, we discuss how our system allows for intriguing perspectives, paving the way to the construction of a device for the encoding of quantum information in matter-wave systems. Our proposal, which highlights previously unforeseen possibilities for the synergetic exploitation of these two experimental platforms, is explicitly based on existing technology, available and widely used in current cutting-edge experiments.

id: 1308.3588
title: Interactions in dye-microcavity photon condensates and the prospects for their observation
authors: R. A. Nyman, M. H. Szymanska
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033844 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3588
abstract: We derive the equation of motion for a Bose-Einstein condensate of photons in a dye-microcavity system, starting from Maxwell's equations. Our theory takes into account mirror shape, Kerr-type intensity-dependent refractive index and incoherent pumping and loss. The resulting equation is remarkably similar to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for exciton-polariton condensates, despite the different microscopic origins. We calculate the incoherent photoluminescence spectrum of the photon condensate which shows the Bogoliubov-type excitations around the mean-field at thermal equilibrium. Both open and closed-system models are presented to account for, respectively dissipation and inhomogeneities. Considering realistic parameters and experimental resolution, we estimate that by observing the angle-resolved spectrum of incoherent photoluminescence it is possible to resolve dimensionless interaction parameters of order $10^{-5}$, two orders of magnitude below current estimates. Thus we expect that this technique will lead to accurate measurements of the interactions in photon condensates.

id: 1308.3614
title: Enhanced photon correlations due to strong laser-atom-cavity coupling
authors: Viorel Ciornea, Profirie Bardetski, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023851 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3614
abstract: We investigate the resonant quantum dynamics of a laser-pumped real or artificial two-level single-atom system embedded in a leaking microcavity. We found that for stronger laser-atom-cavity couplings the generated microcavity photons exhibit larger steady-state correlations. In particular, the second- and third-order photon correlation functions are greater than the corresponding ones obtained for an incoherent light source, respectively. Furthermore, the emitted microcavity photon flux is enhanced in comparison to weaker coupling cases.

id: 1308.3696
title: Universal dynamics of a degenerate unitary Bose gas
authors: Philip Makotyn, Catherine E. Klauss, David L. Goldberger, Eric. A. Cornell, Deborah S. Jin
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3696
abstract: Understanding the rich behavior that emerges from systems of interacting quantum particles, such as electrons in materials, nucleons in nuclei or neutron stars, the quark-gluon plasma, and superfluid liquid helium, requires investigation of systems that are clean, accessible, and have tunable parameters. Ultracold quantum gases offer tremendous promise for this application largely due to an unprecedented control over interactions. Specifically, $a$, the two-body scattering length that characterizes the interaction strength, can be tuned to any value. This offers prospects for experimental access to regimes where the behavior is not well understood because interactions are strong, atom-atom correlations are important, mean-field theory is inadequate, and equilibrium may not be reached or perhaps does not even exist. Of particular interest is the unitary gas, where $a$ is infinite, and where many aspects of the system are universal in that they depend only on the particle density and quantum statistics. While the unitary Fermi gas has been the subject of intense experimental and theoretical investigation, the degenerate unitary Bose gas has generally been deemed experimentally inaccessible because of three-body loss rates that increase dramatically with increasing $a$. Here, we investigate dynamics of a unitary Bose gas for timescales that are short compared to the loss. We find that the momentum distribution of the unitary Bose gas evolves on timescales fast compared to losses, and that both the timescale for this evolution and the limiting shape of the momentum distribution are consistent with universal scaling with density. This work demonstrates that a unitary Bose gas can be created and probed dynamically, and thus opens the door for further exploration of this novel strongly interacting quantum liquid.

id: 1308.3764
title: Gain tuning for continuous-variable quantum teleportation of discrete-variable states
authors: Shuntaro Takeda, Takahiro Mizuta, Maria Fuwa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3764
abstract: We present a general formalism to describe continuous-variable (CV) quantum teleportation of discrete-variable (DV) states with gain tuning, taking into account experimental imperfections. Here the teleportation output is given by independently transforming each density matrix element of the initial state. This formalism allows us to accurately model various teleportation experiments and to analyze the gain dependence of their respective figures of merit. We apply our formalism to the recent experiment of CV teleportation of qubits [S. Takeda et al., Nature 500, 315 (2013)] and investigate the optimal gain for the transfer fidelity. We also propose and model an experiment for CV teleportation of DV entanglement. It is shown that, provided the experimental losses are within a certain range, DV entanglement can be teleported for any non-zero squeezing by optimally tuning the gain.

id: 1308.3777
title: Local Unitary Equivalent Classes of Symmetric N-Qubit Mixed States
authors: Sakineh Ashourisheikhi, Swarnamala Sirsi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3777
abstract: Majorana Representation (MR) of symmetric $ N $-qubit pure states has been used successfully in entanglement classification. Generalization of this has been a long standing open problem due to the difficulties faced in the construction of a Majorana like geometric representation for symmetric mixed state. We have overcome this problem by developing a method of classifying local unitary (LU) equivalent classes of symmetric $N$-qubit mixed states based on the geometrical Multiaxial Representation (MAR) of the density matrix. In addition to the two parameters defined for the entanglement classification of the symmetric pure states based on MR, namely, diversity degree and degeneracy configuration, we show that another parameter called rank needs to be introduced for symmetric mixed state classification. Our scheme of classification is more general as it can be applied to both pure and mixed states. To bring out the similarities/ differences between the MR and MAR, $ N $-qubit GHZ state is taken up for a detailed study. We conclude that pure state classification based on MR is not a special case of our classification scheme based on MAR. We also give a recipe to identify the most general symmetric $N$-qubit pure separable states. The power of our method is demonstrated using several well known examples of symmetric two qubit pure and mixed states as well as three qubit pure states. Classification of uniaxial, Biaxial and triaxial symmetric two qubit mixed states which can be produced in the laboratory is studied in detail.

id: 1308.3805
title: Real time quantum dynamics preaveraged over imaginary time path integral: A formal basis for both Centroid Molecular Dynamics and Ring Polymer Molecular Dynamics
authors: Seogjoo Jang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3805
abstract: An exact real time quantum dynamics preaveraged over imaginary time path integral is formulated for general condensed phase equilibrium ensemble. This formulation results in the well-known centroid dynamics approach upon filtering of centroid constraint, and provides a rigorous framework to understand and analyze a related quantum dynamics approximation method called ring polymer molecular dynamics. The formulation also serves as the basis for developing new kinds of quantum dynamics that utilize the cyclic nature of the imaginary time path integral.

id: 1308.3808
title: Rotational covariance and GHZ contradictions for three or more particles of any dimension
authors: Jay Lawrence
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, references added and minor editorial changes made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3808
abstract: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states are characterized by their transformation properties under a continuous symmetry group, and $N$-body operators that transform covariantly exhibit a wealth of GHZ contradictions. We show that local or noncontextual hidden variables cannot duplicate this covariance for any state-changing transformations, and we extract specific GHZ contradictions from discrete subgroups, with no restrictions on particle number $N$ or dimension $d$ except for the fundamental requirement that $N \geq 3$ for nonprobabilistic contradictions. However, the specific contradictions fall into three regimes distinguished by increasing demands on the number of measurement operators required for the proofs. We introduce new methods of proof that define these regimes. The first recovers theorems equivalent to those found recently by Ryu et. al. \cite{RLZL}, the first operator-based theorems for all odd dimensions, $d$, covering many (but not all) particle numbers $N$ for each $d$. The second and third produce new theorems that fill all remaining gaps down to $N=3$, for every $d$. The common origin of all such GHZ contradictions is that the GHZ states and measurement operators transform according to different representations of the symmetry group, which has an intuitive physical interpretation.

id: 1308.3833
title: A model independent approach towards resource count and precision limits in a general measurement
authors: H. M. Bharath, Saikat Ghosh
comments: 4+1 pages and supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3833
abstract: A formulation towards quantifying resource count used in a measurement, that is independent of the model of the measurement dynamics(Quantum/Classical), is considered. For any general measurement with $(M+1)$ discrete outcomes, it is found that there is a unique probability distribution that minimizes the measurement error, with the error scaling as $1/M$. For a measurement with a finite resource$(R)$, this absolute bound implies the resource count to be equal to the possible outcomes i.e. $R=M$. This formulation therefore provides a model independent route towards estimating resource count used in any general measurement scheme.

id: 1308.3880
title: Nonlocal and relativistic behavior from a mutual physical base: a toy model
authors: Artur Szczepanski
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3880
abstract: Classical objects have been excluded as subjects of the observed quantum properties, and the related problem of the nature of quantum objects has been suspended since the early days of Quantum Theory. Recent experiments show that the problem could be reasonably revisited. The presented model indicates new issues which could result from exploring a specific kind of objects: topological defects in solids.

id: 1308.3884
title: Enhanced index of refraction in four-wave mixing media
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Renuka Rajapakse, Susanne F. Yelin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3884
abstract: Refractive index enhancement accompanied by vanishing absorption in a four-level atomic system interacting with two control and two probe fields in a regime of four-wave mixing (FWM) has been predicted and studied in the present work. We analyzed the maximal index enhancement in the four-level FWM system and gave index estimates for a real atomic gas of $^{40}$K, taking into account its multilevel structure and collisional and Doppler broadenings at large atomic densities. We also discussed how vanishing absorption with no nearby amplification can be realized in a two species system, consisting of a four-level FWM and a two-level system, where the latter provides additional absorption for one of the probe fields. We numerically estimated the index change in a system composed of $^{40}$K and $^{39}$K gases.

id: 1308.3921
title: The Theory of Discrete Extension -- An Operator-Free Approach To Quantization
authors: John T. Brooker
comments: 41 pages, 32 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3921
abstract: The theory of discrete extension, introduced here, demonstrates that various results from elementary, non-relativistic quantum mechanics can be obtained without recourse to eigenvalue problems, operators, or state vectors in Hilbert space. Using a mathematical structure similar to that of Newtonian mechanics, the theory generates correct, quasi-discrete values of action increments and energy levels for bound states of quantum-level systems. Quantization of the harmonic oscillator provides a simple illustration. Like Newtonian mechanics the theory provides intuitive conceptualizations for basic entities and kinematics. However, in place of the classical concepts of particle and field, the non-classical, unitary concept of a discretely extended object emerges from the theory as an alternative characterization of the nature of quantum-level entities. Because such an object is well-defined and unitary, the theory avoids the dilemmas of wave-particle dualism and complementarity. The theory offers insight into the nature of a number of quantum effects such as the zero-point energy of a harmonic oscillator. It also makes a number of testable predictions that distinguish it from standard quantum theory and from Bohmian mechanics.

id: 1308.3930
title: Optimal values of bipartite entanglement in a tripartite system
authors: Shaon Sahoo
comments: 14+ pages, 1 figure; final version; in different context, a part of the work can be found at arXiv:1201.5620
journal: Phys. Lett. A 379 (2015), pp. 119-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3930
abstract: For a general tripartite system in some pure state, an observer possessing any two parts will see them in a mixed state. By the consequence of Hughston-Jozsa-Wootters theorem, each basis set of local measurement on the third part will correspond to a particular decomposition of the bipartite mixed state into a weighted sum of pure states. It is possible to associate an average bipartite entanglement ($\bar{\mathcal{S}}$) with each of these decompositions. The maximum value of $\bar{\mathcal{S}}$ is called the entanglement of assistance ($E_A$) while the minimum value is called the entanglement of formation ($E_F$). An appropriate choice of the basis set of local measurement will correspond to an optimal value of $\bar{\mathcal{S}}$; we find here a generic optimality condition for the choice of the basis set. In the present context, we analyze the tripartite states $W$ and $GHZ$ and show how they are fundamentally different.

id: 1308.3948
title: Quantum phases in circuit QED with a superconducting qubit array
authors: Yuanwei Zhang, Lixian Yu, J. -Q. Liang, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia, Franco Nori
comments: Published version
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4083 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3948
abstract: Circuit QED on a chip has become a powerful platform for simulating complex many-body physics. In this report, we realize a Dicke-Ising model with an antiferromagnetic nearest-neighbor spin-spin interaction in circuit QED with a superconducting qubit array. We show that this system exhibits a competition between the collective spin-photon interaction and the antiferromagnetic nearest-neighbor spin-spin interaction, and then predict four quantum phases, including: a paramagnetic normal phase, an antiferromagnetic normal phase, a paramagnetic superradiant phase, and an antiferromagnetic superradiant phase. The antiferromagnetic normal phase and the antiferromagnetic superradiant phase are new phases in many-body quantum optics. In the antiferromagnetic superradiant phase, both the antiferromagnetic and superradiant orders can coexist, and thus the system possesses $Z_{2}^{z}\otimes Z_{2}$\ symmetry. Moreover, we find an unconventional photon signature in this phase. In future experiments, these predicted quantum phases could be distinguished by detecting both the mean-photon number and the magnetization.

id: 1308.3967
title: Steady state properties of a driven atomic ensemble with non-local dissipation
authors: B. Olmos, D. Yu, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023616 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3967
abstract: The steady state of a driven dense ensemble of two-level atoms is determined from the competition of coherent laser excitation and decay that acts in a correlated way on several atoms simultaneously. We show that the presence of this non-local dissipation lifts the direct link between the density of excited atoms and the photon emission rate which is typically present when atoms decay independently. The non-locality disconnects these static and dynamic observables so that a dynamical transition in one does not necessarily imply a transition in the other. Furthermore, the collective nature of the quantum jump operators governing the non-local decay results in the formation of spatial coherence in the steady state which can be measured by analyzing solely global quantities - the photon emission rate and the density of excited atoms. The experimental realization of the system with strontium atoms in a lattice is discussed.

id: 1308.4003
title: Macroscopic locality with equal bias reproduces with high fidelity a quantum distribution achieving the Tsirelson's bound
authors: Md. Rajjak Gazi, Manik Banik, Subhadipa Das, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri
comments: Title has been changed; Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4003
abstract: Two physical principles, Macroscopic Locality (ML) and Information Causality (IC), so far, have been most successful in distinguishing quantum correlations from post-quantum correlations. However, there are also some post-quantum probability distributions which cannot be distinguished with the help of these principles. Thus, it is interesting to see whether consideration of these two principles, separately, along with some additional physically plausible constraints, can explain some interesting quantum features which are otherwise hard to reproduce. In this paper we show that, in a Bell-CHSH scenario, ML along with constraint of equal-biasness for the concerned observables, almost reproduces the quantum joint probability distribution corresponding to maximal quantum Bell violation, which is unique up to relabeling. From this example and earlier work of Cavalcanti, Salles and Scarani, we conclude that IC and ML are in-equivalent physical principles; satisfying one does not imply that the other is satisfied.

id: 1308.4020
title: Mode structure and polaritonic contributions to the Casimir effect in a magneto-dielectric cavity
authors: Harald R. Haakh, Francesco Intravaia
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4020
abstract: We present a full analysis of the mode spectrum in a cavity formed by two parallel plates, one of which is a magneto-dielectric, e.g. a metamaterial, while the other one is metallic, and obtain dispersion relations in closed form. The optical properties of the cavity walls are described in terms of realistic models for the effective permittivity and the permeability. Surface polaritons, i.e. electromagnetic modes that have at least partly an evanescent character, are shown to dominate the Casimir interaction at small separations. We analyze in detail the s-polarized polaritons, which are a characteristic feature of a magneto-dielectric configuration, and discuss their role in the repulsive Casimir force.

id: 1308.4029
title: A geometric formulation of uncertainty principle
authors: G.M. Bosyk, T.M. Os¨¢n, P.W. Lamberti, M. Portesi
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4029
abstract: A geometric approach to formulate the uncertainty principle between quantum observables acting on an $N$-dimensional Hilbert space is proposed. We consider the fidelity between a density operator associated with a quantum system and a projector associated with an observable, and interpret it as the probability of obtaining the outcome corresponding to that projector. We make use of fidelity-based metrics such as angle, Bures and root-infidelity ones, to propose a measure of uncertainty. The triangle inequality allows us to derive a family of uncertainty relations. In the case of the angle metric, we re-obtain the Landau--Pollak inequality for pure states and show, in a natural way, how to extend it to the case of mixed states in arbitrary dimension. In addition, we derive and compare novel uncertainty relations when using other known fidelity-based metrics.

id: 1308.4030
title: Base norms and discrimination of generalized quantum channels
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 022201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4030
abstract: We introduce and study norms in the space of hermitian operators, obtained from base norms in positively generated subspaces. These norms are closely related to discrimination of so-called generalized quantum channels, including quantum states, channels and networks. We further introduce generalized quantum decision problems and show that the maximal average payoff of decision procedures is again given by these norms. We also study optimality of decision procedures, in particular, we obtain a necessary and sufficient condition under which an optimal 1-tester for discrimination of quantum channels exists, such that the input state is maximally entangled.

id: 1308.4055
title: Why decoherence solves the measurement problem
authors: Art Hobson
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4055
abstract: Although the solution, within standard quantum physics, of the problem of outcomes has been published several times, many authors continue to treat measurement as an unsolved fundamental dilemma. The solution lies in the formation of entangled subsystems, the non-local nature of the measurement state, and the resulting distinction between mixed-state local outcomes and the pure-state global outcome. Upon "measurement" (i.e. entanglement), the quantum system and its measurement apparatus both decohere and collapse into local mixed states while the unitarily-evolving global state remains coherent and un-collapsed. The states we observe are the local, collapsed states. Considerable experimental evidence supports this conclusion. Theoretical objections to this conclusion are rebutted, and a new perspective on measurement and entanglement is noted.

id: 1308.4057
title: Geometric phase and phase diagram for non-Hermitian quantum XY model
authors: X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4057
abstract: We study the geometric phase for the ground state of a generalized one-dimensional non-Hermitian quantum XY model, which has transverse-field-dependent intrinsic rotation-time reversal symmetry. Based on the exact solution, this model is shown to have full real spectrum in multiple regions for the finite size system. The result indicates that the phase diagram or exceptional boundary, which separates the unbroken and broken symmetry regions corresponds to the divergence of the Berry curvature. The scaling behaviors of the groundstate energy and Berry curvature are obtained in an analytical manner for a concrete system.

id: 1308.4094
title: Microwave-controlled generation of shaped single photons in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: M. Pechal, L. Huthmacher, C. Eichler, S. Zeytinoglu, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., S. Berger, A. Wallraff, S. Filipp
comments: 
journal: Physical Review X 4, 041010 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4094
abstract: Large-scale quantum information processors or quantum communication networks will require reliable exchange of information between spatially separated nodes. The links connecting these nodes can be established using traveling photons that need to be absorbed at the receiving node with high efficiency. This is achievable by shaping the temporal profile of the photons and absorbing them at the receiver by time reversing the emission process. Here, we demonstrate a scheme for creating shaped microwave photons using a superconducting transmon-type three-level system coupled to a transmission line resonator. In a second-order process induced by a modulated microwave drive, we controllably transfer a single excitation from the third level of the transmon to the resonator and shape the emitted photon. We reconstruct the density matrices of the created single-photon states and show that the photons are antibunched. We also create multipeaked photons with a controlled amplitude and phase. In contrast to similar existing schemes, the one we present here is based solely on microwave drives, enabling operation with fixed frequency transmons.

id: 1308.4126
title: A simplified approach to the improved semiclassical method
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4126
abstract: The exact semiclassical quantization condition represents a cumbersome series expansion, so that only the main term of it is usually taken into account. We propose a way to find next terms without new additional calculations. Results are exact for a wide class of actual potentials.

id: 1308.4134
title: An algorithm for the T-count
authors: David Gosset, Vadym Kliuchnikov, Michele Mosca, Vincent Russo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4134
abstract: We consider quantum circuits composed of Clifford and T gates. In this context the T gate has a special status since it confers universal computation when added to the (classically simulable) Clifford gates. However it can be very expensive to implement fault-tolerantly. We therefore view this gate as a resource which should be used only when necessary. Given an n-qubit unitary U we are interested in computing a circuit that implements it using the minimum possible number of T gates (called the T-count of U). A related task is to decide if the T-count of U is less than or equal to m; we consider this problem as a function of N=2^n and m. We provide a classical algorithm which solves it using time and space both upper bounded as O(N^m poly(m,N)). We implemented our algorithm and used it to show that any Clifford+T circuit for the Toffoli or the Fredkin gate requires at least 7 T gates. This implies that the known 7 T gate circuits for these gates are T-optimal. We also provide a simple expression for the T-count of single-qubit unitaries.

id: 1308.4174
title: Quantum-enhanced absorption refrigerators
authors: Luis A. Correa, Jos¨¦ P. Palao, Daniel Alonso, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Published in Scientific Reports (NPG)
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 3949 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4174
abstract: Thermodynamics is a branch of science blessed by an unparalleled combination of generality of scope and formal simplicity. Based on few natural assumptions together with the four laws, it sets the boundaries between possible and impossible in macroscopic aggregates of matter. This triggered groundbreaking achievements in physics, chemistry and engineering over the last two centuries. Close analogues of those fundamental laws are now being established at the level of individual quantum systems, thus placing limits on the operation of quantum-mechanical devices. Here we study quantum absorption refrigerators, which are driven by heat rather than external work. We establish thermodynamic performance bounds for these machines and investigate their quantum origin. We also show how those bounds may be pushed beyond what is classically achievable, by suitably tailoring the environmental fluctuations via quantum reservoir engineering techniques. Such superefficient quantum-enhanced cooling realises a promising step towards the technological exploitation of autonomous quantum refrigerators.

id: 1308.4176
title: Epistemic Restrictions in Hilbert Space Quantum Mechanics
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor revisions. Agrees pretty much with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4176
abstract: A resolution of the quantum measurement problem(s) using the consistent histories interpretation yields in a rather natural way a restriction on what an observer can know about a quantum system, one that is also consistent with some results in quantum information theory. This analysis provides a quantum mechanical understanding of some recent work that shows that certain kinds of quantum behavior are exhibited by a fully classical model if by hypothesis an observer's knowledge of its state is appropriately limited.

id: 1308.4213
title: Nonclassical mechanical states in an optomechanical micromaser analogue
authors: P. D. Nation
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures + source code attached as Ancillary files. Version accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053828 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4213
abstract: Here we show that quantum states of a mechanical oscillator can be generated in an optomechanical analogue of the micromaser, in absence of any atom-like subsystem, thus exhibiting single-atom masing effects in a system composed solely of oscillator components. In the regime where the single-photon coupling strength is on the order of the cavity decay rate, a cavity mode with at most a single-excitation present gives rise to sub-Poissonian oscillator limit-cycles that generate quantum features in the steady state just above the renormalized cavity resonance frequency and mechanical sidebands. The merger of multiple stable limit-cycles markedly reduces these nonclassical signatures. Varying the cavity-resonator coupling strength, corresponding to the micromaser pump parameter, reveals transitions for the oscillator phonon number that are the hallmark of a micromaser. The connection to the micromaser allows for a physical understanding of how nonclassical states arise in this system, and how best to maximize these signatures for experimental observation.

id: 1308.4239
title: Testing locality and noncontextuality with the lowest moments
authors: Adam Bednorz, Witold Bednorz, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4239
abstract: The quest for fundamental test of quantum mechanics is an ongoing effort. We here address the question of what are the lowest possible moments needed to prove quantum nonlocality and noncontextuality without any further assumption -- in particular without the often assumed dichotomy. We first show that second order correlations can always be explained by a classical noncontextual local-hidden-variable theory. Similar third-order correlations also cannot violate classical inequalities in general, except for a special state-dependent noncontextuality. However, we show that fourth-order correlations can violate locality and state-independent noncontextuality. Finally we obtain a fourth-order continuous-variable Bell inequality for position and momentum, which can be violated and might be useful in Bell tests closing all loopholes simultaneously.

id: 1308.4257
title: On-demand generation of indistinguishable polarization-entangled photon pairs
authors: Markus M¨¹ller, Samir Bounouar, Klaus D. J?ns, Peter Michler
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4257
abstract: An on-demand source of indistinguishable and entangled photon pairs is a fundamental component for different quantum information applications such as optical quantum computing, quantum repeaters, quantum teleportation and quantum communication. Parametric down-conversion and four-wave mixing sources of entangled photons have shown high degrees of entanglement and indistinguishability but the probabilistic nature of their generation process also creates zero or multiple photon pairs following a Poissonian distribution. This limits their use in complex algorithms where many qubits and gate operations are required. Here we show simultaneously ultra-high purity (g^(2)(0) < 0.004), high entanglement fidelity (0.81 +/- 0.02), high two-photon interference non-post selective visibilities (0.86 +/- 0.03 and 0.71 +/- 0.04) and on-demand generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs from a single semiconductor quantum dot. Through a two-photon resonant excitation scheme, the biexciton population is deterministically prepared by a Pi-pulse. Applied on a quantum dot showing no exciton fine structure splitting, this results in the deterministic generation of indistinguishable entangled photon pairs.

id: 1308.4261
title: Quantum Fluctuations of Particles and Fields in Smooth Path Integrals
authors: Takayasu Sekihara
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, talk given at the 12th Asia Pacific Physics Conference of AAPPS (APPC12), Makuhari, Japan, 14-19 July 2013
journal: JPS Conf. Proc. 1 (2014) 013004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4261
abstract: An approach to evaluation of the smooth Feynman path integrals is developed for the study of quantum fluctuations of particles and fields in Euclidean time-space. The paths are described by sum of Gauss functions and are weighted with exp(-S) by appropriate methods. The weighted smooth paths reproduce properties of the ground state of the harmonic oscillator in one dimension with high accuracy. Quantum fluctuations of U(1) and SU(2) gauge fields in four dimensions are also evaluated in our approach.

id: 1308.4272
title: Measurement: still a problem in standard quantum theory
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4272
abstract: It is argued that recent claims by A. Hobson that standard quantum theory has no measurement problem cannot be sustained. Moreover, it is pointed out that taking the reduced density operator of a component system as an epistemic (ignorance-based) mixture has long been known to be untenable based on direct proof.

id: 1308.4283
title: Entanglement-assisted zero-error source-channel coding
authors: Jop Bri?t, Harry Buhrman, Monique Laurent, Teresa Piovesan, Giannicola Scarpa
comments: Title has been changed. Previous title was 'Zero-error source-channel coding with entanglement'. Corrected an error in Lemma 1.2
journal: IEEE Transactions of Information Theory, vol 61, no 2, pp 1124-1138, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4283
abstract: We study the use of quantum entanglement in the zero-error source-channel coding problem. Here, Alice and Bob are connected by a noisy classical one-way channel, and are given correlated inputs from a random source. Their goal is for Bob to learn Alice's input while using the channel as little as possible. In the zero-error regime, the optimal rates of source codes and channel codes are given by graph parameters known as the Witsenhausen rate and Shannon capacity, respectively. The Lov\'asz theta number, a graph parameter defined by a semidefinite program, gives the best efficiently-computable upper bound on the Shannon capacity and it also upper bounds its entanglement-assisted counterpart. At the same time it was recently shown that the Shannon capacity can be increased if Alice and Bob may use entanglement. Here we partially extend these results to the source-coding problem and to the more general source-channel coding problem. We prove a lower bound on the rate of entanglement-assisted source-codes in terms Szegedy's number (a strengthening of the theta number). This result implies that the theta number lower bounds the entangled variant of the Witsenhausen rate. We also show that entanglement can allow for an unbounded improvement of the asymptotic rate of both classical source codes and classical source-channel codes. Our separation results use low-degree polynomials due to Barrington, Beigel and Rudich, Hadamard matrices due to Xia and Liu and a new application of remote state preparation.

id: 1308.4293
title: Asymmetric Gaussian harmonic steering in second harmonic generation
authors: M.K. Olsen
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, changed according to referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4293
abstract: Intracavity second harmonic generation is one of the simplest of the quantum optical processes and is well within the expertise of most optical laboratories. It is well understood and characterised, both theoretically and experimentally. We show that it can be a source of continuous variable asymmetric Gaussian harmonic steering with fields which have a coherent excitation, hence combining the important effects of harmonic entanglement and asymmetric steering in one easily controllable device, adjustable by the simple means of tuning the cavity loss rates at the fundamental and harmonic frequencies. We find that whether quantum steering is available via the standard measurements of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations can depend on which quadrature measurements are inferred from output spectral measurements of the fundamental and the harmonic. Altering the ratios of the cavity loss rates can be used to tune the regions where symmetric steering is available, with the results becoming asymmetric over all frequencies as the cavity damping at the fundamental frequency becomes significantly greater than at the harmonic. This asymmetry and its functional dependence on frequency is a potential new tool for experimental quantum information science, with possible utility for quantum key distribution. Although we show the effect here for Gaussian measurements of the quadratures, and cannot rule out a return of the steering symmetry for some class of non-Gaussian measurements, we note here that the system obeys Gaussian statistics in the operating regime investigated and Gaussian inference is at least as accurate as any other method for calculating the necessary correlations. Perhaps most importantly, this system is simpler than any other methods we are aware of which have been used or proposed to create asymmetric steering.

id: 1308.4313
title: Spin operator in the Dirac theory
authors: Pawel Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 88, 022199 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4313
abstract: We find all spin operators for a Dirac particle satisfying the following very general conditions: (i) spin does not convert positive (negative) energy states into negative (positive) energy states, (ii) spin is a pseudo-vector, and (iii) eigenvalues of the projection of a spin operator on an arbitrary direction are independent of this direction (isotropy condition). We show that there are four such operators and all of them fulfill the standard su(2) Lie algebra commutation relations. Nevertheless, only one of them has a proper non-relativistic limit and acts in the same way on negative and positive energy states. We show also that this operator is equivalent to the Newton-Wigner spin operator and Foldy-Wouthuysen mean-spin operator. We also discuss another operators proposed in the literature.

id: 1308.4328
title: Localization under the effect of randomly distributed decoherence
authors: Thomas Stegmann, Orsolya Ujs¨¢ghy, Dietrich E. Wolf
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 87:30 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4328
abstract: Electron transport through disordered quasi one-dimensional quantum systems is studied. Decoherence is taken into account by a spatial distribution of virtual reservoirs, which represent local interactions of the conduction electrons with their environment. We show that the decoherence distribution has observable effects on the transport. If the decoherence reservoirs are distributed randomly without spatial correlations, a minimal degree of decoherence is necessary to obtain Ohmic conduction. Below this threshold the system is localized and thus, a decoherence driven metal-insulator transition is found. In contrast, for homogenously distributed decoherence, any finite degree of decoherence is sufficient to destroy localization. Thus, the presence or absence of localization in a disordered one-dimensional system may give important insight about how the electron phase is randomized.

id: 1308.4340
title: Complementarity of Quantum Correlations in Cloning and Deleting of Quantum State
authors: Sk Sazim, Indranil Chakrabarty, Anewsha Datta, Arun K. Pati
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4340
abstract: We quantify the amount of correlation generated between two different output modes in the process of im- perfect cloning and deletion processes. We use three different measures of correlations and study their role in determining the fidelity of the cloning and deletion. We obtain a bound on the total correlation generated in the successive process of cloning and deleting operations. This displays a new kind of complementary relationship between the quantum correlation required in generating a copy of a quantum state and the amount of correlation required in bringing it back to the original state by deleting and vice versa. Our result shows that better we clone (delete) a state, more difficult it will be to bring the state back to its original form by the process of deleting (cloning).

id: 1308.4349
title: Frequency Multiplexed Magnetometry via Compressive Sensing
authors: Graciana Puentes, Gerald Waldherr, Philipp Neumann, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4349
abstract: Quantum sensors based on single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) defects in diamond are state-of-the-art tools for nano-scale magnetometry with precision scaling inversely with total measurement time $\sigma_{B} \propto 1/T$ (Heisenberg scaling) rather than as the inverse of the square root of $T$, with $\sigma_{B} =1/\sqrt{T}$ the Shot-Noise limit. This scaling can be achieved by means of phase estimation algorithms (PEAs) using adaptive or non-adaptive feedback, in combination with single-shot readout techniques. Despite their accuracy, the range of applicability of PEAs is limited to periodic signals involving single frequencies with negligible temporal fluctuations. In this Letter, we propose an alternative method for precision magnetometry in frequency multiplexed signals via compressive sensing (CS) techniques. We show that CS can provide for precision scaling approximately as $\sigma_{B} \approx 1/T$, both in the case of single frequency and frequency multiplexed signals, as well as for a 5-fold increase in sensitivity over dynamic-range gain, in addition to reducing the total number of resources required.

id: 1308.4373
title: Toward quantum processing in molecules: A THz-bandwidth coherent memory for light
authors: Philip J. Bustard, Rune Lausten, Duncan G. England, Benjamin J. Sussman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 083901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4373
abstract: The unusual features of quantum mechanics are enabling the development of technologies not possible with classical physics. These devices utilize nonclassical phenomena in the states of atoms, ions, and solid-state media as the basis for many prototypes. Here we investigate molecular states as a distinct alternative. We demonstrate a memory for light based on storing photons in the vibrations of hydrogen molecules. The THz-bandwidth molecular memory is used to store 100-fs pulses for durations up to 1ns, enabling 10,000 operational time bins. The results demonstrate the promise of molecules for constructing compact ultrafast quantum photonic technologies.

id: 1308.4468
title: Hardy's Paradox for High-Dimensional Systems: Beyond Hardy's Limit
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Adan Cabello, Zhen-Peng Xu, Hong-Yi Su, Chunfeng Wu, L. C. Kwek
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 1 figure. Typo in Eq. (17) corrected. Ref. [5] completed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4468
abstract: Hardy's proof is considered the simplest proof of nonlocality. Here we introduce an equally simple proof that (i) has Hardy's as a particular case, (ii) shows that the probability of nonlocal events grows with the dimension of the local systems, and (iii) is always equivalent to the violation of a tight Bell inequality.

id: 1308.4470
title: Quantum Revivals of Morse Oscillators and Farey-Ford Geometry
authors: Alvason Zhenhua Li, William G. Harter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4470
abstract: Analytical eigensolutions for Morse oscillators are used to investigate quantum resonance and revivals and show how Morse anharmonicity affects revival times. A minimum semi-classical Morse revival time Tmin-rev found by Heller is related to a complete quantum revival time Trev using a quantum deviation parameter that in turn relates Trev to the maximum quantum beat period Tmax-beat. Also, number theory of Farey and Thales-circle geometry of Ford is shown to elegantly analyze and display fractional revivals. Such quantum dynamical analysis may have applications for spectroscopy or quantum information processing and computing.

id: 1308.4503
title: Optomechanics of Levitated Dielectric Particles
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Andrew A. Geraci, Tongcang Li
comments: review article, 16 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1330018 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4503
abstract: We review recent works on optomechanics of optically trapped microspheres and nanoparticles in vacuum, which provide an ideal system for studying macroscopic quantum mechanics and ultrasensitive force detection. An optically trapped particle in vacuum has an ultrahigh mechanical quality factor as it is well-isolated from the thermal environment. Its oscillation frequency can be tuned in real time by changing the power of the trapping laser. Furthermore, an optically trapped particle in vacuum may rotate freely, a unique property that does not exist in clamped mechanical oscillators. In this review, we will introduce the current status of optical trapping of dielectric particles in air and vacuum, Brownian motion of an optically trapped particle at room temperature, Feedback cooling and cavity cooling of the Brownian motion. We will also discuss about using optically trapped dielectric particles for studying macroscopic quantum mechanics and ultrasensitive force detection. Applications range from creating macroscopic Schr{\"{o}}dinger's cat state, testing objective collapse models of quantum wavefunctions, measuring Casimir force, searching short-range non-Newtonian gravity, to detecting gravitational waves.

id: 1308.4523
title: Comment on "Weak Measurements with Orbital-Angular-Momentum Pointer states"
authors: A. K. Pan, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: Comment on: G. Puentes, N. Hermosa, J. P. Torres, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040401 (2012) [arXiv:1204.3544]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 111, 028901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4523
abstract: In a recent Letter (Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040401 (2012)), G. Puentes, N. Hermosa and J. P. Torres report a scheme for extracting higher-order weak values by using orbital-angular momentum states as pointer states. They claim that such weak values are inaccessible with a Gaussian pointer state only. In this Comment, we show that the Gaussian pointer state by itself can provide access to the higher-order weak value, if suitable pointer displacement is observed.

id: 1308.4527
title: Position-Momentum Uncertainty Relations in the Presence of Quantum Memory
authors: Fabian Furrer, Mario Berta, Marco Tomamichel, Volkher B. Scholz, Matthias Christandl
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures; v2:improved and published version, new title
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 122205 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4527
abstract: A prominent formulation of the uncertainty principle identifies the fundamental quantum feature that no particle may be prepared with certain outcomes for both position and momentum measurements. Often the statistical uncertainties are thereby measured in terms of entropies providing a clear operational interpretation in information theory and cryptography. Recently, entropic uncertainty relations have been used to show that the uncertainty can be reduced in the presence of entanglement and to prove security of quantum cryptographic tasks. However, much of this recent progress has been focused on observables with only a finite number of outcomes not including Heisenberg's original setting of position and momentum observables. Here we show entropic uncertainty relations for general observables with discrete but infinite or continuous spectrum that take into account the power of an entangled observer. As an illustration, we evaluate the uncertainty relations for position and momentum measurements, which is operationally significant in that it implies security of a quantum key distribution scheme based on homodyne detection of squeezed Gaussian states.

id: 1308.4561
title: Hybrid architecture for encoded measurement-based quantum computation
authors: M. Zwerger, H.J. Briegel, W. D¨¹r
comments: 4 pages + supplementary material, 1 figure
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 5364 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4561
abstract: We present a hybrid scheme for quantum computation that combines the modular structure of elementary building blocks used in the circuit model with the advantages of a measurement-based approach to quantum computation. We show how to construct optimal resource states of minimal size to implement elementary building blocks for encoded quantum computation in a measurement-based way, including states for error correction and encoded gates. The performance of the scheme is determined by the quality of the resource states, where within this error model we find a threshold of the order of 10% local noise per particle for fault-tolerant quantum computation and quantum communication.

id: 1308.4563
title: Distribution of Mutual Information in Multipartite States
authors: Jonas Maziero
comments: Published version
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 44, 194 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4563
abstract: Using the relative entropy of total correlation, we derive an expression relating the mutual information of $n$-partite pure states to the sum of the mutual informations and entropies of its marginals and analyze some of its implications. Besides, by utilizing the extended strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy, we obtain generalized monogamy relations for the total correlation in three-partite mixed states. These inequalities lead to a tight lower bound for this correlation in terms of the sum of the bipartite mutual informations. We use this bound to propose a measure for residual three-partite total correlation and discuss the non-applicability of this kind of quantifier to measure genuine multiparty correlations.

id: 1308.4566
title: Coherent exciton dynamics in supramolecular light-harvesting nanotubes revealed by ultrafast quantum process tomography
authors: Joel Yuen-Zhou, Dylan H. Arias, Dorthe M. Eisele, Colby P. Steiner, Jacob J. Krich, Moungi Bawendi, Keith A. Nelson, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: Supplementary material available in the source
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4566
abstract: Long-lived exciton coherences have been recently observed in photosynthetic complexes via ultrafast spectroscopy, opening exciting possibilities for the study and design of coherent exciton transport. Yet, ambiguity in the spectroscopic signals has led to arguments for interpreting them in terms of the exciton dynamics, demanding more stringent tests. We propose a novel strategy, Quantum Process Tomography (QPT) for ultrafast spectroscopy, to reconstruct the evolving quantum state of excitons in double-walled supramolecular light-harvesting nanotubes at room temperature. The protocol calls for eight transient grating experiments with varied pulse spectra. Our analysis reveals unidirectional energy transfer from the outer to the inner wall excitons, absence of nonsecular processes, and an unexpected coherence between those two states lasting about 150 femtoseconds, indicating weak electronic coupling between the walls. Our work constitutes the first experimental QPT in a 'warm' and complex system, and provides an elegant scheme to maximize information from ultrafast spectroscopy experiments.

id: 1308.4579
title: An entropic analysis of approximate quantum error correction
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Peter van Loock
comments: 14 pages, no figures, improved v2. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/9903049 by other authors
journal: Physica A404, 34 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4579
abstract: The concept of entropy and the correct application of the Second Law of thermodynamics are essential in order to understand the reason why quantum error correction is thermodynamically possible and no violation of the Second Law occurs during its execution. We report in this work our first steps towards an entropic analysis extended to approximate quantum error correction (QEC). Special emphasis is devoted to the link among quantum state discrimination (QSD), quantum information gain, and quantum error correction in both the exact and approximate QEC scenarios.

id: 1308.4581
title: A simple comparative analysis of exact and approximate quantum error correction
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Peter van Loock
comments: 29 pages, 1 figure, improved v2; accepted for publication in Open Systems and Information Dynamics (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4581
abstract: We present a comparative analysis of exact and approximate quantum error correction by means of simple unabridged analytical computations. For the sake of clarity, using primitive quantum codes, we study the exact and approximate error correction of the two simplest unital (Pauli errors) and nonunital (non-Pauli errors) noise models, respectively. The similarities and differences between the two scenarios are stressed. In addition, the performances of quantum codes quantified by means of the entanglement fidelity for different recovery schemes are taken into consideration in the approximate case. Finally, the role of self-complementarity in approximate quantum error correction is briefly addressed.

id: 1308.4582
title: Approximate quantum error correction for generalized amplitude damping errors
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Peter van Loock
comments: 44 pages, 8 figures, improved v2
journal: Physical Review A89, 022316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4582
abstract: We present analytic estimates of the performances of various approximate quantum error correction schemes for the generalized amplitude damping (GAD) qubit channel. Specifically, we consider both stabilizer and nonadditive quantum codes. The performance of such error-correcting schemes is quantified by means of the entanglement fidelity as a function of the damping probability and the non-zero environmental temperature. The recovery scheme employed throughout our work applies, in principle, to arbitrary quantum codes and is the analogue of the perfect Knill-Laflamme recovery scheme adapted to the approximate quantum error correction framework for the GAD error model. We also analytically recover and/or clarify some previously known numerical results in the limiting case of vanishing temperature of the environment, the well-known traditional amplitude damping channel. In addition, our study suggests that degenerate stabilizer codes and self-complementary nonadditive codes are especially suitable for the error correction of the GAD noise model. Finally, comparing the properly normalized entanglement fidelities of the best performant stabilizer and nonadditive codes characterized by the same length, we show that nonadditive codes outperform stabilizer codes not only in terms of encoded dimension but also in terms of entanglement fidelity.

id: 1308.4602
title: Optical wire trap for cold neutral atoms
authors: Philipp Schneeweiss, Fam Le Kien, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013014 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4602
abstract: We propose a trap for cold neutral atoms using a fictitious magnetic field induced by a nanofiber-guided light field. In close analogy to magnetic side-guide wire traps realized with current-carrying wires, a trapping potential can be formed when applying a homogeneous magnetic bias field perpendicular to the fiber axis. We discuss this scheme in detail for laser-cooled cesium atoms and find trap depths and trap frequencies comparable to the two-color nanofiber-based trapping scheme but with one order of magnitude lower powers of the trapping laser field. Moreover, the proposed scheme allows one to bring the atoms closer to the nanofiber surface, thereby enabling efficient optical interfacing of the atoms with additional light fields. Specifically, optical depths per atom, $\sigma_0/A_{\rm eff}$, of more than 0.4 are predicted, making this system eligible for nanofiber-based nonlinear and quantum optics experiments.

id: 1308.4606
title: Waveguide photon-number-resolving detectors for quantum photonic integrated circuits
authors: D. Sahin, A. Gaggero, Z. Zhou, S. Jahanmirinejad, F. Mattioli, R. Leoni, J. Beetz, M. Lermer, M. Kamp, S. H?fling, A. Fiore
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4606
abstract: Quantum photonic integration circuits are a promising approach to scalable quantum processing with photons. Waveguide single-photon-detectors (WSPDs) based on superconducting nanowires have been recently shown to be compatible with single-photon sources for a monolithic integration. While standard WSPDs offer single-photon sensitivity, more complex superconducting nanowire structures can be configured to have photon-number-resolving capability. In this work, we present waveguide photon-number-resolving detectors (WPNRDs) on GaAs/Al0.75Ga0.25As ridge waveguides based on a series connection of nanowires. The detection of 0-4 photons has been demonstrated with a four-wire WPNRD, having a single electrical read-out. A device quantum efficiency ~24 % is reported at 1310 nm for the TE polarization.

id: 1308.4615
title: Quantum Computing Gates via Optimal Control
authors: Yosi Atia, Yuval Elias, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf., 12:1450031, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4615
abstract: We demonstrate the use of optimal control to design two entropy-manipulating quantum gates which are more complex than the corresponding, commonly used, gates, such as CNOT and Toffoli (CCNOT): A 2-qubit gate called PE (polarization exchange) and a 3-qubit gate called COMP (polarization compression) were designed using GRAPE, an optimal control algorithm. Both gates were designed for a three-spin system. Our design provided efficient and robust NMR radio frequency (RF) pulses for 13C2-trichloroethylene (TCE), our chosen three-spin system. We then experimentally applied these two quantum gates onto TCE at the NMR lab. Such design of these gates and others could be relevant for near-future applications of quantum computing devices.

id: 1308.4620
title: Time-frequency resolved ultrafast spectroscopy techniques using wavelet analysis
authors: Javier Prior, Enrique Castro, Alex W. Chin, Javier Almeida, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 224103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4620
abstract: New experimental techniques based on non-linear ultrafast spectroscopies have been developed over the last few years, and have been demonstrated to provide powerful probes of quantum dynamics in different types of molecular aggregates, including both natural and artificial light harvesting complexes. Fourier transform-based spectroscopies have been particularly successful, yet 'complete' spectral information normally necessitates the loss of all information on the temporal sequence of events in a signal. This information though is particularly important in transient or multi-stage processes, in which the spectral decomposition of the data evolves in time. By going through several examples of ultrafast quantum dynamics, we demonstrate that the use of wavelets provide an efficient and accurate way to simultaneously acquire both temporal and frequency information about a signal, and argue that this greatly aids the elucidation and interpretation of physical process responsible for non-stationary spectroscopic features, such as those encountered in coherent excitonic energy transport.

id: 1308.4629
title: Quantum Control of Infinite Dimensional Many-Body Systems
authors: Roger S. Bliss, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4629
abstract: A major challenge to the control of infinite dimensional quantum systems is the irreversibility which is often present in the system dynamics. Here we consider systems with discrete-spectrum Hamiltonians operating over a Schwartz space domain, and show that by utilizing the implications of the Quantum Recurrence Theorem this irreversibility may be overcome, in the case of individual states more generally, but also in certain specified cases over larger subsets of the Hilbert space. We discuss briefly the possibility of using these results in the control of infinite dimensional coupled harmonic oscillators, and also draw attention to some of the issues and open questions arising from this and related work.

id: 1308.4635
title: Robust Device Independent Randomness Amplification
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Andrzej Grudka, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4635
abstract: In randomness amplification a slightly random source is used to produce an improved random source. Perhaps surprisingly, a single source of randomness cannot be amplified at all classically. However, the situation is different if one considers correlations allowed by quantum mechanics as an extra resource. Here we present a protocol that amplifies Santha-Vazirani sources arbitrarily close to deterministic into fully random sources. The protocol is device independent, depending only on the observed statistics of the devices and on the validity of the no-signaling principle between different devices. It improves previously-known protocols in two respects. First the protocol is tolerant to noise so that even noisy quantum-mechanical systems give rise to good devices for the protocol. Second it is simpler, being based on the violation of a four-party Bell inequality and on the XOR as a hash function. As a technical tool we prove a new de Finetti theorem where the subsystems are selected from a Santha-Vazirani source.

id: 1308.4677
title: Transfer of Gravitational Information through a Quantum Channel
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Ming-sheng Zhan
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 184
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4677
abstract: Gravitational information is incorporated into an atomic state by correlation of the internal and external degrees of freedom of the atom, in the present study of the atomic interferometer. Thus it is difficult to transfer information by using a standard teleportation scheme. In this paper, we propose a novel scheme for the transfer of gravitational information through a quantum channel provided by the entangled atomic state. Significantly, the existence of a quantum channel suppresses phase noise, improving the sensitivity of the atomic interferometer. Thus our proposal provides novel readout mechanism for the interferometer with an improved signal-to-noise ratio.

id: 1308.4680
title: Theoretical Analysis of Two-Color Ghost Interference
authors: Sheeba Shafaq, Tabish Qureshi
comments: Published version. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0502162
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 52
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4680
abstract: Recently demonstrated ghost interference using correlated photons of different frequencies, has been theoretically analyzed. The calculation predicts an interesting nonlocal effect: the fringe width of the ghost interference depends not only on the wave-length of the photon involved, but also on the wavelength of the other photon with which it is entangled. This feature, arising because of different frequencies of the entangled photons, was hidden in the original ghost interference experiment. This prediction can be experimentally tested in a slightly modified version of the experiment.

id: 1308.4730
title: Squeezed States and Hermite polynomials in a Complex Variable
authors: S. T. Ali, K. Gorska, A. Horzela, F. H. Szafraniec
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 012107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4730
abstract: Following the lines of the recent paper of J.-P. Gazeau and F. H. Szafraniec [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 495201 (2011)], we construct here three types of coherent states, related to the Hermite polynomials in a complex variable which are orthogonal with respect to a non-rotationally invariant measure. We investigate relations between these coherent states and obtain the relationship between them and the squeezed states of quantum optics. We also obtain a second realization of the canonical coherent states in the Bargmann space of analytic functions, in terms of a squeezed basis. All this is done in the flavor of the classical approach of V. Bargmann [Commun. Pur. Appl. Math. 14, 187 (1961)].

id: 1308.4731
title: Quantum Control in the Cs 6S_{1/2} Ground Manifold Using rf and ¦Ìw Magnetic Fields
authors: A. Smith, B. E. Anderson, H. Sosa-Martinez, C. A. Riofr¨ªo, I. H. Deutsch, P. S. Jessen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4731
abstract: We implement arbitrary maps between pure states in the 16-dimensional Hilbert space associated with the ground electronic manifold of Cs. This is accomplished by driving atoms with phase modulated rf and {\mu}w fields, using modulation waveforms found via numerical optimization and designed to work robustly in the presence of imperfections. We evaluate the performance of a sample of randomly chosen state maps by randomized benchmarking, obtaining an average fidelity >99%. Our protocol advances state-of-the-art quantum control and has immediate applications in quantum metrology and tomography.

id: 1308.4742
title: An Introduction to the Inverse Quantum Bound State Problem in One Dimension
authors: Thomas D. Gutierrez
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, Submitted to Am. J. Phys. August 2013
journal: Am. J. Phys. 82, 674 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4742
abstract: A technique to reconstruct one-dimensional, reflectionless potentials and the associated quantum wave functions starting from a finite number of known energy spectra is discussed. The method is demonstrated using spectra that scale like the lowest energy states of standard problems encountered in the undergraduate curriculum such as: the infinite square well, the simple harmonic oscillator, and the one-dimensional hydrogen atom.

id: 1308.4776
title: High-threshold topological quantum error correction against biased noise
authors: Ashley M. Stephens, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 060301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4776
abstract: Quantum information can be protected from decoherence and other errors, but only if these errors are sufficiently rare. For quantum computation to become a scalable technology, practical schemes for quantum error correction that can tolerate realistically high error rates will be necessary. In some physical systems, errors may exhibit a characteristic structure that can be carefully exploited to improve the efficacy of error correction. Here, we describe a scheme for topological quantum error correction to protect quantum information from a dephasing-biased error model, where we combine a repetition code with a topological cluster state. We find that the scheme tolerates error rates of up to 1.37%-1.83% per gate, requiring only short-range interactions in a two-dimensional array.

id: 1308.4799
title: Phase matching condition for enhancement of phase sensitivity in quantum metrology
authors: Jing Liu, Xiaoxing Jing, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4799
abstract: We find a phase matching condition for enhancement of sensitivity in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer illuminated by an arbitrary state in one input port and an odd(even) state in the other port. Under this condition, the Fisher information becomes maximal with respect to the relative phase of two modes and the phase sensitivity is enhanced. For the case with photon losses, we further find that the phase matching condition keeps unchanged with a coherent state and a coherent superposition state as the input states.

id: 1308.4810
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for nonzero quantum discord in continuous variable systems
authors: Chengjie Zhang, Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Lai, C.H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4810
abstract: Quantum discord provides a promising measure for the quantum correlation beyond entanglement, and may be responsible for the quantum speedup in certain quantum computing tasks. Here, we propose a necessary and sufficient condition for nonzero quantum discord in continuous variable systems, which is simple and easy to perform in terms of a marker $Q$. In order to obtain this condition, we introduce the continuous-variable local orthogonal basis of the operator space generalized from the orthogonal basis sets in local operator space for discrete variables. Based on this, we derive an explicit expression of the marker $Q$ for all the two-mode states, and present examples of all Gaussian states and several non-Gaussian states. Our result provides a candidate for quantum correlation measures, and can be easily measured by a designed quantum circuit.

id: 1308.4819
title: Tailored two-photon correlation and fair-sampling: a cautionary tale
authors: Jacquiline Romero, Daniel Giovannini, Daniel Tasca, Steve Barnett, Miles Padgett
comments: to be published in New J Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4819
abstract: We demonstrate an experimental test of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality which seemingly exhibits correlations beyond the limits imposed by quantum mechanics. Inspired by the idea of Fourier synthesis, we design analysers that measure specific superpositions of orbital angular momentum (OAM) states, such that when one analyser is rotated with respect to the other, the resulting coincidence curves are similar to a square-wave. Calculating the CHSH Bell parameter, $S$, from these curves result to values beyond the Tsirelson bound of $S_{QM}=2\sqrt{2}$. We obtain $S=3.99\pm0.02$, implying almost perfect nonlocal Popescu-Rohrlich correlations. The "super-quantum" values of $S$ is only possible in our experiment because our experiment, subtly, does not comply with fair-sampling. The way our Bell test fails fair-sampling is not immediately obvious and requires knowledge of the states being measured. Our experiment highlights the caution needed in Bell-type experiments based on measurements within high-dimensional state spaces such as that of OAM, especially in the advent of device-independent quantum protocols.

id: 1308.4831
title: Classical Field Approach to Quantum Weak Measurements
authors: Justin Dressel, Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 110407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4831
abstract: By generalizing the quantum weak measurement protocol to the case of quantum fields, we show that weak measurements probe an effective classical background field that describes the average field configuration in the spacetime region between pre- and post-selection boundary conditions. The classical field is itself a weak value of the corresponding quantum field operator and satisfies equations of motion that extremize an effective action. Weak measurements perturb this effective action, producing measurable changes to the classical field dynamics. As such, weakly measured effects always correspond to an effective classical field. This general result explains why these effects appear to be robust for pre- and post-selected ensembles, and why they can also be measured using classical field techniques that are not weak for individual excitations of the field.

id: 1308.4853
title: Certainty in Heisenberg's uncertainty principle: Revisiting definitions for estimation errors and disturbance
authors: Justin Dressel, Franco Nori
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4853
abstract: We revisit the definitions of error and disturbance recently used in error-disturbance inequalities derived by Ozawa and others by expressing them in the reduced system space. The interpretation of the definitions as mean-squared deviations relies on an implicit assumption that is generally incompatible with the Bell-Kochen-Specker-Spekkens contextuality theorems, and which results in averaging the deviations over a non-positive-semidefinite joint quasiprobability distribution. For unbiased measurements, the error admits a concrete interpretation as the dispersion in the estimation of the mean induced by the measurement ambiguity. We demonstrate how to directly measure not only this dispersion but also every observable moment with the same experimental data, and thus demonstrate that perfect distributional estimations can have nonzero error according to this measure. We conclude that the inequalities using these definitions do not capture the spirit of Heisenberg's eponymous inequality, but do indicate a qualitatively different relationship between dispersion and disturbance that is appropriate for ensembles being probed by all outcomes of an apparatus. To reconnect with the discussion of Heisenberg, we suggest alternative definitions of error and disturbance that are intrinsic to a single apparatus outcome. These definitions naturally involve the retrodictive and interdictive states for that outcome, and produce complementarity and error-disturbance inequalities that have the same form as the traditional Heisenberg relation.

id: 1308.4864
title: On position, momentum and their correlation
authors: Alberto Clemente de la Torre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4864
abstract: Position and momentum observables are considered and their correlation is studied for the simplest quantum system of a free particle moving in one dimension. The algebra and the eigenvalue problem for the correlation observable is presented and its possible relevance for the solution of the Pauli problem is analysed. The correlation provides a simple explanation of the shrinking and spreading of wave packets in an interpretation of quantum mechanics based in an ontology suggested by quantum field theory. Several properties and speculations concerning position-momentum correlations are mentioned.

id: 1308.4872
title: Influence of geometrical perturbations on the ion motional frequencies in a Paul trap
authors: Manoj Kumar Joshi, Pushpa M. Rao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4872
abstract: The effect of geometrical perturbations on ion oscillation frequencies in a 3-D quadrupole trap is analyzed by theoretical simulations and compared with the experimental results. Theoretically, the distorted potential within this non-ideal trap caused by the insertion of filament has been simulated. An analytical expression for the potential is then fitted and numerical solution of the equations of trapped ion motion is obtained. Motional frequencies are then calculated from the Fourier transformation of the simulated ion trajectories at any given trapping potential and compared with our experimental findings. The shift in the secular frequency with respect to the level of insertion of the filament within the trap is evaluated.

id: 1308.4926
title: Protecting Superconducting Qubits with Universal Quantum Degeneracy Point
authors: X.-H. Deng, Y. Hu, Lin Tian
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, submitted to the special issue on "Superconducting qubits: on the verge of scalability" in the Superconductor Science and Technology. This submission replaces arxiv:1101.2942
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 26 (2013) 114002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4926
abstract: Low-frequency noise can induce serious decoherence in superconducting qubits. Due to its diverse physical origin, such noise can couple with the qubits either as transverse or as longitudinal noise. Here, we present a universal quantum degeneracy point approach that can protect an encoded qubit from arbitrary low-frequency noise. We further show that universal quantum logic gates can be performed on the encoded qubits with high fidelity. The proposed scheme can be readily implemented with superconducting flux qubits or with a qubit coupling with a superconducting resonator. Meanwhile, the scheme is also robust against small parameter spreads due to fabrication errors in the superconducting systems.

id: 1308.4985
title: Bell's Experiment in Quantum Mechanics and Classical Physics
authors: Tom Rother
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4985
abstract: Both the quantum mechanical and classical Bells experiment are within the focus of this paper. The fact that one measures different probabilities in both experiments is traced back to the superposition of two orthogonal but nonentangled substates in the quantum mechanical case. This superposition results in an interference term that can be splitted into two additional states representing a sink and a source of probabilities in the classical event space related to Bells experiment. As a consequence, a statistical operator can be related to the quantum mechanical Bells experiment that contains already negative quasi probabilities, as usually known from quantum optics in conjunction with the Glauber-Sudarshan equation. It is proven that the existence of such negative quasi probabilities are neither a sufficient nor a necessary condition for entanglement. The equivalence of using an interaction picture in a fixed basis or of employing a change of basis to describe Bells experiment is demonstrated afterwards. The discussion at the end of this paper regarding the application of the complementarity principle to the quantum mechanical Bells experiment is supported by very recent double slit experiments performed with polarization entangled photons.

id: 1308.5005
title: Geometric quantum discord with Bures distance: the qubit case
authors: Dominique Spehner, Miguel Orszag
comments: This article contains some material from a previous preprint arXiv:1304.3334v1 [quant-ph], which has been split into two parts, as well as new results. Minor changes in the second version with respect to the first version. 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 035302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5005
abstract: The minimal Bures distance of a quantum state of a bipartite system AB to the set of classical states for subsystem A defines a geometric measure of quantum discord. When A is a qubit, we show that this geometric quantum discord is given in terms of the eigenvalues of a (2 n_B) x (2 n_B) hermitian matrix, n_B being the Hilbert space dimension of the other subsystem B. As a first application, we calculate the geometric discord for the output state of the DQC1 algorithm. We find that it takes its highest value when the unitary matrix from which the algorithm computes the trace has its eigenvalues uniformly distributed on the unit circle modulo a symmetry with respect to the origin. As a second application, we derive an explicit formula for the geometric discord of two-qubit states with maximally mixed marginals and compare it with other measures of quantum correlations. We also determine the closest classical states to such two-qubit states.

id: 1308.5009
title: Quantum nonlocal correlations are not dominated
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5009
abstract: We show that no probability distribution of spin measurement outcomes on pairs of spin 1/2 particles is unambiguously more nonlocal than the quantum correlations. That is, any distribution that produces a CHSH violation larger than the quantum violation for some axis choices also produces a smaller CHSH violation for some other axis choices. In this sense, it is not possible for nature to be strictly more nonlocal than quantum theory allows.

id: 1308.5021
title: Bohm Trajectories as Approximations to Properly Fluctuating Quantum Trajectories
authors: Pisin Chen, Hagen Kleinert
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5021
abstract: We explain the approximate nature of particle trajectories in Bohm's quantum mechanics. They are streamlines of a superfluid in Madelung's reformulation of the Schr\"{o}dinger wave function, around which the proper particle trajectories perform their quantum mechanical fluctuations to ensure Heisenberg's uncertainty relation between position and momentum.

id: 1308.5031
title: Analysis of a proposal for a realistic loophole-free Bell test with atom-light entanglement
authors: Colin Teo, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Daniel Cavalcanti, Valerio Scarani
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053848 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5031
abstract: The violation of Bell inequalities where both detection and locality loopholes are closed is crucial for device independent assessments of quantum information. While of technological nature, the simultaneous closing of both loopholes still remains a challenge. In Nat. Commun. 4:2104(2013), a realistic setup to produce an atom-photon entangled state that could reach a loophole free Bell inequality violation within current experimental technology was proposed. Here we improve the analysis of this proposal by giving an analytical treatment that shows that the state proposed in Nat. Commun. 4:2104(2013) could in principle violate a Bell inequality for arbitrarily low photodetection efficiency. Moreover, it is also able to violate a Bell inequality considering only atomic and homodyne measurements eliminating the need to consider inefficient photocounting measurements. In this case, the maximum Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality violation achievable is 2.29, and the minimum transmission required for violation is about 68%. Finally, we show that by postselecting on an atomic measurement, one can engineer superpositions of coherent states for various coherent state amplitudes.

id: 1308.5051
title: Uncertainty and certainty relations for the Pauli observables in terms of the R¨¦nyi entropies of order $¦Á\in(0;1]$
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 6 pages, one figure. This version matches the journal version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.4242
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 61, 293-298 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5051
abstract: We obtain uncertainty and certainty relations of state-independent form for the three Pauli observables with use of the R\'enyi entropies of order $\alpha\in(0;1]$. It is shown that these entropic bounds are tight in the sense that they are always reached with certain pure states. A new result is the conditions for equality in R\'enyi-entropy uncertainty relations for the Pauli observables. Upper entropic bounds in the pure-state case are also novel. Combining the presented bounds leads to a band, in which the rescaled average R\'enyi $\alpha$-entropy ranges for a pure measured state. A width of this band is compared with the Tsallis formulation derived previously.

id: 1308.5077
title: Highlighting the mechanism of the quantum speedup by time-symmetric and relational quantum mechanics
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: Entirely rewritten. Improved clarity and precision of the explanation of the speedup
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5077
abstract: Bob hides a ball in one of four drawers. Alice is to locate it. Classically she has to open up to three drawers, quantally just one. The fundamental reason for this quantum speedup is not known. The present explanation starts by extending the usual representation of the quantum algorithm, limited to the process of solving the problem, to the process of setting the problem. The number of the drawer with the ball (drawer number for short) becomes a unitary transformation of the random outcome of the preparation measurement. This brings in relational and time-symmetric quantum mechanics. The extension is with respect to Bob and cannot be with respect to Alice. It would tell her the drawer number before she opens any drawer. To Alice, the projection of the quantum state due to the preparation measurement should be retarded at the end of her search; in the input state of the search, the drawer number is determined to Bob and undetermined to Alice. The time-symmetric representation of the quantum process brings in an ambiguity. Either the preparation measurement or the final one required to read the solution selects the solution. We share the selection between the two measurements. All is as if Alice, by reading the solution, selected part of the information that specifies the drawer number. This leaves the input state to Bob unaltered and projects that to Alice on a state of lower entropy where she knows that part in advance. Assuming that Alice's measurement selects half of the information explains the speedup of this quantum algorithm. The quantum algorithm turns out to be a sum over histories in each of which Alice knows in advance that the ball is in a pair of drawers and locates it by opening one of the two. More in general, given an oracle problem, this explanation would yield the number of queries required to solve it quantally.

id: 1308.5098
title: An Experimental Implementation of Oblivious Transfer in the Noisy Storage Model
authors: C. Erven, Nelly Huei Ying Ng, N. Gigov, R. Laflamme, S. Wehner, G. Weihs
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3418 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5098
abstract: Cryptography's importance in our everyday lives continues to grow in our increasingly digital world. Oblivious transfer (OT) has long been a fundamental and important cryptographic primitive since it is known that general two-party cryptographic tasks can be built from this basic building block. Here we show the experimental implementation of a 1-2 random oblivious transfer (ROT) protocol by performing measurements on polarization-entangled photon pairs in a modified entangled quantum key distribution system, followed by all of the necessary classical post-processing including one-way error correction. We successfully exchange a 1,366 bits ROT string in ~3 min and include a full security analysis under the noisy storage model, accounting for all experimental error rates and finite size effects. This demonstrates the feasibility of using today's quantum technologies to implement secure two-party protocols.

id: 1308.5102
title: Measurement-based quantum computation with trapped ions
authors: B. P. Lanyon, P. Jurcevic, M. Zwerger, C. Hempel, E. A. Martinez, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 4 pages, 5 main figures, 10 pages of supplementary information
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 210501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5102
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) represents a powerful and flexible framework for quantum information processing, based on the notion of entangled quantum states as computational resources. The most prominent application is the one-way quantum computer, with the cluster state as its universal resource. Here we demonstrate the principles of MBQC using deterministically generated graph states of up to 7 qubits, in a system of trapped atomic ions. Firstly we implement a universal set of operations for quantum computing. Secondly we demonstrate a family of measurement-based quantum error correction codes, and show their improved performance as the code length is increased. We show that all our graph states violate a multipartite Bell inequality and are therefore capable of information processing tasks that cannot be described by a local hidden variable model. The methods presented can directly be scaled up to generate graph states of several tens of qubits.

id: 1308.5176
title: Frequency noise cancellation in optomechanical systems for ponderomotive squeezing
authors: A. Pontin, C. Biancofiore, E. Serra, A. Borrielli, F. S. Cataliotti, F. Marino, G. A. Prodi, M. Bonaldi, F. Marin, D. Vitali
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures. Physical explanation expanded. Modified figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5176
abstract: Ponderomotive squeezing of the output light of an optical cavity has been recently observed in the MHz range in two different cavity optomechanical devices. Quadrature squeezing becomes particularly useful at lower spectral frequencies, for example in gravitational wave interferometers, despite being more sensitive to excess phase and frequency noise. Here we show a phase/frequency noise cancellation mechanism due to destructive interference which can facilitate the production of ponderomotive squeezing in the kHz range and we demonstrate it experimentally in an optomechanical system formed by a Fabry-P\'{e}rot cavity with a micro-mechanical mirror.

id: 1308.5209
title: Demonstrating an element of measurement-based quantum error correction
authors: Stefanie Barz, Rui Vasconcelos, Chiara Greganti, Michael Zwerger, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Hans J. Briegel, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5209
abstract: In measurement-based quantum computing an algorithm is performed by measurements on highly-entangled resource states. To date, several implementations were demonstrated, all of them assuming perfect noise-free environments. Here we consider measurement-based information processing in the presence of noise and demonstrate quantum error detection. We implement the protocol using a four-qubit photonic cluster state, where we first encode a general qubit non-locally such that phase errors can be detected. We then read out the error syndrome and analyze the output states after decoding. Our demonstration shows a building block for measurement-based quantum computing which is crucial for realistic scenarios.

id: 1308.5290
title: On Quantum Theory
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; the second version has some references updated and a few typos corrected
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 238 [16 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5290
abstract: Quantum theory is a well-defined local theory with a clear interpretation. No "measurement problem" or any other foundational matters are waiting to be settled.

id: 1308.5298
title: Spin Squeezing of Superposition of Biaxial State and two qubit Bell State
authors: Sakineh Ashourisheikhi
comments: Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5298
abstract: In this study we investigate the spin squeezing in superposition of a Biaxial state [1,2] and Bell state. Numerical and analytical solutions for the length of mean spin, mean spin direction and spin squeezing are given. It is shown that both the mean spin direction and spin squeezing parameter are determined by the coefficients of superposition and the relative phase.

id: 1308.5322
title: Relativistic and non-relativistic quantum Brownian motion in an anisotropic dissipative medium
authors: Ehsan Amooghorban, Fardin Kheirandish
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5322
abstract: Using a minimal-coupling-scheme we investigate the quantum Brownian motion of a particle in an anisotropic-dissipative-medium under the influence of an arbitrary potential in both relativistic and non-relativistic regimes. A general quantum Langevin equation is derived and explicit expressions for quantum-noise and dynamical variables of the system are obtained. The equations of motion for the canonical variables are solved explicitly and an expression for the radiation-reaction of a charged particle in the presence of a dissipative-medium is obtained. Some examples are given to elucidate the applicability of this approach.

id: 1308.5359
title: Dissipative quantum metrology in manybody systems of identical particles
authors: F. Benatti, S. Alipour, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: New. J. Phys. 16, 015023 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5359
abstract: Estimation of physical parameters is a must in almost any part of science and technology. The enhancement of the performances in this task, e.g., beating the standard classical shot-noise limit, using available physical resources is a major goal in metrology. Quantum metrology in closed systems has indicated that entanglement in such systems may be a useful resource. However, it is not yet fully understood whether in open quantum systems such enhancements may still show up. Here, we consider a dissipative (open) quantum system of identical particles in which a parameter of the open dynamics itself is to be estimated. We employ a recently-developed dissipative quantum metrology framework, and investigate whether the entanglement produced in the course of the dissipative dynamics may help the estimation task. Specifically, we show that even in a Markovian dynamics, in which states become less distinguishable in time, at small enough times entanglement generated by the dynamics may offer some advantage over the classical shot-noise limit.

id: 1308.5384
title: Derivation of the Born rule based on the minimal set of assumptions
authors: Alexey V. Nenashev
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5384
abstract: The Born rule for probabilities of measurement results is deduced from the set of five assumptions. The assumptions state that: (a) the state vector fully determines the probabilities of all measurement results; (b) between measurements, any quantum system is governed by that part of standard quantum mechanics, which does not refer to measurements; (c) probabilities of measurement results obey the rules of the classical theory of probability; (d) no information transfer is possible without interaction; (e) if two spin-1/2 particles are in the entangled state (sqrt(1-\lambda)|up>|up> + sqrt(\lambda)|down>|down>), and one of spins is measured by the Stern-Gerlach apparatus, then the state of the other spin after this measurement will be either |up> or |down>, corresponding to the measurement result. No one of these assumptions can be omitted. The method of the derivation is based on Zurek's idea of environment-assisted invariance [PRL 90, 120404 (2003)], though taken in rather modified form. Entanglement plays a crucial role in our approach (like in Zurek's one), so the probabilities are first considered in the case when the measured quantum system is entangled with some environment. Probabilities in pure states appear then as a particular case. The method of the present paper can be applied to both ideal and non-ideal measuring devices, irrespective to their constructions and principles of operation.

id: 1308.5404
title: Universal scheme for violation of local realism from quantum advantage in one-way communication complexity
authors: L. Czekaj, A. Grudka, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, M. Markiewicz
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5404
abstract: We consider relations between communication complexity problems and detecting correlations (violating local realism) with no local hidden variable model. We show first universal equivalence between characteristics of protocols used in that type of problems and non-signaling correlations. We construct non linear bipartite Bell type inequalities and strong nonlocality test with binary observables by providing general method of Bell inequalities construction and showing that existence of gap between quantum and classical complexity leads to violation of these inequalities. We obtain, first to our knowledge, explicit Bell inequality with binary observables and exponential violation.

id: 1308.5413
title: Determining eigenvalues of a density matrix with minimal information in a single experimental setting
authors: Tohru Tanaka, Yukihiro Ota, Mitsunori Kanazawa, Gen Kimura, Hiromichi Nakazato, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5413
abstract: Eigenvalues of a density matrix characterize well the quantum state's properties, such as coherence and entanglement. We propose a simple method to determine all the eigenvalues of an unknown density matrix of a finite-dimensional system in a single experimental setting. Without fully reconstructing a quantum state, eigenvalues are determined with the minimal number of parameters obtained by a measurement of a single observable. Moreover, its implementation is illustrated in linear optical and superconducting systems.

id: 1308.5424
title: Exponential improvement in precision for Hamiltonian-evolution simulation
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Richard Cleve, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, updated result in appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5424
abstract: We provide a quantum method for simulating Hamiltonian evolution with complexity polynomial in the logarithm of the inverse error. This is an exponential improvement over existing methods for Hamiltonian simulation. In addition, its scaling with respect to time is close to linear, and its scaling with respect to the time derivative of the Hamiltonian is logarithmic. These scalings improve upon most existing methods. Our method is to use a compressed Lie-Trotter formula, based on recent ideas for efficient discrete-time simulations of continuous-time quantum query algorithms.

id: 1308.5452
title: Experimental demonstration of a time-domain multidimensional quantum channel
authors: Xingxing Xing, Amir Feizpour, Alex Hayat, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5452
abstract: We present the first experimental realization of a flexible multidimensional quantum channel where the Hilbert space dimensionality can be controlled electronically. Using electro-optical modulators (EOM) and narrow-band optical filters, quantum information is encoded and decoded in the temporal degrees of freedom of photons from a long-coherence-time single-photon source. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of a generic scheme for encoding and transmitting multidimensional quantum information over the existing fiber-optical telecommunications infrastructure.

id: 1308.5469
title: Heisenberg uncertainty principle and quantum Zeno effects in the linguistic interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Shiro Ishikawa
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.1290, arXiv:1207.0407, arXiv:1204.3892. substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.1290, arXiv:1207.0407, arXiv:1204.3892
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5469
abstract: Recently we proposed measurement theory (i.e., quantum language, or the linguistic interpretation of quantum mechanics), which is characterized as the linguistic turn of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. This turn from physics to language does not only extend quantum theory to classical theory but also yield the quantum mechanical world view (i.e., the (quantum) linguistic world view). Thus, we believe that the linguistic interpretation is the most powerful in all interpretations. Our purpose is to examine the power of measurement theory, that is, to try to formulate Heisenberg uncertainty principle (particulary, the relation between Ishikawa's formulation and so called Ozawa's inequality) and quantum Zeno effects in the linguistic interpretation. As our conclusions, we must say that our trials do not completely succeed. However, we want to believe that this does not imply that we must abandon our linguistic interpretation.

id: 1308.5488
title: Analytically computable tangle for three-qubit mixed states
authors: Hiroyasu Tajima
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5488
abstract: We present a new tripartite entanglement measure for three-qubit mixed states. The new measure $t_{\mathrm{r}}(\rho)$, which we refer to as the r-tangle, is given as a kind of the tangle, but has a feature which the tangle does not have; if we can derive an analytical form of $ t_{\mathrm{r}}(\rho)$ for a three-qubit mixed state $\rho$, we can also derive $t_{\mathrm{r}}(\rho')$ analytically for any states $\rho'$ which are SLOCC-equivalent to the state $\rho$. The concurrence of two-qubit states also satisfies the feature, but the tangle does not. These facts imply that the r-tangle $t_{\mathrm{r}}$ is the appropriate three-partite counterpart of the concurrence. We also derive an analytical form of the r-tangle $t_{\mathrm{r}}$ for mixtures of a generalized GHZ state and a generalized W state, and hence for all states which are SLOCC-equivalent to them.

id: 1308.5502
title: Tasks and premises in quantum state determination
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Jussi Schultz, Alessandro Toigo
comments: minor changes in v2
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 075302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5502
abstract: The purpose of quantum tomography is to determine an unknown quantum state from measurement outcome statistics. There are two obvious ways to generalize this setting. First, our task need not be the determination of any possible input state but only some input states, for instance pure states. Second, we may have some prior information, or premise, which guarantees that the input state belongs to some subset of states, for instance the set of states with rank less than half of the dimension of the Hilbert space. We investigate state determination under these two supplemental features, concentrating on the cases where the task and the premise are statements about the rank of the unknown state. We characterize the structure of quantum observables (POVMs) that are capable of fulfilling these type of determination tasks. After the general treatment we focus on the class of covariant phase space observables, thus providing physically relevant examples of observables both capable and incapable of performing these tasks. In this context, the effect of noise is discussed.

id: 1308.5507
title: Distribution of xp in some molecular rotational states
authors: Q. H. Liu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A. 378(2014)785
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5507
abstract: Developing the analysis of the distribution of the so-called posmom xp to the spherical harmonics that represents some molecular rotational states for such as diatomic molecules and spherical cage molecules, we obtain posmometry (introduced recently by Y. A. Bernard and P. M. W. Gill, Posmom: The Unobserved Observable, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 1(2010)1254) of the spherical harmonics and demonstrate that it bears a striking resemblance to the momentum distributions of the stationary states for a one-dimensional simple harmonic oscillator.

id: 1308.5604
title: Quantum probabilities of composite events in quantum measurements with multimode states
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 28 pages, no figures
journal: Laser Phys. 23 (2013) 105502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5604
abstract: The problem of defining quantum probabilities of composite events is considered. This problem is of high importance for the theory of quantum measurements and for quantum decision theory that is a part of measurement theory. We show that the Luders probability of consecutive measurements is a transition probability between two quantum states and that this probability cannot be treated as a quantum extension of the classical conditional probability. The Wigner distribution is shown to be a weighted transition probability that cannot be accepted as a quantum extension of the classical joint probability. We suggest the definition of quantum joint probabilities by introducing composite events in multichannel measurements. The notion of measurements under uncertainty is defined. We demonstrate that the necessary condition for the mode interference is the entanglement of the composite prospect together with the entanglement of the composite statistical state. As an illustration, we consider an example of a quantum game. A special attention is payed to the application of the approach to systems with multimode states, such as atoms, molecules, quantum dots, or trapped Bose-condensed atoms with several coherent modes.

id: 1308.5614
title: Quantum Noise Filtering via Cross-Correlations
authors: Boaz Tamir, Eliahu Cohen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Version 2 includes a few clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5614
abstract: Motivated by successful classical models for noise reduction, we suggest a quantum technique for filtering noise out of quantum states. The purpose of this paper is twofold: presenting a simple construction of quantum cross-correlations between two wave-functions, and presenting a scheme for a quantum noise filtering. We follow a well-known scheme in classical communication theory that attenuates random noise, and show that one can build a quantum analog by using non-trace-preserving operators. By this we introduce a classically motivated signal processing scheme to quantum information theory, which can help reducing quantum noise, and particularly, phase flip noise.

id: 1308.5619
title: Shut up and let me think. Or why you should work on the foundations of quantum mechanics as much as you please
authors: Pablo Echenique-Robba
comments: Added footnote in p. 2, two paragraphs at the end of sec. 2.1 and some names in the acknowledgements, corrected some typos, added a mention to collapse models
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5619
abstract: If you have a restless intellect, it is very likely that you have played at some point with the idea of investigating the meaning and conceptual foundations of quantum mechanics. It is also probable (albeit not certain) that your intentions have been stopped on their tracks by an encounter with some version of the "Shut up and calculate" command. You may have heard that everything is already understood. That understanding is not your job. Or, if it is, it is either impossible or very difficult. Maybe somebody explained to you that physics is concerned with "hows" and not with "whys"; that whys are the business of "philosophy" ---you know, that dirty word. That what you call "understanding" is just being Newtonian; which of course you cannot ask quantum mechanics to be. Perhaps they also added some norms: The important thing a theory must do is predict; a theory must only talk about measurable quantities. It may also be the case that you almost asked "OK, and why is that?", but you finally bit your tongue. If you persisted in your intentions and the debate got a little heated up, it is even possible that it was suggested that you suffered of some type of moral or epistemic weakness that tend to disappear as you grow up. Maybe you received some job advice such as "Don't work in that if you ever want to own a house". I have certainly met all these objections in my short career, and I think that they are all just wrong. In this somewhat personal document, I try to defend that making sense of quantum mechanics is an exciting, challenging, important and open scientific endeavor. I do this by compulsively quoting Feynman (and others), and I provide some arguments that you might want to use the next time you confront the mentioned "opinions". By analogy with the anti-rationalistic Copenhagen command, all the arguments are subsumed in a standard answer to it: "Shut up and let me think"

id: 1308.5640
title: Quantum criticality and dynamical instability in the kicked top
authors: V. M. Bastidas, P. Perez-Fernandez, M. Vogl, T. Brandes
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and supplementary information. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140408 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5640
abstract: We investigate precursors of critical behavior in the quasienergy spectrum due to the dynamical instability in the kicked top. Using a semiclassical approach, we analytically obtain a logarithmic divergence in the density of states, which is analogous to a continuous excited state quantum phase transition in undriven systems. We propose a protocol to observe the cusp behavior of the magnetization close to the critical quasienergy.

id: 1308.5650
title: Beyond spectral homodyne detection: complete quantum measurement of spectral modes of light
authors: Felippe A. S. Barbosa, Antonio S. Coelho, Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Paulo Nussenzveig, Claude Fabre, Marcelo Martinelli, Alessandro S. Villar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111 200402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5650
abstract: Spectral homodyne detection, a widely used technique for measuring quantum properties of light beams, cannot retrieve all the information needed to reconstruct the quantum state of spectral field modes. We show that full quantum state reconstruction can be achieved with the alternative measurement technique of resonator detection. We experimentally demonstrate this difference by engineering a quantum state with features that go undetected by homodyne detection but are clearly revealed by resonator detection.

id: 1308.5673
title: Nonlocal linear compression of two-photon time interval distribution
authors: J.-S. Pan, X.-B. Zou, Z.-Y. Zhou, D.-S. Ding, B.-S. Shi, G.-C. Guo
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 061802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5673
abstract: We propose a linear compression technique for the time interval distribution of photon pairs. Using a partially frequency-entangled two-photon (TP) state with appropriate mean time width, the compressed TP time interval width can be kept in the minimum limit set by the phase modulation, and is independent of its initial width. As a result of this effect, ultra-narrow TP time interval distribution can be compressed with relatively slow phase modulators to decrease the damage of the phase-instability arising from the phase modulation process.

id: 1308.5677
title: Three-intensity decoy state method for device independent quantum key distribution
authors: Z.-W. Yu, Y.-H. Zhou, X.-B. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062339 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5677
abstract: We study the measurement device independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) in practice with limited resource, when there are only 3 different states in implementing the decoy-state method. We present a more tightened explicit formula to estimate the lower bound of the yield of two-single-photon pulses. Moreover, we show that the bounding of this yield and phase flip error of single photon pulse pairs can be further improved by using other constraints which can be solved by a simple and explicit program. Results of numerical simulation for key rates with both the improved explicit formula and the program are presented. It shows that the results obtained with our methods here can significantly improve the key rate and secure distance of MDI QKD with only three intensities.

id: 1308.5688
title: Joint quantum measurements with minimum uncertainty
authors: Martin Ringbauer, Devon N. Biggerstaff, Matthew A. Broome, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Cyril Branciard, Andrew G. White
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 020401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5688
abstract: Quantum physics constrains the accuracy of joint measurements of incompatible observables. Here we test tight measurement-uncertainty relations using single photons. We implement two independent, idealized uncertainty-estimation methods, the 3-state method and the weak-measurement method, and adapt them to realistic experimental conditions. Exceptional quantum state fidelities of up to 0.99998(6) allow us to verge upon the fundamental limits of measurement uncertainty.

id: 1308.5690
title: A Note on Entanglement, Nonlocality, and Superluminal Signaling
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5690
abstract: An alternative approach to "entanglement, nonlocality, and superluminal signaling" is advocated. It is inspired on Faraday's way of viewing physics.

id: 1308.5719
title: Quantum random flip-flop based on random photon emitter and its applications
authors: Mario Stipcevic
comments: 18 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5719
abstract: We propose, experimentally realize and study possible applications of a new type of logic element: random flip-flop. By definition it operates similarly to a conventional flip-flop except that it functions with probability of 1/2 otherwise it does nothing. We demonstrate one practical realization of the random flip-flop based on optical quantum random number generator and discuss possible usages of such a device in computers, cryptographic hardware and testing equipment.

id: 1308.5728
title: Notes on Coherent Feedback Control for Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A preliminary version is to appear in the proceedings of the 2013 Australian Control COnference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5728
abstract: This paper considers some formulations and possible approaches to the coherent LQG and $H^\infty$ quantum control problems. Some new results for these problems are presented in the case of annihilation operator only quantum systems showing that in this case, the optimal controllers are trivial controllers.

id: 1308.5761
title: Experimental Demonstration of non-Markovian Dynamics via a Temporal Bell-like Inequality
authors: A.M. Souza, J. Li, D.O. Soares-Pinto, R.S. Sarthour, S. Oliveira, S.F. Huelga, M. Paternostro, F.L. Semi?o
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5761
abstract: We assess non-Markovianity of a quantum open-system dynamics through the violation of temporal bell-like inequalities in a controllable Nuclear Magnetic Resonance system. We investigate experimentally the connections between the violation of the addressed temporal Bell-like inequality and the non-divisibility of the effective evolution of our system, which we fully characterize in a broad range of experimentally controllable regimes. Finally, we investigate the link between our approach and Leggett-Garg-like inequalities based on time-translational two-time correlation functions. These results open up interesting perspectives for the effective, non-tomographic characterization of dynamical evolution by combining tools of different nature.

id: 1308.5788
title: Quantum interactive proofs and the complexity of separability testing
authors: Gus Gutoski, Patrick Hayden, Kevin Milner, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v2: 43 pages, 5 figures, completely rewritten and in Theory of Computing (ToC) journal format
journal: Theory of Computing vol. 11, article 3, pages 59-103, March 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5788
abstract: We identify a formal connection between physical problems related to the detection of separable (unentangled) quantum states and complexity classes in theoretical computer science. In particular, we show that to nearly every quantum interactive proof complexity class (including BQP, QMA, QMA(2), and QSZK), there corresponds a natural separability testing problem that is complete for that class. Of particular interest is the fact that the problem of determining whether an isometry can be made to produce a separable state is either QMA-complete or QMA(2)-complete, depending upon whether the distance between quantum states is measured by the one-way LOCC norm or the trace norm. We obtain strong hardness results by proving that for each n-qubit maximally entangled state there exists a fixed one-way LOCC measurement that distinguishes it from any separable state with error probability that decays exponentially in n.

id: 1308.5815
title: Direct method for measuring of purity, superfidelity, and subfidelity of photonic two-qubit mixed states
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Karel Lemr, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5815
abstract: The Uhlmann-Jozsa fidelity (or, equivalently, the Bures distance) is a basic concept of quantum communication and quantum information, which however is very difficult to measure efficiently without recourse to quantum tomography. Here we propose a direct experimental method to estimate the fidelity between two unknown two-qubit mixed states via the measurement of the upper and lower bounds of the fidelity, which are referred to as the superfidelity and subfidelity, respectively. Our method enables a direct measurement of the first- and second-order overlaps between two arbitrary two-qubit states. In particular, the method can be applied to measure the purity (or linear entropy) of a single two-qubit mixed state in a direct experiment. We also propose and critically compare several experimental strategies for measuring the sub- and superfidelities of polarization states of photons in various linear-optical setups.

id: 1308.5868
title: Experimental Test of Error-Disturbance Uncertainty Relations by Weak Measurement
authors: Fumihiro Kaneda, So-Young Baek, Masanao Ozawa, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5868
abstract: We experimentally test the error-disturbance uncertainty relation (EDR) in generalized, strength-variable measurement of a single photon polarization qubit, making use of weak measurement that keeps the initial signal state practically unchanged. We demonstrate that Heisenberg's EDR is violated, yet Ozawa's and Branciard's EDRs are valid throughout the range of our measurement strength.

id: 1308.5884
title: Smooth Max-Information as One-Shot Generalization for Mutual Information
authors: Nikola Ciganovi?, Normand J. Beaudry, Renato Renner
comments: 15 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 60(3), 1573-1581, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5884
abstract: We study formal properties of smooth max-information, a generalization of von Neumann mutual information derived from the max-relative entropy. Recent work suggests that it is a useful quantity in one-shot channel coding, quantum rate distortion theory and the physics of quantum many-body systems. Max-information can be defined in multiple ways. We demonstrate that different smoothed definitions are essentially equivalent (up to logarithmic terms in the smoothing parameters). These equivalence relations allow us to derive new chain rules for the max-information in terms of min- and max-entropies, thus extending the smooth entropy formalism to mutual information.

id: 1308.5923
title: Quantum network exploration with a faulty sense of direction
authors: Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, Przemys?aw Sadowski
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, accepted to QIC
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.14, No.13&14 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5923
abstract: We develop a model which can be used to analyse the scenario of exploring quantum network with a distracted sense of direction. Using this model we analyse the behaviour of quantum mobile agents operating with non-adaptive and adaptive strategies which can be employed in this scenario. We introduce the notion of node visiting suitable for analysing quantum superpositions of states by distinguishing between visiting and attaining a position. We show that without a proper model of adaptiveness, it is not possible for the party representing the distraction in the sense of direction, to obtain the results analogous to the classical case. Moreover, with additional control resources the total number of attained positions is maintained if the number of visited positions is strictly limited.

id: 1308.5924
title: Born's Rule as Signature of a Superclassical Current Algebra
authors: Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl, Gerhard Groessing
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 343 (2014), 200-214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5924
abstract: We present a new tool for calculating the interference patterns and particle trajectories of a double-, three- and N-slit system on the basis of an emergent sub-quantum theory developed by our group throughout the last years. The quantum itself is considered as an emergent system representing an off-equilibrium steady state oscillation maintained by a constant throughput of energy provided by a classical zero-point energy field. We introduce the concept of a "relational causality" which allows for evaluating structural interdependences of different systems levels, i.e. in our case of the relations between partial and total probability density currents, respectively. Combined with the application of 21st century classical physics like, e.g., modern nonequilibrium thermodynamics, we thus arrive at a "superclassical" theory. Within this framework, the proposed current algebra directly leads to a new formulation of the guiding equation which is equivalent to the original one of the de Broglie-Bohm theory. By proving the absence of third order interferences in three-path systems it is shown that Born's rule is a natural consequence of our theory. Considering the series of one-, double-, or, generally, of N-slit systems, with the first appearance of an interference term in the double slit case, we can explain the violation of Sorkin's first order sum rule, just as the validity of all higher order sum rules. Moreover, the Talbot patterns and Talbot distance for an arbitrary N-slit device can be reproduced exactly by our model without any quantum physics tool.

id: 1308.5932
title: Fully Quantum Approach to Optomechanical Entanglement
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He, R. Ghobadi, Christoph Simon
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5932
abstract: The radiation pressure induced coupling between an optical cavity field and a mechanical oscillator can create entanglement between them. In previous works this entanglement was treated as that of the quantum fluctuations of the cavity and mechanical modes around their classical mean values. Here we provide a fully quantum approach to optomechanical entanglement, which goes beyond the approximation of classical mean motion plus quantum fluctuation, and applies to arbitrary cavity drive. We illustrate the real-time evolution of optomechanical entanglement under drive of arbitrary detuning to show the existence of high, robust and stable entanglement in blue detuned regime, and highlight the quantum noise effects that can cause entanglement sudden death and revival.

id: 1308.5935
title: A nano heat engine beyond the Carnot limit
authors: Johannes Ro?nagel, Obinna Abah, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer, Eric Lutz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 030602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5935
abstract: Heat engines extract work by running cyclically between two heat reservoirs. When the two reservoirs are thermal and at different temperatures, the maximum efficiency of the engine is given by the Carnot limit. Here we consider a quantum Otto cycle for a time-dependent harmonic oscillator coupled to an engineered squeezed thermal reservoir. We show that the efficiency at maximum power increases with the degree of squeezing, exponentially approaching unity for large squeezing parameters $r$. Furthermore, we propose an experimental scheme to implement such a system by using a single trapped ion in a linear Paul trap with special geometry and coupled to engineered reservoirs. Our analytical investigations are supported with Monte Carlo simulations that demonstrate the feasibility of our proposal. For realistic trap parameters, an increase of up to a factor of four is reached, largely exceeding the classical limit.

id: 1308.5942
title: Unbiased non-orthogonal bases for tomographic reconstruction
authors: Isabel Sainz, Luis Roa, Andrei B. Klimov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5942
abstract: We have developed a general method for constructing a set of non-orthogonal bases with equal separations between all different basis' states in prime dimensions.It results that the corresponding bi-orthogonal counterparts are pairwise unbiased with the components of the original bases. Using these bases we derive an explicit expression for the optimal tomography in non-orthogonal bases. Special two dimensional case is analyzed separately.

id: 1308.5961
title: A limit of the quantum Renyi divergence
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Felix Leditzky
comments: 8 pages; v2 slight change in the Abstract and Conclusions
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 045304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5961
abstract: Recently, an interesting quantity called the quantum Renyi divergence (or "sandwiched" Renyi relative entropy) was defined for pairs of positive semi-definite operators $\rho$ and $\sigma$. It depends on a parameter $\alpha$ and acts as a parent quantity for other relative entropies which have important operational significances in quantum information theory: the quantum relative entropy and the min- and max-relative entropies. There is, however, another relative entropy, called the 0-relative Renyi entropy, which plays a key role in the analysis of various quantum information-processing tasks in the one-shot setting. We prove that the 0-relative Renyi entropy is obtainable from the quantum Renyi divergence only if $\rho$ and $\sigma$ have equal supports. This, along with existing results in the literature, suggests that it suffices to consider two essential parent quantities from which operationally relevant entropic quantities can be derived - the quantum Renyi divergence with parameter $\alpha \ge 1/2$, and the $\alpha$-relative R\'enyi entropy with $\alpha\in [0,1)$.

id: 1308.5995
title: Searching for structure beyond parity in the two-qubit Dicke model
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, S. A. Chilingaryan, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 135306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5995
abstract: We try to classify the spectrum of the two-qubit Dicke model by calculating two quantum information measures of its eigenstates: the Wooters concurrence and the mutual quantum information. We are able to detect four spectral sets in each parity subspace of the model: one set is regular and given by the product of a Fock state of the field times the singlet Bell state of the qubits; the rest are fairly regular and related to the triplet states of the Bell basis. The singlet states become trapping states when we couple the Dicke model to an environment of harmonic oscillators, making them candidates for generating maximally entangled states in experimental realizations of ion trap quantum electrodynamics (QED) and circuit QED. Furthermore, they are robust and survive the inclusion of driving and dipole-dipole interactions, pointing to their use for storing quantum correlations, and it is straightforward to provide a generalization of these trapping states to the Dicke model with even number of qubits.

id: 1308.6012
title: Kochen-Specker set with seven contexts
authors: Petr Lisonek, Piotr Badziag, Jose R. Portillo, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6012
abstract: The Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem is a central result in quantum theory and has applications in quantum information. Its proof requires several yes-no tests that can be grouped in contexts or subsets of jointly measurable tests. Arguably, the best measure of simplicity of a KS set is the number of contexts. The smaller this number is, the smaller the number of experiments needed to reveal the conflict between quantum theory and noncontextual theories and to get a quantum vs classical outperformance. The original KS set had 132 contexts. Here we introduce a KS set with seven contexts and prove that this is the simplest KS set that admits a symmetric parity proof.

id: 1308.6030
title: Correlations in Quantum Spin Systems from the Boundary Effect
authors: Jaeyoon Cho
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 053021 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6030
abstract: We introduce the boundary effect on the ground state as an attribute of general local spin systems that restricts the correlations in the ground state. To this end, we introduce what we call a boundary effect function, which characterises not only the boundary effect, but also the thermodynamic limit of the ground state. We prove various aspects of the boundary effect function to unfold its relationship to other attributes of the system such as a finite spectral gap above the ground state, two-point correlation functions, and entanglement entropies. In particular, it is proven that an exponentially decaying boundary effect function implies the exponential clustering of two-point correlation functions in arbitrary spatial dimension, the entanglement area law in one dimension, and the logarithmically corrected area law in higher dimension. It is also proven that gapped local spin systems with nondegenerate ground states ordinarily fall into that class. In one dimension, the area law can also result from a moderately decaying boundary effect function, in which case the system is thermodynamically gapless.

id: 1308.6062
title: Structures and Transformations for Model Reduction of Linear Quantum Stochastic Systems
authors: Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures. Preliminary parts of this paper have been presented at the 2013 American Control Conference (this http URL) and 2012 Australian Control Conference (this http URL;dn=230324713737486;res=IELENG). Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6062
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to develop a model reduction theory for linear quantum stochastic systems that are commonly encountered in quantum optics and related fields, modeling devices such as optical cavities and optical parametric amplifiers, as well as quantum networks composed of such devices. Results are derived on subsystem truncation of such systems and it is shown that this truncation preserves the physical realizability property of linear quantum stochastic systems. It is also shown that the property of complete passivity of linear quantum stochastic systems is preserved under subsystem truncation. A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of a balanced realization of a linear quantum stochastic system under sympletic transformations is derived. Such a condition turns out to be very restrictive and will not be satisfied by generic linear quantum stochastic systems, thus necessary and sufficient conditions for relaxed notions of simultaneous diagonalization of the controllability and observability Gramians of linear quantum stochastic systems under symplectic transformations are also obtained. The notion of a quasi-balanced realization is introduced and it is shown that all asymptotically stable completely passive linear quantum stochastic systems have a quasi-balanced realization. Moreover, an explicit bound for the subsystem truncation error on a quasi-balanceable linear quantum stochastic system is provided. The results are applied in an example of model reduction in the context of low-pass optical filtering of coherent light using a network of optical cavities.

id: 1308.6065
title: Violation of no signaling in higher order quantum measure theories
authors: Karthik S. Joshi, R. Srikanth, Urbasi Sinha
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6065
abstract: More general probability sum-rules for describing interference than found in quantum mechanics (QM) were formulated by Sorkin in a hierarchy of such rules. The additivity of classical measure theory corresponds to the second sum-rule. QM violates this rule, but satisfies the third and higher sum-rules. This evokes the question of whether there are physical principles that forbid their violation. We show that under certain assumptions, violation of higher sum-rules allows for superluminal signaling.

id: 1308.6067
title: Sealed States And Quantum Blackmail
authors: Andrew Lutomirski
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6067
abstract: Consider a protocol in which Belinda seals a (classical) message. She gives the resulting sealed message to Charlie, who can either unseal and read the message or return it unopened to Belinda. If he returns it unopened, Belinda should be able to verify that Charlie neither read the message nor made a copy that would allow him to read it later. Such a protocol is impossible with classical cryptography: Charlie can copy a message and do anything he likes to that copy without damaging the original. With quantum cryptography, on the other hand, the no cloning theorem implies that Charlie cannot simply copy a message and unseal the copy. Abstract In this paper, I prove that any conventional quantum cryptographic protocol can give at best a very weak security guarantee. However, quantum cryptography in conjunction with classical functions that can only be inverted by humans (i.e. CAPTCHAs) can potentially give exponential security.

id: 1308.6073
title: Simple implementation of quantum delayed-choice experiment using conventional linear optical elements
authors: Qi Guo, Liu-Yong Cheng, Hong-Fu Wang, Shou Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6073
abstract: We propose a simple implementation scheme of quantum delayed-choice experiment in linear optical system without initial entanglement resource. By choosing different detecting devices, one can selectively observe the photon's different behaviors after the photon has been passed the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The scheme shows that the photon's wave behavior and particle behavior can be observed with a single experimental setup by postselection, that is, the photon can show the superposition behavior of wave and particle. Especially, we compare the wave-particle superposition behavior and the wave-particle mixture behavior in detail, and find the quantum interference effect between wave and particle behavior, which may be helpful to reveal the nature of photon essentially.

id: 1308.6077
title: Multipartite entangled light from driven microcavities
authors: D. Pagel, H. Fehske, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 88, 042310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6077
abstract: The generation and the characterization of multipartite entangled light is an important and challenging task in quantum optics. In this paper the entanglement properties of the light emitted from a planar semiconductor microcavity are studied. The intracavity scattering dynamics leads to the emission of light that is described by a fourpartite W state. Its multipartite correlations are identified by using the method of entanglement witnesses. Entanglement conditions are derived, which are based on a general witness constructed from W states. The results can be used to detect entanglement of light that propagates through lossy and even turbulent media.

id: 1308.6092
title: Quantum Metrology with Cold Atoms
authors: Jiahao Huang, Shuyuan Wu, Honghua Zhong, Chaohong Lee
comments: 53 pages, 9 figures, revised version
journal: Annual Review of Cold Atoms and Molecules, Volume 2, Chapter 7, pp.365-415 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6092
abstract: Quantum metrology is the science that aims to achieve precision measurements by making use of quantum principles. Attribute to the well-developed techniques of manipulating and detecting cold atoms, cold atomic systems provide an excellent platform for implementing precision quantum metrology. In this chapter, we review the general procedures of quantum metrology and some experimental progresses in quantum metrology with cold atoms. Firstly, we give the general framework of quantum metrology and the calculation of quantum Fisher information, which is the core of quantum parameter estimation. Then, we introduce the quantum interferometry with single and multiparticle states. In particular, for some typical multiparticle states, we analyze their ultimate precision limits and show how quantum entanglement could enhance the measurement precision beyond the standard quantum limit. Further, we review some experimental progresses in quantum metrology with cold atomic systems.

id: 1308.6126
title: Discontinuities in the Maximum-Entropy Inference
authors: Stephan Weis
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 32nd International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, Garching, Germany, 15-20 July 2012
journal: 32nd International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, Garching, Germany, 15-20 July 2012, ed. von Toussaint, U., AIP Conference Proceedings 1553 192-199 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6126
abstract: We revisit the maximum-entropy inference of the state of a finite-level quantum system under linear constraints. The constraints are specified by the expected values of a set of fixed observables. We point out the existence of discontinuities in this inference method. This is a pure quantum phenomenon since the maximum-entropy inference is continuous for mutually commuting observables. The question arises why some sets of observables are distinguished by a discontinuity in an inference method which is still discussed as a universal inference method. In this paper we make an example of a discontinuity and we explain a characterization of the discontinuities in terms of the openness of the (restricted) linear map that assigns expected values to states.

id: 1308.6128
title: Quantum control with noisy fields: computational complexity vs. sensitivity to noise
authors: S. Kallush, M. Khasin, R. Kosloff
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1101.3248
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6128
abstract: A closed quantum system is defined as completely controllable if an arbitrary unitary transformation can be executed using the available controls. In practice, control fields are a source of unavoidable noise, which has to be suppressed to retain controllability. Can one design control fields such that the effect of noise is negligible on the time-scale of the transformation? This question is intimately related to the fundamental problem of a connection between the computational complexity of the control problem and the sensitivity of the controlled system to noise. The present study considers a paradigm of control, where the Lie-algebraic structure of the control Hamiltonian is fixed, while the size of the system increases with the dimension of the Hilbert space representation of the algebra. We find two types of control tasks, easy and hard. Easy tasks are characterized by a small variance of the evolving state with respect to the operators of the control operators. They are relatively immune to noise and the control field is easy to find. Hard tasks have a large variance, are sensitive to noise and the control field is hard to find. The influence of noise increases with the size of the system, which is measured by the scaling factor $N$ of the largest weight of the representation. For fixed time and control field as O(N) for easy tasks and as $O(N^2)$ for hard tasks. As a consequence, even in the most favorable estimate, for large quantum systems, generic noise in the controls dominates for a typical class of target transformations, i.e., complete controllability is destroyed by noise.

id: 1308.6179
title: PT-symmetry broken by point-group symmetry
authors: Francisco M Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6179
abstract: We discuss a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian with complex eigenvalues. It is based on the dimensionless Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a particle in a square box with the PT-symmetric potential $V(x,y)=iaxy$. Perturbation theory clearly shows that some of the eigenvalues are complex for sufficiently small values of $|a|$. Point-group symmetry proves useful to guess if some of the eigenvalues may already be complex for all values of the coupling constant. We confirm those conclusions by means of an accurate numerical calculation based on the diagonalization method. On the other hand, the Schr\"odinger equation with the potential $V(x,y)=iaxy^{2}$ exhibits real eigenvalues for sufficiently small values of $|a|$. Point group symmetry suggests that PT-symmetry may be broken in the former case and unbroken in the latter one.

id: 1308.6207
title: Decoding color codes by projection onto surface codes
authors: Nicolas Delfosse
comments: 24 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6207
abstract: We propose a new strategy to decode color codes, which is based on the projection of the error onto three surface codes. This provides a method to transform every decoding algorithm of surface codes into a decoding algorithm of color codes. Applying this idea to a family of hexagonal color codes, with the perfect matching decoding algorithm for the three corresponding surface codes, we find a phase error threshold of approximately 8.7%. Finally, our approach enables us to establish a general lower bound on the error threshold of a family of color codes depending on the threshold of the three corresponding surface codes. These results are based on a chain complex interpretation of surface codes and color codes.

id: 1308.6212
title: Entanglement, Superselection Rules and Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: E.Cattaruzza, E.Gozzi, C.Pagani
comments: 2 words added in the title, a section (IV) added in the text, a new author joined the project
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6212
abstract: In this paper we show that the energy eigenstates of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSYQM) with non definite "fermion" number are entangled states. They are "physical states" of the model provided that observables with odd number of spin variables are allowed in the theory like it happens in the Jaynes-Cummings model. Those states generalize the so called "spin spring" states of the Jaynes-Cummings model which have played an important role in the study of entanglement.

id: 1308.6253
title: Quantum Simulation
authors: I. M. Georgescu, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: Review article, 41 pages, 24 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 154 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6253
abstract: Simulating quantum mechanics is known to be a difficult computational problem, especially when dealing with large systems. However, this difficulty may be overcome by using some controllable quantum system to study another less controllable or accessible quantum system, i.e., quantum simulation. Quantum simulation promises to have applications in the study of many problems in, e.g., condensed-matter physics, high-energy physics, atomic physics, quantum chemistry and cosmology. Quantum simulation could be implemented using quantum computers, but also with simpler, analog devices that would require less control, and therefore, would be easier to construct. A number of quantum systems such as neutral atoms, ions, polar molecules, electrons in semiconductors, superconducting circuits, nuclear spins and photons have been proposed as quantum simulators. This review outlines the main theoretical and experimental aspects of quantum simulation and emphasizes some of the challenges and promises of this fast-growing field.

id: 1308.6270
title: Simulation of rare events in quantum error correction
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Alexander Vargo
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures. Version 3: added a new reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6270
abstract: We consider the problem of calculating the logical error probability for a stabilizer quantum code subject to random Pauli errors. To access the regime of large code distances where logical errors are extremely unlikely we adopt the splitting method widely used in Monte Carlo simulations of rare events and Bennett's acceptance ratio method for estimating the free energy difference between two canonical ensembles. To illustrate the power of these methods in the context of error correction, we calculate the logical error probability $P_L$ for the 2D surface code on a square lattice with a pair of holes for all code distances $d\le 20$ and all error rates $p$ below the fault-tolerance threshold. Our numerical results confirm the expected exponential decay $P_L\sim \exp{[-\alpha(p)d]}$ and provide a simple fitting formula for the decay rate $\alpha(p)$. Both noiseless and noisy syndrome readout circuits are considered.

id: 1308.6310
title: Qubit noise spectroscopy using a continuous driving field
authors: Daniel K. Park, Jonathan Baugh
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error in Eqn. (23). An updated version will soon be available
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6310
abstract: The optimization of dynamical decoupling and quantum error correction for a particular qubit realization is based on a detailed knowledge of the noise properties. Spectroscopy of single-axis noise using dynamical decoupling pulse sequences has garnered much recent attention. Here we consider noise spectroscopy based on a spin-locking type pulse sequence, i.e. a continuous-wave (CW) on-resonance driving field. We show that a heuristic filter function approach produces a qualitatively correct (but quantitatively incorrect) result, whereas a 0th-order average Hamiltonian calculation is shown to agree with the result predicted by the generalized Bloch equations. We further calculate up to 2nd-order average Hamiltonian corrections and show the deviation from the generalized Bloch equation result. This shows that noise spectroscopy using continuous fields, in some cases simpler to implement and more robust to errors than pulsed schemes, can be rigorously analyzed and criteria for reliable measurements can be established. Finally, a solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance experiment is presented which demonstrates that the CW and pulsed methods agree within experimental error. The noise, due to magnetization fluctuations in a dipolar coupled proton spin bath, is found to obey a roughly 1/\omega\ power law decay in the range of frequencies \omega\ investigated.

id: 1308.6336
title: Experimental implementation of an eight-dimensional Kochen-Specker set and observation of its connection with the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger theorem
authors: Gustavo Ca?as, Sebasti¨¢n Etcheverry, Esteban S. G¨®mez, Carlos Saavedra, Guilherme B. Xavier, Gustavo Lima, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6336
abstract: For eight-dimensional quantum systems there is a Kochen-Specker (KS) set of 40 quantum yes-no tests that is related to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) proof of Bell's theorem. Here we experimentally implement this KS set using an eight-dimensional Hilbert space spanned by the transverse momentum of single photons. We show that the experimental results of these tests violate a state-independent noncontextuality inequality. In addition, we show that, if the system is prepared in states that are formally equivalent to a three-qubit GHZ and $W$ states, then the results of a subset of 16 tests violate a noncontextuality inequality that is formally equivalent to the three-party Mermin's Bell inequality, but for single eight-dimensional quantum systems. These experimental results highlight the connection between quantum contextuality and nonlocality for eight-dimensional quantum systems.

id: 1308.6346
title: Mixing nonclassical pure states in a linear-optical network almost always generates modal entanglement
authors: Zhang Jiang, Matthias D. Lang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 044301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6346
abstract: In quantum optics a pure state is considered classical, relative to the statistics of photodetection, if and only if it is a coherent state. A different and newer notion of nonclassicality is based on modal entanglement. One example that relates these two notions is the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect, where modal entanglement is generated by a beamsplitter from the nonclassical photon-number state. This suggests that beamsplitters or, more generally, linear-optical networks are mediators of the two notions of nonclassicality. In this Brief Report, we show the following: Given a nonclassical pure-product-state input to an N-port linear-optical network, the output is almost always mode entangled; the only exception is a product of squeezed states, all with the same squeezing strength, input to a network that does not mix the squeezed and anti-squeezed quadratures. Our work thus gives a necessary and sufficient condition for a linear network to generate modal entanglement from pure product inputs, a result that is of immediate relevance to the boson sampling problem.

id: 1308.6359
title: Conditions for degradability of tripartite quantum states
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Chi-Kwong Li, Nung-Sing Sze, H. F. Chau
comments: 20 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 115306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6359
abstract: Alice, Bob, and Eve share a pure quantum state. We introduce the notion of state degradability by asking whether the joint density of Alice and Eve can be transformed to the joint density of Alice and Bob by processing Eve's part through a quantum channel, in order words, degrading Eve. We prove necessary and sufficient conditions for state degradability and provide an efficient method to quickly rule out degradability for a given state. The problem of determining degradability of states is different from that of quantum channels, although the notion is similar. One application of state degradability is that it can be used to test channel degradability. In particular, the degradability of the output state of a channel obtained from the maximally entangled input state gives information about the degradability of the channel.

id: 1308.6360
title: Photon blockade in quadratically coupled optomechanical systems
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023853 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6360
abstract: We study the steady-state photon statistics of a quadratically coupled optomechanical cavity, which is weakly driven by a monochromatic laser field. We examine the photon blockade by evaluating the second-order correlation function of the cavity photons. By restricting the system within the zero-, one-, and two-photon subspace, we obtain an approximate analytical expression for the correlation function. We also numerically investigate the correlation function by solving the quantum master equation including both optical and mechanical dissipations. The results show that, in the deep-resolved-sideband and single-photon strong-coupling regimes, the single-photon resonant driving will induce a photon blockade, which is limited by the thermal noise of the mechanical environment.

id: 1308.6409
title: Controllable microwave three-wave mixing via a single three-level superconducting quantum circuit
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Hui-Chen Sun, Z. H. Peng, Adam Miranowicz, J. S. Tsai, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 7289 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6409
abstract: Three-wave mixing in second-order nonlinear optical processes cannot occur in atomic systems due to the electric-dipole selection rules. In contrast, we demonstrate that second-order nonlinear processes can occur in a superconducting quantum circuit (i.e., a superconducting artificial atom) when the inversion symmetry of the potential energy is broken by simply changing the applied magnetic flux. In particular, we show that difference- and sum-frequencies (and second harmonics) can be generated in the microwave regime in a controllable manner by using a single three-level superconducting flux quantum circuit (SFQC). For our proposed parameters, the frequency tunability of this circuit can be achieved in the range of about 17 GHz for the sum-frequency generation, and around 42 GHz (or 26 GHz) for the difference-frequency generation. Our proposal provides a simple method to generate second-order nonlinear processes within current experimental parameters of SFQCs.

id: 1308.6435
title: Cavity polariton in a quasi-lattice of qubits and its selective radiation
authors: Hou Ian, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043804 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6435
abstract: In a circuit quantum eletrodynamic system, a chain of N qubits inhomogeneously coupled to a cavity field forms a mesoscopic quasi-lattice, which is characterized by its degree of deformation from a normal lattice. This deformation is a function of the relative spacing, that is the ratio of the qubit spacing to the cavity wavelength. A polariton mode arise in the quasi-lattice as the dressed mode of the lattice excitation by the cavity photon. We show that the transition probability of the polariton mode is either enhanced or decreased compared to that of a single qubit by the deformation, giving a selective spontaneous radiation spectrum. Further, unlike a microscopic lattice with large-N limit and nearly zero relative spacing, the polariton in the quasi-lattice has uneven decay rate over the relative spacing. We show that this unevenness coincides with the cooperative emission effect expected from the superradiance model, where alternative excitations in the qubits of the lattice result in maximum decay.

id: 1308.6438
title: Induced tunneling and localization for a quantum particle in tilted two-dimensional lattices
authors: Evgeny N. Bulgakov, Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 035116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6438
abstract: We consider a quantum particle in tilted two-dimensional lattices in the tight-binding approximations. We found that for some lattice geometries and certain orientations of the static force with respect to the lattice primary axes the particle can freely move across the lattice in the direction perpendicular to the vector of the static force. This effect is argued to be analogue of the photon-induced tunneling in driven one-dimensional lattices. The obtained dispersion relation for the transverse motion of the particle draws this analogy further by eventually showing band collapses when a control parameter is varied.

id: 1308.6441
title: Optimized state independent entanglement detection based on geometrical threshold criterion
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Christian Schwemmer, Daniel Richart, Lukas Knips, Tomasz Paterek, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6441
abstract: Experimental procedures are presented for the rapid detection of entanglement of unknown arbitrary quantum states. The methods are based on the entanglement criterion using accessible correlations and the principle of correlation complementarity. Our first scheme essentially establishes the Schmidt decomposition for pure states, with few measurements only and without the need for shared reference frames. The second scheme employs a decision tree to speed up entanglement detection. We analyze the performance of the methods using numerical simulations and verify them experimentally for various states of two, three and four qubits.

id: 1308.6447
title: Device-independent quantum key distribution based on measurement inputs
authors: Ramij Rahaman, Matthew G. Parker, Piotr Mironowicz, Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 10 pages, 5 figure: In this modified version of the manuscript we have added a new section to show fact that our protocol is much better than the standard ones when the random number generators used by the parties are imperfect
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6447
abstract: We provide an analysis of a new family of device independent quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols with several novel features: (a) The bits used for the secret key do not come from the results of the measurements on an entangled state but from the choices of settings; (b) Instead of a single security parameter (a violation of some Bell inequality) a set of them is used to estimate the level of trust in the secrecy of the key. The main advantage of these protocols is a smaller vulnerability to imperfect random number generators made possible by feature (a). We prove the security and the robustness of such protocols. We show that using our method it is possible to construct a QKD protocol which retains its security even if the source of randomness used by communicating parties is strongly biased. As a proof of principle, an explicit example of a protocol based on the Hardy's paradox is presented. Moreover, in the noiseless case, the protocol is secure in a natural way against any type of memory attack, and thus allows to reuse the device in subsequent rounds. We also analyse the robustness of the protocol using semi-definite programming methods. Finally, we present a post-processing method, and observe a paradoxical property that rejecting some random part of the private data can increase the key rate of the protocol.

id: 1308.6467
title: Coherently opening a high-Q cavity
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, Alessandro Ferraro, Alessio Serafini, Sougato Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: 5+3 pages, 3+1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 133605 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6467
abstract: We propose a general framework to effectively `open' a high-Q resonator, that is, to release the quantum state initially prepared in it in the form of a traveling electromagnetic wave. This is achieved by employing a mediating mode that scatters coherently the radiation from the resonator into a one-dimensional continuum of modes such as a waveguide. The same mechanism may be used to `feed' a desired quantum field to an initially empty cavity. Switching between an `open' and `closed' resonator may then be obtained by controlling either the detuning of the scatterer or the amount of time it spends in the resonator. First, we introduce the model in its general form, identifying (i) the traveling mode that optimally retains the full quantum information of the resonator field and (ii) a suitable figure of merit that we study analytically in terms of the system parameters. Then, we discuss two feasible implementations based on ensembles of two-level atoms interacting with cavity fields. In addition, we discuss how to integrate traditional cavity QED in our proposal using three-level atoms.

id: 1308.6503
title: Second-Order Asymptotics for the Classical Capacity of Image-Additive Quantum Channels
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Vincent Y. F. Tan
comments: v2: main results significantly generalized and improved; v3: extended to image-additive channels, change of title, journal version
journal: Communication in Mathematical Physics 338(1), 103-137 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6503
abstract: We study non-asymptotic fundamental limits for transmitting classical information over memoryless quantum channels, i.e. we investigate the amount of classical information that can be transmitted when a quantum channel is used a finite number of times and a fixed, non-vanishing average error is permissible. We consider the classical capacity of quantum channels that are image-additive, including all classical to quantum channels, as well as the product state capacity of arbitrary quantum channels. In both cases we show that the non-asymptotic fundamental limit admits a second-order approximation that illustrates the speed at which the rate of optimal codes converges to the Holevo capacity as the blocklength tends to infinity. The behavior is governed by a new channel parameter, called channel dispersion, for which we provide a geometrical interpretation.

id: 1308.6530
title: Optimal unbiased state characterization
authors: Isabel Sainz, Juan J. D¨ªaz, Andrei B. Klimov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scri. T153 (2013) 014055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6530
abstract: We propose a general approach to characterize states of a bipartite system composed by a fully controllable and an unaccessible subsystems. The method is based on the measuring interference between states of the uncontrollable subsystem obtained after projecting an appropriately transformed bipartite state on the basis of the accessible subsystem by local operations.

id: 1308.6549
title: Quaternion representation and symplectic spin tomography
authors: Aleksey Fedorov, Evgeny Kiktenko
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures; comments are welcome
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 34, 477 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6549
abstract: Quantum tomography for continuous variables is based on the symplectic transformation group acting in the phase space. A particular case of symplectic tomography is optical tomography related to the action of a special orthogonal group. In the tomographic description of spin states, the connection between special unitary and special orthogonal groups is used. We analyze the representation for spin tomography using the Cayley-Klein parameters and discuss an analog of symplectic tomography for discrete variables. We propose a representation for tomograms of discrete variables through quaternions and employ the qubit-state tomogram to illustrate the method elaborated.

id: 1308.6550
title: The quantum ultra-cold neutron gas trapped in the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator potential on the Earth's gravitational field
authors: Hiromi Kaneko
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial factor error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6550
abstract: In our previous paper, we have investigated the thermodynamics of the quantum ultra-cold neutron gas trapped in the two-dimensional square-well potential on the Earth's gravitational field. We have pointed out that they have strong dependence on the shape of the trapping potential. In the present paper, we estimate the Fermi energy and the density distribution of the Fermi gas with two-dimensional harmonic oscillator potential, instead of the square-well potential. Then we discuss them in terms of the Fermi energy and the density distribution as compared with both of cases.

id: 1308.6551
title: One-Dimensional Waveguide Coupled to Multiple Qubits: Photon-Photon Correlations
authors: Yao-Lung L. Fang, Huaixiu Zheng, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Journal version. Added one plot and the associated discussions and expanded the method in Appendix A
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 1, 3 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6551
abstract: For a one-dimensional (1D) waveguide coupled to two or three qubits, we show that the photon-photon correlations have a wide variety of behavior, with structure that depends sensitively on the frequency and on the qubit-qubit separation $L$. We study the correlations by calculating the second-order correlation function $g_2(t)$ in which the interference among the photons multiply scattered from the qubits causes rich structure. In one case, for example, transmitted and reflected photons are both bunched initially, but then become strongly anti-bunched for a long time interval. We first calculate the correlation function $g_2(t)$ including non-Markovian effects and then show that a much simpler Markovian treatment, which can be solved analytically, is accurate for small qubit separation. As a result, the non-classical properties of microwaves in a 1D waveguide coupled to many superconducting qubits with experimentally accessible separation $L$ could be readily explored with our approach.

id: 1308.6563
title: Attainment of the multiple quantum Chernoff bound for certain ensembles of mixed states
authors: Michael Nussbaum
comments: 5 pages
journal: In: Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Entangled Coherent States and Its Application to Quantum Information Science, (Usuda, T.S., Kato, K., Eds.), Tamagawa University, Tokyo, Japan, 77-81 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6563
abstract: We consider the problem of detecting the true quantum state among r possible ones, based on measurements performed on n of copies of a finite dimensional quantum system. It is known that the exponent for the rate of decrease of the averaged error probability cannot exceed the multiple quantum Chernoff bound (MQCB) defined as the worst case (smallest) quantum Chernoff distance between any possible pair of the r states. This error exponent is attainable for r pure states, but for the general case of mixed states only attainability up to a factor 1/3 is known. Here we show that the MQCB is attainable for mixed states if there is a pair which is closer in quantum Chernoff distance than 1/6 times the distance between all other pairs.

id: 1308.6595
title: The Church of the Symmetric Subspace
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 22 pages, review article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6595
abstract: The symmetric subpace has many applications in quantum information theory. This review article begins by explaining key background facts about the symmetric subspace from a quantum information perspective. Then we review, and in some places extend, work of Werner and Chiribella that connects the symmetric subspace to state estimation, optimal cloning, the de Finetti theorem and other topics. In the third and final section, we discuss how the symmetric subspace can yield concentration-of-measure results via the calculation of higher moments of random quantum states. There are no new results in this article, but only some new proofs of existing results, such as a variant of the exponential de Finetti theorem. The purpose of the article is (a) pedagogical, and (b) to collect in one place many, if not all, of the quantum information applications of the symmetric subspace.

id: 1308.6642
title: Coping with qubit leakage in topological codes
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6642
abstract: Many physical systems considered promising qubit candidates are not, in fact, two-level systems. Such systems can leak out of the preferred computational states, leading to errors on any qubits that interact with leaked qubits. Without specific methods of dealing with leakage, long-lived leakage can lead to time-correlated errors. We study the impact of such time-correlated errors on topological quantum error correction codes, which are considered highly practical codes, using the repetition code as a representative case study. We show that, under physically reasonable assumptions, a threshold error rate still exists, however performance is significantly degraded. We then describe simple additional quantum circuitry that, when included in the error detection cycle, restores performance to acceptable levels.

id: 1308.6732
title: Strong converse for the classical capacity of the pure-loss bosonic channel
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure; accepted for publication in Problems of Information Transmission
journal: Problems of Information Transmission vol. 50, no. 2, pages 117-132, April 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6732
abstract: This paper strengthens the interpretation and understanding of the classical capacity of the pure-loss bosonic channel, first established in [Giovannetti et al., Physical Review Letters 92, 027902 (2004), arXiv:quant-ph/0308012]. In particular, we first prove that there exists a trade-off between communication rate and error probability if one imposes only a mean-photon number constraint on the channel inputs. That is, if we demand that the mean number of photons at the channel input cannot be any larger than some positive number N_S, then it is possible to respect this constraint with a code that operates at a rate g(\eta N_S / (1-p)) where p is the code's error probability, \eta\ is the channel transmissivity, and g(x) is the entropy of a bosonic thermal state with mean photon number x. We then prove that a strong converse theorem holds for the classical capacity of this channel (that such a rate-error trade-off cannot occur) if one instead demands for a maximum photon number constraint, in such a way that mostly all of the "shadow" of the average density operator for a given code is required to be on a subspace with photon number no larger than n N_S, so that the shadow outside this subspace vanishes as the number n of channel uses becomes large. Finally, we prove that a small modification of the well-known coherent-state coding scheme meets this more demanding constraint.

id: 1308.6752
title: Exploring Inequality Violations by Classical Hidden Variables Numerically
authors: Sascha Vongehr
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, extended preprint version with added appendix. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.5294
journal: Annals of Physics 339 (December 2013) pp 81-88
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6752
abstract: There are increasingly suggestions for computer simulations of quantum statistics which try to violate Bell type inequalities via classical, common cause correlations. The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is very robust. However, we argue that with the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen setup, the CHSH is inferior to the Bell inequality, although and because the latter must assume anti-correlation of entangled photon singlet states. We simulate how often quantum behavior violates both inequalities, depending on the number of photons. Violating Bell 99% of the time is argued to be an ideal benchmark. We present hidden variables that violate the Bell and CHSH inequalities with 50% probability, and ones which violate Bell 85% of the time when missing 13% anti-correlation. We discuss how to present the quantum correlations to a wide audience and conclude that, when defending against claims of hidden classicality, one should demand numerical simulations and insist on anti-correlation and the full amount of Bell violation. This preprint version adds a section on realisms and shows the actual programs with output.

id: 1308.6783
title: Bipartite entanglement of quantum states in a pair basis
authors: Marco Roncaglia, Arianna Montorsi, Marco Genovese
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6783
abstract: The unambiguous detection and quantification of entanglement is a hot topic of scientific research, though it is limited to low dimensions or specific classes of states. Here we identify an additional class of quantum states, for which bipartite entanglement measures can be efficiently computed, providing new rigorous results. Such states are written in arbitrary $d\times d$ dimensions, where each basis state in the subsystem A is paired with only one state in B. This new class, that we refer to as pair basis states, is remarkably relevant in many physical situations, including quantum optics. We find that negativity is a necessary and sufficient measure of entanglement for mixtures of states written in the same pair basis. We also provide analytical expressions for a tight lower-bound estimation of the entanglement of formation, a central quantity in quantum information.

id: 1308.6800
title: Dressed quantum graphs with optical nonlinearities approaching the fundamental limit
authors: Rick Lytel, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: 
journal: J. Nonlinear Optic. Phys. Mat. 22, 1350041 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6800
abstract: We dress bare quantum graphs with finite delta function potentials and calculate optical nonlinearities that are found to match the fundamental limits set by potential optimization. We show that structures whose first hyperpolarizability is near the maximum are well described by only three states, the so-called three-level Ansatz, while structures with the largest second hyperpolarizability require four states. We analyze a very large set of configurations for graphs with quasi-quadratic energy spectra and show how they exhibit better response than bare graphs through exquisite optimization of the shape of the eigenfunctions enabled by the existence of the finite potentials. We also discover an exception to the universal scaling properties of the three-level model parameters and trace it to the observation that a greater number of levels are required to satisfy the sum rules even when the three-level Ansatz is satisfied and the first hyperpolarizability is at its maximum value, as specified by potential optimization. This exception in the universal scaling properties of nonlinear optical structures at the limit is traced to the discontinuity in the gradient of the eigenfunctions at the location of the delta potential. This is the first time that dressed quantum graphs have been devised and solved for their nonlinear response, and it is the first analytical model of a confined dynamic system with a simple potential energy that achieves the fundamental limits.

id: 1308.0043
title: Complex-band-structure eigenvalue method adapted to Floquet systems: topological superconducting wires as a case study
authors: Andres A. Reynoso, Diego Frustaglia
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 (2014) 035301
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0043
abstract: For systems that can be modeled as a single-particle lattice extended along a privileged direction as, e.g., quantum wires, the so-called eigenvalue method provides full information about the propagating and evanescent modes as a function of energy. This complex-band structure method can be applied either to lattices consisting of an infinite succession of interconnected layers described by the same local Hamiltonian or to superlattices: Systems in which the spatial periodicity involves more than one layer. Here, for time-dependent systems subject to a periodic driving, we present an adapted version of the superlattice scheme capable of obtaining the Floquet states and the Floquet quasienergy spectrum. Within this scheme the time periodicity is treated as existing along spatial dimension added to the original system. The solutions at a single energy for the enlarged artificial system provide the solutions of the original Floquet problem. The method is suited for arbitrary periodic excitations including strong and anharmonic drivings. We illustrate the capabilities of the methods for both time-independent and time-dependent systems by discussing: (a) topological superconductors in multimode quantum wires with spin-orbit interaction and (b) microwave driven quantum dot in contact with a topological superconductor.

id: 1308.0129
title: Cooperative Enhancement of Energy Transfer in a High-Density Thermal Vapor
authors: L. Weller, R. J. Bettles, C. L. Vaillant, M. A. Zentile, R. M. Potvliege, C. S. Adams, I. G. Hughes
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0129
abstract: We present an experimental study of energy transfer in a thermal vapor of atomic rubidium. We measure the fluorescence spectrum in the visible and near infra-red as a function of atomic density using confocal microscopy. At low density we observe energy transfer consistent with the well-known energy pooling process. In contrast, above a critical density we observe a dramatic enhancement of the fluorescence from high-lying states that is not to be expected from kinetic theory. We show that the density threshold for excitation on the D1 and D2 resonance line corresponds to the value at which the dipole-dipole interactions begins to dominate, thereby indicate the key role of these interactions in the enhanced emission.

id: 1308.0231
title: Spin effects in strong-field laser-electron interactions
authors: S. Ahrens, T. O. M¨¹ller, S. Villalba-Ch¨¢vez, H. Bauke, C. M¨¹ller
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: J.Phys.:Conf.Ser.414(2013)012012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0231
abstract: The electron spin degree of freedom can play a significant role in relativistic scattering processes involving intense laser fields. In this contribution we discuss the influence of the electron spin on (i) Kapitza-Dirac scattering in an x-ray laser field of high intensity, (ii) photo-induced electron-positron pair production in a strong laser wave and (iii) multiphoton electron-positron pair production on an atomic nucleus. We show that in all cases under consideration the electron spin can have a characteristic impact on the process properties and their total probabilities. To this end, spin-resolved calculations based on the Dirac equation in the presence of an intense laser field are performed. The predictions from Dirac theory are also compared with the corresponding results from the Klein-Gordon equation.

id: 1308.0242
title: Dynamics and decoherence in the central spin model in the low-field limit
authors: Daniel Stanek, Carsten Raas, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88(15), 155305 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0242
abstract: We present a combination of analytic calculations and a powerful numerical method for large spin baths in the low-field limit. The hyperfine interaction between the central spin and the bath is fully captured by the density matrix renormalization group. The adoption of the density matrix renormalization group for the central spin model is presented and a proper method for calculating the real-time evolution at infinite temperature is identified. In addition, we study to which extent a semiclassical model, where a quantum spin-1/2 interacts with a bath of classical Gaussian fluctuations, can capture the physics of the central spin model. The model is treated by average Hamiltonian theory and by numerical simulation.

id: 1308.0264
title: Full counting statistics of laser excited Rydberg aggregates in a one-dimensional geometry
authors: H. Schempp, G. G¨¹nter, M. Robert-de-Saint-Vincent, C. S. Hofmann, D. Breyel, A. Komnik, D. W. Sch?nleber, M. G?rttner, J. Evers, S. Whitlock, M. Weidem¨¹ller
comments: 6 pages plus supplement
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 013002 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0264
abstract: We experimentally study the full counting statistics of few-body Rydberg aggregates excited from a quasi-one-dimensional Rydberg gas. We measure asymmetric excitation spectra and increased second and third order statistical moments of the Rydberg number distribution, from which we determine the average aggregate size. Direct comparisons with numerical simulations reveal the presence of liquid-like spatial correlations, and indicate sequential growth of the aggregates around an initial grain. These findings demonstrate the importance of dissipative effects in strongly correlated Rydberg gases and introduce a way to study spatio-temporal correlations in strongly-interacting many-body quantum systems without imaging.

id: 1308.0272
title: Global Solutions of Hartree-Fock Theory and their Consequences for Strongly Correlated Quantum Systems
authors: Srikant Veeraraghavan, David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 010502(R) (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0272
abstract: We present a density matrix approach for computing global solutions of Hartree-Fock theory, based on semidefinite programming (SDP), that gives upper and lower bounds on the Hartree-Fock energy of quantum systems. Equality of the upper- and lower-bound energies guarantees that the computed solution is the globally optimal solution of Hartree-Fock theory. For strongly correlated systems the SDP approach requires us to reassess the accuracy of the Hartree-Fock energies and densities from standard software packages for electronic structure theory. Calculations of the H$_{4}$ dimer and N$_{2}$ molecule show that the energies from SDP Hartree-Fock are lower than those from standard Hartree-Fock methods by 100-200 kcal/mol in the dissociation region. The present findings have important consequences for the computation and interpretation of electron correlation, which is typically defined relative to the Hartree-Fock energy and density.

id: 1308.0277
title: Dynamical Phase Transitions as Properties of the Stationary State: Analytic Results after Quantum Quenches in the Spin-1/2 XXZ Chain
authors: Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 5+2 pages, 1+1 figures. In Version 2 an error in the discussion of noninteracting models is fixed and the quantity under investigation is revisited
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0277
abstract: The (Loschmidt) overlap between the state at different times after a quantum quench is attracting increasing interest, as it was recently shown that in the thermodynamic limit its logarithm per unit of length has a non-analytic behavior if a Hamiltonian parameter is quenched across a critical point. This phenomenon was called a "dynamical phase transition" in analogy with the behavior of the canonical partition function at an equilibrium phase transition. We distinguish between local and nonlocal contributions to the aforementioned quantity and derive an analytic expression for the time evolution of the local part after quantum quenches in the XXZ spin-1/2 chain. The state that describes the stationary properties of (local) observables can be represented by a Gibbs ensemble of a generalized Hamiltonian; we reveal a deep connection between the appearance of singularities and the excitation energies of the generalized Hamiltonian.

id: 1308.0316
title: Projected entangled-pair states can describe chiral topological states
authors: T.B. Wahl, H.-H. Tu, N. Schuch, J.I. Cirac
comments: v2: minor changes, references added. v3: accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 236805 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0316
abstract: We show that Projected Entangled-Pair States (PEPS) in two spatial dimensions can describe chiral topological states by explicitly constructing a family of such states with a non-trivial Chern number. They are ground states of two different kinds of free-fermion Hamiltonians: (i) local and gapless; (ii) gapped, but with hopping amplitudes that decay according to a power law. We derive general conditions on topological free fermionic PEPS which show that they cannot correspond to exact ground states of gapped, local parent Hamiltonians, and provide numerical evidence demonstrating that they can nevertheless approximate well the physical properties of topological insulators with local Hamiltonians at arbitrary temperatures.

id: 1308.0321
title: Realization of the Hofstadter Hamiltonian with ultracold atoms in optical lattices
authors: M. Aidelsburger, M. Atala, M. Lohse, J. T. Barreiro, B. Paredes, I. Bloch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 185301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0321
abstract: We demonstrate the experimental implementation of an optical lattice that allows for the generation of large homogeneous and tunable artificial magnetic fields with ultracold atoms. Using laser-assisted tunneling in a tilted optical potential we engineer spatially dependent complex tunneling amplitudes. Thereby atoms hopping in the lattice accumulate a phase shift equivalent to the Aharonov-Bohm phase of charged particles in a magnetic field. We determine the local distribution of fluxes through the observation of cyclotron orbits of the atoms on lattice plaquettes, showing that the system is described by the Hofstadter model. Furthermore, we show that for two atomic spin states with opposite magnetic moments, our system naturally realizes the time-reversal symmetric Hamiltonian underlying the quantum spin Hall effect, i.e., two different spin components experience opposite directions of the magnetic field.

id: 1308.0343
title: Topological Flat Band Models and Fractional Chern Insulators
authors: Emil J. Bergholtz, Zhao Liu
comments: Invited review. 46 pages, many illustrations and references. V2: final version with minor improvements and added references
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1330017 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0343
abstract: Topological insulators and their intriguing edge states can be understood in a single-particle picture and can as such be exhaustively classified. Interactions significantly complicate this picture and can lead to entirely new insulating phases, with an altogether much richer and less explored phenomenology. Most saliently, lattice generalizations of fractional quantum Hall states, dubbed fractional Chern insulators, have recently been predicted to be stabilized by interactions within nearly dispersionless bands with non-zero Chern number, $C$. Contrary to their continuum analogues, these states do not require an external magnetic field and may potentially persist even at room temperature, which make these systems very attractive for possible applications such as topological quantum computation. This review recapitulates the basics of tight-binding models hosting nearly flat bands with non-trivial topology, $C\neq 0$, and summarizes the present understanding of interactions and strongly correlated phases within these bands. Emphasis is made on microscopic models, highlighting the analogy with continuum Landau level physics, as well as qualitatively new, lattice specific, aspects including Berry curvature fluctuations, competing instabilities as well as novel collective states of matter emerging in bands with $|C|>1$. Possible experimental realizations, including oxide interfaces and cold atom implementations as well as generalizations to flat bands characterized by other topological invariants are also discussed.

id: 1308.0352
title: Spin Relaxation due to Charge Noise
authors: Peihao Huang, Xuedong Hu
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review B 89, 195302 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0352
abstract: We study decoherence of an electron spin qubit in a quantum dot due to charge noise. We find that at the lowest order, the pure dephasing channel is suppressed for both $1/f$ charge noise and Johnson noise, so that charge noise leads to a pure relaxation channel of decoherence. Because of the weaker magnetic field dependence, the spin relaxation rate due to charge noise could dominate over phonon noise at low magnetic fields in a gate-defined GaAs or Si quantum dot or a InAs self-assembled quantum dot. Furthermore, in a large InAs self-assembled quantum dot, the spin relaxation rate due to phonon noise could be suppressed in high magnetic field, and the spin relaxation due to charge noise could dominate in both low and high magnetic field. Numerically, in a 1 Tesla field, the spin relaxation time due to typical charge noise is about $100$ s in Si, $0.1$ s in GaAs for a gate-defined quantum dot with a $1$ meV confinement, and $10$ $\mu$s in InAs self-assembled quantum dot with a $4$ meV confinement.

id: 1308.0479
title: Localization of relativistic particles and uncertainty relations
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: Published version; significantly modified and corrected with a focus on photons and the experimental consequences
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042111 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0479
abstract: Localization of relativistic particles and their position-momentum uncertainty relations are not yet fully understood. We discuss two schemes of photon localization that are based on the energy density. One scheme produces a positive operator-valued measure for localization. It coincides with the number density operator and reproduces the effective 3x3 polarization density matrix. Another scheme results in a probability distribution that is conditioned on the detection. In both schemes the uncertainty relations for transversal position and momentum approach the Heisenberg bound $\Delta p \Delta z= \hbar/2$

id: 1308.0522
title: Spontaneous emission and collection efficiency enhancement of single emitters in diamond via plasmonic cavities and gratings
authors: Jennifer T. Choy, Irfan Bulu, Birgit J. M. Hausmann, Erika Janitz, I-Chun Huang, Marko Lon?ar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0522
abstract: We demonstrate an approach, based on plasmonic apertures and gratings, to enhance the radiative decay rate of single NV centers in diamond, while simultaneously improving their collection efficiency. Our structures are based on metallic resonators formed by surrounding sub-wavelength diamond nanoposts with a silver film, which can enhance the spontaneous emission rate of an embedded NV center. However, the collection efficiency of emitted photons remains low due to losses to surface plasmons and reflections at the diamond-air interface. In this work, we mitigate photon losses into these channels by incorporating grating structures into the plasmonic cavity system.

id: 1308.0547
title: Extraordinary momentum and spin in evanescent waves
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Aleksandr Y. Bekshaev, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures + Supplementary Information: 21 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature Communications 5:3300 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0547
abstract: Momentum and spin represent fundamental dynamical properties of quantum particles and fields. In particular, propagating optical waves (photons) carry momentum and longitudinal spin determined by the wave vector and circular polarization, respectively. Here we show that exactly the opposite can be the case for evanescent optical waves. A single evanescent wave possesses a spin component, which is independent of the polarization and is orthogonal to the wave vector. Furthermore, such a wave carries a momentum component, which is determined by the circular polarization and is also orthogonal to the wave vector. We show that these extraordinary properties reveal a fundamental Belinfante's spin momentum, known in field theory and unobservable in propagating fields. We demonstrate that the transverse momentum and spin push and twist a probe Mie particle in an evanescent field. This allows the observation of `impossible' properties of light and of a fundamental field-theory quantity, which was previously considered as `virtual'.

id: 1308.0681
title: Analytical model of overlapping Feshbach resonances
authors: Krzysztof Jachymski, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052701 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0681
abstract: Feshbach resonances in ultracold collisions often result from an interplay between many collision channels. Simple two-channel models can be introduced to capture the basic features, but cannot fully reproduce the situation when several resonances from different closed channels contribute to the scattering process. Using the formalism of multichannel quantum defect theory we develop an analytical model of overlapping Feshbach resonances. We find a general formula for the variation of the scattering length with magnetic field in the vicinity of an arbitrary number of resonances, characterized by simple parameters. Our formula is in excellent agreement with numerical coupled channels calculations for several cases of overlapping resonances in the collisions of two $^7$Li atoms or two Cs atoms.

id: 1308.0750
title: Topological phase transitions driven by non-Abelian gauge potentials in optical square lattices
authors: M. Burrello, I.C. Fulga, E. Alba, L. Lepori, A. Trombettoni
comments: Published version with several extensions and improvements, 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053619 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0750
abstract: We analyze a tight-binding model of ultracold fermions loaded in an optical square lattice and subjected to a synthetic non-Abelian gauge potential featuring both a magnetic field and a translationally invariant SU(2) term. We consider in particular the effect of broken time-reversal symmetry and its role in driving non-trivial topological phase transitions. By varying the spin-orbit coupling parameters, we find both a semimetal/insulator phase transition and a topological phase transition between insulating phases with different numbers of edge states. The spin is not a conserved quantity of the system and the topological phase transitions can be detected by analyzing its polarization in time of flight images, providing a clear diagnostic for the characterization of the topological phases through the partial entanglement between spin and lattice degrees of freedom.

id: 1308.0771
title: Elastic and inelastic collisions of $^2¦²$ molecules in a magnetic field
authors: Jie Cui, Roman V. Krems
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0771
abstract: We calculate the cross sections for elastic scattering and Zeeman relaxation in binary collisions of molecules in the ro-vibrational ground state of a $^2\Sigma$ electronic state and the Zeeman state with the electron spin projection $M_S=1/2$ on the magnetic field axis. This is the lowest-energy state of $^2\Sigma$ molecules confined in a magnetic trap. The results are averaged over calculations with multiple molecule - molecule interaction potentials, which yields the expectation intervals for the cross sections and the elastic-to-inelastic cross section ratios. We find that the elastic-to-inelastic cross section ratios under conditions corresponding to trapped molecular ensembles at $T \sim 10^{-3}$ K exceed 100 for the majority of $^2\Sigma$ molecules. The range of $^2\Sigma$ molecules expected to be collisionally unstable in magnetic traps at $T < 10^{-3}$ K is limited to molecules with the spin-rotation interaction constant $\gamma_{\rm SR} > 0.5$ cm$^{-1}$ and the rotational constant $B_e < 4$ cm$^{-1}$.

id: 1308.0823
title: Vector Chiral Phases in the Frustrated 2D XY Model and Quantum Spin Chains
authors: H. Schenck, V.L. Pokrovsky, T. Nattermann
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 112, 157201 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0823
abstract: The phase diagram of the frustrated 2D classical and 1D quantum XY models is calculated analytically. Four transitions are found: the vortex unbinding transitions triggered by strong fluctuations occur above and below the chiral transition temperature. Vortex interaction is short range on small and logarithmic on large scales. The chiral transition, though belonging to the Ising universality class by symmetry, has different critical exponents due to nonlocal interaction. In a narrow region close to the Lifshitz point a reentrant phase transition between paramagnetic and quasiferromagnetic phase appears. Applications to antiferromagnetic quantum spin chains and multiferroics are discussed.

id: 1308.0849
title: Power-Broadening-Free Correlation Spectroscopy in Cold Atoms
authors: H. M. Florez, L.S. Cruz, M. H. G. de Miranda, R.A. de Oliveira, J.W.R. Tabosa, M. Martinelli, D. Felinto
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0849
abstract: We report a detailed investigation on the properties of correlation spectra for cold atoms under the condition of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT). We describe the transition in the system from correlation to anti-correlation as the intensity of the fields increases. Such transition occurs for laser frequencies around the EIT resonance, which is characterized by a correlation peak. The transition point between correlation and anti-correlation is independent of power broadening and provides directly the ground-state coherence time. We introduce a method to extract in real time the correlation spectra of the system. The experiments were done in two distinct magneto-optical traps (MOT), one for cesium and the other for rubidium atoms, employing different detection schemes. A simplified theory is introduced assuming three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration interacting with a laser with stochastic phase fluctuations, providing a good agreement with the experimental observations.

id: 1308.0927
title: Ab initio investigation of the exchange interactions in Bi$_2$Fe$_4$O$_9$: The Cairo pentagonal lattice compound
authors: Z.V. Pchelkina, S.V. Streltsov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 054424 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0927
abstract: We present the \emph{ab initio} calculation of the electronic structure and magnetic properties of Bi$_2$Fe$_4$O$_9$. This compound crystallizes in the orthorhombic crystal structure with the Fe$^{3+}$ ions forming the Cairo pentagonal lattice implying strong geometric frustration. The neutron diffraction measurements reveal nearly orthogonal magnetic configuration, which at first sight is rather unexpected since it does not minimize the total energy of the pair of magnetic ions coupled by the Heisenberg exchange interaction. Here we calculate the electronic structure and exchange integrals of Bi2Fe4O9 within the LSDA+U method. We obtain three different in-plane (J3=36 K, J4=73 K, J5=23 K) and two interplane (J1=10 K, J2=12 K) exchange parameters. The derived set of exchange integrals shows that the realistic description of Bi2Fe4O9 needs a more complicated model than the ideal Cairo pentagonal lattice with only two exchange parameters in the plane. However, if one takes into account only two largest exchange integrals, then according to the ratio x\equiv J3/J4=0.49<\sqrt{2} (a critical parameter for the ideal Cairo pentagonal lattice, see. Ref.~1) the ground state should be the orthogonal magnetic configuration in agreement with experiment. The microscopic origin of different exchange interactions is also discussed.

id: 1308.1052
title: Formulation of singular theories in a partial Hamiltonian formalism using a new bracket and multi-time dynamics
authors: Steven Duplij
comments: 17 pages, ws-ijgmmp.cls
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, vol. 12 (2015) 1550001 (19 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1052
abstract: A formulation of singular classical theories (determined by degenerate Lagrangians) without constraints is presented. A partial Hamiltonian formalism in the phase space having an initially arbitrary number of momenta (which can be smaller than the number of velocities) is proposed. The equations of motion become first-order differential equations, and they coincide with those of multi-time dynamics, if a certain condition is imposed. In a singular theory, this condition is fulfilled in the case of the coincidence of the number of generalized momenta with the rank of the Hessian matrix. The noncanonical generalized velocities satisfy a system of linear algebraic equations, which allows an appropriate classification of singular theories (gauge and nongauge). A new antisymmetric bracket (similar to the Poisson bracket) is introduced, which describes the time evolution of physical quantities in a singular theory. The origin of constraints is shown to be a consequence of the (unneeded in our formulation) extension of the phase space. In this case the new bracket transforms into the Dirac bracket. Quantization is briefly discussed.

id: 1308.1115
title: Nonperturbative Ambiguities and the Reality of Resurgent Transseries
authors: In¨ºs Aniceto, Ricardo Schiappa
comments: 62 pages, 4 figures; v2: corrected typos, added small discussion on topological sectors, two new figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1115
abstract: In a wide range of quantum theoretical settings -- from quantum mechanics to quantum field theory, from gauge theory to string theory -- singularities in the complex Borel plane, usually associated to instantons or renormalons, render perturbation theory ill-defined as they give rise to nonperturbative ambiguities. These ambiguities are associated to choices of an integration contour in the resummation of perturbation theory, along (singular) Stokes directions in the complex Borel plane (rendering perturbative expansions non-Borel summable along any Stokes line). More recently, it has been shown that the proper framework to address these issues is that of resurgent analysis and transseries. In this context, the cancelation of all nonperturbative ambiguities is shown to be a consequence of choosing the transseries median resummation as the appropriate family of unambiguous real solutions along the coupling-constant real axis. While the median resummation is easily implemented for one-parameter transseries, once one considers more general multi-parameter transseries the procedure becomes highly dependent upon properly understanding Stokes transitions in the complex Borel plane. In particular, all Stokes coefficients must now be known in order to explicitly implement multi-parameter median resummations. In the cases where quantum-theoretical physical observables are described by resurgent functions and transseries, the methods described herein show how one may cancel nonperturbative ambiguities, and define these observables nonperturbatively starting out from perturbation theory. Along the way, structural results concerning resurgent transseries are also obtained.

id: 1308.1207
title: Electron-Hole Entanglement in a Quantum Spin Hall Insulator
authors: Koji Sato, Mircea Trif, Yaroslav Tserkovnyak
comments: 4 pages main article + 3 pages supplement, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1207
abstract: We demonstrate that entangled electron-hole pairs can be produced and detected in a quantum spin Hall insulator with a constriction that allows for a weak inter-edge tunneling. A violation of a Bell inequality, which can be constructed in terms of low-frequency nonlocal current-current correlations, serves as a detection of the entanglement. We show that the maximum violation of a Bell inequality can be naturally achieved in this setup, without a need to fine tune tunneling parameters. This may provide a viable route to producing spin entanglement in the absence of any correlations and pairing, where spin-to-charge conversion is enabled by the helical edge structure of a quantum spin Hall insulator.

id: 1308.1300
title: Resonance, multiple diffusion and critical tunneling for Gaussian lasers
authors: Silvania A. Carvalho, Stefano De Leo
comments: 18 pages, 3 tables, 5 figures
journal: EPJD 67, 168-11 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1300
abstract: We present a detailed study of the gaussian laser propagation through a dielectric system composed by two right angle prisms. We investigate the transition between the spatial coherence limit, which exhibits wave-like properties and for which the resonance phenomenon can be seen, and the decoherence limit, which exhibits particle-like properties and for which the multiple diffusion occurs. We also analyze the tunneling at critical angles. In our numerical analysis, we shall use BK7 and Fused Silica prisms and a gaussian He-Ne laser with a wavelength of 632.8 nm and beam waists of 2 mm and 200 micron.

id: 1308.1304
title: Density and Spin Linear Response of Atomic Fermi Superfluids with Population Imbalance in BCS-BEC Crossover
authors: Hao Guo, Yang Li, Yan He, Chih-Chun Chien
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 085302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1304
abstract: We present a theoretical study of the density and spin (representing the two components) linear response of Fermi superfluids with tunable attractive interactions and population imbalance. In both linear response theories, we find that the fluctuations of the order parameter must be treated on equal footing with the gauge transformations associated with the symmetries of the Hamiltonian so that important constraints including various sum rules can be satisfied. Both theories can be applied to the whole BCS-Bose-Einstein condensation crossover. The spin linear responses are qualitatively different with and without population imbalance because collective-mode effects from the fluctuations of the order parameter survive in the presence of population imbalance, even though the associated symmetry is not broken by the order parameter. Since a polarized superfluid becomes unstable at low temperatures in the weak and intermediate coupling regimes, we found that the density and spin susceptibilities diverge as the system approaches the unstable regime, but the emergence of phase separation preempts the divergence.

id: 1308.1331
title: Principles of an Atomtronic Battery
authors: Alex A. Zozulya, Dana Z. Anderson
comments: 10 pages 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043641 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1331
abstract: An asymmetric atom trap is investigated as a means to implement a "battery" that supplies ultracold atoms to an atomtronic circuit. The battery model is derived from a scheme for continuous loading of a non-dissipative atom trap proposed by Roos et al.(Europhysics Letters V61, 187 (2003)). The trap is defined by longitudinal and transverse trap frequencies and corresponding trap energy heights. The battery's ability to supply power to a load is evaluated as a function of an input atom flux and power. For given trap parameters and input flux the battery is shown to have a resonantly optimum value of input power. The battery behavior can be cast in terms of an equivalent circuit model; specifically, for fixed input flux and power the battery is modeled in terms of a Th\'{e}venin equivalent chemical potential and internal resistance. The internal resistance establishes the maximum power that can be supplied to a circuit, the heat that will be generated by the battery, and that noise will be imposed on the circuit. We argue that any means of implementing a battery for atomtronics can be represented by a Th\'{e}venin equivalent and that its performance will likewise be determined by an internal resistance.

id: 1308.1348
title: Time-resolving electron-core dynamics during strong field ionization in circularly polarized fields
authors: Lisa Torlina, Jivesh Kaushal, Olga Smirnova
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1348
abstract: Electron-core interactions play a key role in strong-field ionization and the formation of photoelectron spectra. We analyse the temporal dynamics of strong field ionization associated with these interactions using the time-dependent analytical R-matrix (ARM) method, developed in our previous work [J. Kaushal and O. Smirnova, Phys. Rev. A 88, 013421 (2013)]. The approach is fully quantum but includes the concept of trajectories. However, the trajectories are not classical in the sense that they have both real and imaginary components all the way to the detector. We show that the imaginary parts of these trajectories, which are usually ignored, have a clear physical meaning and are crucial for the correct description of electron-core interactions after ionization. In particular, they give rise to electron deceleration, as well as dynamics associated with electron recapture and release. Our approach is analytical and time-dependent, and allows one to gain access to the electron energy distribution and ionization yield as a function of time. Thus we can also rigorously answer the question: when is ionization completed?

id: 1308.1350
title: Dirac equation on coordinate dependent noncommutative space-time
authors: V.G. Kupriyanov
comments: Published version
journal: Physics Letters B 732 (2014), pp. 385-390
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1350
abstract: We consider the consistent deformation of the relativistic quantum mechanics introducing the noncommutativity of the space-time and preserving the Lorentz symmetry. The relativistic wave equation describing the spinning particle on coordinate dependent noncommutative space-time (noncommutative Dirac equation) is proposed. The fundamental properties of this equation, like the Lorentz covariance and the continuity equation for the probability density are verified. To this end using the properties of the star product we derive the corresponding probability current density and prove its conservation. The energy-momentum tensor for the free noncommutative spinor field is calculated. We solve the free noncommutative Dirac equation and show that the standard energy-momentum dispersion relation remains valid in the noncommutative case.

id: 1308.1407
title: Quantum phase transitions out of a Z2 x Z2 topological phase
authors: Saeed S. Jahromi, S Farhad Masoudi, Mehdi Kargarian, Kai Phillip Schmidt
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 214411 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1407
abstract: We investigate the low-energy spectral properties and robustness of the topological phase of color code, which is a quantum spin model for the aim of fault-tolerant quantum computation, in the presence of a uniform magnetic field or Ising interactions, using high-order series expansion and exact diagonalization. In a uniform magnetic field, we find 1st-order phase transitions in all field directions. In contrast, our results for the Ising interactions unveil that for strong enough Ising couplings, the Z2 x Z2 topological phase of color code breaks down to symmetry broken phases by 1st- or 2nd-order phase transitions.

id: 1308.1504
title: Quantum Gate Generation by T-Sampling Stabilization
authors: Hector Bessa Silveira, Paulo Sergio Pereira da Silva, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1504
abstract: This paper considers right-invariant and controllable driftless quantum systems with state X(t) evolving on the unitary group U(n) and m inputs. The T-sampling stabilization problem is introduced and solved: given any initial condition X(0) any goal state Xg find a feedback law such that X(jT) converges to Xg as the integer j tends to infinity. The purpose is to generate arbitrary quantum gates corresponding to Xg. This is achieved by the tracking of T-periodic reference trajectories that pass by Xg using the framework of Coron's Return Method. The T-periodic reference trajectories are generated by applying open-loop controls that are a sum of a finite number M of odd T-periodic function whose amplitudes are parameterized by a vector. The main result establishes that, for M big enough, X(jT) exponentially converges towards Xg for almost all fixed amplitude vectors, with explicit and completely constructive control laws. This paper also establishes a stochastic version of this deterministic control law. The key idea is to randomly choose a different amplitude vector at each sampling time jT, and keeping it fixed until the next sampling time (j+1)T. It is also shown that X(jT) exponentially converges towards Xg almost surely. Simulation results have indicated that the convergence speed may be significantly improved with such stochastic technique. This is illustrated in the generation of the C--NOT quantum logic gate on U(4).

id: 1308.1557
title: Anomalous non-additive dispersion interactions in systems of three one-dimensional wires
authors: Alston J. Misquitta, Ryo Maezono, Neil D. Drummond, Anthony J. Stone, Richard J. Needs
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 045140 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1557
abstract: The non-additive dispersion contribution to the binding energy of three one-dimensional (1D) wires is investigated using wires modelled by (i) chains of hydrogen atoms and (ii) homogeneous electron gases. We demonstrate that the non-additive dispersion contribution to the binding energy is significantly enhanced compared with that expected from Axilrod-Teller-Muto-type triple-dipole summations and follows a different power-law decay with separation. The triwire non-additive dispersion for 1D electron gases scales according to the power law $d^{-\beta}$, where $d$ is the wire separation, with exponents $\beta(r_s)$ smaller than 3 and slightly increasing with $r_s$ from 2.4 at $r_s = 1$ to 2.9 at $r_s=10$, where $r_s$ is the density parameter of the 1D electron gas. This is in good agreement with the exponent $\beta=3$ suggested by the leading-order charge-flow contribution to the triwire non-additivity, and is a significantly slower decay than the $\sim d^{-7}$ behaviour that would be expected from triple-dipole summations.

id: 1308.1743
title: Planar Superconducting Whispering Gallery Mode Resonators
authors: Z.K. Minev, I.M. Pop, M.H. Devoret
comments: 3 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 142604 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1743
abstract: We introduce a microwave circuit architecture for quantum signal processing combining design principles borrowed from high-Q 3D resonators in the quantum regime and from planar structures fabricated with standard lithography. The resulting '2.5D' whispering-gallery mode resonators store 98% of their energy in vacuum. We have measured internal quality factors above 3 million at the single photon level and have used the device as a materials characterization platform to place an upper bound on the surface resistance of thin film aluminum of less than 250nOhms.

id: 1308.1777
title: Back-scatter based whispering gallery mode sensing
authors: Joachim Knittel, Jon D. Swaim, David L. McAuslan, George A. Brawley, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 5 pages, plus supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1777
abstract: Whispering gallery mode biosensors allow selective unlabelled detection of single proteins and, combined with quantum limited sensitivity, the possibility for noninvasive realtime observation of motor molecule motion. However, to date technical noise sources, most particularly low frequency laser noise, have constrained such applications. Here we introduce a new technique for whispering gallery mode sensing based on direct detection of back-scattered light. This experimentally straightforward technique is immune to frequency noise in principle, and further, acts to suppress thermorefractive noise. We demonstrate 27 dB of frequency noise suppression, eliminating frequency noise as a source of sensitivity degradation and allowing an absolute frequency shift sensitivity of 76 kHz. Our results open a new pathway towards single molecule biophysics experiments and ultrasensitive biosensors.

id: 1308.1844
title: Dipoles on a Two-leg Ladder
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Nikolaj Thomas Zinner
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 245135 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1844
abstract: We study polar molecules with long-range dipole-dipole interactions confined to move on a two-leg ladder for different orientations of the molecular dipole moments with respect to the ladder. Matrix product states are employed to calculate the many-body ground state of the system as function of lattice filling fractions, perpendicular hopping between the legs, and dipole interaction strength. We show that the system exhibits zig-zag ordering when the dipolar interactions are predominantly repulsive. As a function of dipole moment orientation with respect to the ladder, we find that there is a critical angle at which ordering disappears. This angle is slightly larger than the angle at which the dipoles are non-interacting along a single leg. This behavior should be observable using current experimental techniques.

id: 1308.1856
title: A GPGPU based program to solve the TDSE in intense laser fields through the finite difference approach
authors: Cathal ? Broin, L.A.A Nikolopoulos
comments: 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1856
abstract: We present a General-purpose computing on graphics processing units (GPGPU) based computational program and framework for the electronic dynamics of atomic systems under intense laser fields. We present our results using the case of hydrogen, however the code is trivially extensible to tackle problems within the single-active electron (SAE) approximation. Building on our previous work, we introduce the first available GPGPU based implementation of the Taylor, Runge-Kutta and Lanczos based methods created with strong field ab-initio simulations specifically in mind; CLTDSE. The code makes use of finite difference methods and the OpenCL framework for GPU acceleration. The specific example system used is the classic test system; Hydrogen. After introducing the standard theory, and specific quantities which are calculated, the code, including installation and usage, is discussed in-depth. This is followed by some examples and a short benchmark between an 8 hardware thread (i.e logical core) Intel Xeon CPU and an AMD 6970 GPU, where the parallel algorithm runs 10 times faster on the GPU than the CPU.

id: 1308.1935
title: Sisyphus Cooling of Lithium
authors: Paul Hamilton, Geena Kim, Trinity Joshi, Biswaroop Mukherjee, Daniel Tiarks, Holger M¨¹ller
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023409 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1935
abstract: Laser cooling to sub-Doppler temperatures by optical molasses is thought to be inhibited in atoms with unresolved, near-degenerate hyperfine structure in the excited state. We demonstrate that such cooling is possible in one to three dimensions, not only near the standard D2 line for laser cooling, but over a range extending to the D1 line. Via a combination of Sisyphus cooling followed by adiabatic expansion, we reach temperatures as low as 40 \mu K, which corresponds to atomic velocities a factor of 2.6 above the limit imposed by a single photon recoil. Our method requires modest laser power at a frequency within reach of standard frequency locking methods. It is largely insensitive to laser power, polarization and detuning, magnetic fields, and initial hyperfine populations. Our results suggest that optical molasses should be possible with all alkali species.

id: 1308.1961
title: Ferromagnetism of the Repulsive Atomic Fermi Gas: three-body recombination and domain formation
authors: Ilia Zintchenko, Lei Wang, Matthias Troyer
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1961
abstract: The simplest model for itinerant ferromagnetism, the Stoner model, has so far eluded experimental observation in repulsive ultracold fermions due to rapid three-body recombination at large scattering lengths. Here we show that a ferromagnetic phase can be stabilised by imposing a moderate optical lattice. The reduced kinetic energy drop upon formation of a polarized phase in an optical lattice extends the ferromagnetic phase to smaller scattering lengths where three-body recombination is small enough to permit experimental detection of the phase. We also show, using time dependent density functional theory, that in such a setup ferromagnetic domains emerge rapidly from a paramagnetic initial state.

id: 1308.1972
title: Edge-state instabilities of bosons in a topological band
authors: Ryan Barnett
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063631 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1972
abstract: In this work, we consider the dynamics of bosons in bands with non-trivial topological structure. In particular, we focus on the case where bosons are prepared in a higher-energy band and allowed to evolve. The Bogoliubov theory about the initial state can have a dynamical instability, and we show that it is possible to achieve the interesting situation where the topological edge modes are unstable while all bulk modes are stable. Thus, after the initial preparation, the edge modes will become rapidly populated. We illustrate this with the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model which can be realized with a double-well optical lattice and is perhaps the simplest model with topological edge states. This work provides a direct physical consequence of topological bands whose properties are often not of immediate relevance for bosonic systems.

id: 1308.2019
title: Unravelling the quantum-entanglement effect of noble gas coordination on the spin ground state of CUO
authors: Pawel Tecmer, Katharina Boguslawski, Ors Legeza, Markus Reiher
comments: 6 figures.PCCP 2013
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 16, 719-727 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2019
abstract: The accurate description of the complexation of the CUO molecule by Ne and Ar noble gas matrices represents a challenging task for present-day quantum chemistry. Especially, the accurate prediction of the spin ground state of different CUO--noble-gas complexes remains elusive. In this work, the interaction of the CUO unit with the surrounding noble gas matrices is investigated in terms of complexation energies and dissected into its molecular orbital quantum entanglement patterns. Our analysis elucidates the anticipated singlet--triplet ground-state reversal of the CUO molecule diluted in different noble gas matrices and demonstrates that the strongest uranium-noble gas interaction is found for CUOAr4 in its triplet configuration.

id: 1308.2080
title: Coulomb-assisted cavity feeding in the non-resonant optical emission from a quantum dot
authors: Matthias Florian, Paul Gartner, Alexander Steinhoff, Christopher Gies, Frank Jahnke
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 161302(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2080
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated that for a quantum dot in an optical resonator off-resonant cavity mode emission can occur even for detunings of the order of 10 meV. We show that Coulomb mediated Auger processes based on additional carriers in delocalized states can facilitate this far off-resonant emission. Using a novel theoretical approach for a non-perturbative treatment of the Auger-assisted quantum-dot carrier recombination, we present numerical calculations of the far off-resonant cavity feeding rate and cavity mean photon number confirming efficient coupling at higher densities of carriers in the delocalized states. In comparison to fast Auger-like intraband scattering processes, we find a reduced overall efficiency of Coulomb-mediated interband transitions due the required electron-hole correlations for the recombination processes.

id: 1308.2095
title: Observation of transverse condensation via Hanbury Brown--Twiss correlations
authors: Wu RuGway, A. G. Manning, S. S. Hodgman, R. G. Dall, T. Lamberton, K. V. Kheruntsyan, A. G. Truscott
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 093601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2095
abstract: A fundamental property of a three-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is long-range coherence, however, in systems of lower dimensionality, not only is the long range coherence destroyed, but additional states of matter are predicted to exist. One such state is a `transverse condensate', first predicted by van Druten and Ketterle [Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 549 (1997)], in which the gas condenses in the transverse dimensions of a highly anisotropic trap while remaining thermal in the longitudinal dimension. Here we detect the transition from a three-dimensional thermal gas to a gas undergoing transverse condensation by probing Hanbury Brown--Twiss correlations.

id: 1308.2114
title: Extending Romanovski polynomials in quantum mechanics
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 25 pages, no figure, small changes, 3 additional references, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 122103, 15 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2114
abstract: Some extensions of the (third-class) Romanovski polynomials (also called Romanovski/pseudo-Jacobi polynomials), which appear in bound-state wavefunctions of rationally-extended Scarf II and Rosen-Morse I potentials, are considered. For the former potentials, the generalized polynomials satisfy a finite orthogonality relation, while for the latter an infinite set of relations among polynomials with degree-dependent parameters is obtained. Both types of relations are counterparts of those known for conventional polynomials. In the absence of any direct information on the zeros of the Romanovski polynomials present in denominators, the regularity of the constructed potentials is checked by taking advantage of the disconjugacy properties of second-order differential equations of Schr\"odinger type. It is also shown that on going from Scarf I to Scarf II or from Rosen-Morse II to Rosen-Morse I potentials, the variety of rational extensions is narrowed down from types I, II, and III to type III only.

id: 1308.2158
title: On the Theory of Self-Adjoint Extensions of the Laplace-Beltrami Operator, Quadratic Forms and Symmetry
authors: Juan Manuel P¨¦rez-Pardo
comments: PhD Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2158
abstract: The main objective of this dissertation is to analyse thoroughly the construction of self-adjoint extensions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator defined on a compact Riemannian manifold with boundary and the role that quadratic forms play to describe them. Moreover, we want to emphasise the role that quadratic forms can play in the description of quantum systems. A characterisation of the self-adjoint extensions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator in terms of unitary operators acting on the Hilbert space at the boundary is given. Using this description we are able to characterise a wide class of self-adjoint extensions that go beyond the usual ones, i.e. Dirichlet, Neumann, Robin,.. and that are semi-bounded below. A numerical scheme to compute the eigenvalues and eigenvectors in any dimension is proposed and its convergence is proved. The role of invariance under the action of symmetry groups is analysed in the general context of the theory of self-adjoint extensions of symmetric operators and in the context of closed quadratic forms. The self-adjoint extensions possessing the same invariance than the symmetric operator that they extend are characterised in the most abstract setting. The case of the Laplace-Beltrami operator is analysed also in this case. Finally, a way to generalise Kato's representation theorem for not semi-bounded, closed quadratic forms is proposed.

id: 1308.2159
title: Hawking radiation with dispersion versus breakdown of WKB
authors: R. Sch¨¹tzhold, W. G. Unruh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2159
abstract: Inspired by the condensed matter analogues of black holes (a.k.a. dumb holes), we study Hawking radiation in the presence of a modified dispersion relation which becomes super-luminal at large wave-numbers. In the usual stationary coordinates $(t,x)$, one can describe the asymptotic evolution of the wave-packets in WKB, but this WKB approximation breaks down in the vicinity of the horizon, thereby allowing for a mixing between initial and final creation and annihilation operators. Thus, one might be tempted to identify this point where WKB breaks down with the moment of particle creation. However, using different coordinates $(\tau,U)$, we find that one can evolve the waves so that WKB in these coordinates is valid throughout this transition region -- which contradicts the above identification of the breakdown of WKB as the cause of the radiation. Instead, our analysis suggests that the tearing apart of the waves into two different asymptotic regions (inside and outside the horizon) is the major ingredient of Hawking radiation.

id: 1308.2206
title: Energetic Causal Sets
authors: Marina Cort¨ºs, Lee Smolin
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Article companion to arXiv:1307.6167
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 044035 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2206
abstract: We propose an approach to quantum theory based on the energetic causal sets, introduced in Cort\^{e}s and Smolin (2013). Fundamental processes are causal sets whose events carry momentum and energy, which are transmitted along causal links and conserved at each event. Fundamentally there are amplitudes for such causal processes, but no space-time. An embedding of the causal processes in an emergent space-time arises only at the semiclassical level. Hence, fundamentally there are no commutation relations, no uncertainty principle and, indeed, no hbar. All that remains of quantum theory is the relationship between the absolute value squared of complex amplitudes and probabilities. Consequently, we find that neither locality, nor non locality, are primary concepts, only causality exists at the fundamental level.

id: 1308.2322
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in Superradiant Light Scattering by Bose-Einstein Condensate in an Optomechanical Cavity
authors: Sonam Mahajan, Neha Aggarwal, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2322
abstract: We investigate the effects of dynamical Casimir effect in superradiant light scattering by Bose-Einstein condensate in an optomechanical cavity. The system is studied using both classical and quantized mirror motions. The cavity frequency is harmonically modulated in time for both the cases. The main quantity of interest is the number of intracavity scattered photons. The system has been investigated under the weak and strong modulation. It has been observed that the amplitude of the scattered photons is more for the classical mirror motion than the quantized mirror motion. Also, initially, the amplitude of scattered photons is high for lower modulation amplitude than higher modulation amplitude. We also found that the behaviour of the plots are similar under strong and weak modulation for the quantized mirror motion.

id: 1308.2333
title: Spin Chaos Manifestation in a Driven Quantum Billiard with Spin-Orbit Coupling
authors: D.V. Khomitsky, A.I. Malyshev, E.Ya. Sherman, M. Di Ventra
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B 88, 195407 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2333
abstract: The coupling of orbital and spin degrees of freedom is the source of many interesting phenomena. Here, we study the electron dynamics in a quantum billiard --a mesoscopic rectangular quantum dot-- with spin-orbit coupling driven by a periodic electric field. We find that both the spatial and temporal profiles of the observables demonstrate the transition to chaotic dynamics with qualitative modifications of the power spectra and patterns of probability and spin density. The time dependence of the wavefunctions and spin density distributions indicates spin-charge separation {seen in the decay of the spin-charge density correlators}. This new spin chaos effect can be experimentally verified leading to a better understanding of the interplay between spin and spatial degrees of freedom, relevant to fundamental and applied quantum physics.

id: 1308.2389
title: Photonic switching devices based on semiconductor nanostructures
authors: Chao-Yuan Jin, Osamu Wada
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 47 (2014) 133001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2389
abstract: Focusing and guiding light into semiconductor nanostructures can deliver revolutionary concepts for photonic devices, which offer a practical pathway towards next-generation power-efficient optical networks. In this review, we consider the prospects for photonic switches using semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) and photonic cavities which possess unique properties based on their low dimensionality. The optical nonlinearity of such photonic switches is theoretically analyzed by introducing the concept of a field enhancement factor. This approach reveals drastic improvement in both power-density and speed, which is able to overcome the limitations that have beset conventional photonic switches for decades. In addition, the overall power consumption is reduced due to the atom-like nature of QDs as well as the nano-scale footprint of photonic cavities. Based on this theoretical perspective, the current state-of-the-art of QD/cavity switches is reviewed in terms of various optical nonlinearity phenomena which have been utilized to demonstrate photonic switching. Emerging techniques, enabled by cavity nonlinear effects such as wavelength tuning, Purcell-factor tuning and plasmonic effects are also discussed.

id: 1308.2450
title: Exponential Quantum-Classical Gaps in Multiparty Nondeterministic Communication Complexity
authors: Xiaoming Sun, Marcos Villagra
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial mistake in the main proof
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2450
abstract: There are three different types of nondeterminism in quantum communication: i) $\nqp$-communication, ii) $\qma$-communication, and iii) $\qcma$-communication. In this \redout{paper} we show that multiparty $\nqp$-communication can be exponentially stronger than $\qcma$-communication. This also implies an exponential separation with respect to classical multiparty nondeterministic communication complexity. We argue that there exists a total function that is hard for $\qcma$-communication and easy for $\nqp$-communication. The proof of it involves an application of the pattern tensor method and a new lower bound for polynomial threshold degree. Another important consequence of this result is that nondeterministic rank can be exponentially lower than the discrepancy bound.

id: 1308.2552
title: Oscillating spin-orbit interaction as a source of spin-polarized wave packets in two-terminal nanoscale devices
authors: Viktor Szaszko-Bogar, Peter Foldi, F. M. Peeters
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures (IOP preprint style); v2: 15 pages and 6 figures. Subsec. 3.4, a figure and new references have been added
journal: J. Phys.: Cond. Mat. 26 135302 (2014.)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2552
abstract: Ballistic transport through nanoscale devices with time-dependent Rashba-type spin-orbit interaction (SOI) can lead to spin-polarized wave packets that appear even for completely unpolarized input. The SOI that oscillates in a finite domain generates density and spin polarization fluctuations that leave the region as propagating waves. Particularly, spin polarization has space and time dependence even in regions without SOI. Our results are based on an analytic solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. The relevant Floquet quasi-energies that are obtained appear in the energy spectrum of both the transmitted and reflected waves.

id: 1308.2684
title: Strongly correlated bosons and fermions in optical lattices
authors: Antoine Georges, Thierry Giamarchi
comments: Lectures presented at the Les Houches summer school 2010: "Many-Body Physics with Ultracold Gases", organized by C. Salomon and G. V. Shlyapnikov
journal: Published in "Many-Body Physics with Ultracold Gases'', Lecture Notes of the Les Houches Summer School: Volume 94, July 2010 Edited by C. Salomon, G. V. Shlyapnikov, and L. F. Cugliandolo, Oxford University Press (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2684
abstract: These lectures are an introduction to the physics of strongly correlated fermions and bosons. They are specially targeted for the experimental realizations that have been provided by cold atomic gases in optical lattices.

id: 1308.2689
title: Diamond Magnetometry of Superconducting Thin Films
authors: A. Waxman, H. Schlussel, D. Groswasser, V.M. Acosta, L.-S. Bouchard, D. Budker, R. Folman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 054509 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2689
abstract: In recent years diamond magnetometers based on the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center have been of considerable interest for magnetometry applications at the nanoscale. An interesting application which is well suited for NV centers is the study of nanoscale magnetic phenomena in superconducting materials. We employ the magnetic sensitivity of NV centers in diamond to interrogate the magnetic properties of a thin-layer yttrium barium copper oxide (YBCO) superconductor. Using fluorescence-microscopy methods and samples integrated with an NV sensor on a microchip, we measure the temperature of phase transition in the layer to be 70.0(2) K, and the penetration field of vortices to be 46(4) G. We observe the pinning of the vortices in the layer at 65 K, and estimate their density after cooling the sample in a ~ 10 G field to be 0.45(1) \mu m^{-2}. These measurements are done with a 10 nm thick NV layer, so that high spatial resolution may be enabled in the future. Based on these results, we anticipate that this magnetometer could be useful for imaging the structure and dynamics of vortices. As an outlook, we present a fabrication method for a superconductor chip designed for this purpose.

id: 1308.2776
title: Generalized Bose-Einstein condensation into multiple states in driven-dissipative systems
authors: Daniel Vorberg, Waltraut Wustmann, Roland Ketzmerick, Andr¨¦ Eckardt
comments: 5+3 pages, 2+2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240405 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2776
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation, the macroscopic occupation of a single quantum state, appears in equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics and persists also in the hydrodynamic regime close to equilibrium. Here we show that even when a degenerate Bose gas is driven into a steady state far from equilibrium, where the notion of a single-particle ground state becomes meaningless, Bose-Einstein condensation survives in a generalized form: the unambiguous selection of an odd number of states acquiring large occupations. Within mean-field theory we derive a criterion for when a single and when multiple states are Bose selected in a non-interacting gas. We study the effect in several driven-dissipative model systems, and propose a quantum switch for heat conductivity based on shifting between one and three selected states.

id: 1308.2862
title: Finite-size scaling of eigenstate thermalization
authors: W. Beugeling, R. Moessner, Masudul Haque
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 042112 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2862
abstract: According to the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH), even isolated quantum systems can thermalize because the eigenstate-to-eigenstate fluctuations of typical observables vanish in the limit of large systems. Of course, isolated systems are by nature finite, and the main way of computing such quantities is through numerical evaluation for finite-size systems. Therefore, the finite-size scaling of the fluctuations of eigenstate expectation values is a central aspect of the ETH. In this work, we present numerical evidence that for generic non-integrable systems these fluctuations scale with a universal power law $D^{-1/2}$ with the dimension $D$ of the Hilbert space. We provide heuristic arguments, in the same spirit as the ETH, to explain this universal result. Our results are based on the analysis of three families of models, and several observables for each model. Each family includes integrable members, and we show how the system size where the universal power law becomes visible is affected by the proximity to integrability.

id: 1308.2875
title: Non-equilibrium finite temperature dynamics of magnetic quantum systems: Applications to spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy
authors: Kolja Them, T. Stapelfeldt, E. Y. Vedmedenko, R. Wiesendanger
comments: 
journal: New Journ. Phys. 15 013009 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2875
abstract: We calculate the real time non-equilibrium dynamics of quantum spin systems at finite temperatures. The mathematical framework originates from the $C^*$-approach to quantum statistical mechanics and is applied to samples investigated by means of spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy. Quantum fluctuations around thermal equilibrium are analyzed and calculated. The time averaged expectation values agree with the time averaged experimental data for magnetization curves. The method is used to investigate the dynamics of a sample for shorter times than the resolution time of the experimental setup. Furthermore, predictions for relaxation times of single spins on metallic and semiconductor surfaces are made. To check the validity of our model we compare our results with experimental data obtained from Fe adatoms on InSb and Co adatoms on Pt(111) and find good agreement. Approximated thermalization is found numerically for the expectation values of the spin operators.

id: 1308.2879
title: Statistics of quantum transport in weakly non-ideal chaotic cavities
authors: Sergio Rodriguez-Perez, Ricardo Marino, Marcel Novaes, Pierpaolo Vivo
comments: 6 pag., 2 fig. - submitted to PRB
journal: Physical Review E 88 (2013) 052912
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2879
abstract: We consider statistics of electronic transport in chaotic cavities where time-reversal symmetry is broken and one of the leads is weakly non-ideal, i.e. it contains tunnel barriers characterized by tunneling probabilities $\Gamma_i$. Using symmetric function expansions and a generalized Selberg integral, we develop a systematic perturbation theory in $1-\Gamma_i$ valid for arbitrary number of channels, and obtain explicit formulas up to second order for the average and variance of the conductance, and for the average shot-noise. Higher moments of the conductance are considered to leading order.

id: 1308.2936
title: Equivalence Principle and Bound Kinetic Energy
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Holger Mueller, R. B. Wiringa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 151102 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2936
abstract: We consider the role of the internal kinetic energy of bound systems of matter in tests of the Einstein equivalence principle. Using the gravitational sector of the standard model extension, we show that stringent limits on equivalence principle violations in antimatter can be indirectly obtained from tests using bound systems of normal matter. We estimate the bound kinetic energy of nucleons in a range of light atomic species using Green's function Monte Carlo calculations, and for heavier species using a Woods-Saxon model. We survey the sensitivities of existing and planned experimental tests of the equivalence principle, and report new constraints at the level of between a few parts in $10^{6}$ and parts in $10^{8}$ on violations of the equivalence principle for matter and antimatter.

id: 1308.3035
title: Separability and Dynamical Symmetry of Quantum Dots
authors: P.-M. Zhang, L.-P. Zou, P.A. Horvathy, G. W. Gibbons
comments: 32 pages, many figures
journal: Annals of Physics (N.Y.) 347, 94 - 116 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3035
abstract: The separability and Runge-Lenz-type dynamical symmetry of the internal dynamics of certain two-electron Quantum Dots, found by Simonovi\'c et al. [1], is traced back to that of the perturbed Kepler problem. A large class of axially symmetric perturbing potentials which allow for separation in parabolic coordinates can easily be found. Apart of the 2:1 anisotropic harmonic trapping potential considered in [1], they include a constant electric field parallel to the magnetic field (Stark effect), the ring-shaped Hartmann potential, etc. The harmonic case is studied in detail.

id: 1308.3079
title: Steady-State Entanglement in the Nuclear Spin Dynamics of a Double Quantum Dot
authors: Martin J. A. Schuetz, Eric M. Kessler, Lieven M. K. Vandersypen, J. Ignacio Cirac, Geza Giedke
comments: Manuscript: 5 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary Information: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 246802 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3079
abstract: We propose a scheme for the deterministic generation of steady-state entanglement between the two nuclear spin ensembles in an electrically defined double quantum dot. Due to quantum interference in the collective coupling to the electronic degrees of freedom, the nuclear system is actively driven into a two-mode squeezed-like target state. The entanglement build-up is accompanied by a self-polarization of the nuclear spins towards large Overhauser field gradients. Moreover, the feedback between the electronic and nuclear dynamics leads to multi-stability and criticality in the steady-state solutions.

id: 1308.3102
title: Dynamical decoupling noise spectroscopy at an optimal working point of a qubit
authors: ?ukasz Cywi¨½ski
comments: Substantially expanded final version, includes discussion of dynamical decoupling from transverse noise
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042307 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3102
abstract: I present a theory of environmental noise spectroscopy via dynamical decoupling of a qubit at an optimal working point. Considering a sequence of $n$ pulses and pure dephasing due to quadratic coupling to Gaussian distributed noise $\xi(t)$, I use the linked-cluster (cumulant) expansion to calculate the coherence decay. Solutions allowing for reconstruction of spectral density of noise are given. For noise with correlation time shorter than the timescale on which coherence decays, the noise filtered by the dynamical decoupling procedure can be treated as effectively Gaussian at large $n$, and well-established methods of noise spectroscopy can be used to reconstruct the spectrum of $\xi^{2}(t)$ noise. On the other hand, for noise of dominant low-frequency character ($1/f^{\beta}$ noise with $\beta \! > \! 1$), an infinite-order resummation of the cumulant expansion is necessary, and it leads to an analytical formula for coherence decay having a power-law tail at long times. In this case, the coherence at time $t$ depends both on spectral density of $\xi(t)$ noise at $\omega \! = \! n\pi/t$, and on the effective low-frequency cutoff of the noise spectrum, which is typically given by the inverse of the data acquisition time. Simulations of decoherence due to purely transverse noise show that the analytical formulas derived in this paper apply in this often encountered case of an optimal working point, provided that the number of pulses is not very large, and the longitudinal qubit splitting is much larger than the transverse noise amplitude.

id: 1308.3109
title: Thermal Properties of a Particle Confined to a Parabolic Quantum Well in 2D Space with Conical Disclination
authors: Tridev Mishra, Tapomoy Guha Sarkar, Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures,published
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 012103 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3109
abstract: The thermal properties of a system, comprising of a spinless non-interacting charged particle in the presence of a constant external magnetic field and confined in a parabolic quantum well are studied. The focus has been on the effects of a topological defect, of the form of conical disclination, with regard to the thermodynamic properties of the system. We have obtained the modifications to the traditional Landau-Fock-Darwin spectrum in the presence of conical disclination. The effect of the conical kink on the degeneracy structure of the energy levels is investigated. The canonical formalism is used to compute various thermodynamic variables. The study shows an interplay between magnetic field, temperature and the degree of conicity by setting two scales for temperature corresponding to the frequency of the confining potential and the cyclotron frequency of external magnetic field. The kink parameter is found to affect the quantitative behaviour of the thermodynamic quantities. It plays a crucial role in the competition between the external magnetic field and temperature in fixing the values of the thermal response functions. This study provides an important motivation for studying similar systems, however with non trivial interactions in the presence of topological defects.

id: 1308.3165
title: It From Bit and The Unsmooth Reality
authors: Joachim J. Wlodarz
comments: 4 pages, submitted to FQXi 2013 Essay Contest - "It from Bit or Bit from It"
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3165
abstract: In this short essay it is argued that the "It from Bit" idea is plausible when assuming "generalized bits", resulting from the Kolmogorov superposition theorem, as universal building blocks.

id: 1308.3195
title: Bose Hubbard model far from equilibrium
authors: Iztok Pizorn
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043635 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3195
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium steady state of the Bose Hubbard model coupled to Lindblad reservoirs, using the density matrix renormalization group in operator space. We observe a transition from a flat particle density profile in the noninteracting limit to the linear profile with onset of the interparticle interaction. Analyzing the effect of coherent pumping on the nonequilibrium steady state we find a subspace which remains unaffected by the pumping in the noninteracting limit with the protection gradually diminishing due to interparticle interaction. In the equilibrium situation with one or more symmetric reservoirs we show analytically that the steady state of the system is a product state for any interaction strength. We also provide analytical results in the noninteracting limits, using the method of the third quantization in operator space.

id: 1308.3234
title: Entanglement entropy of compressible holographic matter: loop corrections from bulk fermions
authors: Brian Swingle, Liza Huijse, Subir Sachdev
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045107 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3234
abstract: Entanglement entropy is a useful probe of compressible quantum matter because it can detect the existence of Fermi surfaces, both of microscopic fermionic degrees of freedom and of "hidden" gauge charged fermions. Much recent attention has focused on holographic efforts to model strongly interacting compressible matter of interest for condensed matter physics. We complete the entanglement analysis initiated in Huijse {\em et al.}, Phys. Rev. B 85, 035121 (2012) (arXiv:1112.0573) and Ogawa {\em et al.}, JHEP 1, 125 (2012) (arXiv:1111.1023) using the recent proposal of Faulkner {\em et al.} (arXiv:1307.2892) to analyze the entanglement entropy of the visible fermions which arises from bulk loop corrections. We find perfect agreement between holographic and field theoretic calculations.

id: 1308.3275
title: The second quantization method for indistinguishable particles (Lecture Notes in Physics, UFABC 2010)
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 59 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3275
abstract: Contents 1. Creation and annihilation operators for the system of indistinguishable particles 1.1 The permutation group and the states of a system of indistinguishable particles 1.2 Dimension of the Hilbert space of a system of indistinguishable particles 1.3 Definition and properties of the creation and annihilation operators 1.4 TheFockspace 1.5 The representations of state vectors and operators 1.5.1 N-particlewave-functions 1.5.2 The second-quantization representation of operators 1.5.3 Examples 1.6 Evolution of operators in the Heisenberg picture 1.7 Statistical operators of indistinguishable particles 1.7.1 The averages of the s-particle operators 1.7.2 The general structure of the one-particle statistical operator 2 Quadratic Hamiltonian and the diagonalization 2.1 Diagionalization of the Hamiltonian quadratic in the fermion operators 2.2 Diagionalization of the Hamiltonian quadratic in the boson operators 2.2.1 Diagonalization of the quadratic bosonic Hamiltonian possessing a zero mode 2.3 Long range order, condensation and the Bogoliubov spectrum of weakly interacting Bose gas 2.3.1 The excitation spectrum of weakly interacting Bose gas inabox 2.3.2 The excitation spectrum of an interacting Bose gas in an externalpotential 2.4 The Jordan-Wigner transformation: fermionization of interacting 1D spin chains

id: 1308.3457
title: Field-theoretical study of the Bose polaron
authors: Steffen Patrick Rath, Richard Schmidt
comments: 11+7 pages, 10 figures. Published Version. Title changed accordingly
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053632 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3457
abstract: We study the properties of the Bose polaron, an impurity strongly interacting with a Bose-Einstein condensate, using a field-theoretic approach and make predictions for the spectral function and various quasiparticle properties that can be tested in experiment. We find that most of the spectral weight is contained in a coherent attractive and a metastable repulsive polaron branch. We show that the qualitative behavior of the Bose polaron is well described by a non-selfconsistent T-matrix approximation by comparing analytical results to numerical data obtained from a fully selfconsistent T-matrix approach. The latter takes into account an infinite number of bosons excited from the condensate.

id: 1308.3460
title: Quantum single electron solitons near metal surface
authors: Vladimir Vyurkov, Dmitry Svintsov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3460
abstract: A possibility of a quantum single electron soliton (QSES) formation in structures with different dimensionality (0, 1, 2, and 3D) and spectrum (parabolic and linear) placed near metal surface is discussed. These solitons originate as solutions of the nonlinear Schrodinger equation allowing for interaction with image charges in metal. The binding energy of those quasi-particles could exceed the thermal energy at room temperature.

id: 1308.3463
title: Field-induced superfluids and Bose liquids in Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Didier Poilblanc, Norbert Schuch, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures Improved final version (as published)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 144414 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3463
abstract: In two-dimensional incompressible quantum spin liquids, a large enough magnetic field generically induces "doping" of polarized S=1 triplons or S=1/2 spinons. We review a number of cases such as spin-3/2 AKLT or spin-1/2 Resonating Valence Bond (RVB) liquids where the Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) framework provides very simple and comprehensive pictures. On the bipartite honeycomb lattice, simple PEPS can describe Bose condensed triplons (AKLT) or spinons (RVB) superfluids with transverse staggered (N\'eel) magnetic order. On the Kagome lattice, doping the RVB state with deconfined spinons or triplons (i.e. spinon bound pairs) yields uncondensed Bose liquids preserving U(1) spin-rotation symmetry. We find that spinon (triplon) doping destroys (preserves) the topological Z_2 symmetry of the underlying RVB state. We also find that spinon doping induces longer range interactions in the entanglement Hamiltonian, suggesting the emergence of (additive) log-corrections to the entanglement entropy.

id: 1308.3527
title: Exponential Quantum Spreading in a Class of Kicked Rotor Systems near High-Order Resonances
authors: Hailong Wang, Jiao Wang, Italo Guarneri, Giulio Casati, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 052919 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3527
abstract: Long-lasting quantum exponential spreading was recently found in a simple but very rich dynamical model, namely, an on-resonance double-kicked rotor model [J. Wang, I. Guarneri, G. Casati, and J. B. Gong, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 234104 (2011)]. The underlying mechanism, unrelated to the chaotic motion in the classical limit but resting on quasi-integrable motion in a pseudoclassical limit, is identified for one special case. By presenting a detailed study of the same model, this work offers a framework to explain long-lasting quantum exponential spreading under much more general conditions. In particular, we adopt the so-called "spinor" representation to treat the kicked-rotor dynamics under high-order resonance conditions and then exploit the Born-Oppenheimer approximation to understand the dynamical evolution. It is found that the existence of a flat-band (or an effectively flat-band) is one important feature behind why and how the exponential dynamics emerges. It is also found that a quantitative prediction of the exponential spreading rate based on an interesting and simple pseudoclassical map may be inaccurate. In addition to general interests regarding the question of how exponential behavior in quantum systems may persist for a long time scale, our results should motivate further studies towards a better understanding of high-order resonance behavior in delta-kicked quantum systems.

id: 1308.3631
title: Spectral gaps of AKLT Hamiltonians using Tensor Network methods
authors: Artur Garcia-Saez, Valentin Murg, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures. References added, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 245118 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3631
abstract: Using exact diagonalization and tensor network techniques we compute the gap for the AKLT Hamiltonian in 1D and 2D spatial dimensions. Tensor Network methods are used to extract physical properties directly in the thermodynamic limit, and we support these results using finite-size scalings from exact diagonalization. Studying the AKLT Hamiltonian perturbed by an external field, we show how to obtain an accurate value of the gap of the original AKLT Hamiltonian from the field value at which the ground state verifies e_0<0, which is a quantum critical point. With the Tensor Network Renormalization Group methods we provide evidence of a finite gap in the thermodynamic limit for the AKLT models in the 1D chain and 2D hexagonal and square lattices. This method can be applied generally to Hamiltonians with rotational symmetry, and we also show results beyond the AKLT model.

id: 1308.3715
title: Quantum kinetics of spinning neutral particles: General theory and Spin wave dispersion
authors: P. A. Andreev
comments: 15 pages
journal: Physica A Vol. 432, p. 108, (2015)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3715
abstract: Plasma physics give an example of physical system of particles with the long range interaction. At small velocity of particles we can consider the plasma approximately as a system of particles with the Coulomb interaction. The Coulomb interaction is isotropic. Systems of spinning neutral particles have long-range anisotropic interparticle interaction. So, they can reveal more reach properties than plasma. Furthermore for studying of systems of spinning particles we can develop kinetic and hydrodynamic methods analogous to used for the plasma. We derive kinetic equations by a new method, which is the generalization of the many-particle quantum hydrodynamics. Obtained set of kinetic equations is truncated, so we have closed set of two equations. One of them is the kinetic equation for quantum distribution function. The second equation is the equation for the spin-distribution. Which describes the spin kinetic evolution and gives contribution in time evolution of the distribution function. Our method allows to obtain equations as for three dimensional system of particles and for low dimensional systems. So, we consider spin waves in three- and two dimensional systems of neutral spinning particles.

id: 1308.3747
title: Photon-assisted-tunneling in a coupled double quantum dot out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Runan Shang, Haiou Li, Gang Cao, Ming Xiao, Tao Tu, Guang-Can Guo, Hong-Wen Jiang, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 12pages, 4figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 162109 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3747
abstract: We perform photon-assisted-tunneling (PAT) experiments on a GaAs double quantum dot device under high microwave excitation power. Photon-assisted absorption of up to 14 photons is observed, when electron temperature (>1K) are far above the lattice temperature. Signatures of Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg (LZS) interference are found even in this non-equilibrium PAT spectrum. In addition, the charge state relaxation time T_1~8ns measured in this out of thermal equilibrium double quantum dot is in agreement with other previous reports.

id: 1308.3877
title: Influence of periodically modulated cavity field on the generation of atomic-squeezed states
authors: Neha Aggarwal, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, Arup Banerjee, Man Mohan
comments: To appear in Journal of Physics B, Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3877
abstract: We investigate the influence of periodically time-modulated cavity frequency on the generation of atomic squeezed states for a collection of N two-level atoms confined in a non-stationary cavity with a moving mirror. We show that the two-photon character of the field generated from the vacuum state of field plays a significant role in producing the atomic or spin squeezed states. We further show that the maximum amount of persistent atomic squeezing is obtained for the initial cavity field prepared in the vacuum state.

id: 1308.3947
title: Momentum-space dynamics of Dirac quasiparticles in correlated random potentials: Interplay between dynamical and Berry phases
authors: Kean Loon Lee, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Christian Miniatura
comments: Additional data and explanations compared to version 1. See published article for the latest version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043622 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3947
abstract: We consider Dirac quasi-particles, as realized with cold atoms loaded in a honeycomb lattice or in a $\pi$-flux square lattice, in the presence of a weak correlated disorder such that the disorder fluctuations do not couple the two Dirac points of the lattices. We numerically and theoretically investigate the time evolution of the momentum distribution of such quasi-particles when they are initially prepared in a quasi-monochromatic wave packet with a given mean momentum. The parallel transport of the pseudo-spin degree of freedom along scattering paths in momentum space generates a geometrical phase which alters the interference associated with reciprocal scattering paths. In the massless case, a well-known dip in the momentum distribution develops at backscattering (respective to the Dirac point considered) around the transport mean free time. This dip later vanishes in the honeycomb case because of trigonal warping. In the massive case, the dynamical phase of the scattering paths becomes crucial. Its interplay with the geometrical phase induces an additional transient broken reflection symmetry in the momentum distribution. The direction of this asymmetry is a property of the Dirac point considered, independent of the energy of the wave packet. These Berry phase effects could be observed in current cold atom lattice experiments.

id: 1308.4089
title: Theory of Bose-Einstein Condensation of Light in a Microcavity
authors: D. N. Sob'yanin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Bull. Lebedev Phys. Inst. 40, 91 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4089
abstract: A theory of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of light in a dye microcavity is developed. The photon polarization degeneracy and the interaction between dye molecules and photons in all of the cavity modes are taken into account. The theory goes beyond the grand canonical approximation and allows one to determine the statistical properties of the photon gas for all numbers of dye molecules and photons at all temperatures, thus describing the microscopic, mesoscopic, and macroscopic light BEC from a general perspective. A universal relation between the degrees of second-order coherence for the photon condensate and the polarized photon condensate is obtained. The photon Bose-Einstein condensate can be used as a new source of nonclassical light.

id: 1308.4090
title: Bose-Einstein condensation of light: General theory
authors: Denis Nikolaevich Sob'yanin
comments: 23 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 022132 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4090
abstract: A theory of Bose-Einstein condensation of light in a dye-filled optical microcavity is presented. The theory is based on the hierarchical maximum entropy principle and allows one to investigate the fluctuating behavior of the photon gas in the microcavity for all numbers of photons, dye molecules, and excitations at all temperatures, including the whole critical region. The master equation describing the interaction between photons and dye molecules in the microcavity is derived and the equivalence between the hierarchical maximum entropy principle and the master equation approach is shown. The cases of a fixed mean total photon number and a fixed total excitation number are considered, and a much sharper, nonparabolic onset of a macroscopic Bose-Einstein condensation of light in the latter case is demonstrated. The theory does not use the grand canonical approximation, takes into account the photon polarization degeneracy, and exactly describes the microscopic, mesoscopic, and macroscopic Bose-Einstein condensation of light. Under certain conditions, it predicts sub-Poissonian statistics of the photon condensate and the polarized photon condensate, and a universal relation takes place between the degrees of second-order coherence for these condensates. In the macroscopic case, there appear a sharp jump in the degrees of second-order coherence, a sharp jump and kink in the reduced standard deviations of the fluctuating numbers of photons in the polarized and whole condensates, and a sharp peak, a cusp, of the Mandel parameter for the whole condensate in the critical region. The possibility of nonclassical light generation in the microcavity with the photon Bose-Einstein condensate is predicted.

id: 1308.4124
title: QED Second Order Corrections on the Speed of Light at Low Temperature
authors: H. Razmi, M. Zamani
comments: 12 pages including an Appendix
journal: Iranian Journal of Physics Research, Vol. 14. No. 3, 85-88 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4124
abstract: We want to study thermal corrections on the speed of light at low temperature considering temperature dependence of photon vacuum polarization tensor at two-loop level in the standard QED. It is found that the heat bath behaves as a dispersive medium to the propagation of light and reduces its speed proprtional to the second order of temperature. Similiraties and differences with already known calculations which are based on Euler-Heisenberg Lagrangian and/or those using temperature dependent electromagnetic properties of the medium are discussed.

id: 1308.4209
title: Unitarity of black hole evaporation in final-state projection models
authors: Seth Lloyd, John Preskill
comments: (v3) 27 pages, 16 figures. Expanded discussion of measurements inside black holes
journal: JHEP 08 (2014) 126
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4209
abstract: Almheiri et al. have emphasized that otherwise reasonable beliefs about black hole evaporation are incompatible with the monogamy of quantum entanglement, a general property of quantum mechanics. We investigate the final-state projection model of black hole evaporation proposed by Horowitz and Maldacena, pointing out that this model admits cloning of quantum states and polygamous entanglement, allowing unitarity of the evaporation process to be reconciled with smoothness of the black hole event horizon. Though the model seems to require carefully tuned dynamics to ensure exact unitarity of the black hole S-matrix, for a generic final-state boundary condition the deviations from unitarity are exponentially small in the black hole entropy; furthermore observers inside black holes need not detect any deviations from standard quantum mechanics. Though measurements performed inside old black holes could potentially produce causality-violating phenomena, the computational complexity of decoding the Hawking radiation may render the causality violation unobservable. Final-state projection models illustrate how inviolable principles of standard quantum mechanics might be circumvented in a theory of quantum gravity.

id: 1308.4225
title: Macroscopic Quantum Phenomena from the Coupling Pattern and Entanglement Structure Perspective
authors: C H Chou, Y Subasi, B L Hu
comments: 39 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1304.7839
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4225
abstract: We explore in this paper ways to qualify and quantify the quantum entanglement $E(M)$ between two macroscopic objects by way of model studies. Knowing that a macroscopic object is a composite, how does one determine $E(M)$ in terms of the entanglements between its micro-constituents $E(\mu)$? We assert that the notion of `levels of structure', the coupling strength between constituents in different levels, and the use of collective variables in each level are all pertinent factors. We consider two types of coupling, each constituent particle is coupled to only one other particle (1-to-1) versus it coupled to all particles (1-to-all). In the 1-1 case with pairwise interactions of equal strength, the entanglement is independent of the number of constituent particles $N$ in the macroscopic object. In the 1-to-all case the relative coordinates are decoupled and the center of mass (CoM) coupling scales with $N$. We provide a proof of the conditions whereby the CoM variable decouples, a cause for the special role the CoM variable plays in the entanglement between the two such macroscopic objects. This qualitative behavior is largely not affected by fluctuations in the interaction strength. We also analyzed the entanglement pattern of 4 coupled oscillators in two pairs, representing the two objects A and B (or two adjacent levels of structure), each with two constituents. By assigning different coupling strengths we can investigate the interplay of inter-level entanglement with intra- level interactions. From the entanglement dynamics of the 4-oscillator system with varying coupling strength we see the entanglement between constituents meeting sudden death while the CoM variables may sustain over longer times. This offers another way to determine under what conditions quantum entanglement between macroscopic objects can persist.

id: 1308.4240
title: Casoratian Identities for the Wilson and Askey-Wilson Polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures. Comments and references added. To appear in Journal of Approximation Theory
journal: Journal of Approximation Theory 193 (2015) 184-209
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4240
abstract: Infinitely many Casoratian identities are derived for the Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials in parallel to the Wronskian identities for the Hermite, Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials, which were reported recently by the present authors. These identities form the basis of the equivalence between eigenstate adding and deleting Darboux transformations for solvable (discrete) quantum mechanical systems. Similar identities hold for various reduced form polynomials of the Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials, e.g. the continuous q-Jacobi, continuous (dual) (q-)Hahn, Meixner-Pollaczek, Al-Salam-Chihara, continuous (big) q-Hermite, etc.

id: 1308.4249
title: A regular version of Smilansky model
authors: Diana Barseghyan, Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX, 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4249
abstract: We discuss a modification of Smilansky model in which a singular potential `channel' is replaced by a regular, below unbounded potential which shrinks as it becomes deeper. We demonstrate that, similarly to the original model, such a system exhibits a spectral transition with respect to the coupling constant, and determine the critical value above which a new spectral branch opens. The result is generalized to situations with multiple potential `channels'.

id: 1308.4264
title: Non-self-adjoint graphs
authors: Amru Hussein, David Krejcirik, Petr Siegl
comments: 43 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4264
abstract: On finite metric graphs we consider Laplace operators, subject to various classes of non-self-adjoint boundary conditions imposed at graph vertices. We investigate spectral properties, existence of a Riesz basis of projectors and similarity transforms to self-adjoint Laplacians. Among other things, we describe a simple way how to relate the similarity transforms between Laplacians on certain graphs with elementary similarity transforms between matrices defining the boundary conditions.

id: 1308.4279
title: Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector for arbitrary spin
authors: A. G. Nikitin
comments: This is a REVTEX form of the previous version with minor corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 123506 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4279
abstract: A countable set of superintegrable quantum mechanical systems is presented which admit the dynamical symmetry with respect to algebra so(4). This algebra is generated by the Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector generalized to the case of arbitrary spin. The presented systems describe neutral particles with non-trivial multipole momenta. Their spectra can be found algebraically like in the case of Hydrogen atom. Solutions for the systems with spins 1/2 and 1 are presented explicitly, solutions for spin 3/2 are expressed via solutions of an ordinary differential equation of first order..

id: 1308.4348
title: Echo of the Quantum Bounce
authors: Luis J. Garay, Mercedes Martin-Benito, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: Revtex4.1. 2 Figures. V2: Content extended and edited to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 043510 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4348
abstract: We identify a signature of quantum gravitational effects that survives from the early universe to the current era: Fluctuations of quantum fields as seen by comoving observers are significantly influenced by the history of the early universe. In particular we show how the existence (or not) of a quantum bounce leaves a trace in the background quantum noise that is not damped and would be non-negligible even nowadays. Furthermore, we estimate an upper bound for the typical energy and length scales where quantum effects are relevant. We discuss how this signature might be observed and therefore used to build falsifiability tests of quantum gravity theories.

id: 1308.4445
title: Non-existence of Taylor expansion in time due to cusps
authors: Zeng-hui Yang, Kieron Burke
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042514 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4445
abstract: In the usual treatment of electronic structure, all matter has cusps in the electronic density at nuclei. Cusps can produce non-analytic behavior in time, even in response to perturbations that are time-analytic. We analyze these non-analyticities in a simple case from many perspectives. We describe a method, the s-expansion, that can be used in several such cases, and illustrate it with a variety of examples. These include both the sudden appearance of electric fields and disappearance of nuclei, in both one and three dimensions. When successful, the s-expansion yields the dominant short-time behavior, no matter how strong the external electric field, but agrees with linear response theory in the weak limit. We discuss the relevance of these results to time-dependent density functional theory.

id: 1308.4521
title: Dynamics of coupled vibration modes in a quantum non-linear mechanical resonator
authors: G. Labadze, M. Dukalski, Ya. M. Blanter
comments: 5 pages, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4521
abstract: We investigate the behaviour of two non-linearly coupled flexural modes of a doubly-clamped suspended beam (nanomechanical resonator). One of the modes is externally driven. We demonstrate that classically, the behavior of the non-driven mode is reminiscent of that of a parametrically driven linear oscillator: It exhibits a threshold behavior, with the amplitude of this mode below the threshold being exactly zero. Quantum-mechanically, we were able to access the dynamics of this mode below the classical parametric threshold. We show that whereas the mean displacement of this mode is still zero, the mean squared displacement is finite and at the threshold corresponds to the occupation number of 1/2. This finite displacement of the non-driven mode can serve as an experimentally verifiable quantum signature of quantum motion.

id: 1308.4557
title: Completely positive projections and biproducts
authors: Chris Heunen, Aleks Kissinger, Peter Selinger
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 71-83
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4557
abstract: The recently introduced CP*-construction unites quantum channels and classical systems, subsuming the earlier CPM-construction in categorical quantum mechanics. We compare this construction to two earlier attempts at solving this problem: freely adding biproducts to CPM, and freely splitting idempotents in CPM. The CP*-construction embeds the former, and embeds into the latter, but neither embedding is an equivalence in general.

id: 1308.4564
title: Nonreciprocal light transmission in parity-time-symmetric whispering-gallery microcavities
authors: Bo Peng, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Fuchuan Lei, Faraz Monifi, Mariagiovanna Gianfreda, Gui Lu Long, Shanhui Fan, Franco Nori, Carl M. Bender, Lan Yang
comments: 13 Pages, 5 figures, 35 References
journal: Nature Physics, 10, 394 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4564
abstract: Optical systems combining balanced loss and gain profiles provide a unique platform to implement classical analogues of quantum systems described by non-Hermitian parity-time- (PT-) symmetric Hamiltonians and to originate new synthetic materials with novel properties. To date, experimental works on PT-symmetric optical systems have been limited to waveguides in which resonances do not play a role. Here we report the first demonstration of PT-symmetry breaking in optical resonator systems by using two directly coupled on-chip optical whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) microtoroid silica resonators. Gain in one of the resonators is provided by optically pumping Erbium (Er3+) ions embedded in the silica matrix; the other resonator exhibits passive loss. The coupling strength between the resonators is adjusted by using nanopositioning stages to tune their distance. We have observed reciprocal behavior of the PT-symmetric system in the linear regime, as well as a transition to nonreciprocity in the PT symmetry-breaking phase transition due to the significant enhancement of nonlinearity in the broken-symmetry phase. Our results represent a significant advance towards a new generation of synthetic optical systems enabling on-chip manipulation and control of light propagation.

id: 1308.4658
title: Completing Canonical Quantization, and its Role in Nontrivial Scalar Field Quantization
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 17 pages, article based on conference lectures, argument improved in several places
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4658
abstract: The process of canonical quantization is redefined so that the classical and quantum theories coexist when \hbar>0, just as they do in the real world. This analysis not only supports conventional procedures, it also reveals new quantization procedures that, among several examples, permit nontrivial quantization of scalar field models such as \phi^4_n, for every spacetime dimension n\ge2.

id: 1308.4679
title: Local softening of information geometric indicators of chaos in statistical modeling in the presence of quantum-like considerations
authors: Adom Giffin, S. A. Ali, Carlo Cafaro
comments: 8 pages, improved v2, Invited Contribution for a Special Issue of Entropy on "Distance in Information and Statistical Physics"
journal: Entropy 15, 4622 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4679
abstract: In a previous paper (C. Cafaro et al., 2012), we compared an uncorrelated 3D Gaussian statistical model to an uncorrelated 2D Gaussian statistical model obtained from the former model by introducing a constraint that resembles the quantum mechanical canonical minimum uncertainty relation. Analysis was completed by way of the information geometry and the entropic dynamics of each system. This analysis revealed that the chaoticity of the 2D Gaussian statistical model, quantified by means of the Information Geometric Entropy (IGE), is softened or weakened with respect to the chaoticity of the 3D Gaussian statistical model due to the accessibility of more information. In this companion work, we further constrain the system in the context of a correlation constraint among the system's micro-variables and show that the chaoticity is further weakened, but only locally. Finally, the physicality of the constraints is briefly discussed, particularly in the context of quantum entanglement.

id: 1308.4684
title: Manipulation of a two-photon pump in superconductor - semiconductor heterostructures
authors: Paul Baireuther, Peter P. Orth, Ilya Vekhter, J?rg Schmalian
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures; includes Supplemental Material (9 pages, 1 figure). Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 077003 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4684
abstract: We investigate the photon statistics, entanglement and squeezing of a pn-junction sandwiched between two superconducting leads, and show that such an electrically-driven photon pump generates correlated and entangled pairs of photons. In particular, we demonstrate that the squeezing of the fluctuations in the quadrature amplitudes of the emitted light can be manipulated by changing the relative phase of the order parameters of the superconductors. This reveals how macroscopic coherence of the superconducting state can be used to tailor the properties of a two-photon state.

id: 1308.4854
title: New (Ghost-Free) Formulation of the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator
authors: Rabin Banerjee
comments: 6 pages; expanded version with additional references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4854
abstract: We provide a new formulation of the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator which is a prototype of a higher derivative model. Different parametrisations that reveal the model as a combination of two simple harmonic oscillators are introduced. Conventional results are reproduced in one realisation. In another, all problems related to lack of unitarity or boundedness of energy are eliminated since the hamiltonian is expressed as a sum of the hamiltonians of two decoupled harmonic oscillators. Recourse to imaginary scaling transformation or PT-symmetry, as advocated in the literature, are totally avoided.

id: 1308.4863
title: Symmetric generalized binomial distributions
authors: H. Bergeron, E.M.F. Curado, J.P. Gazeau, Ligia M.C.S. Rodrigues
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.4863
abstract: In two recent articles we have examined a generalization of the binomial distribution associated with a sequence of positive numbers, involving asymmetric expressions of probabilities that break the symmetry {\it win-loss}. We present in this article another generalization (always associated with a sequence of positive numbers) that preserves the symmetry {\it win-loss}. This approach is also based on generating functions and presents constraints of non-negativeness, similar to those encountered in our previous articles.

id: 1308.5110
title: Derivation of the TCP Theorem using Action Principles
authors: Mark Selover, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5110
abstract: We present a new derivation of the proof for the TCP/CPT Theorem using the Dynamical Principle and Variation of Action methods first defined by Schwinger in 1951. This new proof will significantly extend the TCP Theorem beyond the original proofs by Pauli-Luders and Jost, which were significantly constrained by limits of free quantum fields and the asymptotic condition. This paper gives a more fundamental proof based on invariance of the Variation of Action with interactions included and no free field or asymptotic condition on the quantum fields. This new proof for TCP/CPT can now be applied to more complicated quantum field systems that include n-particle bound states and unstable states.

id: 1308.5130
title: Towards Realizing a Quantum Memory for a Superconducting Qubit: Storage and Retrieval of quantum states
authors: Shiro Saito, Xiaobo Zhu, Robert Ams¨¹ss, Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Kosuke Kakuyanagi, Takaaki Shimo-Oka, Norikazu Mizuochi, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro, Kouichi Semba
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 107008 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5130
abstract: We have built a hybrid system composed of a superconducting flux qubit (the processor) and an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond (the memory) that can be directly coupled to one another and demonstrated how information can be transferred from the flux qubit to the memory, stored and subsequently retrieved. We have established the coherence properties of the memory, and succeeded in creating an entangled state between the processor and memory, demonstrating how the entangled state's coherence is preserved. Our results are a significant step towards using an electron spin ensemble as a quantum memory for superconducting qubits.

id: 1308.5172
title: Approaches to Measuring Entanglement in Chemical Magnetometers
authors: M. Tiersch, G. G. Guerreschi, J. Clausen, H. J. Briegel
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; version accepted for publication
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A 118, 13-20 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5172
abstract: Chemical magnetometers are radical pair systems such as solutions of pyrene and N,N-dimethylaniline (Py-DMA) that show magnetic field effects in their spin dynamics and their fluorescence. We investigate the existence and decay of quantum entanglement in free geminate Py-DMA radical pairs and discuss how entanglement can be assessed in these systems. We provide an entanglement witness and propose possible observables for experimentally estimating entanglement in radical pair systems with isotropic hyperfine couplings. As an application, we analyze how the field dependence of the entanglement lifetime in Py-DMA could in principle be used for magnetometry and illustrate the propagation of measurement errors in this approach.

id: 1308.5205
title: Double Bragg diffraction: A tool for atom optics
authors: E. Giese, A. Roura, G. Tackmann, E. M. Rasel, W. P. Schleich
comments: 26 pages, 20 figures; minor changes to match the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053608 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5205
abstract: The use of retro-reflection in light-pulse atom interferometry under microgravity conditions naturally leads to a double-diffraction scheme. The two pairs of counterpropagating beams induce simultaneously transitions with opposite momentum transfer that, when acting on atoms initially at rest, give rise to symmetric interferometer configurations where the total momentum transfer is automatically doubled and where a number of noise sources and systematic effects cancel out. Here we extend earlier implementations for Raman transitions to the case of Bragg diffraction. In contrast with the single-diffraction case, the existence of additional off-resonant transitions between resonantly connected states precludes the use of the adiabatic elimination technique. Nevertheless, we have been able to obtain analytic results even beyond the deep Bragg regime by employing the so-called "method of averaging," which can be applied to more general situations of this kind. Our results have been validated by comparison to numerical solutions of the basic equations describing the double-diffraction process.

id: 1308.5295
title: Exact Analytical Solution of the N-dimensional Radial Schrodinger Equation with Pseudoharmonic Potential via Laplace Transform Approach and Lie algebra of Ladder Operators
authors: Tapas Das, Altug Arda
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5295
abstract: The second order N-dimensional Schrodinger equation with pseudoharmonic potential is reduced to a first order differential equation by using the Laplace transform approach and exact bound state solutions are obtained using convolution theorem. Our results generalize all other previous works that done for various potential combinations in the case of lower dimensions.The Ladder operators are also constructed for the pseudoharmonic potential in N-dimensions.Lie algebra associated with these operators are studied and found that they satisfy the commutation relations for the SU(1,1) group. Finally the Casimir operator is discussed briefly.

id: 1308.5387
title: Entanglement of spin-orbit qubits induced by Coulomb interaction
authors: Y. N. Fang, Yusuf Turek, J. Q. You, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5387
abstract: Spin-orbit qubit (SOQ) is the dressed spin by the orbital degree of freedom through a strong spin-orbit coupling. We show that Coulomb interaction between two electrons in quantum dots located separately in two nanowires can efficiently induce quantum entanglement between two SOQs. The physical mechanism to achieve such quantum entanglement is based on the feasibility of the SOQ responding to the external electric field via an intrinsic electric dipole spin resonance.

id: 1308.5440
title: Magnetic Vortices, Abrikosov Lattices and Automorphic Functions
authors: Israel Michael Sigal
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5440
abstract: We address the macroscopic theory of superconductivity - the Ginzburg-Landau theory. This theory %Macroscopic theory of superconductivity is based on the celebrated Ginzburg - Landau equations. First developed to explain and predict properties of superconductors, these equations form an integral part - Abelean-Higgs component - of the standard model of particle physics and, in general, have a profound influence on physics well beyond their original designation area. %These are a pair of coupled nonlinear equations for a complex function (called order parameter or Higgs field) and a vector field (magnetic potential or gauge field). They are the simplest representatives of a large family of equations appearing in physics and mathematics. (The latest variant of these equations is the Seiberg - Witten equations.)

id: 1308.5446
title: On Stability of Abrikosov Lattices
authors: Israel Michael Sigal, Tim Tzaneteas
comments: 43 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5446
abstract: We consider Abrikosov-type vortex lattice solutions of the Ginzburg-Landau equations of superconductivity, for magnetic fields close to the second critical magnetic field and for superconductors filling the entire space. We study stability of such solutions within the context of the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equations - the Gorkov-Eliashberg-Schmid equations. For arbitrary lattice shapes, we prove that there exists a modular function depending on the lattice shape such that Abrikosov vortex lattice solutions are asymptotically stable under finite energy perturbations (defined precisely in the text), provided the superconductor is of Type II and this function is positive, and unstable otherwise.

id: 1308.5454
title: Toeplitz Quantization of an Algebra with Conjugation
authors: Stephen Bruce Sontz
comments: 49 pages, major revision including two new examples
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5454
abstract: Toeplitz quantization is defined in a general setting in which the symbols are the elements of a possibly non-commutative algebra with a conjugation and a possibly degenerate inner product. There need not be a measure space in this theory, though the inner product could arise from a measure. The theory is based on the mathematical structures in recent work of the author which dealt with specific examples of this Toeplitz quantization in the non-commutative case. Creation and annihilation operators are defined as certain densely defined Toeplitz operators acting in a quantum Hilbert space, and their commutation relations are discussed. At this point Planck's constant is introduced into the theory. Due to the possibility of non-commuting symbols, there are now definitions for two types of anti-Wick quantization; these two definitions are equivalent in the commutative case. This Toeplitz quantization satisfies one of these definitions, but not necessarily the other. This Toeplitz quantization can be considered as a type of second quantization. The quantization theory presented here has these two essential features of a physically useful quantization: a Hilbert space where natural densely defined operators act and Planck's constant.

id: 1308.5491
title: Quantum Mechanics on a Poincar¨¦ Hyperboloid
authors: Hyuncheol Song, Sang Gyu Jo
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5491
abstract: We discuss the process to obtain the Poisson brackets among the phase space variables of the system of a free particle on a Poincar\'e Hyperboloid. We show that after quantization the Dirac bracket algebra forms the algebra of ISO(1,2). The representation of this algebra is explicitly analyzed.

id: 1308.5655
title: Ultralow-power nonlinear optics using tapered optical fibers in metastable xenon
authors: T.B. Pittman, D.E. Jones, J.D. Franson
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5655
abstract: We demonstrate nanowatt-level saturated absorption using a sub-wavelength diameter tapered optical fiber (TOF) suspended in a gas of metastable xenon atoms. This ultralow-power nonlinearity is enabled by a small optical mode area propagating over a relatively long distance through the Xe gas. The use of inert noble gasses in these kinds of TOF experiments may offer practical advantages over the use of reactive alkali vapors such as rubidium.

id: 1308.5839
title: Coherent manipulation of spin qubits based on polyoxometalates: the case of the single ion magnet [GdW$_{30}$P$_5$O$_{110}$]$^{12-}$
authors: Jos¨¦ J. Baldov¨ª, Salvador Cardona-Serra, Juan M. Clemente-Juan, Eugenio Coronado, Alejandro Gaita-Ari?o, Helena Prima-Garc¨ªa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published in Chem. Commun., 2013 as Advance Article: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5839
abstract: Polyoxometalate single ion magnet [GdW$_{30}$P$_5$O$_{110}$]$^{12-}$ has been studied by generalized Rabi oscillation experiments. It was possible to increase the number of coherent rotations tenfold through matching the Rabi frequency with the frequency of the proton. Achieving high coherence with polyoxometalate chemistry, we show their excellent potential not only for the storage of quantum information but even for the realization of quantum algorithms.

id: 1308.5860
title: Triangular Bose-Hubbard trimer as a minimal model for a superfluid circuit
authors: Geva Arwas, Amichay Vardi, Doron Cohen
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, improved published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5860
abstract: The triangular Bose-Hubbard trimer is topologically the minimal model for a BEC superfluid circuit. As a dynamical system of two coupled freedoms it has mixed phase-space with chaotic dynamics. We employ a semiclassical perspective to study triangular trimer physics beyond the conventional picture of the superfluid-to-insulator transition. From the analysis of the Peierls-Nabarro energy landscape, we deduce the various regimes in the $(\Omega,u)$ parameter-space, where $u$ is the interaction, and $\Omega$ is the superfluid rotation-velocity. We thus characterize the superfluid-stability and chaoticity of the many-body eigenstates throughout the Hilbert space.

id: 1308.5905
title: Dissipative Preparation of Spatial Order in Rydberg-Dressed Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Johannes Otterbach, Mikhail Lemeshko
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5905
abstract: We propose a technique for engineering momentum-dependent dissipation in Bose-Einstein condensates with non-local interactions. The scheme relies on the use of momentum-dependent dark-states in close analogy to velocity-selective coherent population trapping. During the short-time dissipative dynamics, the system is driven into a particular finite-momentum phonon mode, which in real space corresponds to an ordered structure with non-local density-density correlations. Dissipation-induced ordering can be observed and studied in present-day experiments using cold atoms with dipole-dipole or off-resonant Rydberg interactions. Due to its dissipative nature, the ordering does not require artificial breaking of translational symmetry by an opticallattice or harmonic trap. This opens up a perspective of direct cooling of quantum gases into strongly-interacting phases.

id: 1308.5908
title: Single Photon Emission from Site-Controlled InGaN/GaN Quantum Dots
authors: Lei Zhang, Chu-Hsiang Teng, Tyler A. Hill, Leung-Kway Lee, Pei-Cheng Ku, Hui Deng
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 103, 192114 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5908
abstract: Single photon emission was observed from site-controlled InGaN/GaN quantum dots. The single-photon nature of the emission was verified by the second-order correlation function up to 90 K, the highest temperature to date for site-controlled quantum dots. Micro-photoluminescence study on individual quantum dots showed linearly polarized single exciton emission with a lifetime of a few nanoseconds. The dimensions of these quantum dots were well controlled to the precision of state-of-the-art fabrication technologies, as reflected in the uniformity of their optical properties. The yield of optically active quantum dots was greater than 90%, among which 13%-25% exhibited single photon emission at 10 K.

id: 1308.5917
title: Exact results for fidelity susceptibility of the quantum Ising model: The interplay between parity, system size, and magnetic field
authors: Bogdan Damski, Marek M. Rams
comments: 11 pages, updated references, version accepted in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A 47, 025303 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5917
abstract: We derive an exact closed-form expression for fidelity susceptibility of even- and odd-sized quantum Ising chains in the transverse field. To this aim, we diagonalize the Ising Hamiltonian and study the gap between its positive and negative parity subspaces. We derive an exact closed-form expression for the gap and use it to identify the parity of the ground state. We point out misunderstanding in some of the former studies of fidelity susceptibility and discuss its consequences. Last but not least, we rigorously analyze the properties of the gap. For example, we derive analytical expressions showing its exponential dependence on the ratio between the system size and the correlation length.

id: 1308.6008
title: Experimental Realization of a Quantum Ratchet Through Phase Modulation
authors: D.H. White, S.K. Ruddell, M.D. Hoogerland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063603 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6008
abstract: We report on an experimental realization of unidirectional transporting island structures in an otherwise chaotic phase space of the delta-kicked rotor system. Using a Bose-Einstein Condensate as a source of ultracold atoms, we employ asymmetric phase modulation in the kicks, with the narrow momentum distribution of the atoms allowing us to address individual island structures. We observe quantum ratchet behavior in this system, with clear directed momentum current in the absence of a directional force, which we characterize and connect to \epsilon-classical theory.

id: 1308.6015
title: Dispersive probing of driven pseudo-spin dynamics in a gradient field
authors: Amita B. Deb, Bianca J. Sawyer, Niels Kj?rgaard
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, 1 video link
journal: Physical Review A 88, 063607 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6015
abstract: We have studied the coherent evolution of ultracold atomic rubidium clouds subjected to a microwave field driving Rabi oscillations between the stretched states of the F=1 and F=2 hyperfine levels. A phase winding of the two-level system pseudo-spin vector is encountered for elongated samples of atoms exposed to an axial magnetic field gradient and can be observed directly in state-selective absorption imaging. When dispersively recording the sample-integrated spin population during the Rabi drive, we observe a damped oscillation directly related to the magnetic field gradient, which we quantify using a simple dephasing model. By analyzing such dispersively acquired data from millimeter sized atomic samples, we demonstrate that field gradients can be determined with an accuracy of $\sim25$ nT/mm. The dispersive probing of inhomogeneously broadened Rabi oscillations in prolate samples opens up a path to gradiometry with bandwidths in the kilohertz domain.

id: 1308.6029
title: Ncpol2sdpa -- Sparse Semidefinite Programming Relaxations for Polynomial Optimization Problems of Noncommuting Variables
authors: Peter Wittek
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, 2 algorithms
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6029
abstract: A hierarchy of semidefinite programming (SDP) relaxations approximates the global optimum of polynomial optimization problems of noncommuting variables. Generating the relaxation, however, is a computationally demanding task, and only problems of commuting variables have efficient generators. We develop an implementation for problems of noncommuting problems that creates the relaxation to be solved by SDPA -- a high-performance solver that runs in a distributed environment. We further exploit the inherent sparsity of optimization problems in quantum physics to reduce the complexity of resulting relaxation. Constrained problems with a relaxation of order one may contain up to hundreds of variables. The implementation is available in C++ and Python. The tool helps solve problems such as finding the ground state energy or testing quantum correlations.

id: 1308.6036
title: Angular Momentum of Phonons and Einstein-de Haas Effect
authors: Lifa Zhang, Qian Niu
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett. Detailed supplementary file is included
journal: PRL 112, 085503 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6036
abstract: We study angular momentum of phonons in a magnetic crystal. In the presence of a spin-phonon interaction, we obtain a nonzero angular momentum of phonons, which is an odd function of magnetization. At zero temperature, phonon has a zero-point angular momentum besides a zero-point energy. With increasing temperature, the total phonon angular momentum diminishes and approaches to zero in the classical limit. The nonzero phonon angular momentum can have a significant impact on the Einstein-de Haas effect. To obtain the change of angular momentum of electrons, the change of phonon angular momentum needs to be subtracted from the opposite change of lattice angular momentum. Furthermore, the finding of phonon angular momentum gives a potential method to study the spin-phonon interaction. Possible experiments on phonon angular momentum are also discussed.

id: 1308.6063
title: Importance of complex orbitals in calculating the self-interaction-corrected ground state of atoms
authors: Simon Kl¨¹pfel, Peter Kl¨¹pfel, Hannes Jonsson
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 050501(R) (2011)
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6063
abstract: The ground state of atoms from H to Ar was calculated using a self-interaction correction to local and gradient dependent density functionals. The correction can significantly improve the total energy and makes the orbital energies consistent with ionization energies. However, when the calculation is restricted to real orbitals, application of the self-interaction correction can give significantly higher total energy and worse results, as illustrated by the case of the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof gradient dependent functional. This illustrates the importance of using complex orbitals for systems described by orbital density dependent energy functionals.

id: 1308.6150
title: Spectroscopy of a topological phase
authors: M. Kamfor, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 045411 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6150
abstract: Dynamical correlation functions of the toric code in a uniform magnetic field are studied inside the topological phase, in the small-field limit. Such an experimentally measurable quantity displays rich field-dependent features that can be understood via the interplay of the kinetics and the interaction of the anyonic excitations. In particular, it is sensitive to the two-quasiparticle bound states that are present in the spectrum for a wide range of magnetic fields. Interestingly, such collective modes can even constitute the lowest-energy excitations of the system.

id: 1308.6154
title: Entanglement in Classical Optics
authors: Partha Ghose, Anirban Mukherjee
comments: 27 pages, 13 figures; to be published in Reviews of Theoretical Science; one figure replaced
journal: Reviews in Theoretical Science vol. 2, pp 1-14, 2014
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6154
abstract: The emerging field of entanglement or nonseparability in classical optics is reviewed, and its similarities with and differences from quantum entanglement clearly pointed out through a recapitulation of Hilbert spaces in general, the special restrictions on Hilbert spaces imposed in quantum mechanics and the role of Hilbert spaces in classical polarization optics. The production of Bell-like states in classical polarization optics is discussed, and new theorems are proved to discriminate between separable and nonseparable states in classical wave optics where no discreteness is involved. The influence of the Pancharatnam phase on a classical Bell-like state is deived. Finally, to what extent classical polarization optics can be used to simulate quantum information processing tasks is also discussed. This should be of great practical importance because coherence and entanglement are robust in classical optics but not in quantum systems.

id: 1308.6174
title: Generating Entangled Spin States for Quantum Metrology by Single-Photon Detection
authors: Robert McConnell, Hao Zhang, Senka ?uk, Jiazhong Hu, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6174
abstract: We propose and analyze a probabilistic but heralded scheme to generate pure, entangled, non-Gaussian states of collective spin in large atomic ensembles by means of single-photon detection. One photon announces the preparation of a Dicke state, while two or more photons announce Schr\"odinger cat states. The method produces pure states even for finite photon detection efficiency and weak atom-photon coupling. The entanglement generation can be made quasi-deterministic by means of repeated trial and feedback, enabling metrology beyond the standard quantum limit.

id: 1308.6184
title: The photon polarization tensor in a homogeneous magnetic or electric field
authors: Felix Karbstein
comments: 43 pages, 2 figures; two misprints in Eqs. (118) and (142) corrected (a factor 2^(-2/3) was missing)
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 085033 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6184
abstract: We revisit the photon polarization tensor in a homogeneous external magnetic or electric field. The starting point of our considerations is the momentum space representation of the one-loop photon polarization tensor in the presence of a homogeneous electromagnetic field, known in terms of a double parameter integral. Our focus is on explicit analytical insights for both on- and off-the-light-cone dynamics in a wide range of well-specified physical parameter regimes, ranging from the perturbative to the manifestly nonperturbative strong field regime. The basic ideas underlying well-established approximations to the photon polarization tensor are carefully examined and critically reviewed. In particular, we systematically keep track of all contributions, both the ones to be neglected and those to be taken into account explicitly, to all orders. This allows us to study their ranges of applicability in a much more systematic and rigorous way. We point out the limitations of such approximations and manage to go beyond at several instances.

id: 1308.6260
title: Perpetual motion of a mobile impurity in a one-dimensional quantum gas
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033619 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6260
abstract: Consider an impurity particle injected in a degenerate one-dimensional gas of noninteracting fermions (or, equivalently, Tonks-Girardeau bosons) with some initial momentum $p_0$. We examine the infinite-time value of the momentum of the impurity, $p_\infty$, as a function of $p_0$. A lower bound on $|p_\infty(p_0)|$ is derived under fairly general conditions. The derivation, based on the existence of the lower edge of the spectrum of the host gas, does not resort to any approximations. The existence of such bound implies the perpetual motion of an impurity in a one-dimensional gas of noninteracting fermions or Tonks-Girardeau bosons at zero temperature. The bound has an especially simple and useful form when the interaction between the impurity and host particles is everywhere repulsive.

id: 1308.6268
title: Complementarity + Back-reaction is enough
authors: Lam Hui, I-Sheng Yang
comments: v2, 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 084011 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6268
abstract: We investigate a recent development of the black hole information problem, in which a practical paradox has been formulated to show that complementarity is insufficient. A crucial ingredient in this practical paradox is to distill information from the early Hawking radiation within the past lightcone of the black hole. By causality this action can back-react on the black hole. Taking this back-reaction into account, the paradox could be resolved without invoking any new physics beyond complementarity. This resolution requires a certain constraint on the S-matrix to be satisfied. Further insights into the S-matrix could potentially be obtained by effective-field-theory computations of the back-reaction on the nice slice.

id: 1308.6277
title: Gauge nonlocality in planar quantum-coherent systems
authors: K. Moulopoulos
comments: Revised and corrected (title slightly-changed, reference to disk geometry removed - restructured with Appendices), 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6277
abstract: It is shown that a system with quantum coherence can be nontrivially affected by adjacent magnetic or adjacent time-varying electric field regions, with this proximity (or remote) influence having a gauge origin. This is implicit (although overlooked) in numerous works on extended systems with inhomogeneous magnetic fields (with either conventional or Dirac materials) but is generally plagued with an apparent gauge ambiguity. The origin of this annoying feature is explained and it is shown how it can be theoretically removed, leading to macroscopic quantizations (quantized Dirac monopoles, integral quantum Hall effect, quantized magnetoelectric phenomena in topological insulators). Apart however from serving as a theoretical probe of macroscopic quantizations, there are cases (experimental conditions, clarified here) when this "gauge nonlocality" does not really suffer from any ambiguity: an apparently innocent gauge transformation corresponds to real change in physics of a companion system in higher dimensionality, that leads to physical momentum transfers to our own system. This nonlocality, together with the associated "proximity" or remote effects are then real and lead to the remarkable possibility of inducing topological phenomena from outside our system (which always remains field-free and can even reside in simply-connected space). Specific procedures are then proposed to experimentally detect such types of nonlocal effects and exploit them for novel applications. General consequences in solid state physics (such as the first violation of Bloch theorem in a field-free quantum periodic system) are pointed out, and formal analogies with certain high energy physics phenomena (axions, {\theta}-vacua and some types of Gribov ambiguities), as well as with certain largely unexplored phenomena in mechanics and in thermodynamics, are noted.

id: 1308.6289
title: Indistinguishability of thermal and quantum fluctuations
authors: Sanved Kolekar, T. Padmanabhan
comments: v1. 4 pages, no figure, v2. minor clarification added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6289
abstract: The existence of Davies-Unruh temperature in a uniformly accelerated frame shows that quantum fluctuations of the inertial vacuum state appears as thermal fluctuations in the accelerated frame. Hence thermodynamic experiments cannot distinguish between phenomena occurring in a thermal bath of temperature T in the inertial frame from those in a frame accelerating through inertial vacuum with the acceleration $a=2\pi T$. We show that this indisguishability between quantum fluctuations and thermal fluctuations goes far beyond the fluctuations in the vacuum state. We show by an exact calculation, that the reduced density matrix for a uniformly accelerated observer when the quantum field is in a thermal state of temperature $T^\prime$ is symmetric between acceleration temperature $T = a/(2\pi)$ and the thermal bath temperature $T^\prime$. Thus thermal phenomena cannot distinguish whether (i) one is accelerating with $a = 2\pi T$ through a bath of temperature $T^\prime$ or (ii) accelerating with $a=2\pi T^\prime$ through a bath of temperature T. This shows that thermal and quantum fluctuations in an accelerated frame affect the observer in a symmetric manner. The implications are discussed.

id: 1308.6527
title: The effect of the Perdew-Zunger self-interaction correction to density functionals on the energetics of small molecules
authors: Simon Kl¨¹pfel, Peter Kl¨¹pfel, Hannes J¨®nsson
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, 5 tables
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 124102 (2012)
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6527
abstract: Self-consistent calculations using the Perdew-Zunger self-interaction correction (PZ-SIC) to local density and gradient dependent energy functionals are presented for the binding energy and equilibrium geometry of small molecules as well as energy barriers of reactions. The effect of the correction is to reduce binding energy and bond lengths and increase activation energy barriers when bond breaking is involved. The accuracy of the corrected functionals varies strongly, the correction to the binding energy being too weak for the local density approximation but too strong for the gradient dependent functionals considered. For the Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerhof (PBE) functional, a scaling of the PZ-SIC by one half gives improved results on average for both binding energy and bond lengths. The PZ-SIC does not necessarily give more accurate total energy, but it can result in a better cancellation of errors. An essential aspect of these calculations is the use of complex orbitals. A restriction to real orbitals leads to less accurate results as was recently shown for atoms [S. Kl\"upfel, P. Kl\"upfel, and H. J\'onsson, Phys. Rev. A {84}, 050501 (2011)]. The molecular geometry of radicals can be strongly affected by PZ-SIC. An incorrect, non-linear structure of the \ce{C2H} radical predicted by PBE is corrected by PZ-SIC. The \ce{CH3} radical is correctly predicted to be planar when complex orbitals are used, while it is non-planar when the PZ-SIC calculation is restricted to real orbitals.

id: 1308.6533
title: Light-induced gauge fields for ultracold atoms
authors: N. Goldman, G. Juzeliunas, P. Ohberg, I. B. Spielman
comments: 114 pages, 28 figures. Close to the published version
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 77 126401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6533
abstract: Gauge fields are central in our modern understanding of physics at all scales. At the highest energy scales known, the microscopic universe is governed by particles interacting with each other through the exchange of gauge bosons. At the largest length scales, our universe is ruled by gravity, whose gauge structure suggests the existence of a particle - the graviton - that mediates the gravitational force. At the mesoscopic scale, solid-state systems are subjected to gauge fields of different nature: materials can be immersed in external electromagnetic fields, but they can also feature emerging gauge fields in their low-energy description. In this review, we focus on another kind of gauge field: those engineered in systems of ultracold neutral atoms. In these setups, atoms are suitably coupled to laser fields that generate effective gauge potentials in their description. Neutral atoms "feeling" laser-induced gauge potentials can potentially mimic the behavior of an electron gas subjected to a magnetic field, but also, the interaction of elementary particles with non-Abelian gauge fields. Here, we review different realized and proposed techniques for creating gauge potentials - both Abelian and non-Abelian - in atomic systems and discuss their implication in the context of quantum simulation. While most of these setups concern the realization of background and classical gauge potentials, we conclude with more exotic proposals where these synthetic fields might be made dynamical, in view of simulating interacting gauge theories with cold atoms.

id: 1308.6702
title: Adversarial hypothesis testing and a quantum Stein's Lemma for restricted measurements
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Aram W. Harrow, James R. Lee, Yuval Peres
comments: 23 pages
journal: Proc. of 5th ITCS, pp. 183-194 (2014)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.6702
abstract: Recall the classical hypothesis testing setting with two convex sets of probability distributions P and Q. One receives either n i.i.d. samples from a distribution p in P or from a distribution q in Q and wants to decide from which set the points were sampled. It is known that the optimal exponential rate at which errors decrease can be achieved by a simple maximum-likelihood ratio test which does not depend on p or q, but only on the sets P and Q. We consider an adaptive generalization of this model where the choice of p in P and q in Q can change in each sample in some way that depends arbitrarily on the previous samples. In other words, in the k'th round, an adversary, having observed all the previous samples in rounds 1,...,k-1, chooses p_k in P and q_k in Q, with the goal of confusing the hypothesis test. We prove that even in this case, the optimal exponential error rate can be achieved by a simple maximum-likelihood test that depends only on P and Q. We then show that the adversarial model has applications in hypothesis testing for quantum states using restricted measurements. For example, it can be used to study the problem of distinguishing entangled states from the set of all separable states using only measurements that can be implemented with local operations and classical communication (LOCC). The basic idea is that in our setup, the deleterious effects of entanglement can be simulated by an adaptive classical adversary. We prove a quantum Stein's Lemma in this setting: In many circumstances, the optimal hypothesis testing rate is equal to an appropriate notion of quantum relative entropy between two states. In particular, our arguments yield an alternate proof of Li and Winter's recent strengthening of strong subadditivity for quantum relative entropy.

id: 1308.5680
title: Sudden and slow quenches into the antiferromagnetic phase of ultracold fermions
authors: M. Ojekhile, R. H?ppner, H. Moritz, L. Mathey
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, presented at CCDS 2012 (Ustron, Poland) and at the DPG march meeting 2013 (Hanover, Germany)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.5680
abstract: We propose a method to reach the antiferromagnetic state of two-dimensional Fermi gases trapped in optical lattices: Independent subsystems are prepared in suitable initial states and then connected by a sudden or slow quench of the tunneling between the subsystems. Examples of suitable low-entropy subsystems are double wells or plaquettes, which can be experimentally realized in Mott insulating shells using optical super-lattices. We estimate the effective temperature T* of the system after the quench by calculating the distribution of excitations created using the spin wave approximation in a Heisenberg model. We investigate the effect of an initial staggered magnetic field and find that for an optimal polarization of the initial state the effective temperature can be significantly reduced from T* approximately T_c at zero polarization to T*<0.65 T_c, where T_c is the crossover temperature to the antiferromagnetic state. The temperature can be further reduced by using a finite quench time. We also show that T* decreases logarithmically with the linear size of the subsystem.

id: 1308.1447
title: Possible violation of the optical theorem in LHC experiments
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: Shortened and improved, 10 pages, several typos corrected, invited talk at QTAP conference 2013 in Vaxjo Sweden to be published in Physica Scripta, not included sections of the first version, will be extended and published as a separate paper
journal: M.Kupczynski,Phys. Scr. T163 (2014) 014021 (6pp)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1447
abstract: The optical theorem allowing the determination of the total cross section for a hadron-hadron scattering from the imaginary part of the forward elastic scattering amplitude is believed to be an unavoidable consequence of the conservation of probability and of the unitary S matrix. This is a fundamental theorem which contains not directly measurable imaginary part of the forward elastic scattering amplitude. The impossibility of scattering phenomena without the elastic channel is considered to be a part of the quantum magic. However if one takes seriously the idea that the hadrons are extended particles one may define a unitary S matrix such that one cannot prove the optical theorem. Moreover data violating the optical theorem do exist but they are not conclusive due to the uncertainties related to the extrapolation of the differential elastic cross-section to the forward direction. These results were published several years ago but they were forgotten. In this paper we will recall these results in an understandable way and we will give the additional arguments why the optical theorem can be violated in high energy strong interaction scattering and why it should be tested and not simply used as a tool in LHC experiments.

id: 1308.1448
title: Spherically symmetric vacuum solutions arising from trace dynamics modifications to gravitation
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Fethi M. Ramazanoglu
comments: 34 pages. This is an expansion of the previous submission to include results obtained in collaboration with Fethi M. Ramazanoglu
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics D Vol. 24 No. 2 (2015) 1550011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.1448
abstract: We derive the equations governing static, spherically symmetric vacuum solutions to the Einstein equations, as modified by the frame-dependent effective action arising from trace dynamics. We give analytic and numerical results for the solutions of these equations, first in polar coordinates, and then in isotropic coordinates. General features of the static case are that (i) there is no horizon, since $g_{00}$ is non-vanishing for finite values of the polar radius, and only vanishes (in isotropic coordinates) at the internal singularity, (ii) the Ricci scalar $R$ vanishes identically, and (iii) there is a physical singularity at cosmological distances. The large distance singularity may be an artifact of the static restriction, since we find that the behavior at large distances is altered in a time-dependent solution using the Mc Vittie Ansatz.

