id: 1309.0168
title: Hyperentanglement purification and concentration assisted by diamond NV centers inside photonic crystal cavities
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, two columns
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10 (2013) 115201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0168
abstract: Hyperentanglement has attracted much attention for its fascinating applications in quantum communication. However, it is impossible to purify a pair of photon systems in a mixed hyperentangled state with errors in two degrees of freedom using linear optical elements only, far different from all the existing entanglement purification protocols in a degree of freedom (DOF) for quantum systems. Here, we investigate the possibility of purifying a spatial-polarization mixed hyperentangled Bell state with the errors in both the spatial mode and polarization DOFs, resorting to the nonlinear optics of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in a diamond embedded in a photonic crystal cavity coupled to a waveguide. We present the first hyperentanglement purification protocol for purifying a pair of two-photon systems in a mixed hyperentangled Bell state with the errors in two DOFs. Besides, we propose an efficient hyperentanglement concentration protocol for a partially hyperentangled Bell pure state, which has the maximal success probability in principle. These two protocols are useful in long-distance quantum communication with hyperentanglement

id: 1309.2827
title: Geometrical aspects of quantum walks on random two-dimensional structures
authors: Anastasiia Anishchenko, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2827
abstract: We study the transport properties of continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) over finite two-dimensional structures with a given number of randomly placed bonds and with different aspect ratios (AR). Here, we focus on the transport from, say, the left side to the right side of the structure where absorbing sites are placed. We do so by analyzing the long-time average of the survival probability of CTQW. We compare the results to the classical continuous-time random walk case (CTRW). For small AR (landscape configurations) we observe only small differences between the quantum and the classical transport properties, i.e., roughly the same number of bonds is needed to facilitate the transport. However, with increasing AR (portrait configurations) a much larger number of bonds is needed in the CTQW case than in the CTRW case. While for CTRW the number of bonds needed decreases when going from small AR to large AR, for CTRW this number is large for small AR, has a minimum for the square configuration, and increases again for increasing AR. We corroborate our findings for large AR by showing that the corresponding quantum eigenstates are strongly localized in situations in which the transport is facilitated in the CTRW case.

id: 1309.3054
title: The stationary measure of a space-inhomogeneous quantum walk on the line
authors: Takako Endo, Norio Konno
comments: 15 pages, the name was revised from Watanabe to Endo for marriage, the order of author's names was also changed
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal, Vol. 60, 33-47 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3054
abstract: We study a discrete-time quantum walk (QW) on the line with a single phase at the origin which was introduced and studied by Wojcik et al.[1]. We call the model "Wojcik model" here. Konno et al.[2] investigated other types of QWs with one defect at the origin. They presented a method which gives the stationary measure corresponding to localization for the QWs by use of the generating functions splitted in positive and negative parts respectively. In this paper, we call the method "the splitted generating function method (the SGF method)". To clarify in detail which QW is appropriate for the method in the case of study is one of the important challenges to investigate localization properties for various QWs. As for the Wojcik model, we solve the eigenvalue problem by the SGF method and our results agree with Ref.[1]. From the solution of the problem, we derive a stationary measure with an exponential decay for the position. The explicit expression for the stationary measure is symmetric for the origin and ensures localization depending on the initial coin state.

id: 1309.3911
title: Two-component Dirac-like Hamiltonian for generating quantum walk on one-, two- and three-dimensional lattices
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures ; Published version ; It includes some parts of arxiv:1103.2704
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2829 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3911
abstract: From the unitary operator used for implementing two-state discrete-time quantum walk on one-, two- and three- dimensional lattice we obtain a two-component Dirac-like Hamiltonian. In particular, using different pairs of Pauli basis as position translation states we obtain three different form of Hamiltonians for evolution on one-dimensional lattice. We extend this to two- and three-dimensional lattices using different Pauli basis states as position translation states for each dimension and show that the external coin operation, which is necessary for one-dimensional walk is not a necessary requirement for a walk on higher dimensions but can serve as an additional resource to control the dynamics. The two-component Hamiltonian we present here for quantum walk on different lattices can serve as a general framework to simulate, control, and study the dynamics of quantum systems governed by Dirac-like Hamiltonian.

id: 1309.4923
title: Quantum Walks in artificial electric and gravitational Fields
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Marc Brachet, Fabrice Debbasch
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Physica A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.5821
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4923
abstract: The continuous limit of quantum walks (QWs) on the line is revisited through a recently developed method. In all cases but one, the limit coincides with the dynamics of a Dirac fermion coupled to an artificial electric and/or relativistic gravitational field. All results are carefully discussed and illustrated by numerical simulations.

id: 1309.5253
title: Quantum walks on embedded hypercubes
authors: Adi Makmal, Manran Zhu, Daniel Manzano, Markus Tiersch, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5253
abstract: It has been proved by Kempe that discrete quantum walks on the hypercube (HC) hit exponentially faster than the classical analog. The same was also observed numerically by Krovi and Brun for a slightly different property, namely, the expected hitting time. Yet, to what extent this striking result survives in more general graphs, is to date an open question. Here we tackle this question by studying the expected hitting time for quantum walks on HCs that are embedded into larger symmetric structures. By performing numerical simulations of the discrete quantum walk and deriving a general expression for the classical hitting time, we observe an exponentially increasing gap between the expected classical and quantum hitting times, not only for walks on the bare HC, but also for a large family of embedded HCs. This suggests that the quantum speedup is stable with respect to such embeddings.

id: 1309.6116
title: Optimal parallel quantum query algorithms
authors: Stacey Jeffery, Frederic Magniez, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 19 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6116
abstract: We study the complexity of quantum query algorithms that make p queries in parallel in each timestep. This model is in part motivated by the fact that decoherence times of qubits are typically small, so it makes sense to parallelize quantum algorithms as much as possible. We show tight bounds for a number of problems, specifically Theta((n/p)^{2/3}) p-parallel queries for element distinctness and Theta((n/p)^{k/(k+1)} for k-sum. Our upper bounds are obtained by parallelized quantum walk algorithms, and our lower bounds are based on a relatively small modification of the adversary lower bound method, combined with recent results of Belovs et al. on learning graphs. We also prove some general bounds, in particular that quantum and classical p-parallel complexity are polynomially related for all total functions f when p is small compared to f's block sensitivity.

id: 1309.6837
title: Experimental realisation of a delayed-choice quantum walk
authors: Youn-Chang Jeong, Carlo Di Franco, Hyang-Tag Lim, M. S. Kim, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 8 pages, 5 figure
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 2471 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6837
abstract: Many paradoxes of quantum mechanics come from the fact that a quantum system can possess different features at the same time, such as in wave-particle duality or quantum superposition. In recent delayed-choice experiments, a quantum mechanical system can be observed to manifest one feature such as the wave or particle nature, depending on the final measurement setup, which is chosen after the system itself has already entered the measuring device; hence its behaviour is not predetermined. Here, we adapt this paradigmatic scheme to multi-dimensional quantum walks. In our experiment, the way in which a photon interferes with itself in a strongly non-trivial pattern depends on its polarisation, that is determined after the photon has already been detected. Multi-dimensional quantum walks are a very powerful tool for simulating the behaviour of complex quantum systems, due to their versatility. This is the first experiment realising a multi-dimensional quantum walk with a single-photon source and we present also the first experimental simulation of the Grover walk, a model that can be used to implement the Grover quantum search algorithm.

id: 1309.7460
title: BosonSampling Is Far From Uniform
authors: Scott Aaronson, Alex Arkhipov
comments: 41 pages, 2 figures, clarified that Brandao's observation is only nontrivial if the mockup distribution has large entropy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7460
abstract: BosonSampling, which we proposed three years ago, is a scheme for using linear-optical networks to solve sampling problems that appear to be intractable for a classical computer. In arXiv:1306.3995, Gogolin et al. claimed that even an ideal BosonSampling device's output would be "operationally indistinguishable" from a uniform random outcome, at least "without detailed a priori knowledge"; or at any rate, that telling the two apart might itself be a hard problem. We first answer these claims---explaining why the first is based on a definition of "a priori knowledge" so strange that, were it adopted, almost no quantum algorithm could be distinguished from a pure random-number source; while the second is neither new nor a practical obstacle to interesting BosonSampling experiments. However, we then go further, and address some interesting research questions inspired by Gogolin et al.'s mistaken arguments. We prove that, with high probability over a Haar-random matrix A, the BosonSampling distribution induced by A is far from the uniform distribution in total variation distance. More surprisingly, and directly counter to Gogolin et al., we give an efficient algorithm that distinguishes these two distributions with constant bias. Finally, we offer three "bonus" results about BosonSampling. First, we report an observation of Fernando Brandao: that one can efficiently sample a distribution that has large entropy and that's indistinguishable from a BosonSampling distribution by any circuit of fixed polynomial size. Second, we show that BosonSampling distributions can be efficiently distinguished from uniform even with photon losses and for general initial states. Third, we offer the simplest known proof that FermionSampling is solvable in classical polynomial time, and we reuse techniques from our BosonSampling analysis to characterize random FermionSampling distributions.

id: 1309.7773
title: Decoupled Quantum Walks, models of the Klein-Gordon and wave equations
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini
comments: 
journal: EPL 104, 60004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7773
abstract: Decoupling a vectorial PDE consists in solving the system for each component, thereby obtaining scalar PDEs that prescribe the evolution of each component independently. We present a general approach to decoupling of Quantum Walks, again defined as a procedure to obtain an evolution law for each scalar component of the QW, in such a way that it does not depend on the other components. In particular, the method is applied to show the relation between the Dirac (or Weyl) Quantum Walk in three space dimensions with (or without) mass term, and the Klein-Gordon (or wave) equation.

id: 1309.7835
title: Stability of point spectrum for three-state quantum walks on a line
authors: M. Stefanak, I. Bezdekova, I. Jex, S. M. Barnett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7835
abstract: Evolution operators of certain quantum walks possess, apart from the continuous part, also point spectrum. The existence of eigenvalues and the corresponding stationary states lead to partial trapping of the walker in the vicinity of the origin. We analyze the stability of this feature for three-state quantum walks on a line subject to homogenous coin deformations. We find two classes of coin operators that preserve the point spectrum. These new classes of coins are generalizations of coins found previously by different methods and shed light on the rich spectrum of coins that can drive discrete-time quantum walks.

