id: 1309.0005
title: Experimental verification of quantum computations
authors: Stefanie Barz, Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Elham Kashefi, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 727-731 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0005
abstract: Quantum computers are expected to offer substantial speedups over their classical counterparts and to solve problems that are intractable for classical computers. Beyond such practical significance, the concept of quantum computation opens up new fundamental questions, among them the issue whether or not quantum computations can be certified by entities that are inherently unable to compute the results themselves. Here we present the first experimental verification of quantum computations. We show, in theory and in experiment, how a verifier with minimal quantum resources can test a significantly more powerful quantum computer. The new verification protocol introduced in this work utilizes the framework of blind quantum computing and is independent of the experimental quantum-computation platform used. In our scheme, the verifier is only required to generate single qubits and transmit them to the quantum computer. We experimentally demonstrate this protocol using four photonic qubits and show how the verifier can test the computer's ability to perform measurement-based quantum computations.

id: 1309.0023
title: Arrays of open, independently tunable microcavities
authors: C. Derntl, M. Schneider, J. Schalko, A. Bittner, J. Schmiedmayer, U. Schmid, M. Trupke
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22 Issue 18, pp.22111-22120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0023
abstract: Optical cavities are of central importance in numerous areas of physics, including precision measurement, cavity optomechanics and cavity quantum electrodynamics. The miniaturisation and scaling to large numbers of sites is of interest for many of these applications, in particular for quantum computation and simulation. Here we present the first scaled microcavity system which enables the creation of large numbers of highly uniform, tunable light-matter interfaces using ions, neutral atoms or solid-state qubits. The microcavities are created by means of silicon micro-fabrication, are coupled directly to optical fibres and can be independently tuned to the chosen frequency, paving the way for arbitrarily large networks of optical microcavities.

id: 1309.0069
title: Ballistic quantum state transfer in spin chains: general theory for quasi-free models and arbitrary initial states
authors: Leonardo Banchi
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures. Extracted from PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0069
abstract: Ballistic quantum-information transfer through spin chains is based on the idea of making the spin dynamics ruled by collective excitations with linear dispersion relation. Unlike perfect state transfer schemes, a ballistic transmission requires only a minimal engineering of the interactions; in fact, for most practical purposes, the optimization of the couplings to the ends of the chain is sufficient to obtain an almost perfect transmission. In this work we review different ballistic quantum-state transfer protocols based on the dynamics of quasi-free spin chains, and further generalize them both at zero and finite temperature. In particular, besides presenting novel analytical results for XX, XY, and Ising spin models, it is shown how, via a complete control on the first and last two qubits of the chain, destructive thermal effects can be cancelled, leading to a high-quality state transmission irrespective of the temperature.

id: 1309.0104
title: Fractional revivals of superposed coherent states
authors: M. Rohith, C. Sudheesh
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 045504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0104
abstract: We study the dynamics of superposed wave packets in a specific nonlinear Hamiltonian which models the wave packet propagation in Kerr-like media and the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates. We show the dependence of initial wave packet superposition on fractional revival times using analysis based on the expectation values, R\'{e}nyi entropy and Wigner function. We also show how the selective identification of fractional revivals using moments of appropriate observables depends on the number of wave packets present in the initial state.

id: 1309.0117
title: Bipartite entanglement induced by classically-constrained quantum dissipative dynamics
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. A 392, 4638 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0117
abstract: The properties of some complex many body systems can be modeled by introducing in the dissipative dynamics of each single component a set of kinetic constraints that depend on the state of the neighbor systems. Here, we characterize this kind of dynamics for two quantum systems whose independent dissipative evolutions are defined by a Lindblad equation. The constraints are introduced through a set of projectors that restrict the action of each single dissipative Lindblad channel to the state of the other system. Conditions that guaranty a classical interpretation of the kinetic constraints are found. The generation and evolution of entanglement is studied for two optical qubits systems. Classically constrained dissipation leads to a stationary state whose degree of entanglement depends on the initial state. Nevertheless, independently of the initial conditions, a maximal entangled state is generated when both systems are subjected to the action of local Hamiltonian fields that do not commutate with the constraints. The underlying physical mechanism is analyzed in detail.

id: 1309.0118
title: Non-Markovian quantum jumps from measurements in bipartite Markovian dynamics
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012124 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0118
abstract: The quantum jump approach allows to characterize the stochastic dynamics associated to an open quantum system submitted to a continuous measurement action. In this paper we show that this formalism can consistently be extended to non-Markovian system dynamics. The results rely in studying a measurement process performed on a bipartite arrangement characterized by a Markovian Lindblad evolution. Both a renewal and non-renewal extensions are found. The general structure of non-local master equations that admit an unravelling in terms of the corresponding non-Markovian trajectories are also found. Studying a two-level system dynamics, it is demonstrated that non-Markovian effects such as an environment-to-system flow of information may be present in the ensemble dynamics.

id: 1309.0122
title: Markovian embedding of non-Markovian quantum collisional models
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0122
abstract: A wide class of non-Markovian completely positive master equations can be formulated on the basis of quantum collisional models. In this phenomenological approach the dynamics of an open quantum system is modeled through an ensemble of stochastic realizations that consist in the application at random times of a (collisional) completely positive transformation over the system state. In this paper, we demonstrate that these kinds of models can be embedded in bipartite Markovian Lindblad dynamics consisting of the system of interest and an auxiliary one. In contrast with phenomenological formulations, here the stochastic ensemble dynamics an the inter-event time interval statistics are obtained from a quantum measurement theory after assuming that the auxiliary system is continuously monitored in time. Models where the system inter-collisional dynamics is non-Markovian [B. Vacchini, Phys. Rev. A 87, 030101(R) (2013)] are also obtained from the present approach. The formalism is exemplified through bipartite dynamics that leads to non-Markovian system effects such as an environment-to-system back flow of information.

id: 1309.0132
title: Rovelli' s relational quantum mechanics, monism and quantum becoming
authors: Mauro Dorato
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0132
abstract: In this paper I present and defend Rovelli's relation quantum mechanics from some foreseeable objections, so as to clarify its philosophical implications vis a vis rival interpretations. In particular I ask whether RQM presupposes a hidden recourse to both a duality of evolutions and of ontology (the relationality of quantum world and the intrinsicness of the classical world, which in the limit must be recovered from the former). I then concentrate on the pluralistic, antimonistic metaphysical consequences of the theory, due to the impossibility of assigning a state to the quantum universe. Finally, in the last section I note interesting consequences of RQM with respect to the possibility of defining a local, quantum relativistic becoming (in flat spacetimes).Given the difficulties of having the cosmic form of becoming that would be appropriate for priority monism, RQM seems to present an important advantage with respect to monistic views, at least as far as the possibility of explaining our experience of time is concerned.

id: 1309.0140
title: Position eigenstates via application of an operator on the vacuum
authors: H¨¦ctor Manuel Moya-Cessa, Francisco Soto Eguibar
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0140
abstract: The squeezed states are states of minimum uncertainty, but unlike the coherent states, in which the uncertainty in the position and the momentum are the same, these allow to reduce the uncertainty, either in the position or in the momentum, while maintaining the principle of uncertainty in its minimum. It seems that this property of the squeezed states would allow you to get the position eigenstates as a limit case of them, doing null the uncertainty in the position and infinite at the momentum. However, there are two equivalent ways to define the squeezed states, which lead to different expressions for the limit states. In this work, we analyze these two definitions of the squeezed states and show the advantages and disadvantages of using such definition to find the position eigenstates. With this idea in mind, but leaving aside the definitions of the squeezed states, we find an operator applied to the vacuum that gives us the position eigenstates. We also analyze some properties of the squeezed states, based on the new expressions obtained for the eigenstates of the position.

id: 1309.0168
title: Hyperentanglement purification and concentration assisted by diamond NV centers inside photonic crystal cavities
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, two columns
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10 (2013) 115201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0168
abstract: Hyperentanglement has attracted much attention for its fascinating applications in quantum communication. However, it is impossible to purify a pair of photon systems in a mixed hyperentangled state with errors in two degrees of freedom using linear optical elements only, far different from all the existing entanglement purification protocols in a degree of freedom (DOF) for quantum systems. Here, we investigate the possibility of purifying a spatial-polarization mixed hyperentangled Bell state with the errors in both the spatial mode and polarization DOFs, resorting to the nonlinear optics of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in a diamond embedded in a photonic crystal cavity coupled to a waveguide. We present the first hyperentanglement purification protocol for purifying a pair of two-photon systems in a mixed hyperentangled Bell state with the errors in two DOFs. Besides, we propose an efficient hyperentanglement concentration protocol for a partially hyperentangled Bell pure state, which has the maximal success probability in principle. These two protocols are useful in long-distance quantum communication with hyperentanglement

id: 1309.0169
title: Hyper-parallel photonic quantum computation with coupled quantum dots
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, one column
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4623 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0169
abstract: It is well known that a parallel quantum computer is more powerful than a classical one. So far, there are some important works about the construction of universal quantum logic gates, the key elements in quantum computation. However, they are focused on operating on one degree of freedom (DOF) of quantum systems. Here, we investigate the possibility of achieving scalable hyper-parallel quantum computation based on two DOFs of photon systems. We construct a deterministic hyper-controlled-not (hyper-CNOT) gate operating on both the spatial-mode and the polarization DOFs of a two-photon system simultaneously, by exploiting the giant optical circular birefringence induced by quantum-dot spins in double-sided optical microcavities as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). This hyper-CNOT gate is implemented by manipulating the four qubits in the two DOFs of a two-photon system without auxiliary spatial modes or polarization modes. It reduces the operation time and the resources consumed in quantum information processing, and it is more robust against the photonic dissipation noise, compared with the integration of several cascaded CNOT gates in one DOF.

id: 1309.0198
title: Reducing intrinsic decoherence in a superconducting circuit by quantum error detection
authors: Y. P. Zhong, Z. L. Wang, John M. Martinis, A. N. Cleland, A. N. Korotkov, H. Wang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, and 1 table including Supplementary Information
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3135 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0198
abstract: A fundamental challenge for quantum information processing is reducing the impact of environmentally-induced errors. Quantum error detection (QED) provides one approach to handling such errors, in which errors are rejected when they are detected. Here we demonstrate a QED protocol based on the idea of quantum un-collapsing, using this protocol to suppress energy relaxation due to the environment in a three-qubit superconducting circuit. We encode quantum information in a target qubit, and use the other two qubits to detect and reject errors caused by energy relaxation. This protocol improves the storage time of a quantum state by a factor of roughly three, at the cost of a reduced probability of success. This constitutes the first experimental demonstration of an algorithm-based improvement in the lifetime of a quantum state stored in a qubit.

id: 1309.0274
title: Robust, scalable Hong-Ou-Mandel manifolds in quantum optical ring resonators
authors: Edwin E. Hach III, Stefan F. Preble, Ali W. Elshaari, Paul M. Alsing, Michael L. Fanto
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043805 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0274
abstract: Quantum Information Processing, from cryptography to computation, based upon linear quantum optical circuit elements relies heavily on the ability offered by the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) Effect to route photons from separate input modes into one of two common output modes. Specifically, the HOM Effect accomplishes the path entanglement of two photons at a time such that no coincidences are observed in the output modes of a system exhibiting the effect. In this paper, we prove in principle that a significant increase in the robustness of the HOM Effect can be accomplished in a scalable, readily manufactured nanophotonic system comprised of two waveguides coupled, on chip, to a ring resonator. We show that by operating such a device properly, one can conditionally bunch coincident input photons in a way that is far more robust and controllable than possible with an ordinary balanced beam splitter.

id: 1309.0299
title: Macroscopic quantum behaviour of periodic quantum systems
authors: A. Mart¨ªn-Ruiz, J. Bernal, Adri¨¢n Carbajal-Dom¨ªnguez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0299
abstract: In this paper we introduce a simple procedure for computing the macroscopic quantum behaviour of periodic quantum systems in the high energy regime. The macroscopic quantum coherence is ascribed to a one-particle state, not to a condensate of a many-particle system; and we are referring to a system of high energy but with few degrees of freedom. We show that, in the first order of approximation, the quantum probability distributions converge to its classical counterparts in a clear fashion, and that the interference effects are strongly suppressed. The harmonic oscillator provides a testing ground for these ideas and yields excellent results.

id: 1309.0308
title: Bound states of the one-dimensional Dirac equation for scalar and vector double square-well potentials
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 26 pages, 13 figures. Augmented text
journal: Physia E 59 (2014) 192-201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0308
abstract: We have analytically studied bound states of the one-dimensional Dirac equation for scalar and vector double square-well potentials (DSPs), by using the transfer-matrix method. Detailed numerical calculations of the eigenvalue, wave function and density probability have been performed for the three cases: (1) vector DSP only, (2) scalar DSP only, and (3) scalar and vector DSPs with equal magnitudes. We discuss the difference and similarity among results of the cases (1)-(3) in the Dirac equation and that in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Motion of a wave packet is calculated for a study on quantum tunneling through the central barrier in the DSP.

id: 1309.0312
title: Secure communication with choice of measurement
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 2figures
journal: European Physical Journal D (2014) Volume 68, Issue 10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0312
abstract: It has been found that the signal can be encoded in the choice of the measurement basis of one of the communicating parties, while the outcomes of the measurement are irrelevant for the communication and therefore may be discarded. The proposed protocol was novel and interesting, but it wasn't secure for communication. The eavesdropper can obtain the information without being detected. We utilize the outcomes of the measurement to propose a secure communication protocol. And the error correction code is used to increase the fault tolerance in the noise.

id: 1309.0338
title: Non-classicality of optomechanical devices in experimentally realistic operating regimes
authors: G. Vacanti, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma, M. S. Kim, V. Vedral
comments: 11 pages, 9 Figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 012851 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0338
abstract: Enforcing a non-classical behavior in mesoscopic systems is important for the study of the boundaries between quantum and classical world. Recent experiments have shown that optomechanical devices are promising candidates to pursue such investigations. Here we consider two different setups where the indirect coupling between a three-level atom and the movable mirrors of a cavity is achieved. The resulting dynamics is able to conditionally prepare a non-classical state of the mirrors by means of projective measurements operated over a pure state of the atomic system. The non-classical features are persistent against incoherent thermal preparation of the mechanical systems and their dissipative dynamics.

id: 1309.0391
title: Quantum chaos in an ultra-strongly coupled bosonic junction
authors: Uta Naether, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Juan Jos¨¦ Mazo, David Zueco
comments: 5+2 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. Lett. 112, 074101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0391
abstract: The classical and quantum dynamics of two ultra-strongly coupled and weakly nonlinear resonators cannot be explained using the Discrete Nonlinear Schr\"odinger Equation or the Bose-Hubbard model, respectively. Instead, a model beyond the Rotating Wave Approximation must be studied. In the classical limit this model is not integrable and becomes chaotic for a finite window of parameters. For the quantum dimer we find corresponding regions of stability and chaos. The more striking consequence for both classical and quantum chaos is that the tunneling time between the sites becomes unpredictable. These results, including the transition to chaos, can be tested in experiments with superconducting microwave resonators.

id: 1309.0398
title: Canonical quantization of electromagnetism in spatially dispersive media
authors: S.A.R. Horsley, T.G. Philbin
comments: 16 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 013030
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0398
abstract: We find the action that describes the electromagnetic field in a spatially dispersive, homogeneous medium. This theory is quantized and the Hamiltonian is diagonalized in terms of a continuum of normal modes. It is found that the introduction of nonlocal response in the medium automatically regulates some previously divergent results, and we calculate a finite value for the intensity of the electromagnetic field at a fixed frequency within a homogeneous medium. To conclude we discuss the potential importance of spatial dispersion in taming the divergences that arise in calculations of Casimir-type effects.

id: 1309.0399
title: Nonstrict inequality for Schmidt coefficients of three-qubit states
authors: Levon Tamaryan
comments: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0399
abstract: Generalized Schmidt decomposition of pure three-qubit states has four positive and one complex coefficients. In contrast to the bipartite case, they are not arbitrary and the largest Schmidt coefficient restricts severely other coefficients. We derive a nonstrict inequality between three-qubit Schmidt coefficients, where the largest coefficient defines the least upper bound for the three nondiagonal coefficients or, equivalently, the three nondiagonal coefficients together define the greatest lower bound for the largest coefficient. In addition, we show the existence of another inequality which should establish an upper bound for the remaining Schmidt coefficient.

id: 1309.0400
title: Time and probability: From classical mechanics to relativistic Bohmian mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 53 pages, 2 figures, new references, some statements sharpened
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0400
abstract: Bohmian mechanics can be generalized to a relativistic theory without preferred foliation, with a price of introducing a puzzling concept of spacetime probability conserved in a scalar time. We explain how analogous concept appears naturally in classical statistical mechanics of relativistic particles, with scalar time being identified with the proper time along particle trajectories. The conceptual understanding of relativistic Bohmian mechanics is significantly enriched by this classical insight. In particular, the analogy between classical and Bohmian mechanics suggests the interpretation of Bohmian scalar time as a quantum proper time different from the classical one, the two being related by a nonlocal scale factor calculated from the wave function. In many cases of practical interest, including the macroscopic measuring apparatus, the fundamental spacetime probability explains the more familiar space probability as an emergent approximate description. Requiring that the quantum proper time in the classical limit should reduce to the classical proper time, we propose that only massive particles have Bohmian trajectories. An analysis of the macroscopic measuring apparatus made up of massive particles restores agreement with the predictions of standard quantum theory.

id: 1309.0410
title: Deterministic CNOT gate and entanglement swapping for photonic qubits using a quantum-dot spin in a double-sided optical microcavity
authors: Hong-Fu Wang, Ai-Dong Zhu, Shou Zhang, Kyu-Hwang Yeon
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures; to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 2870 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0410
abstract: We propose a deterministic and scalable scheme to construct a two-qubit controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate and realize entanglement swapping between photonic qubits using a quantum-dot (QD) spin in a double-sided optical microcavity. The scheme is based on spin selective photon reflection from the cavity and can be achieved in a nondestructive and heralded way. We assess the feasibility of the scheme and show that the scheme can work in both the weak coupling and the strong coupling regimes. The scheme opens promising perspectives for long-distance photonic quantum communication and distributed quantum information processing.

id: 1309.0421
title: Tapered fiber coupling of single photons emitted by a deterministically positioned single nitrogen vacancy center
authors: Lars Liebermeister, Fabian Petersen, Asmus v. M¨¹nchow, Daniel Burchardt, Juliane Hermelbracht, Toshiyuki Tashima, Andreas W. Schell, Oliver Benson, Thomas Meinhardt, Anke Krueger, Ariane Stiebeiner, Arno Rauschenbeutel, Harald Weinfurter, Markus Weber
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 031101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0421
abstract: A diamond nano-crystal hosting a single nitrogen vacancy (NV) center is optically selected with a confocal scanning microscope and positioned deterministically onto the subwavelength-diameter waist of a tapered optical fiber (TOF) with the help of an atomic force microscope. Based on this nano-manipulation technique we experimentally demonstrate the evanescent coupling of single fluorescence photons emitted by a single NV-center to the guided mode of the TOF. By comparing photon count rates of the fiber-guided and the free-space modes and with the help of numerical FDTD simulations we determine a lower and upper bound for the coupling efficiency of (9.5+/-0.6)% and (10.4+/-0.7)%, respectively. Our results are a promising starting point for future integration of single photon sources into photonic quantum networks and applications in quantum information science.

id: 1309.0424
title: Spontaneous symmetry breaking in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. Scherer, B. L¨¹cke, O. Topic, G. Gebreyesus, F. Deuretzbacher, W. Ertmer, L. Santos, C. Klempt, J.J. Arlt
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053624 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0424
abstract: We present an analytical model for the theoretical analysis of spin dynamics and spontaneous symmetry breaking in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). This allows for an excellent intuitive understanding of the processes and provides good quantitative agreement with experimental results in Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 135302 (2010). It is shown that the dynamics of a spinor BEC initially prepared in an unstable Zeeman state mF=0 (|0>) can be understood by approximating the effective trapping potential for the state |+-1> with a cylindrical box potential. The resonances in the creation efficiency of these atom pairs can be traced back to excitation modes of this confinement. The understanding of these excitation modes allows for a detailed characterization of the symmetry breaking mechanism, showing how a twofold spontaneous breaking of spatial and spin symmetry can occur. In addition a detailed account of the experimental methods for the preparation and analysis of spinor quantum gases is given.

id: 1309.0429
title: Constant-Space Quantum Interactive Proofs Against Multiple Provers
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: A4, 10pt, 10 pages. The results of this paper were first reported at the 4th Central European Quantum Information Processing Workshop (CEQIS 2007), June 24--27, 2007, Valtice, Czech Republic
journal: Information Processing Letters, Vol.114, pp.611-619, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0429
abstract: We present upper and lower bounds of the computational complexity of the two-way communication model of multiple-prover quantum interactive proof systems whose verifiers are limited to measure-many two-way quantum finite automata. We prove that (i) the languages recognized by those multiple-prover systems running in expected polynomial time are exactly the ones in NEXP, the nondeterministic exponential-time complexity class, (ii) if we further require verifiers to be one-way quantum automata, then their associated proof systems recognize context-free languages but not beyond languages in NE, the nondeterministic linear exponential-time complexity class, and moreover, (iii) when no time bound is imposed, the proof systems become as powerful as Turing machines. The first two results answer affirmatively an open question, posed by Nishimura and Yamakami [J. Comput. System Sci, 75, pp.255--269, 2009], of whether multiple-prover quantum interactive proof systems are more powerful than single-prover ones. Our proofs are simple and intuitive, although they heavily rely on an earlier result on multiple-prover interactive proof systems of Feige and Shamir [J. Comput. System Sci., 44, pp.259--271, 1992].

id: 1309.0436
title: A Non-Interactive Quantum Bit Commitment Scheme that Exploits the Computational Hardness of Quantum State Distinction
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: A4, 10pt, 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0436
abstract: We propose an efficient quantum protocol performing quantum bit commitment, which is a simple cryptographic primitive involved with two parties, called a committer and a verifier. Our protocol is non-interactive, uses no supplemental shared information, and achieves computational concealing and statistical binding under a natural complexity-theoretical assumption. An earlier protocol in the literature relies on the existence of an efficient quantum one-way function. Our protocol, on the contrary, exploits a seemingly weaker assumption on computational difficulty of distinguishing two specific ensembles of reduced quantum states. This assumption is guaranteed by, for example, computational hardness of solving the graph automorphism problem efficiently on a quantum computer.

id: 1309.0453
title: Creation of ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond by neutron and electron irradiation
authors: Tobias N?bauer, Kathrin Buczak, Andreas Angerer, Stefan Putz, Georg Steinhauser, Johanna Akbarzadeh, Herwig Peterlik, Johannes Majer, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Michael Trupke
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0453
abstract: We created dense ensembles of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV-) centers in diamond by neutron and electron irradiation for applications in hybrid quantum systems and magnetometry. We characterize fluorescence intensity, optical and coherence properties of the resulting defects by confocal microscopy, UV/Vis and FTIR spectroscopy, optically detected magnetic resonance and small angle X-ray scattering. We find the highest densities of NV- at neutron fluences on the order of 10^17 cm^-2 and electron doses of 10^18 cm^-2, with spin resonance linewidths of 6 MHz. Lower electron energies increase the ratio of centers in the desired negative charge state to those in the neutral one. Annealing at 900 {\deg}C during the irradiation reduces the spin resonance linewidth. Electron irradiation furthermore results in substantially higher optical transparency compared to neutron irradiation.

id: 1309.0471
title: Decoy state method for measurement device independent quantum key distribution with different intensities in only one basis
authors: Zong-Wen Yu, Yi-Heng Zhou, Xiang-bin Wang
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1308.5677
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0471
abstract: We show that the three-intensity protocol for measurement device independent quantum key distribution (MDI QKD) can be done with different light intensities in {\em only one} basis. Given the fact that the exact values yields of single-photon pairs in the $X$ and $Z$ bases must be the same, if we have lower bound of the value in one basis, we can also use this as the lower bound in another basis. Since in the existing set-up for MDI-QKD, the yield of sources in different bases are normally different, therefore our method can improve the key rate drastically if we choose to only use the lower bound of yield of single-photon pairs in the advantageous basis. Moreover, since our proposal here uses fewer intensities of light, the probability of intensity mismatch will be smaller than the existing protocols do. This will further improve the advantage of our method. The advantage of using Z basis or X basis of our method is studied and significant improvement of key rates are numerically demonstrated.

id: 1309.0478
title: Informational Approach to Identical Particles in Quantum Theory
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0478
abstract: A remarkable feature of quantum theory is that particles with identical intrinsic properties must be treated as indistinguishable if the theory is to give valid predictions. In the quantum formalism, indistinguishability is expressed via the symmetrization postulate, which restricts a system of identical particles to the set of symmetric states (`bosons') or the set of antisymmetric states (`fermions'). However, the physical basis and range of validity of the symmetrization postulate has not been established. A well-known topological derivation of the postulate implies that its validity depends on the dimensionality of the space in which the particles move. However, this derivation relies on the labeling of indistinguishable particles, a notion that cannot be justified on an informational basis. Here we show that the symmetrization postulate can be derived by strictly adhering to the informational requirement that particles which cannot be experimentally distinguished from one another are not labeled. Our key novel postulate is the operational indistinguishability postulate, which posits that the amplitude of a process involving several indistinguishable particles is determined by the amplitudes of all possible transitions of these particles when treated as distinguishable. The symmetrization postulate follows by requiring consistency with the rest of the quantum formalism. The derivation implies that the symmetrization postulate admits no natural variants. In particular, the possibility that identical particles generically exhibit anyonic behavior in two dimensions is excluded.

id: 1309.0538
title: Optical bistability in one dimensional doped photonic crystals with spontaneously generated coherence
authors: Shahnaz Aas, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecaplio?lu
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0538
abstract: We investigate optical bistability in a multilayer one-dimensional photonic crystal where the central layer is doped with $\Lambda$-type three level atoms. We take into account the influence of spontaneously generated coherence when the lower atomic levels are sufficiently close to each other, in which case Kerr-type nonlinear response of the atoms is enhanced. We calculate the propagation of a probe beam in the defect mode window using numerical nonlinear transfer matrix method. We find that Rabi frequency of a control field acting on the defect layer and the detuning of the probe field from the atomic resonance can be used to control the size and contrast of the hysteresis loop and the threshold of the optical bistability. In particular we find that, at the optimal spontaneously generated coherence, three orders of magnitude lower threshold can be achieved relative to the case without the coherence.

id: 1309.0555
title: Non-additivity in laser-illuminated many-atom systems
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Igor Mazets, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 2 figures
journal: Optics Letters 39, 3674 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0555
abstract: We show that atoms subject to laser radiation may form a non-additive many-body system on account of their long-range forces, when the atoms are trapped in the vicinity of a fiber with a Bragg grating. When the laser frequency is inside the grating's bandgap but very close to its edge, we find that the range and strength of the laser-induced interaction becomes substantially enhanced, due to the large density of states near the edge, while the competing process of scattering to the fiber is inhibited. The dynamics of the atomic positions in this system conforms to a prominent model of statistical physics which exhibits slow relaxation. This suggests the possibility of using laser-illuminated atoms to study the characteristics of non-additive systems.

id: 1309.0562
title: On structure-preserving transformations of the Ito generator matrix for model reduction of quantum feedback networks
authors: H.I. Nurdin, J.E. Gough
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 28 November 2012 vol. 370 no. 1979 5422-5436
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0562
abstract: Two standard operations of model reduction for quantum feedback networks, elimination of internal connections under the instantaneous feedback limit and adiabatic elimination of fast degrees of freedom, are cast as structure-preserving transformations of It\=o generator matrices. It is shown that the order in which they are applied is inconsequential.

id: 1309.0576
title: Robust Stability of Quantum Systems with Nonlinear Dynamic Uncertainties
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A shortened version is to appear in the proceedings of the 2013 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0576
abstract: This paper considers the problem of robust stability for a class of uncertain nonlinear quantum systems subject to unknown perturbations in the system Hamiltonian. The nominal system is a linear quantum system defined by a linear vector of coupling operators and a quadratic Hamiltonian. This paper extends previous results on the robust stability of nonlinear quantum systems to allow for quantum systems with dynamic uncertainties. These dynamic uncertainties are required to satisfy a certain quantum stochastic integral quadratic constraint. The robust stability condition is given in terms of a strict bounded real condition. This result is applied to the robust stability analysis of an optical parametric amplifier.

id: 1309.0578
title: Coherent-Classical Estimation for Quantum Linear Systems
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A version of this paper will appear in the Proceedings of the 2013 Australian Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0578
abstract: This paper introduces a problem of coherent-classical estimation for a class of linear quantum systems. In this problem, the estimator is a mixed quantum-classical system which produces a classical estimate of a system variable. The coherent-classical estimator may also involve coherent feedback. An example involving optical squeezers is given to illustrate the efficacy of this idea.

id: 1309.0590
title: The role of singular values in entanglement distillation and unambiguous state discrimination
authors: Raam Uzdin
comments: Version 2 contains a minor revision in the abstract and a few notational corrections in the text
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 165301. (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0590
abstract: Unambiguous (non-orthogonal) state discrimination (USD) has a fundamental importance in quantum information and quantum cryptography. Various aspects of two-state and multiple-state USD are studied here using singular value decomposition (SVD) of the evolution operator that describes a given state discriminating system. In particular, we relate the minimal angle between states to the ratio of the minimal and maximal singular values. This is supported by a simple geometrical picture in two-state USD. We apply our result to study what states can undergo entanglement distillation in a given system.

id: 1309.0610
title: Relativistic features and time delay of laser-induced tunnel-ionization
authors: Enderalp Yakaboylu, Michael Klaiber, Heiko Bauke, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 20 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063421 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0610
abstract: The electron dynamics in the classically forbidden region during relativistic tunnel-ionization is investigated. The classical forbidden region in the relativistic regime is identified by defining a gauge invariant total energy operator. Introducing position dependent energy levels inside the tunneling barrier, we demonstrate that the relativistic tunnel-ionization can be well described by a one-dimensional intuitive picture. This picture predicts that, in contrast to the well-known nonrelativistic regime, the ionized electron wave packet arises with a momentum shift along the laser's propagation direction. This is compatible with results from a strong field approximation calculation where the binding potential is assumed to be zero-ranged. Further, the tunneling time delay, stemming from Wigner's definition, is investigated for model configurations of tunneling and compared with results obtained from the exact propagator. By adapting Wigner's time delay definition to the ionization process, the tunneling time is investigated in the deep-tunneling and in the near-threshold-tunneling regimes. It is shown that while in the deep-tunneling regime signatures of the tunneling time delay are not measurable at remote distance, it is detectable, however, in the latter regime.

id: 1309.0613
title: Adiabatic passage in photon-echo quantum memories
authors: Gabor Demeter
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0613
abstract: Photon-echo based quantum memories use inhomogeneously broadened, optically thick ensembles of absorbers to store a weak optical signal and employ various protocols to rephase the atomic coherences for information retrieval. We study the application of two consecutive, frequency-chirped control pulses for coherence rephasing in an ensemble with a 'natural' inhomogeneous broadening. Although propagation effects distort the two control pulses differently, chirped pulses that drive adiabatic passage can rephase atomic coherences in an optically thick storage medium. Combined with spatial phase mismatching techniques to prevent primary echo emission, coherences can be rephased around the ground state to achieve secondary echo emission with close to unit efficiency. Potential advantages over similar schemes working with $\pi$-pulses include greater potential signal fidelity, reduced noise due to spontaneous emission and better capability for the storage of multiple memory channels.

id: 1309.0615
title: Diffractionless image propagation and frequency conversion via four-wave mixing exploiting the thermal motion of atoms
authors: L. Zhang, J. Evers
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013817 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0615
abstract: A setup to frequency-convert an arbitrary image encoded in the spatial profile of a probe field onto a signal field using four-wave mixing in a thermal atom vapor is proposed. The atomic motion is exploited to cancel diffraction of both signal and probe fields simultaneously. We show that an incoherent probe field can be used to enhance the transverse momentum bandwidth which can be propagated without diffraction, such that smaller structures with higher spatial resolution can be transmitted. It furthermore compensate linear absorption with non-linear gain, to improve the four-wave mixing performance since the propagation dynamics of the various field intensities is favorably modified.

id: 1309.0620
title: Photon detection operator and complementarity between electric detector and magnetic detector
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, To appear in the proceedings of the 20th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO2013)
journal: Physica Scripta T160, 014039 (4pp) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0620
abstract: It had been a long standing problem that there is no consistent definition of photon position operator nor photon number density in the context of quantum theory. In this paper we derive the photon detection operator, which defines location of photon absorption, by applying the theory of indirect measurement to quantum electrodynamics. It is shown that the photon detection probability depends on electric properties of a photon-absorbing atom, in particular, on both electric and magnetic dipole moments of the atom. An experiment is proposed, in which the complementarity of wave-particle nature of light will be tested. It is also discussed that the complementarity is related to the non-commutativity of the electric and the magnetic fields.

id: 1309.0621
title: Enhanced thermal stability of the toric code through coupling to a bosonic bath
authors: Fabio L. Pedrocchi, Adrian Hutter, James R. Wootton, Daniel Loss
comments: This manuscript has some overlap with arXiv:1209.5289. However, a different model is the focus of the current work. Since this model is exactly solvable, it allows a clearer demonstration of the principle behind our quantum memory proposal. v2: minor changes and additional reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0621
abstract: We propose and study a model of a quantum memory that features self-correcting properties and a lifetime growing arbitrarily with system size at non-zero temperature. This is achieved by locally coupling a 2D L x L toric code to a 3D bath of bosons hopping on a cubic lattice. When the stabilizer operators of the toric code are coupled to the displacement operator of the bosons, we solve the model exactly via a polaron transformation and show that the energy penalty to create anyons grows linearly with L. When the stabilizer operators of the toric code are coupled to the bosonic density operator, we use perturbation theory to show that the energy penalty for anyons scales with ln(L). For a given error model, these energy penalties lead to a lifetime of the stored quantum information growing respectively exponentially and polynomially with L. Furthermore, we show how to choose an appropriate coupling scheme in order to hinder the hopping of anyons (and not only their creation) with energy barriers that are of the same order as the anyon creation gaps. We argue that a toric code coupled to a 3D Heisenberg ferromagnet realizes our model in its low-energy sector. Finally, we discuss the delicate issue of the stability of topological order in the presence of perturbations. While we do not derive a rigorous proof of topological order, we present heuristic arguments suggesting that topological order remains intact when perturbative operators acting on the toric code spins are coupled to the bosonic environment.

id: 1309.0628
title: Beyond Adiabatic Elimination: Systematic Expansions
authors: I. L. Egusquiza
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0628
abstract: We restate the adiabatic elimination approximation as the first term in a singular perturbation expansion. We use the invariant manifold formalism for singular perturbations in dynamical systems to identify systematic improvements on adiabatic elimination, connecting with well established quantum mechanical perturbation methods. We prove convergence of the expansions when energy scales are well separated. We state and solve the problem of hermiticity of improved effective hamiltonians.

id: 1309.0656
title: Towards secure communication using intra-particle entanglement
authors: S. Adhikari, D. Home, A. S. Majumdar, A. K. Pan, Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. The present work is an extended version of arXiv:1101.0660 in the device-independent scenario. Accepted in Quantum Information and Processing
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc. 14, 1451 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0656
abstract: We explore the use of the resource of intra-particle entanglement for secure quantum key distribution in the device-independent scenario. By virtue of the local nature of such entanglement, Bell tests must be implemented locally, which leads to a natural decoupling of device errors from channel errors. We consider a side channel attack on the sender's state preparation device, for which the intra-particle-entanglement based scheme is shown to be more secure than the one that uses separable states. Of practical relevance is the fact that such entanglement can be easily generated using linear optics.

id: 1309.0712
title: Bell violation with entangled photons, free of the coincidence-time loophole
authors: Jan-?ke Larsson, Marissa Giustina, Johannes Kofler, Bernhard Wittmann, Rupert Ursin, Sven Ramelow
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032107, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0712
abstract: In a local realist world view, physical properties are defined prior to and independent of measurement, and no physical influence can propagate faster than the speed of light. Proper experimental violation of a Bell inequality would show that the world cannot be described within local realism. Such experiments usually require additional assumptions that make them vulnerable to a number of "loopholes." A recent experiment [Giustina et al, Nature, 2013] violated a Bell inequality without being vulnerable to the detection (or fair-sampling) loophole, therefore not needing the fair-sampling assumption. Here we analyze the more subtle coincidence-time loophole, and propose and prove the validity of two different methods of data analysis that avoid it. Both methods are general and can be used both for pulsed and continuous-wave experiments. We apply them to demonstrate that the experiment mentioned above violates local realism without being vulnerable to the coincidence-time loophole, therefore not needing the corresponding fair-coincidence assumption.

id: 1309.0715
title: On the quantization of the nonintegrable phase in electrodynamics
authors: Enderalp Yakaboylu, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0715
abstract: Using the fact that the nonintegrable phase factor can reformulate the gauge theory in terms of path dependent vector potentials, the quantization condition for the nonintegrable phase is investigated. It is shown that the path-dependent formalism can provide compact description of the flux quantization and the charge quantization at the existence of a magnetic monopole. Moreover, the path-dependent formalism gives suggestions for searching of the quantized flux in different configurations and for other possible reasons of the charge quantization. As an example, the developed formalism is employed for a (1+1) dimensional world, showing the relationship between the fundamental unit of the charge and the fine structure constant for this world.

id: 1309.0773
title: Quantum Weak Measurements and Cosmology
authors: Paul Davies
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0773
abstract: The indeterminism of quantum mechanics generally permits the independent specification of both an initial and a final condition on the state. Quantum pre-and-post-selection of states opens up a new, experimentally testable, sector of quantum mechanics, when combined with statistical averages of identical weak measurements. In this paper I apply the theory of weak quantum measurements combined with pre-and-post-selection to cosmology. Here, pre-selection means specifying the wave function of the universe or, in a popular semi-classical approximation, the initial quantum state of a subset of quantum fields propagating in a classical back-ground spacetime. The novel feature is post-selection: the additional specification of a condition on the quantum state in the far future. I discuss "natural" final conditions, and show how they may lead to potentially large and observable effects at the present cosmological epoch. I also discuss how pre-and-post-selected quantum contrast to the expectation value of the stress-energy-momentum tensor, resolving a vigorous debate from the 1970's. The paper thus provides a framework for computing large-scale cosmological effects arising from this new sector of quantum mechanics. A simple experimental test is proposed.

id: 1309.0784
title: Dynamics of entanglement in a dissipative Bose-Hubbard dimer
authors: Tadeusz Pudlik, Holger Hennig, D. Witthaut, David K. Campbell
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures. Published in Physical Review A. For supplemental materials, see this https URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0784
abstract: We study the connection between the semiclassical phase space of the Bose--Hubbard dimer and inherently quantum phenomena in this model, such as entanglement and dissipation-induced coherence. Near the semiclassical self-trapping fixed points, the dynamics of EPR entanglement and condensate fraction consists of beats among just three eigenstates. Since persistent EPR entangled states arise only in the neighborhood of these fixed points, our analysis explains essentially all of the entanglement dynamics in the system. We derive accurate analytical approximations by expanding about the strong-coupling limit; surprisingly, their realm of validity is nearly the entire parameter space for which the self-trapping fixed points exist. Finally, we show significant enhancement of entanglement can be produced by applying localized dissipation.

id: 1309.0791
title: Four-qubit pure states as fermionic states
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic, Markus Grassl, Bei Zeng
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0791
abstract: The embedding of the $n$-qubit space into the $n$-fermion space with $2n$ modes is a widely used method in studying various aspects of these systems. This simple mapping raises a crucial question: does the embedding preserve the entanglement structure? It is known that the answer is affirmative for $n=2$ and $n=3$. That is, under either local unitary (LU) operations or with respect to stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), there is a one-to-one correspondence between the 2- (or 3)-qubit orbits and the 2- (or 3)-fermion orbits with 4 (or 6) modes. However these results do not generalize as the mapping from the $n$-qubit orbits to the $n$-fermion orbits with $2n$ modes is no longer surjective for $n>3$. Here we consider the case of $n=4$. We show that surprisingly, the orbit mapping from qubits to fermions remains injective under SLOCC, and a similar result holds under LU for generic orbits. As a byproduct, we obtain a complete answer to the problem of SLOCC equivalence of pure 4-qubit states.

id: 1309.0792
title: Measurements according to Consistent Histories
authors: Elias Okon, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: 17 pages. Accepted in Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0792
abstract: We critically evaluate the treatment of the notion of measurement in the Consistent Histories approach to quantum mechanics. We find such a treatment unsatisfactory because it relies, often implicitly, on elements external to those provided by the formalism. In particular, we note that, in order for the formalism to be informative when dealing with measurement scenarios, one needs to assume that the appropriate choice of framework is such that apparatuses are always in states of well defined pointer positions after measurements. The problem is that there is nothing in the formalism to justify this assumption. We conclude that the Consistent Histories approach, contrary to what is claimed by its proponents, fails to provide a truly satisfactory resolution for the measurement problem in quantum theory.

id: 1309.0800
title: Quantum circuits based on qutrits as a tool for solving systems of linear equations
authors: Marek Sawerwain, Wies?aw Leo¨½ski
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0800
abstract: Recently, it has been presented some algorithms and physical models which give prospects for construction of quantum computers capable to solve systems of linear equations. The common feature which is shared in these works is the use of qubits which allow to solve systems with $2^n$ variables. In this work we propose a quantum circuit based on qutrits architecture which directly allows for solving systems of equations with three variables. Proposed circuit can be easily generalized to those with $3^n$ variables. We also present some numerical experiments to verify the correctness of proposed solution.

id: 1309.0802
title: Multi-Time Wave Functions for Quantum Field Theory
authors: S?ren Petrat, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 51 pages, LaTex; v3: several improvements, Sections 2.4, 2.5, 5.2 added
journal: Annals of Physics 345: 17-54 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0802
abstract: Multi-time wave functions such as $\phi(t_1,x_1,\ldots,t_N,x_N)$ have one time variable $t_j$ for each particle. This type of wave function arises as a relativistic generalization of the wave function $\psi(t,x_1,\ldots,x_N)$ of non-relativistic quantum mechanics. We show here how a quantum field theory can be formulated in terms of multi-time wave functions. We mainly consider a particular quantum field theory that features particle creation and annihilation. Starting from the particle-position representation of state vectors in Fock space, we introduce multi-time wave functions with a variable number of time variables, set up multi-time evolution equations, and show that they are consistent. Moreover, we discuss the relation of the multi-time wave function to two other representations, the Tomonaga-Schwinger representation and the Heisenberg picture in terms of operator-valued fields on space-time. In a certain sense and under natural assumptions, we find that all three representations are equivalent; yet, we point out that the multi-time formulation has several technical and conceptual advantages.

id: 1309.0808
title: Non-hermitean hamiltonians with unitary and antiunitary symmetry
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0808
abstract: We analyze several non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with antiunitary symmetry from the point of view of their point-group symmetry. It enables us to predict the degeneracy of the energy levels and to reduce the dimension of the matrices necessary for the diagonalization of the Hamiltonian in a given basis set. We can also classify the solutions according to the irreducible representations of the point group and thus analyze their properties separately. One of the main results of this paper is that some PT-symmetric Hamiltonians with point-group symmetry $C_{2v}$ exhibit complex eigenvalues for all values of a potential parameter. In such cases the PT phase transition takes place at the trivial Hermitian limit which suggests that the phenomenon is not robust. Point-group symmetry enables us to explain such anomalous behaviour and to choose a suitable antiunitary operator for the PT symmetry.

id: 1309.0816
title: Locality of temperature
authors: M. Kliesch, C. Gogolin, M. J. Kastoryano, A. Riera, J. Eisert
comments: 11 pages + 6 pages appendix, 6 figures; proof of the clustering theorem corrected, improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031019 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0816
abstract: This work is concerned with thermal quantum states of Hamiltonians on spin and fermionic lattice systems with short range interactions. We provide results leading to a local definition of temperature, thereby extending the notion of "intensivity of temperature" to interacting quantum models. More precisely, we derive a perturbation formula for thermal states. The influence of the perturbation is exactly given in terms of a generalized covariance. For this covariance, we prove exponential clustering of correlations above a universal critical temperature that upper bounds physical critical temperatures such as the Curie temperature. As a corollary, we obtain that above the critical temperature, thermal states are stable against distant Hamiltonian perturbations. Moreover, our results imply that above the critical temperature, local expectation values can be approximated efficiently in the error and the system size.

id: 1309.0840
title: Process tomography for unitary quantum channels
authors: Gus Gutoski, Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 24 pages. v2,v3: minor revisions, added references and discussion
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 032201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0840
abstract: We study the number of measurements required for quantum process tomography under prior information, such as a promise that the unknown channel is unitary. We introduce the notion of an interactive observable and we show that any unitary channel acting on a $d$-level quantum system can be uniquely identified among all other channels (unitary or otherwise) with only $O(d^2)$ interactive observables, as opposed to the $O(d^4)$ required for tomography of arbitrary channels. This result generalizes, so that channels with at most $q$ Kraus operators can be identified with only $O(qd^2)$ interactive observables. Slight improvements can be obtained if we wish to identify such a channel only among unital channels or among other channels with $q$ Kraus operators. These results are proven via explicit construction of large subspaces of Hermitian matrices with various conditions on rank, eigenvalues, and partial trace. Our constructions are built upon various forms of totally nonsingular matrices.

id: 1309.0851
title: Pure state thermodynamics with matrix product states
authors: Silvano Garnerone
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures; comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 165140 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0851
abstract: We extend the formalism of pure state thermodynamics to matrix product states. In pure state thermodynamics finite temperature properties of quantum systems are derived without the need of statistical mechanics ensembles, but instead using typical properties of random pure states. We show that this formalism can be useful from the computational point of view when combined with tensor network algorithms. In particular, a recently introduced Monte Carlo algorithm is considered which samples matrix product states at random for the estimation of finite temperature observables. Here we characterize this algorithm as an $(\epsilon, \delta)$-approximation scheme and we analytically show that sampling one single state is sufficient to obtain a very good estimation of finite temperature expectation values. These results provide a substantial computational improvement with respect to similar algorithms for one-dimensional quantum systems based on uniformly distributed pure states. The analytical calculations are numerically supported simulating finite temperature interacting spin systems of size up to 100 qubits.

id: 1309.0876
title: Hamiltonian Learning and Certification Using Quantum Resources
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Christopher Granade, Christopher Ferrie, D. G. Cory
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 190501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0876
abstract: In recent years quantum simulation has made great strides culminating in experiments that operate in a regime that existing supercomputers cannot easily simulate. Although this raises the possibility that special purpose analog quantum simulators may be able to perform computational tasks that existing computers cannot, it also introduces a major challenge: certifying that the quantum simulator is in fact simulating the correct quantum dynamics. We provide an algorithm that, under relatively weak assumptions, can be used to efficiently infer the Hamiltonian of a large but untrusted quantum simulator using a trusted quantum simulator. We illustrate the power of this approach by showing numerically that it can inexpensively learn the Hamiltonians for large frustrated Ising models, demonstrating that quantum resources can make certifying analog quantum simulators tractable.

id: 1309.0934
title: The witness of sudden change of geometric quantum correlation
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Bo Li, Heng Fan
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum information and computation, 14 (5&6): 0454 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0934
abstract: In this paper, we give a sufficient and necessary condition (witness) for the sudden change of geometric quantum discord by considering mathematical definition of the discontinuity of a function. Based on the witness, we can find out various sudden changes of quan- tum correlation by considering both the Markovian and the non-Markovian cases. In particular, we can accurately find out critical points of the sudden changes even though they are not quite obvious in the graphical representation. In addition, one can also find that sudden change of quantum correlation, like the frozen quantum correlation, strongly depends on the choice of the quantum correlation measure.

id: 1309.0935
title: Quantum correlation measure in arbitrary bipartite systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Shao-xiong Wu, Xiao-guang Wang, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 2014 EPL 107 10007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0935
abstract: A definition of quantum correlation is presented for an arbitrary bipartite quantum state based on the skew information. This definition not only inherits the good properties of skew information such as the contractivity and so on, but also is effective and almost analytically calculated for any bipartite quantum states. We also reveal the relation between our measure and quantum metrology. As applications, we give the exact expressions of quantum correlation for many states, which provides a direct support for our result.

id: 1309.0937
title: One-step implementation of the genuine Fredkin gate in high-$Q$ coupled three-cavity arrays
authors: Xiao-Qiang Shao, Tai-Yu Zheng, Xun-Li Feng, C. H. Oh, Shou Zhang
comments: title changed
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 697-703 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0937
abstract: We present two efficient methods for implementing the Fredkin gate with atoms separately trapped in an array of three high-$Q$ coupled cavities. The first proposal is based on the resonant dynamics, which leads to a fast resonant interaction in a certain subspace while leaving others unchanged, and the second one utilizes a dispersive interaction such that the effective long-distance dipole-dipole interaction between two distributed target qubits is achieved by virtually excited process. Both schemes can achieve the standard form of the Fredkin gate in a single step without any subsequent single-qubit operation. The effects of decoherence on the performance of the gate are also analyzed in virtue of master equation, and the strictly numerical simulation reveals that the average fidelity of the quantum gate is high.

id: 1309.0955
title: Space-Time Topology in Teleportation-Based Quantum Computation
authors: Yong Zhang, Jinglong Pang
comments: v1: 9 pages, 16 figures; v2: 10 pages, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0955
abstract: We study the construction of both universal quantum computation and multi-partite entangled states in the topological diagrammatical approach to quantum teleportation. Our results show that the teleportation-based quantum circuit model admits a space-time topological interpretation which makes the construction of both quantum gates and four-partite entangled states more intuitive and simpler. Our results state a deeper link between the space-time non-locality and the quantum non-locality which are the two-fold character of the topological diagrammatical representation.

id: 1309.0962
title: Random Variables Recorded under Mutually Exclusive Conditions: Contextuality-by-Default
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: In H. Liljenstr\"om (Ed.) Advances in Cognitive Neurodynamics IV (pp. 405-410) (2015)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Probability (math.PR); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0962
abstract: We present general principles underlying analysis of the dependence of random variables (outputs) on deterministic conditions (inputs). Random outputs recorded under mutually exclusive input values are labeled by these values and considered stochastically unrelated, possessing no joint distribution. An input that does not directly influence an output creates a context for the latter. Any constraint imposed on the dependence of random outputs on inputs can be characterized by considering all possible couplings (joint distributions) imposed on stochastically unrelated outputs. The target application of these principles is a quantum mechanical system of entangled particles, with directions of spin measurements chosen for each particle being inputs and the spins recorded outputs. The sphere of applicability, however, spans systems across physical, biological, and behavioral sciences.

id: 1309.0984
title: Limits for entanglement distribution with separable states
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0984
abstract: Entanglement distribution with separable states has recently attracted considerable attention. Recent results suggest that quantum discord - a measure for quantum correlations beyond entanglement - is responsible for this counterintuitive phenomenon. In this work we study this question from a different perspective, and find minimal requirements for a separable state to be useful for entanglement distribution. Surprisingly, we find that the presence of quantum discord is not sufficient to ensure entanglement distribution: there exist states with nonzero quantum discord which nevertheless cannot be used for entanglement distribution. As a result, we show that entanglement distribution is not possible with rank two separable states. Our work sheds new light on the task of entanglement distribution with separable states, and reveals a new classification of quantum states with respect to their usefulness for this task.

id: 1309.0993
title: Quantum effective force and Bohmian approach for time-dependent traps
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 89 (2014) 065003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0993
abstract: Trajectories of a Bohmian particle confined in time-dependent cylindrical and spherical traps are computed for both contracting and expanding boxes. Quantum effective force is considered in arbitrary directions. It is seen that in contrast to the problem of a particle in an infinite rectangular box with one wall in motion, if particle initially is in an energy eigenstate of a tiny box the force is zero in all directions. Trajectories of a two-body system confined in the spherical trap are also computed for different statistics. Computations show that there are situations for which distance between bosons is greater than the fermions. However, results of average separation of the particles confirm our expectation about the statistics.

id: 1309.1052
title: Criticality, factorization and long-range correlations in the anisotropic XY-model
authors: Steve Campbell, Jonathan Richens, Nicola Lo Gullo, Thomas Busch
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1052
abstract: We study the long-range quantum correlations in the anisotropic XY-model. By first examining the thermodynamic limit we show that employing the quantum discord as a figure of merit allows one to capture the main features of the model at zero temperature. Further, by considering suitably large site separations we find that these correlations obey a simple scaling behavior for finite temperatures, allowing for efficient estimation of the critical point. We also address ground-state factorization of this model by explicitly considering finite size systems, showing its relation to the energy spectrum and explaining the persistence of the phenomenon at finite temperatures. Finally, we compute the fidelity between finite and infinite systems in order to show that remarkably small system sizes can closely approximate the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1309.1058
title: Partial Multipartite Entanglement in the Matrix Product State Formalism
authors: A. Gabriel, V. Murg, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1058
abstract: We present a method to apply the well-known matrix product state (MPS) formalism to partially separable states in solid state systems. The computational effort of our method is equal to the effort of the standard density matrix renormalisation group (DMRG) algorithm. Consequently, it is applicable to all usually considered condensed matter systems where the DMRG algorithm is successful. We also show in exemplary cases, that polymerisation properties of ground states are closely connected to properties of partial separability, even if the ground state itself is not partially separable.

id: 1309.1084
title: Observation of bosonic coalescence and fermionic anti-coalescence with indistinguishable photons
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Joakim Bergli, Andreas P. Th?rn, Arnt Inge Vistnes
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1084
abstract: The symmetrization postulate asserts that the state of particular species of particles can only be of one permutation symmetry type: symmetric for bosons and antisymmetric for fermions. We report some experimental results showing that pairs of photons indistinguishable by all degrees of freedom can exhibit not only a bosonic behavior, as expected for photons, but also a surprisingly sharp fermionic behavior under specific conditions.

id: 1309.1090
title: Sustainable entanglement production from a quantum field
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Eric G. Brown, William Donnelly, Achim Kempf
comments: V2: Added Journal Reference. Title modified to match published version. 16 pages, 8 figures. RevTex 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1090
abstract: We propose a protocol by which entanglement can be extracted repeatedly from a quantum field. In analogy with prior work on entanglement harvesting, we call this protocol entanglement farming. It consists of successively sending pairs of unentangled particles through an optical cavity. Using non-perturbative Gaussian methods, we show that in certain generic circumstances this protocol drives the cavity field towards a non-thermal metastable state. This state of the cavity is such that successive pairs of unentangled particles sent through the cavity will reliably emerge significantly entangled. We calculate thermodynamic aspects of the harvesting process, such as energies and entropies, and also the long-term behavior beyond the few-mode approximation. Significant for possible experimental realizations is the fact that this entangling fixed point state of the cavity is reached largely independently of the initial state in which the cavity was prepared. Our results suggest that reliable entanglement farming on the basis of such a fixed point state should be possible also in various other experimental settings, namely with the to-be-entangled particles replaced by arbitrary qudits and with the cavity replaced by a suitable reservoir system.

id: 1309.1095
title: Optical Bistability in a cavity with one moving mirror
authors: B.M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H.M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Proceedings of the 8th ICCSSUR, 356 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1095
abstract: We analyze the behaviour of a coherent field driving a single mode optical cavity with one perfectly reflecting moving mirror and a partially reflecting fixed mirror, and show that this system's output exhibits optical bistability due to radiation pressure acting over the moving mirror.

id: 1309.1103
title: Multi-Time Equations, Classical and Quantum
authors: S?ren Petrat, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 8 pages, LaTex; v2: minor improvements
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A 470(2164): 20130632 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1103
abstract: Multi-time equations are evolution equations involving several time variables, one for each particle. Such equations have been considered for the purpose of making theories manifestly Lorentz invariant. We compare their status and significance in classical and quantum physics.

id: 1309.1106
title: Finite-range multiplexing enhances quantum key distribution via quantum repeaters
authors: Silvestre Abruzzo, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1106
abstract: Quantum repeaters represent one possible way to achieve long-distance quantum key distribution. Collins et al. in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 060502 (2007)] proposed multiplexing as method to increase the repeater rate and to decrease the requirement in memory coherence time. Motivated by the experimental fact that long-range connections are practically demanding, in this paper we extend the original quantum repeater multiplexing protocol to the case of short-range connection. We derive analytical formulas for the repeater rate and we show that for short connection lengths it is possible to have most of the benefits of a full-range multiplexing protocol. Then we incorporate decoherence of quantum memories and we study the optimal matching for the Bell-state measurement protocol permitting to minimize memory requirements. Finally, we calculate the secret key rate and we show that the improvement via finite-range multiplexing is of the same order of magnitude as via full-range multiplexing.

id: 1309.1111
title: The Quantum State of Classical Matter II: Thermodynamic Equilibrium and Hydrodynamics
authors: Clifford E Chafin
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1111
abstract: In the previous companion paper, we proposed a subclass of wavefunctions to describe macroscopic solids that resolved and extended the theory quantum measurement and gave a more specific treatment of quasiparticles. Here we extend these notions to thermalization of solids and gases and to gas state hydrodynamics. This gives a modification of the thermodynamic limit to justify the canonical averages for "typical wavefunctions" without the use of ensembles. The energetic cost of vorticity is contrasted in the classical and ultracold gas limits. From this perspective, we then examine the applicability of thermo and hydro to ultracold gases and compare with the implications of pure state evolution. We illustrate how the proposed quantum limits on viscosity could be reinterpreted in terms of Schr\"{o}dinger induced evolution of the one-body density function but some history dependent measurable properties should still persist.

id: 1309.1127
title: Reduced purities as measures of decoherence in many-electron systems
authors: Ignacio Franco, Heiko Appel
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: I. Franco and H. Appel J. Chem. Phys. \textbf{139}, 094109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1127
abstract: A hierarchy of measures of decoherence for many-electron systems that is based on the purity and the hierarchy of reduced electronic density matrices is presented. These reduced purities can be used to characterize electronic decoherence in the common case when the many-body electronic density matrix is not known and only reduced information about the electronic subsystem is available. Being defined from reduced electronic quantities, the interpretation of the reduced purities is more intricate than the usual (many-body) purity. This is because the nonidempotency of the $r$-body reduced electronic density matrix that is the basis of the reduced purity measures can arise due to decoherence or due to electronic correlations. To guide the interpretation, explicit expressions are provided for the one-body and two-body reduced purities for a general electronic state. Using them, the information content and structure of the one-body and two-body reduced purities is established, and limits on the changes that decoherence can induce are elucidated. The practical use of the reduced purities to understand decoherence dynamics in many-electron systems is exemplified through an analysis of the electronic decoherence dynamics in a model molecular system.

id: 1309.1130
title: Evolution of an N-level system via automated vectorization of the Liouville equations and application to optically controlled polarization rotation
authors: M.S. Shahriar, Ye Wang, Subramanian Krishnamurthy, Y. Tu, G.S. Pati, S. Tseng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1130
abstract: The Liouville equation governing the evolution of the density matrix for an atomic/molecular system is expressed in terms of a commutator between the density matrix and the Hamiltonian, along with terms that account for decay and redistribution. For finding solutions of this equation, it is convenient first to reformulate the Liouville equation by defining a vector corresponding to the elements of the density operator, and determining the corresponding time-evolution matrix. For a system of N energy levels, the size of the evolution matrix is N2xN2. When N is very large, evaluating the elements of these matrices becomes very cumbersome. We describe a novel algorithm that can produce the evolution matrix in an automated fashion for an arbitrary value of N. As a non-trivial example, we apply this algorithm to a fifteen-level atomic system used for producing optically controlled polarization rotation. We also point out how such a code can be extended for use in an atomic system with arbitrary number of energy levels.

id: 1309.1153
title: On reconciling quantum mechanics and local realism
authors: Donald A. Graft
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of SPIE Vol. 8832 (2013) 1F-1 thru 1F-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1153
abstract: A necessary and natural change in our application of quantum mechanics to separated systems is shown to reconcile quantum mechanics and local realism. An analysis of separation and localization justifies the proposed change in application of quantum mechanics. An important EPRB experiment is reconsidered and it is seen that when it is correctly interpreted it supports local realism. This reconciliation of quantum mechanics with local realism allows the axiom sets of quantum mechanics, probability, and special relativity to be joined in a consistent global axiom set for physics.

id: 1309.1174
title: Uhlmann Phase as a Topological Measure for One-Dimensional Fermion Systems
authors: O. Viyuela, A. Rivas, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Close to published version. Accepted in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1174
abstract: We introduce the Uhlmann geometric phase as a tool to characterize symmetry-protected topological phases in 1D fermion systems, such as topological insulators and superconductors. Since this phase is formulated for general mixed quantum states, it provides a way to extend topological properties to finite temperature situations. We illustrate these ideas with some paradigmatic models and find that there exists a critical temperature $T_c$ at which the Uhlmann phase goes discontinuously and abruptly to zero. This stands as a borderline between two different topological phases as a function of the temperature. Furthermore, at small temperatures we recover the usual notion of topological phase in fermion systems.

id: 1309.1203
title: Bounding the entanglement of N qubits with only four measurements
authors: S. M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, C. J. Broadbent, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1203
abstract: We introduce a new measure for the genuinely N-partite (all-party) entanglement of N-qubit states using the trace distance metric, and find an algebraic formula for the GHZ-diagonal states. We then use this formula to show how the all-party entanglement of experimentally produced GHZ states of an arbitrary number of qubits may be bounded with only four measurements.

id: 1309.1221
title: Efficient detection of a highly bright photon source using superconducting nanowire single photon detectors
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Mikio Fujiwara, Taro Yamashita, Shigehito Miki, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang, Kentaro Wakui, Ryosuke Shimizu, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Communications 336, 47--54 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1221
abstract: We investigate the detection of an ultra-bright single-photon source using highly efficient superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SNSPDs) at telecom wavelengths. Both the single-photon source and the detectors are characterized in detail. At a pump power of 100 mW (400 mW), the measured coincidence counts can achieve 400 kcps (1.17 Mcps), which is the highest ever reported at telecom wavelengths to the best of our knowledge. The multi-pair contributions at different pump powers are analyzed in detail. We compare the experimental and theoretical second order coherence functions $g^{(2)}(0)$ and find that the conventional experimentally measured $g^{(2)}(0)$ values are smaller than the theoretically expected ones. We also consider the saturation property of SNSPD and find that SNSPD can be easier to saturate with a thermal state rather than with a coherent state. The experimental data and theoretical analysis should be useful for the future experiments to detect ultra-bright down-conversion sources with high-efficiency detectors.

id: 1309.1332
title: Indirect Measurement Process Parameterized by Nonunitary System - Pointer Interaction
authors: Alexander Trifanov, George Miroshnichenko
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1332
abstract: An indirect quantum state measurement process is under investigation. Common evolution of detector's microscopic part (pointer) and measured system (target) is considered to be nonunitary due to the interaction between pointer and environment. System of differential equations for superoperators, which map initial target state to it's conditional final state is obtained. Developed formalism is applied to the problem of cavity quantum mode photodetection to investigate basic information characteristics of this measurement process.

id: 1309.1375
title: Quantum Digital Signatures without quantum memory
authors: Verdan Dunjko, Petros Wallden, Erika Andersson
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1375
abstract: Quantum Digital Signatures (QDS) allow for the exchange of messages from one sender to multiple recipients, with the guarantee that messages cannot be forged or tampered with. Additionally, messages cannot be repudiated -- if one recipient accepts a message, she is guaranteed that others will accept the same message as well. While messaging with these types of security guarantees are routinely performed in the modern digital world, current technologies only offer security under computational assumptions. QDS, on the other hand, offer security guaranteed by quantum mechanics. All thus far proposed variants of QDS require long-term, high quality storage of quantum information, making them unfeasible in the foreseeable future. Here, we present the first QDS scheme where no quantum memory is required, and all quantum information processing can be performed using just linear optics. This makes QDS feasible with current technology.

id: 1309.1379
title: Experimental Three-Particle Quantum Nonlocality under Strict Locality Conditions
authors: C. Erven, E. Meyer-Scott, K. Fisher, J. Lavoie, B. L. Higgins, Z. Yan, C. J. Pugh, J.-P. Bourgoin, R. Prevedel, L. K. Shalm, L. Richards, N. Gigov, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs, T. Jennewein, K. J. Resch
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1379
abstract: Quantum correlations are critical to our understanding of nature, with far-reaching technological and fundamental impact. These often manifest as violations of Bell's inequalities, bounds derived from the assumptions of locality and realism, concepts integral to classical physics. Many tests of Bell's inequalities have studied pairs of correlated particles; however, the immense interest in multi-particle quantum correlations is driving the experimental frontier to test systems beyond just pairs. All experimental violations of Bell's inequalities to date require supplementary assumptions, opening the results to one or more loopholes, the closing of which is one of the most important challenges in quantum science. Individual loopholes have been closed in experiments with pairs of particles and a very recent result closed the detection loophole in a six ion experiment. No experiment thus far has closed the locality loopholes with three or more particles. Here, we distribute three-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entangled states using optical fibre and free-space links to independent measurement stations. The measured correlations constitute a test of Mermin's inequality while closing both the locality and related freedom-of-choice loopholes due to our experimental configuration and timing. We measured a Mermin parameter of 2.77 +/- 0.08, violating the inequality bound of 2 by over 9 standard deviations, with minimum tolerances for the locality and freedom-of-choice loopholes of 264 +/- 28 ns and 304 +/- 25 ns, respectively. These results represent a significant advance towards definitive tests of the foundations of quantum mechanics and practical multi-party quantum communications protocols.

id: 1309.1381
title: Application of the asymptotic Taylor expansion method to bistable potentials
authors: Okan Ozer, Halide Koklu, Serap Resitoglu
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1008.0697, arXiv:1009.0250 by other authors
journal: Adv. Math. Phys. 2013, 239254 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1381
abstract: A recent method called Asymptotic Taylor expansion (ATEM) is applied to determine the analytical expression for eigenfunctions and numerical results for eigenvalues of the Schrodinger equation for the bistable potentials. Optimal truncation of the Taylor series gives a best possible analytical expression for eigenfunctions and numerical result for eigenvalues. It is shown that the results are obtained by a simple algorithm constructed for a computer system using symbolic or numerical calculation. It is observed that ATEM produces excellent results appropriate with the existing literature.

id: 1309.1391
title: Quantum speed limit of a photon under non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Z. Y. Xu, S. Q. Zhu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 31, 020301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1391
abstract: Quantum speed limit (QSL) under noise has drawn considerable attention in real quantum computational processes and quantum communication. Though non-Markovian noise is proven to be able to accelerate quantum evolution for a damped Jaynes-Cummings model, in this work we show that non-Markovianity may even slow down the quantum evolution of an experimentally controllable photon system. As an important application, QSL time of a photon can be well controlled by regulating the relevant environment parameter properly, which is close to reach the currently available photonic experimental technology.

id: 1309.1409
title: Origin of conical dispersion relations
authors: Sergio A. Hojman
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1409
abstract: A mechanism that produces conical dispersion relations is presented. A Kronig Penney one dimensional array with two different strengths delta function potentials gives rise to both the gap closure and the dispersion relation observed in graphene and other materials. The Schr\''odinger eigenvalue problem is locally invariant under the infinite dimensional Virasoro algebra near conical dispersion points in reciprocal space, thus suggesting a possible relation to string theory.

id: 1309.1425
title: Thermal amplification of field-correlation harvesting
authors: Eric G. Brown
comments: V2: Modified to match published version; minor text changes and updated references. 17 pages, 9 figures, RevTex 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1425
abstract: We study the harvesting of quantum and classical correlations from a hot scalar field in a periodic cavity by a pair of spatially separated oscillator-detectors. Specifically, we utilize non-perturbative and exact (non-numerical) techniques to solve for the evolution of the detectors-field system and then we examine how the entanglement, Gaussian quantum discord, and mutual information obtained by the detectors change with the temperature of the field. While (as expected) the harvested entanglement rapidly decays to zero as temperature is increased, we find remarkably that both the mutual information and the discord can actually be increased by multiple orders of magnitude via increasing the temperature. We go on to explain this phenomenon by taking advantage of the translational invariance of the field and use this to make accurate predictions of the behavior of thermal amplification; by this we also introduce a new perspective on field-correlation harvesting that we feel is worthy of consideration in its own right. The thermal amplification of discord harvesting represents an exciting prospect for discord-based quantum computation, including its use in entanglement activation.

id: 1309.1443
title: Adiabatic graph-state quantum computation
authors: Bobby Antonio, Damian Markham, Janet Anders
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 113070
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1443
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) and holonomic quantum computation (HQC) are two very different computational methods. The computation in MBQC is driven by adaptive measurements executed in a particular order on a large entangled state. In contrast in HQC the system starts in the ground subspace of a Hamiltonian which is slowly changed such that a transformation occurs within the subspace. Following the approach of Bacon and Flammia, we show that any measurement-based quantum computation on a graph state with \emph{gflow} can be converted into an adiabatically driven holonomic computation, which we call \emph{adiabatic graph-state quantum computation} (AGQC). We then investigate how properties of AGQC relate to the properties of MBQC, such as computational depth. We identify a trade-off that can be made between the number of adiabatic steps in AGQC and the norm of $\dot{H}$ as well as the degree of $H$, in analogy to the trade-off between the number of measurements and classical post-processing seen in MBQC. Finally the effects of performing AGQC with orderings that differ from standard MBQC are investigated.

id: 1309.1448
title: Ground state of the one dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation with a Morse potential
authors: Sukla Pal, Jayanta K. Bhattacharjee
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1448
abstract: We have studied the ground state of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (nonlinear Schrodinger equation) for a Morse potential via a variational approach. It is seen that the ground state ceases to be bound when the coupling constant of the nonlinear term reaches a critical value. The disappearence of the ground state resembles a saddle node bifurcation.

id: 1309.1472
title: Quantum discord determines the interferometric power of quantum states
authors: Davide Girolami, Alexandre M. Souza, Vittorio Giovannetti, Tommaso Tufarelli, Jefferson G. Filgueiras, Roberto S. Sarthour, Diogo O. Soares-Pinto, Ivan S. Oliveira, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 6+8 pages, 3+5 figures, 1 table. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1472
abstract: Quantum metrology exploits quantum mechanical laws to improve the precision in estimating technologically relevant parameters such as phase, frequency, or magnetic fields. Probe states are usually tailored on the particular dynamics whose parameters are being estimated. Here we consider a novel framework where quantum estimation is performed in an interferometric configuration, using bipartite probe states prepared when only the spectrum of the generating Hamiltonian is known. We introduce a figure of merit for the scheme, given by the worst case precision over all suitable Hamiltonians, and prove that it amounts exactly to a computable measure of discord-type quantum correlations for the input probe. We complement our theoretical results with a metrology experiment, realized in a highly controllable room-temperature nuclear magnetic resonance setup, which provides a proof-of-concept demonstration for the usefulness of discord in sensing applications. Discordant probes are shown to guarantee a nonzero precision in the estimation procedure for different generating Hamiltonians, while classically correlated probes are unable to accomplish the estimation in a worst case setting. This work establishes a rigorous and direct operational interpretation for general quantum correlations, shedding light on their potential for quantum technology.

id: 1309.1490
title: Velocity dependence of the quantum friction force on an atom near a dielectric surface
authors: P. W. Milonni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1490
abstract: Different approaches to the problem of the "quantum friction" force F acting on an atom moving with velocity v<<c parallel to a dielectric surface have resulted in different predictions for the way in which F depends on v. For instance, Scheel and Buhmann [Phys. Rev. A 80, 042902 (2009)] and Barton [New J. Phys. 12, 113045 (2010)] and others find a force linear in v, while Intravaia, Behunin, and Dalvit [arXiv:1308.0712, 2013] and others find that the force varies as v^3 to lowest order in v. We argue that the F proportional to v^3 prediction results from an oversimplified treatment of the atom as a linear oscillator, and that F depends on v in just the way predicted by Scheel and Buhmann and Barton.

id: 1309.1491
title: Observing Dirac's classical phase space analog to the quantum state
authors: Jeff S. Lundeen, Charles Bamber
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Supplementary Material
journal: Physical Review Letters, 112, 070405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1491
abstract: In 1945, Dirac attempted to develop a "formal probability" distribution to describe quantum operators in terms of two non-commuting variables, such as position x and momentum p [Rev. Mod. Phys. 17, 195 (1945)]. The resulting quasi-probability distribution is a complete representation of the quantum state and can be observed directly in experiments. We measure Dirac's distribution for the quantum state of the transverse degree of freedom of a photon by weakly measuring transverse x so as to not randomize the subsequent p measurement. Further, we show that the distribution has the classical-like feature that it transforms (e.g., propagates) according to Bayes' law.

id: 1309.1498
title: Quantum derivation of Manley Rowe type relations
authors: M. Fern¨¢ndez Guasti, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: M. Fernandez-Guasti and H. Moya-Cessa, in Proceedings of the 8th ICSSUR, ed. by H. Moya-Cessa, R. Jauregui, S. Hacyan and O. Casta\~nos, (Rinton Press, 2004), pp 131-139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1498
abstract: The Ermakov Lewis quantum invariant for the time dependent harmonic oscillator is expressed in terms of number and phase operators. The identification of these variables is made in accordance with the correspondence principle and the amplitude and phase representation of the classical orthogonal functions invariant. The relationship between the number and phase operators is established through this invariant as the system evolves from one frequency to another. In the specific case where the excitations represent the photon number, these relations are equivalent to the power density transport equations derived in nonlinear optical processes.

id: 1309.1534
title: A Fault-Tolerant Scheme of Holonomic Quantum Computation on Stabilizer Codes with Robustness to Low-weight Thermal Noise
authors: Yi-Cong Zheng, Todd A. Brun
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 89.032317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1534
abstract: We show an equivalence relation between fault-tolerant circuits for a stabilizer code and fault-tolerant adiabatic processes for holonomic quantum computation (HQC), in the case where quantum information is encoded in the degenerated ground space of the system Hamiltonian. By this equivalence, we can systematically construct a fault-tolerant HQC scheme, which can geometrically implement a universal set of encoded quantum gates by adiabatically deforming the system Hamiltonian. During this process, quantum information is protected from low weight thermal excitations by an energy gap that does not change with the problem size.

id: 1309.1552
title: Experimental realization of quantum zeno dynamics
authors: Florian Sch?fer, Ivan Herrera, Shahid Cherukattil, Cosimo Lovecchio, Francesco Saverio Cataliotti, Filippo Caruso, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 3194 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1552
abstract: It is generally impossible to probe a quantum system without disturbing it. However, it is possible to exploit the back-action of quantum measurements and strong couplings to tailor and protect the coherent evolution of a quantum system. This is a profound and counterintuitive phenomenon known as quantum Zeno dynamics (QZD). Here we demonstrate QZD with a rubidium Bose-Einstein condensate in a five-level Hilbert space. We harness measurements and strong couplings to dynamically disconnect different groups of quantum states and constrain the atoms to coherently evolve inside a two-level subregion. In parallel to the foundational importance due to the realization of a dynamical superselection rule and the theory of quantum measurements, this is an important step forward in protecting and controlling quantum dynamics and, broadly speaking, quantum information processing.

id: 1309.1668
title: Dynamical quantum repeater using cavity-QED and optical coherent states
authors: Denis Gonta, Peter van Loock
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, revised version accepted in PRA. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1207.6008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1668
abstract: In the framework of cavity QED, we propose a quantum repeater scheme that uses coherent light and atoms coupled to optical cavities. In contrast to conventional schemes, we exploit solely the cavity QED evolution for the entire quantum repeater scheme and, thus, avoid any explicit execution of quantum logical gates. The entanglement distribution between the repeater nodes is realized with the help of pulses of coherent light interacting with the atom-cavity system in each repeater node. In our previous paper [D. Gonta and P. van Loock, Phys. Rev. A 86, 052312 (2012)], we already proposed a dynamical protocol to purify a bipartite entangled state using the evolution of atomic chains coupled to optical cavities. Here, we incorporate parts of this protocol in our repeater scheme, combining it with dynamical versions of entanglement distribution and swapping.

id: 1309.1674
title: A family of [[6k, 2k, 2]] codes for practical, scalable adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Anand Ganti, Uzoma Onunkwo, Kevin Young
comments: (Changes include clarifying fidelity analysis and adding a new subsection on limitations) 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1674
abstract: In this work, we introduce a new family of [[6k, 2k, 2]] codes designed specifically to be compatible with adiabatic quantum computation. These codes support computationally universal sets of weight-two logical operators and are particularly well-suited for implementing dynamical decoupling error suppression. For Hamiltonians embeddable on a planar graph of fixed degree, our encoding maintains a planar connectivity graph and increase the graph degree by only two. These codes are the first known to possess these features.

id: 1309.1683
title: Renormalization of the strongly attractive inverse square potential: Taming the singularity
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, some typos and errors are corrected in this revised version
journal: Found. Phys. 44.10 (2014) 1049-1058
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1683
abstract: Quantum anomalies in the inverse square potential are well known and widely investigated. Most prominent is the unbounded increase in oscillations of the particle's state as it approaches the origin when the attractive coupling parameter is greater than the critical value of 1/4. Due to this unphysical divergence in oscillations, we are proposing that the interaction gets screened at short distances making the coupling parameter acquire an effective (renormalized) value that falls within the weak range 0 to 1/4. This prevents the oscillations form growing without limit giving a lower bound to the energy spectrum and forcing the Hamiltonian of the system to be self-adjoint. Technically, this translates into a regularization scheme whereby the inverse square potential is replaced near the origin by another that has the same singularity but with a weak coupling strength. Here, we take the Eckart as the regularizing potential and obtain the corresponding solutions (discrete bound states and continuum scattering states).

id: 1309.1710
title: An operational approach to indirectly measuring tunneling time
authors: Yunjin Choi, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88,052128 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1710
abstract: The tunneling time through an arbitrary bounded one-dimensional barrier is investigated using the dwell time operator. We relate the tunneling time to the conditioned average of the dwell time operator because of the natural post-selection in the case of successful tunneling. We discuss an indirect measurement by timing the particle, and show we are able to reconstruct the conditioned average value of the dwell time operator by applying the contextual values formalism for generalized measurements based on the physics of Larmor precession. The experimentally measurable tunneling time in the weak interaction limit is given by the weak value of the dwell time operator plus a measurement-context dependent disturbance term. We show how the expectation value and higher moments of the dwell time operator can be extracted from measurement data of the particle's spin.

id: 1309.1717
title: On the Theory of Wave Packets
authors: D.V.Naumov
comments: Accepted to PEPAN Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1717
abstract: In this paper we discuss some aspects of the theory of wave packets. We consider a popular non-covariant Gaussian model used in various applications and show that it predicts too slow a longitudinal dispersion rate for relativistic particles. We revise this approach by considering a covariant model of Gaussian wave packets, and examine our results by inspecting a wave packet of arbitrary form. A general formula for the time dependence of the dispersion of a wave packet of arbitrary form is found. Finally, we give a transparent interpretation of the disappearance of the wave function over time due to the dispersion --- a feature often considered undesirable, but which is unavoidable for wave packets. We find, starting from simple examples, proceeding with their generalizations and finally by considering the continuity equation, that the integral over time of both the flux and probability densities are asymptotically proportional to the factor 1/L^2 in the rest frame of the wave packet, just as in the case of an ensemble of classical particles.

id: 1309.1733
title: Superconducting qubit as a probe of quantum fluctuations in a nonlinear resonator
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, A. C. Doherty, F. R. Ong, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve, A. Blais
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1733
abstract: In addition to their central role in quantum information processing, qubits have proven to be useful tools in a range of other applications such as enhanced quantum sensing and as spectrometers of quantum noise. Here we show that a superconducting qubit strongly coupled to a nonlinear resonator can act as a probe of quantum fluctuations of the intra-resonator field. Building on previous work [M. Boissoneault et al. Phys. Rev. A 85, 022305 (2012)], we derive an effective master equation for the qubit which takes into account squeezing of the resonator field. We show how sidebands in the qubit excitation spectrum that are predicted by this model can reveal information about squeezing and quantum heating. The main results of this paper have already been successfully compared to experimental data [F. R. Ong et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 047001 (2013)] and we present here the details of the derivations.

id: 1309.1746
title: Quantum Dynamics Simulation with Classical Oscillators
authors: J.S. Briggs, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1746
abstract: In a previous paper [J.S.Briggs and A.Eisfeld, Phys.Rev.A 85, 052111] we showed that the time-development of the complex amplitudes of N coupled quantum states can be mapped by the time development of positions and velocities of N coupled classical oscillators. Here we examine to what extent this mapping can be realised to simulate the "quantum" properties of entanglement and qubit manipulation. By working through specific examples, e.g. of quantum gate operation, we seek to illuminate quantum/classical differences which hitherto have been treated more mathematically. In addition we show that important quantum coupled phenomena, such as the Landau-Zener transition and the occurrence of Fano resonances can be simulated by classical oscillators.

id: 1309.1787
title: Revisiting Dirac and Schr?dinger: A Proof Offered for the Non-Relativistic Time-Dependent Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Ali Sanayei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1787
abstract: In this paper, three plausible axioms together with two definitions are employed to build an axiomatic framework, and then with the help of the Dirac formalism, it is demonstrated that the time-dependent Schr\"odinger wave equation is no longer a postulate for the whole theory, but a theorem. Subsequently, a proof for the theorem is presented. The result implies that the other remaining axioms of the picture essentially involve the Schr\"odinger equation, and this consequence lets the whole theory become stronger.

id: 1309.1801
title: Applying computational complexity to the emergence of classicality
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 14 pages, Latex; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1801
abstract: Can the computational complexity theory of computer science and mathematics say something new about unresolved problems in quantum physics? Particularly, can the P versus NP question in the computational complexity theory be a factor in the elucidation of the emergency of classicality in quantum mechanics? The paper compares two different ways of deriving classicality from the quantum formalism resulted from two differing hypotheses regarding the P versus NP question -- the approach of the quantum decoherence theory implying that P = NP and the computational complexity approach which assumes that P is not equal to NP.

id: 1309.1848
title: Optimal multi-configuration approximation of an N-fermion wave function
authors: J. M. Zhang, Marcus Kollar
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. Any comment is welcome and appreciated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1848
abstract: We propose a simple iterative algorithm to construct the optimal multi-configuration approximation of an $N$-fermion wave function. That is, $M\geq N $ single-particle orbitals are sought iteratively so that the projection of the given wave function in the $C_M^N$-dimensional configuration subspace is maximized. The algorithm has a monotonic convergence property and can be easily parallelized. The significance of the algorithm on the study of entanglement in a multi-fermion system and its implication on the multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree-Fock (MCTDHF) are discussed. The ground state and real-time dynamics of spinless fermions with nearest-neighbor interactions are studied using this algorithm, discussing several subtleties.

id: 1309.1856
title: Optimal quantum control of Bose-Einstein condensates in magnetic microtraps: Consideration of filter effects
authors: Georg J?ger, Ulrich Hohenester
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1856
abstract: We theoretically investigate protocols based on optimal control theory (OCT) for manipulating Bose-Einstein condensates in magnetic microtraps, using the framework of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. In our approach we explicitly account for filter functions that distort the computed optimal control, a situation inherent to many experimental OCT implementations. We apply our scheme to the shakeup process of a condensate from the ground to the first excited state, following a recent experimental and theoretical study, and demonstrate that the fidelity of OCT protocols is not significantly deteriorated by typical filters.

id: 1309.1893
title: Unified view on linear response of interacting identical and distinguishable particles from multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree methods
authors: Ofir E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 51 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 034108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1893
abstract: A unified view on linear response of interacting systems utilizing multicongurational time-dependent Hartree methods is presented. The cases of one-particle and two-particle response operators for identical particles and up to all-system response operators for distinguishable degrees-of-freedom are considered. The working equations for systems of identical bosons (LR-MCTDHB) and identical fermions (LR-MCTDHF), as well for systems of distinguishable particles (LR-MCTDH) are explicitly derived. These linear-response theories provide numerically-exact excitation energies and system's properties, when numerical convergence is achieved in the calculations.

id: 1309.1911
title: Dual-channel lock-in magnetometer with a single spin in diamond
authors: N. M. Nusran, M. V. Gurudev Dutt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1911
abstract: We present an experimental method to perform dual-channel lock-in magnetometry of time-dependent magnetic fields using a single spin associated with a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center in diamond. We incorporate multi-pulse quantum sensing sequences with phase estimation algorithms to achieve linearized field readout and constant, nearly decoherence-limited sensitivity over a wide dynamic range. Furthermore, we demonstrate unambiguous reconstruction of the amplitude and phase of the magnetic field. We show that our technique can be applied to measure random phase jumps in the magnetic field, as well as phase-sensitive readout of the frequency.

id: 1309.1916
title: Fast spin control in a two-electron double quantum dot by dynamical invariants
authors: Yue Ban, Xi Chen, J. G. Muga, E. Ya Sherman
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1916
abstract: Inverse engineering of electric fields has been recently proposed to achieve fast and robust spin control in a single-electron quantum dot with spin-orbit coupling. In this paper we design, by inverse engineering based on Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants, time-dependent electric fields to realize fast transitions in the selected singlet-triplet subspace of a two-electron double quantum dot. We apply two-mode driving schemes, directly employing the Lewis-Riesenfeld phases, to minimize the electric field necessary to design flexible protocols and perform spin manipulation on the chosen timescale.

id: 1309.1966
title: Uncertainty Relations for Accurate Measurements
authors: Seiji Kosugi
comments: 6 pages, No figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1966
abstract: Our investigation of the results of the neutron spin experiment by Ehhart et al. demonstrates that their results cannot be understood in accordance with common sense. For example, their results obtained with different measurement errors are equal to each other for a same neutron state. This is because their measurement values have a large systematic error due to adopting an incorrect measurement-value operator, which is the operator that gives the measurement values of the measured observable. They asserted that their results confirmed the validity of a universally valid uncertainty relation proposed by Ozawa. Therefore, their results demonstrate unexpectedly that Ozawa's uncertainty relation holds true for incorrect measurements. In addition, we have proved this fact theoretically. The measurement-value operator must be defined in order that the systematic error of measurement values predicted by the operator is zero. Such a measurement is called an accurate measurement. Two kind of uncertainty relations are derived for accurate measurements of a pre-measurement observable $\hat{x}_0$. In addition, we have presented an uncertainty relation for accurate measurements of a post-measurement observable $\hat{x}_t$. Heisenberg's original uncertainty relation for measurement processes should be interpreted as this relation between the resolution, that is, the measurement error of the post-measurement observable $\hat{x}_t$ and the disturbance of an object observable $\hat{y}_0$.

id: 1309.2006
title: Separability from Spectrum for Qubit-Qudit States
authors: Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2006
abstract: The separability from spectrum problem asks for a characterization of the eigenvalues of the bipartite mixed states {\rho} with the property that U^*{\rho}U is separable for all unitary matrices U. This problem has been solved when the local dimensions m and n satisfy m = 2 and n <= 3. We solve all remaining qubit-qudit cases (i.e., when m = 2 and n >= 4 is arbitrary). In all of these cases we show that a state is separable from spectrum if and only if U^*{\rho}U has positive partial transpose for all unitary matrices U. This equivalence is in stark contrast with the usual separability problem, where a state having positive partial transpose is a strictly weaker property than it being separable.

id: 1309.2028
title: Enhanced multipartite quantum correlations by non-Gaussian operations
authors: Ho-Joon Kim, Jaewan Kim, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A 88 (2013) 032109-1 - 032109-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2028
abstract: We study how conditional photon operations can affect multipartite quantum correlations, specifically nonlocality and entanglement, of the continuous variable GHZ states. We find that the violation of the Mermin-Klyshko inequality revealing the multipartite nonlocality can be made stronger with photon subtraction applied on each mode of the original GHZ states, particularly in a weak squeezing regime. Photon addition applied on local modes also turns out to enhance the degree of multipartite nonlocality in a broad range of parameters. We further investigate the effects of the photon operations on the degree of multipartite entanglement by looking into the Gaussian tangle, the fidelity of teleportation network, and the quadrature correlations. We find that photon subtraction applied on two modes enhances those entanglement characteristics in a practical squeezing regime while there is no improvement made by photon addition.

id: 1309.2033
title: Violation of Bell-CHSH inequality using imperfect photodetectors with optical hybrid states
authors: Hyukjoon Kwon, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, references added, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052127 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2033
abstract: We show that a Bell inequality test using an optical hybrid state between a polarized single photon and a coherent field can be highly robust against detection inefficiency. The Bell violation occurs until the efficiency becomes as low as 67% even though its degree becomes small as the detection efficiency degrades. We consider on/off and photon number parity measurements, respectively, for the Bell test and they result in the similar conditions. If the detection efficiency is higher than 98.68%, parity measurements give larger Bell violations close to Cirel'son's bound, while on/off measurements give larger but moderate violations for realistic values of detector efficiency. Experimental realization of our proposal seems feasible in the near future for the implementation of a loophole-free Bell inequality test.

id: 1309.2039
title: Precision bounds for noisy nonlinear quantum metrology
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, 1 appendix; v3 contains an improved analysis and a stronger precision bound for the case of photon loss; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2039
abstract: We derive the ultimate bounds on the performance of nonlinear measurement schemes in the presence of noise. In particular, we investigate the precision of the second-order estimation scheme in the presence of the two most detrimental types of noise, photon loss and phase diffusion. We find that the second-order estimation scheme is affected by both types of noise in an analogous way as the linear one. Moreover, we observe that for both types of noise the gain in the phase sensitivity with respect to the linear estimation scheme is given by a multiplicative term $\mathcal{O}(1/N)$. Interestingly, we also find that under certain circumstances, a careful engineering of the environment can, in principle, improve the performance of measurement schemes affected by phase diffusion.

id: 1309.2127
title: Von Neumann measurement of a spin-1 system
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 13 pages; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2127
abstract: We derive exact formulas describing an indirect von Neumann measurement of a spin-1 system. The results hold for any interaction strength and for an arbitrary output variable $\Hat{O}$.

id: 1309.2180
title: Self-protected polariton states in photonic quantum metamaterials
authors: Matteo Biondi, Sebastian Schmidt, Gianni Blatter, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 025801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2180
abstract: We investigate the single-photon transport properties of a one-dimensional coupled cavity array (CCA) containing a single qubit in its central site by coupling the CCA to two transmission lines supporting propagating bosonic modes with linear dispersion. We find that even in the nominally weak light-matter coupling regime, the transmission through a long array exhibits two ultra-narrow resonances corresponding to long-lived self-protected polaritonic states localized around the site containing the qubit. The lifetime of these states is found to increase exponentially with the number of array sites in sharp distinction to the polaritonic Bloch modes of the cavity array.

id: 1309.2215
title: Optimality of Gaussian Discord
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Gaetana Spedalieri, Samuel L. Braunstein, Nicolas J. Cerf, Seth Lloyd
comments: ReVTEX. 4 pages + 6 pages (Supplemental Material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2215
abstract: In this Letter we exploit the recently-solved conjecture on the bosonic minimum output entropy to show the optimality of Gaussian discord, so that the computation of quantum discord for bipartite Gaussian states can be restricted to local Gaussian measurements. We prove such optimality for a large family of Gaussian states, including all two-mode squeezed thermal states, which are the most typical Gaussian states realized in experiments. Our family also includes other types of Gaussian states and spans their entire set in a suitable limit where they become Choi-matrices of Gaussian channels. As a result, we completely characterize the quantum correlations possessed by some of the most important bosonic states in quantum optics and quantum information.

id: 1309.2217
title: Scaling of genuine multiparticle entanglement at a quantum phase transition
authors: Martin Hofmann, Andreas Osterloh, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, versions 2 contains new acknowledgements and updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 134101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2217
abstract: We investigate the scaling and spatial distribution of genuine multiparticle entanglement in three- and four-spin reduced states of the one-dimensional XY-model at the quantum phase transition. We observe a logarithmic divergence and show that genuine three- and four-particle entanglement obeys finite-size scaling.

id: 1309.2219
title: Classical and quantum capacities of a fully correlated amplitude damping channel
authors: A. D'Arrigo, G. Benenti, G. Falci, C. Macchiavello
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042337 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2219
abstract: We study information transmission over a fully correlated amplitude damping channel acting on two qubits. We derive the single-shot classical channel capacity and show that entanglement is needed to achieve the channel best performance. We discuss the degradability properties of the channel and evaluate the quantum capacity for any value of the noise parameter. We finally compute the entanglement-assisted classical channel capacity.

id: 1309.2221
title: M00N states in ion-laser interactions
authors: A. Z¨²?iga-Segundo, R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, F. Soto-Eguibar, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1210.8127
journal: Quantum Information Review 1, 19-22 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2221
abstract: A new class of entangled states, similar to N00N states is introduced. We call these states M00N states as the excitations shared in both subsystems do not need to be equal. The generation proposed here does not need conditional measurements, and therefore is achieved in a deterministic manner.

id: 1309.2228
title: Antiresonance phase shift in strongly coupled cavity QED
authors: C. Sames, H. Chibani, C. Hamsen, P. A. Altin, T. Wilk, G. Rempe
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 043601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2228
abstract: We investigate phase shifts in the strong coupling regime of single-atom cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). On the light transmitted through the system, we observe a phase shift associated with an antiresonance and show that both its frequency and width depend solely on the atom, despite the strong coupling to the cavity. This shift is optically controllable and reaches 140 degrees - the largest ever reported for a single emitter. Our result offers a new technique for the characterization of complex integrated quantum circuits.

id: 1309.2229
title: Probing macroscopic realism via Ramsey correlations measurements
authors: A. Asadian, C. Brukner, P. Rabl
comments: 5 pages plus Supplementary Material. Published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 190402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2229
abstract: We describe a new and experimentally feasible protocol for performing fundamental tests of quantum mechanics with massive objects. In our approach a single two level system is used to probe the motion of a nanomechanical resonator via multiple Ramsey interference measurements. This scheme enables the measurement of modular variables of macroscopic continuous variable systems and we show that correlations thereof violate a Leggett-Garg inequality and can be applied for tests of quantum contextuality. Our method can be implemented with a variety of different solid state or photonic qubit-resonator systems and provides a clear experimental signature to distinguish the predictions of quantum mechanics from those of other alternative theories at a macroscopic scale.

id: 1309.2235
title: Dynamics of the reading process of a quantum memory
authors: Milrian S. Mendes, Pablo L. Saldanha, Jos¨¦ W. R. Tabosa, Daniel Felinto
comments: 25 pages (one-column format), 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 075030 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2235
abstract: The mechanism of extraction of information stored in a quantum memory is studied here in detail. We consider memories containing a single excitation of a collective atomic state, which is mapped into a single photon during the reading process. A theory is developed for the wavepacket of the extracted photon, leading to a simple analytical expression depending on the key parameters of the problem, like detuning and intensity of the read field and the number of atoms in the atomic ensemble. This theory is then compared to a large set of experimental situations and a satisfactory quantitative agreement is obtained. In this way, we are able to systematically study the saturation and spectrum of the reading process, as well as clarify the role of superradiance in the system.

id: 1309.2238
title: Probability and the Classical/Quantum Divide
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 12 pages; 1 figure
journal: NeuroQuantology, vol. 11, pp. 600-606, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2238
abstract: This paper considers the problem of distinguishing between classical and quantum domains in macroscopic phenomena using tests based on probability and it presents a condition on the ratios of the outcomes being the same (Ps) to being different (Pn). Given three events, Ps/Pn for the classical case, where there are no 3-way coincidences, is one-half whereas for the quantum state it is one-third. For non-maximally entangled objects we find that so long as r < 5.83, we can separate them from classical objects using a probability test. For maximally entangled particles (r = 1), we propose that the value of 5/12 be used for Ps/Pn to separate classical and quantum states when no other information is available and measurements are noisy.

id: 1309.2265
title: Interference of macroscopic beams on a beam splitter: phase uncertainty converted into photon-number uncertainty
authors: K. Yu. Spasibko, F. T?ppel, T. Sh. Iskhakov, M. Stobi¨½ska, M. V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: K. Yu. Spasibko et. al., New J. Phys. 16, 013025 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2265
abstract: Squeezed-vacuum twin beams, commonly generated through parametric down-conversion, are known to have perfect photon-number correlations. According to the Heisenberg principle, this is accompanied by a huge uncertainty in their relative phase. By overlapping bright twin beams on a beam splitter, we convert phase fluctuations into photon-number fluctuations and observe this uncertainty as a typical `U-shape' of the output photon-number distribution. This effect, although reported for atomic ensembles and giving hope for phase super-resolution, has been never observed for light beams. The shape of the normalized photon-number difference distribution is similar to the one that would be observed for high-order Fock states. It can be also mimicked by classical beams with artificially mixed phase, but without any perspective for phase super-resolution. The probability distribution at the beam splitter output can be used for filtering macroscopic superpositions at the input.

id: 1309.2271
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Bound Entanglement
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Wolfgang L?ffler
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. Vol. 2014, 014017 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2271
abstract: In this contribution we relate two different key concepts: mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) and entanglement; in particular we focus on bound entanglement, i.e. highly mixed states which cannot be distilled by local operations and classical communications. For a certain class of states --for which the state-space forms a "magic" simplex-- we analyze the set of bound entangled states detected by the MUB criterion for different dimensions d and number of particles n. We find that the geometry is similar for different d and n, consequently, the MUB criterion opens possibilities to investigate the typicality of PPT-bound and multipartite bound entanglement deeper and provides a simple experimentally feasible tool to detect bound entanglement.

id: 1309.2272
title: Relation between the autocorrelation and Wigner functions
authors: H¨¦ctor Manuel Moya-Cessa, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: Modified title and slightly modified version from the one published
journal: Applied Mathematics & Information Sciences 7 (3), 839-841 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2272
abstract: We show a simple mechanism to measure the Wigner function of a harmonic oscillator. For this system we also show that autocorrelation and Wigner functions are equivalent.

id: 1309.2308
title: Breakdown of quasilocality in long-range quantum lattice models
authors: J. Eisert, M. van den Worm, S. R. Manmana, M. Kastner
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; Fixed typo in equations (3) and (4) and added a footnote
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 260401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2308
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of correlations in quantum lattice models in the presence of long-range interactions decaying asymptotically as a power law. For exponents larger than the lattice dimensionality, a Lieb-Robinson-type bound effectively restricts the spreading of correlations to a causal region, but allows supersonic propagation. We show that this decay is not only sufficient but also necessary. Using tools of quantum metrology, for any exponents smaller than the lattice dimension, we construct Hamiltonians giving rise to quantum channels with capacities not restricted to a causal region. An analytical analysis of long-range Ising models illustrates the disappearance of the causal region and the creation of correlations becoming distance-independent. Numerical results obtained using matrix product state methods for the XXZ spin chain reveal the presence of a sound cone for large exponents, and supersonic propagation for small ones. In all models we analyzed the fast spreading of correlations follows a power law, but not the exponential increase of the long-range Lieb-Robinson bound.

id: 1309.2309
title: Global and local aspects of causality in quantum mechanics
authors: Ovidiu Cristinel Stoica
comments: 12 pages, 17 figures
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences, Volume 58, 01017, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2309
abstract: Quantum mechanics forces us to reconsider certain aspects of classical causality. The 'central mystery' of quantum mechanics manifests in different ways, depending on the interpretation. This mystery can be formulated as the possibility of selecting part of the initial conditions of the Universe 'retroactively'. This talk aims to show that there is a global, timeless, 'bird's view' of the spacetime, which makes this mystery more reasonable. We will review some well-known quantum effects from the perspective of global consistency.

id: 1309.2358
title: Effect of defects on the phonons and the effective spin-spin interactions of an ultracold Penning trap quantum simulator
authors: M. McAneny, B. Yoshimura, J. K. Freericks
comments: (12 pages, 10 figures, typeset with revtex)
journal: Physical Review A 88, 043434 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2358
abstract: We generalize the analysis of the normal modes for a rotating ionic Coulomb crystal in a Penning trap to allow for inhomogeneities in the system. Our formal developments are completely general, but we choose to examine a crystal of Be+ ions with BeH+ defects to compare with current experimental efforts. We examine the classical phonon modes (both transverse and planar) and we determine the effective spin-spin interactions when the system is driven by an axial spin-dependent optical dipole force. We examine situations with up to approximately 15% defects. We find that most properties are not strongly influenced by the defects, indicating that the presence of a small number of defects will not significantly affect experiments.

id: 1309.2396
title: Lorenz, G?del and Penrose: New perspectives on determinism and causality in fundamental physics
authors: T.N.Palmer
comments: This manuscript has been accepted for publication in Contemporary Physics and is based on the author's 9th Dennis Sciama Lecture, given in Oxford and Trieste
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2396
abstract: Despite being known for his pioneering work on chaotic unpredictability, the key discovery at the core of meteorologist Ed Lorenz's work is the link between space-time calculus and state-space fractal geometry. Indeed, properties of Lorenz's fractal invariant set relate space-time calculus to deep areas of mathematics such as G\"{o}del's Incompleteness Theorem. These properties, combined with some recent developments in theoretical and observational cosmology, motivate what is referred to as the `cosmological invariant set postulate': that the universe $U$ can be considered a deterministic dynamical system evolving on a causal measure-zero fractal invariant set $I_U$ in its state space. Symbolic representations of $I_U$ are constructed explicitly based on permutation representations of quaternions. The resulting `invariant set theory' provides some new perspectives on determinism and causality in fundamental physics. For example, whilst the cosmological invariant set appears to have a rich enough structure to allow a description of quantum probability, its measure-zero character ensures it is sparse enough to prevent invariant set theory being constrained by the Bell inequality (consistent with a partial violation of the so-called measurement independence postulate). The primacy of geometry as embodied in the proposed theory extends the principles underpinning general relativity. As a result, the physical basis for contemporary programmes which apply standard field quantisation to some putative gravitational lagrangian is questioned. Consistent with Penrose's suggestion of a deterministic but non-computable theory of fundamental physics, a `gravitational theory of the quantum' is proposed based on the geometry of $I_U$, with potential observational consequences for the dark universe.

id: 1309.2419
title: Collective excitations of atoms and field modes in coupled cavities
authors: Nicolae A. Enaki, Sergiu Bazgan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2419
abstract: The exact solution of the system consisted from two or three q-bits doped in coupled cavities is discussed. The problem of indistinguishable between the excited radiators and photons is analyzed using the intrinsic symmetry of the system. It is demonstrated that the solution is drastically simplified when the radiators and photons are considered as a new polariton excitations. The exact solution of Schrodinger equation is obtained for single and two excitations in each cavity taking into consideration the indistinguishable principle. This approach opens new possibilities in the interpretation of quantum entangled states in comparison with the traditional distinctive situation (see for example [1,2]) due to the decreasing of the number of degrees of freedoms in the system. Considering that the energies of coupling between the radiators and photons is larger than the coupling with external vacuum field, we have found the master equation for the dumping of collective excitations of the system of coupled radiators through the cavity fields. The time-dependence of population for new dressed quasi-levels of energy is obtained solving analytically and numerically the master equation.

id: 1309.2424
title: Some remarks on the "needle radiation"
authors: Istvan Mayer
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, because Dr. Lutz Polley called his attention that the solution of Klein-Gordon equation considered belongs to the inhomogeneous equation with a delta-function source at the z-axis, and not to the homogeneous one
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2424
abstract: It is shown that the classical wave equation is lacking solutions corresponding to the concept of "needle-radiation", while the simplest augmented version of the wave equation -- essentially the Klein-Gordon equation -- obtained by adding a linear term, does have such a solution.

id: 1309.2439
title: Measurement-based direct quantum feedback control in an open quantum system
authors: Yan Yan, Jian Zou, Bao-Ming Xu, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao
comments: 7 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2439
abstract: We consider a general quantum system interacting with a bath and derive a master equation in the Lindblad form describing the evolution of the whole quantum system subjected to a measurement-based direct quantum feedback control (MDFC). As an example, we consider a qubit coupled with a dephasing environment under the MDFC. We show that for any given pure target state we can always find the corresponding MDFC scheme which can effectively drive any initial state into this target state. And by using appropriate MDFC scheme with weak measurement we can stabilize a single qubit initially prepared in one of two nonorthogonal states against dephasing noise. Furthermore, we can effectively protect a kind of known mixed states composed of two nonorthogonal states by using the corresponding MDFC scheme.

id: 1309.2446
title: Quantum discord as a resource for quantum cryptography
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: 7 pages. Improved version
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 6956 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2446
abstract: Quantum discord is the minimal bipartite resource which is needed for a secure quantum key distribution, being a cryptographic primitive equivalent to non-orthogonality. Its role becomes crucial in device-dependent quantum cryptography, where the presence of preparation and detection noise (inaccessible to all parties) may be so strong to prevent the distribution and distillation of entanglement. The necessity of entanglement is re-affirmed in the stronger scenario of device-independent quantum cryptography, where all sources of noise are ascribed to the eavesdropper.

id: 1309.2449
title: Are natural orbitals useful for generating an efficient expansion of the wave function?
authors: Klaas J. H. Giesbertz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 591, 220-226 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2449
abstract: We investigate whether the natural orbitals (NOs) minimize $\lVert\Psi - \Phi\rVert^2$, where $\Psi$ is a wave function and $\Phi$ is a full configuration interaction (CI) approximation to $\Psi$ in a truncated basis. We will show that the NOs rarely provide the optimal orbitals for $\Phi$, except when (1) there are only two particles or (2) only one basis function is removed in the case of fermions. Further, we will show that the CI expansion coefficients of $\Psi$ and $\Phi$ are identical up to a global scaling factor and demonstrate how the NOs can be used to generate the orbitals that minimize $\lVert\Psi - \Phi\rVert^2$.

id: 1309.2451
title: Coherent transport by adiabatic passage on atom chips
authors: T. Morgan, L. J. O'Riordan, N. Crowley, B. O'Sullivan, Th. Busch
comments: 7 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053618 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2451
abstract: Adiabatic techniques offer some of the most promising tools to achieve high-fidelity control of the centre-of-mass degree of freedom of single atoms. As their main requirement is to follow an eigenstate of the system, constraints on timing and field strength stability are usually low, especially for trapped systems. In this paper we present a detailed example of a technique to adiabatically transport a single atom between different waveguides on an atom chip. To ensure that all conditions are fulfilled, we carry out fully three dimensional simulations of the system, using experimentally realistic parameters. We also detail our method for simulating the system in very reasonable timescales on a consumer desktop machine by leveraging the power of GPU computing.

id: 1309.2457
title: High efficiency coupling of photon pairs in practice
authors: T. Guerreiro, A. Martin, B. Sanguinetti, N. Bruno, H. Zbinden, R. T. Thew
comments: 
journal: Optics express 21 (23), 27641-27651 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2457
abstract: Multi-photon and quantum communication experiments such as loophole-free Bell tests and device independent quantum key distribution require entangled photon sources which display high coupling efficiency. In this paper we put forward a simple quantum theoretical model which allows the experimenter to design a source with high pair coupling efficiency. In particular we apply this approach to a situation where high coupling has not been previously obtained: we demonstrate a symmetric coupling efficiency of more than 80% in a highly frequency non-degenerate configuration. Furthermore, we demonstrate this technique in a broad range of configurations, i.e. in continuous wave and pulsed pump regimes, and for different nonlinear crystals.

id: 1309.2470
title: Remote state preparation of a photonic quantum state via quantum teleportation
authors: Laura T. Knoll, Christian T. Schmiegelow, Miguel A. Larotonda
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Applied Physics B:Lasers and Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2470
abstract: We demonstrate an experimental realization of remote state preparation via the quantum teleportation algorithm, using an entangled photon pair in the polarization degree of freedom as the quantum resource. The input state is encoded on the path of one of the photons from the pair. The improved experimental scheme allows us to control the preparation and teleportation of a state over the entire Bloch sphere with a resolution of the degree of mixture given by the coherence length of the photon pair. Both the preparation of the input state and the implementation of the quantum gates are performed in a pair of chained displaced Sagnac interferometers, which contribute to the overall robustness of the setup. An average fidelity above 0.9 is obtained for the remote state preparation process. This scheme allows for a prepared state to be transmitted on every repetition of the experiment, thus giving an intrinsic success probability of 1.

id: 1309.2484
title: Deriving the time-dependent Schrodinger m- and p-equations from the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Paul Kinsler
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; v2 - improved intro and signs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2484
abstract: I present an alternative and rather direct way to derive the well known Schr\"odinger equation for a quantum wavefunction, by starting with the Klein Gordon equation and applying a directional factorization scheme. And since if you have a directionally factorizing hammer, everything looks like a factorizable nail, I also derive an alternative wavefunction propagation equation in the momentum-dominated limit. This new Schr\"odinger $p$-equation therefore provides a potentially useful complement to the traditional Schr\"odinger $m$-equation's mass-dominated limit.

id: 1309.2514
title: Quantum interference of a single spin excitation with a macroscopic atomic ensemble
authors: S. L. Christensen, J.-B. B¨¦guin, E. Bookjans, H. L. S?rensen, J. H. M¨¹ller, J. Appel, E. S. Polzik
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2514
abstract: We report on the observation of quantum interference of a collective single spin excitation with a spin ensemble of $N_{\text{atom}} =10^5$ atoms. Detection of a single photon scattered from the atoms creates the single spin excitation, a Fock state embedded in the collective spin of the ensemble. The state of the atomic ensemble is then detected by tomography via a quantum non-demolition measurement of the collective spin. A macroscopic difference of the order of $\sqrt{N_{\text{atom}}}$ in the marginal distribution of the collective spin state arises from the interference between the single excited spin and $N_{\text{atom}}$ atoms. The hybrid discrete-continuous processing of the collective spin pave the road towards generation of even more exotic states for quantum information processing, precision measurements and communication.

id: 1309.2532
title: Single-photon frequency conversion in nonlinear crystals
authors: Susanne Blum, Georgina A. Olivares-Renter¨ªa, Carlo Ottaviani, Christoph Becher, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053807 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2532
abstract: Frequency conversion of single photons in a nonlinear crystal is theoretically discussed. Losses and noise are included within a Heisenberg-Langevin formalism for the propagating photon field. We calculate the first- and second-order correlation functions of the frequency-converted light when the input is a train of single-photon pulses. This model allows one to identify the requirements on the nonlinear device so that it can be integrated in a quantum network.

id: 1309.2538
title: Artificial abelian gauge potentials induced by dipole-dipole interactions between Rydberg atoms
authors: A. Cesa, J. Martin
comments: revtex, 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062703 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2538
abstract: We analyze the influence of dipole-dipole interactions between Rydberg atoms on the generation of Abelian artificial gauge potentials and fields. When two Rydberg atoms are driven by a uniform laser field, we show that the combined atom-atom and atom-field interactions give rise to new, nonuniform, artificial gauge potentials. We identify the mechanism responsible for the emergence of these gauge potentials. Analytical expressions for the latter indicate that the strongest artificial magnetic fields are reached in the regime intermediate between the dipole blockade regime and the regime in which the atoms are sufficiently far apart such that atom-light interaction dominates over atom-atom interactions. We discuss the differences and similarities of artificial gauge fields originating from resonant dipole-dipole and van der Waals interactions. We also give an estimation of experimentally attainable artificial magnetic fields resulting from this mechanism and we discuss their detection through the deflection of the atomic motion.

id: 1309.2583
title: A fast and versatile QKD system with hardware key distillation and wavelength multiplexing
authors: Nino Walenta, Andreas Burg, Dario Caselunghe, Jeremy Constantin, Nicolas Gisin, Olivier Guinnard, Raphael Houlmann, Pascal Junod, Boris Korzh, Natalia Kulesza, Matthieu Legr¨¦, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Tommaso Lunghi, Laurent Monat, Christopher Portmann, Mathilde Soucarros, Patrick Trinkler, Gregory Trolliet, Fabien Vannel, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys., 16(1):013047, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2583
abstract: We present a 625 MHz clocked coherent one-way quantum key distribution (QKD) system which continuously distributes secret keys over an optical fibre link. To support high secret key rates, we implemented a fast hardware key distillation engine which allows for key distillation rates up to 4 Mbps in real time. The system employs wavelength multiplexing in order to run over only a single optical fibre and is compactly integrated in 19-inch 2U racks. We optimized the system considering a security analysis that respects finite-key-size effects, authentication costs, and system errors. Using fast gated InGaAs single photon detectors, we reliably distribute secret keys with rates up to 140 kbps and over 25 km of optical fibre, for a security parameter of 4E-9.

id: 1309.2586
title: Quantum computing on encrypted data
authors: K. Fisher, A. Broadbent, L.K. Shalm, Z. Yan, J. Lavoie, R. Prevedel, T. Jennewein, K.J. Resch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2586
abstract: The ability to perform computations on encrypted data is a powerful tool for protecting privacy. Recently, protocols to achieve this on classical computing systems have been found. Here we present an efficient solution to the quantum analogue of this problem that enables arbitrary quantum computations to be carried out on encrypted quantum data. We prove that an untrusted server can implement a universal set of quantum gates on encrypted quantum bits (qubits) without learning any information about the inputs, while the client, knowing the decryption key, can easily decrypt the results of the computation. We experimentally demonstrate, using single photons and linear optics, the encryption and decryption scheme on a set of gates sufficient for arbitrary quantum computations. Because our protocol requires few extra resources compared to other schemes it can be easily incorporated into the design of future quantum servers. These results will play a key role in enabling the development of secure distributed quantum systems.

id: 1309.2607
title: Mode Invisibility and Single Photon Detection
authors: Marvellous Onuma-Kalu, Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. RevTex 4.1. Added appendix with further mathematical detail. Updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063824 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2607
abstract: We propose a technique to probe the quantum state of light in an optical cavity without significantly altering it. We minimize the interaction of the probe with the field by arranging a setting where the largest contribution to the transition probability is cancelled. We show that we obtain a very good resolution to measure photon population differences between two given Fock states by means of atomic interferometry.

id: 1309.2610
title: On superactivation of zero-error capacities and reversibility of a quantum channel
authors: Maksim Shirokov, Tatiana Shulman
comments: 29 pages, extended version, Proposition 4 is strengthened, the results concerning asymptotic zero-error capacities are added (Corollaries 5-8), Lemma 7 is corrected; any comments are welcome
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. V.335, N3, pp.1159-1179 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2610
abstract: We propose examples of low dimensional quantum channels demonstrating different forms of superactivation of one-shot zero-error capacities, in particular, the extreme superactivation (this complements the recent result of T.S.Cubitt and G.Smith). We also describe classes of quantum channels whose zero-error classical and quantum capacities cannot be superactivated. We consider implications of the superactivation of one-shot zero-error capacities to analysis of reversibility of a tensor-product channel with respect to families of pure states. Our approach based on the notions of complementary channel and of transitive subspace of operators makes it possible to study the superactivation effects for infinite-dimensional channels as well.

id: 1309.2620
title: Time-energy tradeoff in unambiguous state discrimination POVM
authors: Raam Uzdin, Omri Gat
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2620
abstract: Unambiguous non-orthogonal state discrimination has fundamental importance in quantum information and quantum cryptography. The discrimination is carried out by POVM generalized measurements. For this process, we find a tradeoff between the needed energy resources and the evolution time, and express it in terms of action-like cost inequality. We find the realization that minimizes this action-like cost and show that in this case the cost is determined by the maximal population transfer from the system to the ancilla needed for the POVM implementation.

id: 1309.2643
title: Noisy Interactive Quantum Communication
authors: Gilles Brassard, Alain Tapp, Dave Touchette
comments: 49 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2643
abstract: We study the problem of simulating protocols in a quantum communication setting over noisy channels. This problem falls at the intersection of quantum information theory and quantum communication complexity, and is of particular importance for real-world applications of interactive quantum protocols, which can be proved to have exponentially lower communication costs than their classical counterparts for some problems. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first results regarding the quantum version of this problem, first studied by Schulman in a classical setting (FOCS '92, STOC '93). We simulate a length N quantum communication protocol by a length O(N) protocol. Our simulation strategy has a far higher communication rate than the naive one that encodes each particular round of communication to achieve comparable success. In particular, such a strategy would have a communication rate going to 0 in the worst interaction case as the length of the protocols increases, in contrast to our strategy, which has a communication rate proportional to the capacity of the channel used. Under adversarial noise, our strategy can withstand error rates up to 1/2 when parties preshare perfect entanglement, and this even if they are only allowed noisy classical communication. We show that this is optimal. This is in contrast to the case of the naive strategy, which would not work for any constant fraction of errors in this model. When the parties do not preshare entanglement, we show how to tolerate adversarial error rates close to the maximum tolerable for one-way quantum data transmission. In a random noise setting with a quantum channel of capacity Q > 0, the communication rate is proportional to Q.

id: 1309.2703
title: Conversion efficiency in the process of co-polarized spontaneous four-wave mixing
authors: Karina Garay-Palmett, Alfred B. U'Ren, Ra¨²l Rangel-Rojo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043809 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2703
abstract: We study the process of co-polarized spontaneous four-wave mixing in single-mode optical fibers, with an emphasis on an analysis of the conversion efficiency. We consider both the monochromatic-pumps and pulsed-pumps regimes, as well as both the degenerate-pumps and non-degenerate-pumps configurations. We present analytical expressions for the conversion efficiency, which are given in terms of double integrals. In the case of pulsed pumps we take these expressions to closed analytical form with the help of certain approximations. We present results of numerical simulations, and compare them to values obtained from our analytical expressions, for the conversion efficiency as a function of several key experimental parameters.

id: 1309.2705
title: Theory of cavity-enhanced spontaneous four wave mixing
authors: K. Garay-Palmett, Y. Jer¨®nimo-Moreno, A. B. U'Ren
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. 23, 015201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2705
abstract: In this paper we study the generation of photon pairs through the process of spontaneous four wave mixing (SFWM) in a $\chi^{(3)}$ cavity. Our key interest is the generation of photon pairs in a guided-wave configuration - fiber or waveguide - where at least one of the photons in a given pair is matched in frequency and bandwidth to a particular atomic transition, as required for the implementation of photon-atom interfaces. We present expressions, along with plots, for the two-photon joint intensity both in the spectral and temporal domains. We also present expressions for the absolute brightness, along with numerical simulations, and show that the presence of the cavity can result in a flux enhancement relative to an equivalent source without a cavity.

id: 1309.2707
title: On 1/Z expansion for two-electron systems
authors: J.C. Lopez Vieyra, A.V. Turbiner
comments: 7 pages, 2 Tables, two extra references added, Conclusions extended, two "Note added.I-II." added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2707
abstract: The $1/Z$-expansion for the Coulomb system of infinitely massive center of charge Z and two electrons is discussed. Numerical deficiency in Baker et al, {\em Phys. Rev. \bf A41}, 1247 (1990) is indicated which continue to raise doubts in correctness of their calculations of the higher order coefficients in $1/Z$-expansion expressed in Refs.[4-5]. It is shown that a minor modification of a few first coefficients found in Ref.[3] allows to calculate the ground state energies at $Z\ =\ 1, 2,\ldots \ 10$ (as well as at $Z > 10$) with a portion of 15th decimal digit in comparison with highly accurate calculations by C. Schwartz and by Nakashima-Nakatsuji. Ground state energies of two-electron ions $Z=11\ (Na^{9+})$ and $Z=12\ (Mg^{10+})$ are found with 14 decimal digits.

id: 1309.2711
title: Intrinsic-Correlation Quantum Key Generation
authors: Kim Fook Lee, Yong Meng Sua
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2711
abstract: A new conceptual key generation scheme is presented by using intrinsic quantum correlations of single photons between Alice and Bob. The intrinsic bi-partite correlation functions allow key bit to be generated through high level communication language i.e. a key bit is directly encoded to shared correlation functions not to the state and detection of a photon at Bob does not mean key bit. These make the scheme robust against intercept-resend attack because Alice and Bob can always check the errors in their measurements and reveal the presence of Eve in their channel without leaking any key bit information. The laser source is located in the middle of Alice and Bob, consists of two modes (x,y), relatively random phase-modulated $(\pm \frac{\pi}{2})$ weak coherent states combined in a perfect 50/50 beam splitter. The scheme is strictly relied on the perfect beam splitter and mean photon number less than 1, where more than one photon in a coherent pulse will introduce more errors in Bob even without the presence of Eve. From the percentage of errors in Bob, we can estimate the amount of information will be leaked to Eve in the photon-number splitting attack. This scheme can preserve the randomness of phase-randomized light source for doubling the communication distance as in original Ekert's protocol and providing the raw key generation rate a factor of 2 higher than weak coherent light protocols.

id: 1309.2713
title: Genuine Four Tangle for Four Qubit States
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 03 pages, This short communication is a contribution to the proceedings of QCMC 2012 held in Vienna, Austria, July 30th to August 3rd 2012
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1633, 35 (2014);
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2713
abstract: We report a four qubit polynomial invariant that quantifies genuine four-body correlations. The four qubit invariants are obtained from transformation properties of three qubit invariants under a local unitary on the fourth qubit.

id: 1309.2736
title: An Efficient Quantum Algorithm and Circuit to Generate Eigenstates of SU(2) and SU(3) Representations
authors: Satya Sainadh U
comments: Empty spaces in the document can be ignored. All information as author intended is available in this document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2736
abstract: This thesis presents an efficient quantum algorithm and explicit circuits for generating eigenstates of arbitrary SU(2) and SU(3) representations. These include a wide variety of highly entangled states. The algorithm uses Schur transform that rotates the input computational basis states to the output Schur basis states with resources polynomial in number of qudits n. Using the fact that quantum logic is reversible, we accomplish the desired result using the inverse Schur transform. The algorithm can be easily generalized to any arbitrary higher groups.

id: 1309.2761
title: Observation of two output light pulses from a partial wavelength converter preserving phase of an input light at a single-photon level
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Toshiki Kobayashi, Hiroshi Kato, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Mikio Fujiwara, Takashi Yamamoto, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 23, pp. 27865-27872 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2761
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that both a converted and an unconverted light pulses after wavelength conversion with various conversion efficiencies preserve phase information of an input light at a single-photon level. In our experiment, we converted temporally-separated two coherent light pulses with average photon numbers of $\sim$ 0.1 at 780 nm to light pulses at 1522 nm by using difference-frequency generation in a periodically-poled lithium niobate waveguide. We observed a single-photon interference between temporally-separated two modes for both the converted and the unconverted light pulses at various values of the conversion efficiency. We observed interference visibilities greater than 0.88 without suppressing the background noises for any value of the conversion efficiency the wavelength converter achieves. At a conversion efficiency of $\sim$ 0.5, the observed visibilities are 0.98 for the unconverted light and 0.99 for the converted light.

id: 1309.2814
title: Coherent Control of the Waveforms of Recoilless Gamma-Photons
authors: Farit Vagizov, Vladimir Antonov, Y.V. Radeonychev, R. N. Shakhmuratov, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 12 pages, 3 pages Supplementary information, and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2814
abstract: An efficient method to coherently control the waveforms of gamma-photons has been proposed and experimentally realized. It is based on the resonant interaction of gamma-photons with an ensemble of nuclei with modulated frequency of the quantum transition. In particular, the temporal compression of an individual gamma-photon into coherent ultrashort pulse train has been demonstrated. The developed technique is expected to give a strong impetus on emerging fields of coherent and quantum gamma-optics, providing a basis for realization of the gamma-photon nuclear-ensemble interfaces and quantum interference effects at the nuclear gamma-ray transitions.

id: 1309.2827
title: Geometrical aspects of quantum walks on random two-dimensional structures
authors: Anastasiia Anishchenko, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2827
abstract: We study the transport properties of continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) over finite two-dimensional structures with a given number of randomly placed bonds and with different aspect ratios (AR). Here, we focus on the transport from, say, the left side to the right side of the structure where absorbing sites are placed. We do so by analyzing the long-time average of the survival probability of CTQW. We compare the results to the classical continuous-time random walk case (CTRW). For small AR (landscape configurations) we observe only small differences between the quantum and the classical transport properties, i.e., roughly the same number of bonds is needed to facilitate the transport. However, with increasing AR (portrait configurations) a much larger number of bonds is needed in the CTQW case than in the CTRW case. While for CTRW the number of bonds needed decreases when going from small AR to large AR, for CTRW this number is large for small AR, has a minimum for the square configuration, and increases again for increasing AR. We corroborate our findings for large AR by showing that the corresponding quantum eigenstates are strongly localized in situations in which the transport is facilitated in the CTRW case.

id: 1309.2856
title: Energy levels of an anharmonic oscillator in both weak and strong coupling limit using convergency of Morse-Feshbach non-linear perturbation series
authors: Biswanath Rath, Pramoda Kumar Samal, Radhanath Mishra, Basudeb Sahu
comments: 13 pages, 8 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2856
abstract: We make an extensive rigorous study on convergent behaviour of Morse-Feshbach nonlinear perturbation series (MFNPS) to find out energy levels of the anharmonic oscillator (AHO) in both weak and strong coupling limit. We develop a new method of multi step optimal splitting in order to get convergency in MFNPS for ground state of AHO and found that two step optimal splitting is sufficient to provide convergency in MFNPS. Unlike the ground state the optimal splitting parameters for excited states is modified according to their dependency on state in order to achieve convergency in MFNPS.

id: 1309.2867
title: Rapid creation of distant entanglement by multiphoton resonant fluorescence
authors: Guy Z. Cohen, L. J. Sham
comments: 
journal: G. Z. Cohen and L. J. Sham, Phys. Rev. B 88, 245306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2867
abstract: We study a simple, effective and robust method for entangling two separate stationary quantum dot spin qubits with high fidelity using multiphoton Gaussian state. The fluorescence signals from the two dots interfere at a beam splitter. The bosonic nature of photons leads, in analogy with the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect, to selective pairing of photon holes (photon absences in the fluorescent signals). As a result, two odd photon number detections at the outgoing beams herald trion entanglement creation, and subsequent reduction of the trions to the spin ground states leads to spin-spin entanglement. The robustness of the Gaussian states is evidenced by the ability to compensate for photon absorption and noise by a moderate increase in the number of photons at the input. We calculate the entanglement generation rate in the ideal, nonideal and near-ideal detector regimes and find substantial improvement over single-photon schemes in all three regimes. Fast and efficient spin-spin entanglement creation can form the basis for a scalable quantum dot quantum computing network. Our predictions can be tested using current experimental capabilities.

id: 1309.2883
title: Disproving the conjecture on structural physical approximation to optimal decomposable entanglement witnesses
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 3 pages; minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 195301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2883
abstract: We disprove the conjecture that structural physical approximations to optimal entanglement witnesses are separable states. The conjecture holds true for extremal decomposable entanglement witnesses.

id: 1309.2906
title: Informationally Incomplete Quantum Tomography
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology, Volume 1, 57 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2906
abstract: In quantum-state tomography on sources with quantum degrees of freedom of large Hilbert spaces, inference of quantum states of light for instance, a complete characterization of the quantum states for these sources is often not feasible owing to limited resources. As such, the concepts of informationally incomplete state estimation becomes important. These concepts are ideal for applications to quantum channel/process tomography, which typically requires a much larger number of measurement settings for a full characterization of a quantum channel. Some key aspects of both quantum-state and quantum-process tomography are arranged together in the form of a tutorial review article that is catered to students and researchers who are new to the field of quantum tomography, with focus on maximum-likelihood related techniques as instructive examples to illustrate these ideas.

id: 1309.2909
title: Quantum Backflow States from Eigenstates of the Regularized Current Operator
authors: J.J.Halliwell, E.Gillman, O.Lennon, M.Patel, I.Ramirez
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2909
abstract: We present an exhaustive class of states with quantum backflow -- the phenomenon in which a state consisting entirely of positive momenta may have negative current and the probability flows in the opposite direction to the momentum. They are characterized by a general function of momenta subject to very weak conditions. Such a family of states is of interest in the light of a recent experimental proposal to measure backflow. We find one particularly simple state which has surprisingly large backflow -- about 41 percent of the lower bound on flux derived by Bracken and Melloy. We study the eigenstates of a regularized current operator and we show how some of these states, in a certain limit, lead to our class of backflow states. This limit also clarifies the correspondence between the spectrum of the regularized current operator, which has just two non-zero eigenvalues in our chosen regularization, and the usual current operator.

id: 1309.2930
title: Quantum theory of photonic crystals
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Ji Ma, Xiao-Jing Liu, Jing-Hai Yang, Hong Li, Si-Qi Zhang, Hai-Xin Gao, Xin-Guo Yin, San Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2930
abstract: In this paper, we have firstly presented a new quantum theory to study one-dimensional photonic crystals. We give the quantum transform matrix, quantum dispersion relation and quantum transmissivity, and compare them with the classical dispersion relation and classical transmissivity. By the calculation, we find the classical and quantum dispersion relation and transmissivity are identical. The new approach can be studied two-dimensional and three-dimensional photonic crystals.

id: 1309.2956
title: A bosonic multi-state two-well model
authors: G Santos, A Foerster, I Roditi
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 265206 (12pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2956
abstract: Inspired by the increasing possibility of experimental control in ultracold atomic physics, we introduce a new Lax operator and use it to construct and solve models with two wells and two on-well states together with its generalization for n on-well states. The models are solved by the algebraic Bethe ansatz method and can be viewed as describing two Bose-Einstein condensates allowing for an exchange interaction through Josephson tunnelling.

id: 1309.2968
title: Distillation of free entanglement from bound entangled states using weak measurements
authors: S. Baghbanzadeh, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2968
abstract: We propose a scheme for distillation of free bipartite entanglement from bipartite bound-entangled states. The crucial element of our scheme is an ancillary system that is coupled to the initial bound-entangled state via appropriate weak measurements. We show that in this protocol free entanglement can be always generated with nonzero probability by using a single copy of the bound-entangled state. We also derive a lower bound on the entanglement cost of the protocol, and conclude that, on average, applying weaker measurements results in relatively higher values of free entanglement as well as lower costs.

id: 1309.3017
title: Two-photon interference with continuous-wave multi-mode coherent light
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Oliver Slattery, Paulina S. Kuo, Xiao Tang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express 22, 3611 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3017
abstract: We report two-photon interference with continuous-wave multi-mode coherent light. We show that the two-photon interference, in terms of the detection time difference, reveals two-photon beating fringes with the visibility $V = 0.5$. While scanning the optical delay of the interferometer, Hong-Ou-Mandel dips or peaks are measured depending on the chosen detection time difference. The HOM dips/peaks are repeated when the optical delay and the first-order coherence revival period of the multi-mode coherent light are the same.

id: 1309.3020
title: High-efficiency single-photon Fock state production by transitionless quantum driving
authors: X. Shi, L. F. Wei
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 12 (2015) 015204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3020
abstract: Single photon source is one of the key devices for optical quantum information processing. Differing from the usual stimulated Raman adiabatic passage to obtain single-photon radiation, here we propose an approach to produce optical Fock state on demand in the usual atom-cavity system by utilizing the technique of transitionless quantum driving. The present proposal effectively suppresses the unwanted but practically unavoidable nonadiabatic transitions in the previous adiabatic schemes. Therefore, the efficiency of Fock state production by the present technique could be significantly high, even in the presence of various atomic and cavity dissipations.

id: 1309.3023
title: Quantum memories with electrically controlled storage and retrieval in an opto- and electro-mechanical cavity
authors: Li-Guo Qin, Zhong-Yang Wang, Gong-Wei Lin, Jing-Yun Zhao, Shang-Qing Gong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3023
abstract: We propose a novel scheme to realize electrically controlled quantum memories in the opto- and electro-mechanical (OEM) cavity. Combining this OEM cavity with the mechanism of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) we find that the quantum interference, arising from the two optical transitions of the $\Lambda$ type three-level atomic ensembles, can be manipulated electrically. Numerical calculations show that the probe photon state can be well stored into the atomic spin state by sending an electric current pulse and retrieved with time-reverse symmetry by sending the other current pulse with opposite direction. The quantum interference with electric controlling is expected to apply to other quantum control aspects.

id: 1309.3054
title: The stationary measure of a space-inhomogeneous quantum walk on the line
authors: Takako Endo, Norio Konno
comments: 15 pages, the name was revised from Watanabe to Endo for marriage, the order of author's names was also changed
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal, Vol. 60, 33-47 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3054
abstract: We study a discrete-time quantum walk (QW) on the line with a single phase at the origin which was introduced and studied by Wojcik et al.[1]. We call the model "Wojcik model" here. Konno et al.[2] investigated other types of QWs with one defect at the origin. They presented a method which gives the stationary measure corresponding to localization for the QWs by use of the generating functions splitted in positive and negative parts respectively. In this paper, we call the method "the splitted generating function method (the SGF method)". To clarify in detail which QW is appropriate for the method in the case of study is one of the important challenges to investigate localization properties for various QWs. As for the Wojcik model, we solve the eigenvalue problem by the SGF method and our results agree with Ref.[1]. From the solution of the problem, we derive a stationary measure with an exponential decay for the position. The explicit expression for the stationary measure is symmetric for the origin and ensures localization depending on the initial coin state.

id: 1309.3058
title: Correlation measurements with on-off detectors
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043821 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3058
abstract: We present a general method to detect nonclassical radiation fields with systems of on-off detectors. We especially study higher order correlations for the identification of nonclassical radiation. This allows us to directly characterize quantum correlations by the statistics measured with systems of on-off detectors. Additionally, we generalize our method to multiple detector systems for measurements of correlations between light fields. We also consider multi-mode radiation fields and isolate nonclassicality in terms of the space time correlations. Finally, we present results for the quantum statistics using on-off detectors operating in nonlinear detection modes.

id: 1309.3088
title: Spacetime effects on satellite-based quantum communications
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Tim Ralph, Ivette Fuentes, Thomas Jennewein, Mohsen Razavi
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published also as I. Fuentes-Schuller and I. Fuentes-Guridi
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 045041 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3088
abstract: We investigate the consequences of space-time being curved on space-based quantum communication protocols. We analyze tasks that require either the exchange of single photons in a certain entanglement distribution protocol or beams of light in a continuous-variable quantum key distribution scheme. We find that gravity affects the propagation of photons, therefore adding additional noise to the channel for the transmission of information. The effects could be measured with current technology.

id: 1309.3107
title: High fidelity gate operations within the coupled nuclear and electron spins of a nitrogen vacancy center in diamond
authors: Mark S. Everitt, Simon Devitt, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 9 pages & 6 Figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3107
abstract: In this article we investigate the dynamics of a single negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy center (NV-) coupled to the spin of the nucleus of a 15-nitrogen atom and show that high fidelity gate operations are possible without the need for complicated composite pulse sequences. These operations include both the electron and nuclear spin rotations, as well as an entangling gate between them. These are experimentally realizable gates with current technology of sufficiently high fidelities that they can be used to build graph states for quantum information processing tasks.

id: 1309.3159
title: Relativistic bands in the spectrum of created particles via dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Andreson L. C. Rego, Jo?o Paulo da S. Alves, Danilo T. Alves, C. Farina
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3159
abstract: We present a general analytical approach to investigate relativistic corrections in the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE). Particularly, we discuss the behavior of the additional frequency bands that appear in the spectral distribution of the created particles when the first relativistic corrections are taken into account. We do that in the context of circuit QED, by analyzing the setup used in the first measurement of the DCE, where a system with a time-dependent boundary condition simulates the mechanical motion of a single mirror in 1+1 dimensions. Our method is applicable to a large class of systems with oscillatory time-dependent parameters and can be generalized to higher dimensions and other fields.

id: 1309.3202
title: Spectral multiplexing for scalable quantum photonics using an atomic frequency comb quantum memory and feed-forward control
authors: Neil Sinclair, Erhan Saglamyurek, Hassan Mallahzadeh, Joshua A. Slater, Mathew George, Raimund Ricken, Morgan P. Hedges, Daniel Oblak, Christoph Simon, Wolfgang Sohler, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 053603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3202
abstract: Future multi-photon applications of quantum optics and quantum information science require quantum memories that simultaneously store many photon states, each encoded into a different optical mode, and enable one to select the mapping between any input and a specific retrieved mode during storage. Here we show, with the example of a quantum repeater, how to employ spectrally-multiplexed states and memories with fixed storage times that allow such mapping between spectral modes. Furthermore, using a Ti:Tm:LiNbO3 waveguide cooled to 3 Kelvin, a phase modulator, and a spectral filter, we demonstrate storage followed by the required feed-forward-controlled frequency manipulation with time-bin qubits encoded into up to 26 multiplexed spectral modes and 97% fidelity.

id: 1309.3204
title: Analytical study of level crossings in the Stark-Zeeman spectrum of ground state OH
authors: N. Cawley, Z. Howard, M. Kleinert, M. Bhattacharya
comments: 5 figures, to be published in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3204
abstract: The ground electronic, vibrational and rotational state of the OH molecule is currently of interest as it can be manipulated by electric and magnetic fields for experimental studies in ultracold chemistry and quantum degeneracy. Based on our recent exact solution of the corresponding effective Stark-Zeeman Hamiltonian, we present an analytical study of the crossings and avoided crossings in the spectrum. These features are relevant to non-adiabatic transitions, conical intersections and Berry phases. Specifically, for an avoided crossing employed in the evaporative cooling of OH, we compare our exact results to those derived earlier from perturbation theory.

id: 1309.3208
title: Feedback-induced nonlinearity and superconducting on-chip quantum optics
authors: Zhong-Peng Liu, Hui Wang, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Re-Bing Wu, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063851 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3208
abstract: Quantum coherent feedback has been proven to be an efficient way to tune the dynamics of quantum optical systems and, recently, those of solid-state quantum circuits. Here, inspired by the recent progress of quantum feedback experiments, especially those in mesoscopic circuits, we prove that superconducting circuit QED systems, shunted with a coherent feedback loop, can change the dynamics of a superconducting transmission line resonator, i.e., a linear quantum cavity, and lead to strong on-chip nonlinear optical phenomena. We find that bistability can occur under the semiclassical approximation, and photon anti-bunching can be shown in the quantum regime. Our study presents new perspectives for engineering nonlinear quantum dynamics on a chip.

id: 1309.3228
title: Quantum hypothesis testing and the operational interpretation of the quantum Renyi relative entropies
authors: Milan Mosonyi, Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: v5: Added Appendix A on monotonicity and attainability properties
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics: Volume 334, Issue 3 (2015), Page 1617-1648
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3228
abstract: We show that the new quantum extension of Renyi's \alpha-relative entropies, introduced recently by Muller-Lennert, Dupuis, Szehr, Fehr and Tomamichel, J. Math. Phys. 54, 122203, (2013), and Wilde, Winter, Yang, Commun. Math. Phys. 331, (2014), have an operational interpretation in the strong converse problem of quantum hypothesis testing. Together with related results for the direct part of quantum hypothesis testing, known as the quantum Hoeffding bound, our result suggests that the operationally relevant definition of the quantum Renyi relative entropies depends on the parameter \alpha: for \alpha<1, the right choice seems to be the traditional definition, whereas for \alpha>1 the right choice is the newly introduced version. As a sideresult, we show that the new Renyi \alpha-relative entropies are asymptotically attainable by measurements for \alpha>1, and give a new simple proof for their monotonicity under completely positive trace-preserving maps.

id: 1309.3234
title: How cold can you get in space? Quantum Physics at cryogenic temperatures in space
authors: Gerald Hechenblaikner, Fabian Hufgard, Johannes Burkhardt, Nikolai Kiesel, Ulrich Johann, Markus Aspelmeyer, Rainer Kaltenbaek
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 013058
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3234
abstract: Although it is often believed that the coldness of space is ideally suited for performing measurements at cryogenic temperatures, this must be regarded with caution for two reasons: Firstly, the sensitive instrument must be completely shielded from the strong solar radiation and therefore, e.g. either be placed inside a satellite or externally on the satellite's shaded side. Secondly, any platform hosting such an experiment in space generally provides an environment close to room temperature for the accommodated equipment. To obtain cryogenic temperatures without active cooling, one must isolate the instrument from radiative and conductive heat exchange with the platform as well as possible. We investigate the limits of this passive cooling method in the context of a recently proposed experiment to observe the decoherence of quantum superpositions of massive objects. The analyses and conclusions are applicable to a host of similar experimental designs requiring a cryogenic environment in space.

id: 1309.3255
title: Dissipative transverse-field Ising model: steady-state correlations and spin squeezing
authors: Tony E. Lee, Ching-Kit Chan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063811 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3255
abstract: We study the transverse-field Ising model with infinite-range coupling and spontaneous emission on every site. We find that there is spin squeezing in steady state due to the presence of the transverse field. This means that there is still entanglement, despite the decoherence from spontaneous emission. We analytically calculate fluctuations beyond mean-field theory using a phase-space approach, which involves converting the master equation into a Fokker-Planck equation for the Wigner function. Our calculations are relevant to current experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1309.3310
title: Using concatenated quantum codes for universal fault-tolerant quantum gates
authors: Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010505 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3310
abstract: We propose a method for universal fault-tolerant quantum computation using concatenated quantum error correcting codes. Namely, other than computational basis state preparation as required by the DiVincenzo criteria [1], our scheme requires no special ancillary state preparation to achieve universality, as opposed to schemes such as magic state distillation. The concatenation scheme exploits the transversal properties of two different codes, combining them to provide a means to protect against low-weight arbitrary errors. We give the required properties of the error correcting codes to ensure universal fault-tolerance and discuss a particular example using the 7-qubit Steane and 15-qubit Reed-Muller codes. We believe that optimizing the codes used in such a scheme could provide a useful alternative to state distillation schemes that exhibit high overhead costs.

id: 1309.3356
title: Unextendible maximally entangled bases and mutually unbiased bases
authors: Bin Chen, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 (2013) 034301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3356
abstract: We study unextendible maximally entangled basis in arbitrary bipartite spaces. A systematic way of constructing a set of $d^{2}$ orthonormal maximally entangled states in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d'}(\frac{d'}{2}<d<d')$ is provided. The complementary space of the set of these $d^{2}$ orthonormal maximally entangled states contains no maximally entangled states that are orthogonal to all of them. Furthermore, we investigate mutually unbiased bases in which all the bases are unextendible maximally entangled ones. We present two unextendible maximally entangled bases in $\mathbb{C}^{2}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{3}$ which are mutually unbiased.

id: 1309.3357
title: Geometry of Quantum Computation with Qutrits
authors: Bin Li, Zu-Huan Yu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 14 pages
journal: Scientific Reports 3 (2013) 2594
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3357
abstract: Determining the quantum circuit complexity of a unitary operation is an important problem in quantum computation. By using the mathematical techniques of Riemannian geometry, we investigate the efficient quantum circuits in quantum computation with $n$ qutrits. We show that the optimal quantum circuits are essentially equivalent to the shortest path between two points in a certain curved geometry of $SU(3^n)$. As an example, three-qutrit systems are investigated in detail.

id: 1309.3379
title: Quantum state transfer in the presence of non homogeneous external potentials
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Thomas Busch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3379
abstract: Heisenberg-type spin models in the limit of a low number of excitations are useful tools to study basic mechanisms in strongly correlated and magnetic systems. Many of these mechanisms can be experimentally tested using ultracold atoms. Here, we discuss the implementation of a quantum state transfer protocol in a tight-binding chain in the presence of an inhomogeneous external potential. We show that it can be used to extend the parameter range in which high fidelity state transfer can be achieved beyond the well established weak-coupling regime. Among the class of mirror-reflecting potentials that allow for high-fidelity quantum state transfer, the harmonic case is especially relevant because it allows us to formulate a proposal for the experimental implementation of the protocol in the context of optical lattices.

id: 1309.3393
title: State of the art in the determination of the fine structure constant: test of Quantum Electrodynamics and determination of h/mu
authors: Rym Bouchendira, Pierre Clad¨¦, Sa?da Guellati-Kh¨¦lifa, Fran?ois Nez, Fran?ois Biraben
comments: 
journal: annalen der adp physik 525, 7 (2013) 484-492
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3393
abstract: The fine structure constant $\alpha$ has a particular status in physics. Its precise determination is required to test the quantum electrodynamics (QED) theory. The constant $\alpha$ is also a keystone for the determination of other fundamental physical constants, especially the ones involved in the framework of the future International System of units. This paper presents Paris experiment, where the fine structure constant is determined by measuring the recoil velocity of a rubidium atom when it absorbs a photon. The impact of the recent improvement of QED calculations of the electron moment anomaly and the recent measurement of the cesium atom recoil at Berkeley will be discussed. The opportunity to provide a precise value of the ratio $h/m_{\mathrm{u}}$ between the Planck constant and the atomic mass constant will be investigated.

id: 1309.3404
title: Corrections to the expected signal in quantum metrology using highly anisotropic Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Salini Jose, Anil Shaji
comments: 8 Pages, 7 figures, Typos corrected, 3 references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3404
abstract: In the quantum metrology protocol described by Tacla et al. [Tacla et al., Phys. Rev. A 82, 053636 (2010)] where a two mode Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is used for parameter estimation, the measured quantity is to be obtained by doing a one parameter fit of the observed data to a theoretically expected signal. Here we look at different levels of approximation used to model the two mode BEC to see how the estimate improves when increasing level of detail is added to the theory while at the same time keeping the expected signal computable.

id: 1309.3406
title: Memory-assisted measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Christiana Panayi, Mohsen Razavi, Xiongfeng Ma, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 043005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3406
abstract: A protocol with the potential of beating the existing distance records for conventional quantum key distribution (QKD) systems is proposed. It borrows ideas from quantum repeaters by using memories in the middle of the link, and that of measurement-device-independent QKD, which only requires optical source equipment at the user's end. For certain fast memories, our scheme allows a higher repetition rate than that of quantum repeaters, thereby requiring lower coherence times. By accounting for various sources of nonideality, such as memory decoherence, dark counts, misalignment errors, and background noise, as well as timing issues with memories, we develop a mathematical framework within which we can compare QKD systems with and without memories. In particular, we show that with the state-of-the-art technology for quantum memories, it is possible to devise memory-assisted QKD systems that, at certain distances of practical interest, outperform current QKD implementations.

id: 1309.3407
title: Reposition time in probabilistic imperfect memories
authors: Ludmi?a Praxmeyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3407
abstract: We present the analysis of behavior of N identical finite time memories with the imperfections characterized by a step-function model, based on a study of independent copies of the geometric distribution. We show a step-by-step derivation of a formula for the average waiting time for obtaining N successes within a given time span {\tau}, which was used recently in the analysis of quantum repeater rates.

id: 1309.3465
title: Quantum-state transfer between atom and cavity field in Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: G. Zhang, G. R. Li, Z. Song
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 13, 1550001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3465
abstract: We present a scheme for transferring quantum state between atom and cavity field in Jaynes-Cummings model. It is based on the fact that the atom in a cavity can induce the generation of modified coherent states, which can be shown to be macroscopically distinguishable. The application on two-cavity system provides an alternative scheme for preparation of non-local superpositions of quasi-classical light states. Numerical simulation shows that the proposed schemes are efficient.

id: 1309.3472
title: Local properties of entanglement and application to collapse
authors: Roland Omnes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3472
abstract: When a quantum system is macroscopic and becomes entangled with a microscopic one, this entanglement is not immediately total, but gradual and local. A study of this locality is the starting point of the present work and shows unexpected and detailed properties in the generation and propagation of entanglement between a measuring apparatus and a microscopic measured system. Of special importance is the propagation of entanglement in nonlinear waves with a finite velocity. When applied to the entanglement between a macroscopic system and its environment, this study yields also new results about the resulting disordered state. Finally, a mechanism of wave function collapse is proposed as an effect of perturbation in the growth of local entanglement between a measuring system and the measured one by waves of entanglement with the environment.

id: 1309.3508
title: Optimal continuous variable quantum teleportation protocol for realistic settings
authors: F. S. Luiz, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: v1: 16 pages, double column, 24 figures, revTex4; v2: published version
journal: Annals of Physics 354, 409 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3508
abstract: We show the optimal setup that allows Alice to teleport coherent states to Bob giving the greatest fidelity (efficiency) when one takes into account two realistic assumptions. The first one says that in any actual implementation of the continuous variable teleportation protocol (CVTP) Alice and Bob necessarily share non-maximally entangled states (two-mode finitely squeezed states). The second one assumes that Alice's pool of possible coherent states to be teleported to Bob does not cover the whole complex plane. The optimal strategy is achieved by tuning three parameters in the original CVTP, namely, the beam splitter transmittance and the displacements in position and momentum implemented on the teleported state. These slight changes in the protocol are currently easy to be implemented and, as we show, give considerable gain in perfomance for a variety of possible pool of input states with Alice.

id: 1309.3516
title: Creation, storage, and on-demand release of optical quantum states with a negative Wigner function
authors: Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Kenzo Makino, Shintaro Kurata, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 041028 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3516
abstract: Highly nonclassical quantum states of light, characterized by Wigner functions with negative values, have been created so far only in a heralded fashion. In this case, the desired output emerges rarely and randomly from a quantum-state generator. An important example is the heralded production of high-purity single-photon states, typically based on some nonlinear optical interaction. In contrast, on-demand single-photon sources were also reported, exploiting the quantized level structure of matter systems. These sources, however, lead to highly impure output states, composed mostly of vacuum. While such impure states may still exhibit certain single-photon-like features such as anti-bunching, they are not enough nonclassical for advanced quantum information processing. On the other hand, the intrinsic randomness of pure, heralded states can be circumvented by first storing and then releasing them on demand. Here we propose such a controlled release, and we experimentally demonstrate it for heralded single photons. We employ two optical cavities, where the photons are both created and stored inside one cavity, and finally released through a dynamical tuning of the other cavity. We demonstrate storage times of up to 300 ns, while keeping the single-photon purity around 50% after storage. This is the first demonstration of a negative Wigner function at the output of an on-demand photon source or a quantum memory. In principle, our storage system is compatible with all kinds of nonclassical states, including those known to be essential for many advanced quantum information protocols.

id: 1309.3555
title: Entanglement sudden-death time: a geometric quantity
authors: Rams¨¦s S¨¢nchez, Esteban Isasi, Douglas Mundarain
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. V2: we have improved the structure of the paper and carefully corrected the writing. We have included new figures, some secondary new results and further references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3555
abstract: We study the entanglement evolution of the set of Bell diagonal states for a two-qubit system coupled to two independent vacuum noise sources. This set can be represented geometrically as the set of points inside a tetrahedron in a three-dimensional Euclidean space and contains the maximally entangled states for bipartite systems. We show that the set of entangled Bell diagonal states can be divided into two bounded subsets in this representation: states that evolve into separable states in a finite time and states that lose their entanglement asymptotically. Additionally, we find that the finite time in which the Bell diagonal states lose their entanglement depends only on the distances from their position in the three-dimensional representation to the boundaries of both, the set of separable states and the set of states that remains always entangled.

id: 1309.3575
title: An Integrated Programming and Development Environment for Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Travis S. Humble, Alex J. McCaskey, Ryan S. Bennink, Jay J. Billings, Ed F. D'Azevedo, Blair D. Sullivan, Christine F. Klymko, Hadayat Seddiqi
comments: 28 pages, 17 figures, feedback welcomed, even if it's criticism; v2 manuscript updated based on reviewer feedback; v3 manuscript updated based on reviewer feedback, title modified
journal: Comput. Sci. Disc. 7 015006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3575
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computing is a promising route to the computational power afforded by quantum information processing. The recent availability of adiabatic hardware has raised challenging questions about how to evaluate adiabatic quantum optimization programs. Processor behavior depends on multiple steps to synthesize an adiabatic quantum program, which are each highly tunable. We present an integrated programming and development environment for adiabatic quantum optimization called JADE that provides control over all the steps taken during program synthesis. JADE captures the workflow needed to rigorously specify the adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm while allowing a variety of problem types, programming techniques, and processor configurations. We have also integrated JADE with a quantum simulation engine that enables program profiling using numerical calculation. The computational engine supports plug-ins for simulation methodologies tailored to various metrics and computing resources. We present the design, integration, and deployment of JADE and discuss its potential use for benchmarking adiabatic quantum optimization programs by the quantum computer science community.

id: 1309.3581
title: Sharply tunable group velocity in alkali vapors using a single low-power control field
authors: Pardeep Kumar, Shubhrangshu Dasgupta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3581
abstract: We show how a single linearly polarized control field can produce a sharply tunable group velocity of a weak probe field at resonance in a four-level atomic configuration of alkali vapors. The dispersion can be switched from normal to anomalous along with vanishing absorption, just by changing intensity of the resonant control field. In addition, by allowing different intensities of the different polarization components of the control field, the anomalous dispersion can be switched back to the normal. This thereby creates a "valley of anomaly" in group index variation and offers two sets of control field intensities, for which the system behaves like a vacuum. The explicit analytical expressions for the probe coherence are provided along with all physical explanations. We demonstrate our results in $J = 1/2 \leftrightarrow J = 1/2$ transition for D_1 lines in alkali atoms, in which one can obtain a group index as large as $3.2\times10^{8}$ and as negative as $-1.5\times10^{5}$ using a control field with power as low as 0.017 mW/cm$^2$ and 9.56 mW/cm$^2$ .

id: 1309.3621
title: Efficient finite-time measurements under thermal regimes
authors: Carlos Alexandre Brasil, Leonardo Andreta de Castro, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: REVISED VERSION, 41 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2014) 129: 206
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3621
abstract: Contrary to conventional quantum mechanics, which treats measurement as instantaneous, here we explore a model for finite-time measurement. The main two-level system interacts with the measurement apparatus in a Markovian way described by the Lindblad equation, and with an environment, which does not include the measuring apparatus. To analyse the environmental effects on the final density operator, we use the Redfield approach, allowing us to consider a non-Markovian noise. In the present hybrid theory, to trace out the environmental degrees of freedom, we use a previously-developed analytic method based on superoperator algebra and Nakajima-Zwanzig superoperators. Here, we analyse two types of system-environment interaction, phase and amplitude damping, which allows us to conclude that, in general, a finite-time quantum measurement performed during a certain period is more efficient than an instantaneous measurement performed at the end of it, because the rate of change of the populations is attenuated by the system-measurement apparatus interaction.

id: 1309.3635
title: Computer simulation of two-mode nonlinear quantum scissors
authors: T. Dung Nguyen, W. Leo¨½ski, V. Cao Long
comments: 
journal: Comp. Meth. Sci. Technol. Volume 19 (3) 2013, 175-181
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3635
abstract: We present a simulation method allowing for modeling of quantum dynamics of nonlinear quantum scissors' (NQS) systems. We concentrate on the two-mode model involving two mutually interacting nonlinear quantum oscillators (Kerr nonlinear coupler) excited by a series of ultra-short external coherent pulses. We show that despite the simplicity of the method one can obtain non-trivial results. In particular, we discuss and compare two cases of kicked nonlinear coupler, showing that the quantum evolution of the system remains closed within a two-qubit Hilbert space and can lead to maximally entangled states generation.

id: 1309.3678
title: Temporal quantum correlations and Leggett-Garg inequalities in multi-level systems
authors: Costantino Budroni, Clive Emary
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 050401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3678
abstract: We show that the quantum bound for temporal correlations in a Leggett-Garg test, analogous to the Tsirelson bound for spatial correlations in a Bell test, strongly depends on the number of levels $N$ that can be accessed by the measurement apparatus via projective measurements. We provide exact bounds for small $N$, that exceed the known bound for the Leggett-Garg inequality, and show that in the limit $N\rightarrow \infty$ the Leggett-Garg inequality can be violated up to its algebraic maximum.

id: 1309.3758
title: Unitary manipulation of a single atom in time and space --- The spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulses
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 220 pages, no figures. Minimum modification
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3758
abstract: A spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulse is an important component to realize the unitary dynamical state-locking process which may be used to realize the reversible and unitary halting protocol and construct the unstructured quantum search process based on the tensor-product Hilbert-space symmetric structure and the unitary quantum dynamics. In this paper it is shown how a spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulse is constructed generally in the quantum system of a single atom. Rigorous theoretical calculation and error estimation, which are based on the Trotter-Suzuki decomposition method and the multiple-Gaussian-wave-packet expansion method, are carried out for the time evolution process of a single atom in the double-well potential field and in the presence of the spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulse. It proves that the spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulse is feasible, that is, the possible errors generated by the triggering pulse are shown to be controllable. This rigorous theoretical calculation also shows that the spatially-selective and internal-state-selective triggering pulse may be different from its corresponding ideal internal-state-selective triggering pulse that is not spatially selective, but the difference between their final states of the time evolution process is controllable. These computational results are achieved with the help of the Gaussian wave-packet motional states and the space-dependent quadratic Hamiltonians of a single atom. The methods and techniques developed in the paper are useful for studying the quantum-computing speedup mechanism of the unitary quantum dynamics in the quantum system of a single atom.

id: 1309.3786
title: Two approximate screening functions for the neutral Thomas-Fermi atom
authors: Herbert E. M¨¹ller
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3786
abstract: In the Thomas-Fermi model for the atom or ion, the electric potential $\phi$ and electron density $n$ are both expressed in terms of a screening number $\chi$ and the radius $x$. The second order differential equation for the screening function $\chi(x)$ cannot be solved in closed form. Two approximate formulas for the screening function of the neutral atom are proposed: the first formula is analytically simple, the second formula has the roles of dependent and independent variable interchanged. Both formulas reproduce the true screening function very accurately.

id: 1309.3789
title: An area law for entanglement from exponential decay of correlations
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Short version of arXiv:1206.2947 Nature Physics (2013)
journal: Nature Physics 9, 721 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3789
abstract: Area laws for entanglement in quantum many-body systems give useful information about their low-temperature behaviour and are tightly connected to the possibility of good numerical simulations. An intuition from quantum many-body physics suggests that an area law should hold whenever there is exponential decay of correlations in the system, a property found, for instance, in non-critical phases of matter. However, the existence of quantum data-hiding state--that is, states having very small correlations, yet a volume scaling of entanglement--was believed to be a serious obstruction to such an implication. Here we prove that notwithstanding the phenomenon of data hiding, one-dimensional quantum many-body states satisfying exponential decay of correlations always fulfil an area law. To obtain this result we combine several recent advances in quantum information theory, thus showing the usefulness of the field for addressing problems in other areas of physics.

id: 1309.3818
title: Nonmaximally entangled states can be better for quantum correlation distribution and storage
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Shi-Qing Tang, Ji-Bing Yuan, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3818
abstract: For carrying out many quantum information protocols entanglement must be established in advance between two distant parties. Practically, inevitable interaction of entangled subsystems with their environments during distribution and storage will result in degradation of entanglement. Here we investigate the decoherence of two-qubit entangled states in the local amplitude noise. We show that there exists a set of partially entangled states that are more robust than maximally entangled states in terms of the residual quantum correlation measured by concurrence, fully entangled fraction, and quantum discord. This result indicates that nonmaximally entangled states can outperform maximally entangled states for quantum correlation distribution and storage under the amplitude damping. It also educes a notable consequence that the ordering of states under quantum correlation monotones can be reversed even by local trace-preserving and completely positive maps.

id: 1309.3819
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with uncharacterized qubit sources
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Xiongfeng Ma, Chun-Mei Zhang, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 88, 062322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3819
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDIQKD) is proposed to be secure against any possible detection attacks. The security of the original proposal relies on the assumption that the legitimate users can fully characterize the encoding systems including sources. Here, we propose a MDIQKD protocol where we allow uncharacterized encoding systems as long as qubit sources are used. A security proof of the MDIQKD protocol is presented that does not need the knowledge of the encoding states. Simulation results show that the scheme is practical.

id: 1309.3837
title: Efficient synthesis of quantum gates on indirectly coupled spins
authors: Haidong Yuan, Daxiu Wei, Yajuan Zhang, Steffen Glaser, Navin Khaneja
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042315(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3837
abstract: Experiments in coherent nuclear and electron magnetic resonance,and quantum computing in general correspond to control of quantum mechanical systems, guiding them from initial to final target states by unitary transformations. The control inputs (pulse sequences) that accomplish these unitary transformations should take as little time as possible so as to minimize the effects of relaxation and decoherence and to optimize the sensitivity of the experiments. Here, we derive a time-optimal sequences as fundamental building blocks for synthesize unitary transformations. Such sequences can be widely implemented on various physical systems, including the simulation of effective Hamiltonians for topological quantum computing on spin lattices. Experimental demonstrations are provided for a system consisting of three nuclear spins.

id: 1309.3840
title: Macrodeterminism without non-invasive measurability
authors: Ramon Lapiedra, A. Perez
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1010.5049
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3840
abstract: We propose a definition of determinism for a physical system that includes, besides the measured system, the measurement device and the surrounding environment. This enlarged system is assumed to follow a predefined trajectory starting from some (unknown) initial conditions that play the role of hidden variables for the experiment. These assumptions, which are different from realism, allow us to derive some Leggett-Garg inequalities, which are violated by Quantum Mechanics in the particular case of consecutive measurements on individual photon polarizations.

id: 1309.3894
title: More Randomness from the Same Data
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages + appendices, 4 figures, v3: version close to the published one. See also the related work arXiv:1309.3930
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 033011 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3894
abstract: Correlations that cannot be reproduced with local variables certify the generation of private randomness. Usually, the violation of a Bell inequality is used to quantify the amount of randomness produced. Here, we show how private randomness generated during a Bell test can be directly quantified from the observed correlations, without the need to process these data into an inequality. The frequency with which the different measurement settings are used during the Bell test can also be taken into account. This improved analysis turns out to be very relevant for Bell tests performed with a finite collection efficiency. In particular, applying our technique to the data of a recent experiment [Christensen et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130406 (2013)], we show that about twice as much randomness as previously reported can be potentially extracted from this setup.

id: 1309.3900
title: Wave-packet dynamics for a coupled Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: Sukla Pal, Jayanta K. Bhattacharjee
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3900
abstract: Starting from coupled Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) describing the dynamics of binary Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC), we have explored the dynamics of the width of initial wave-packets by following two different approaches. We have followed a recent coherent state based approach and have shown that in binary BEC the oscillation of the width of the wave packet can give rise to instability at a certain condition. Alternately we have proceeded by considering the trial ground state solutions for both the species and through the Ehrenfest theorem shown the existence of an instability which may lead to phase separation of the two species.

id: 1309.3911
title: Two-component Dirac-like Hamiltonian for generating quantum walk on one-, two- and three-dimensional lattices
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures ; Published version ; It includes some parts of arxiv:1103.2704
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2829 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3911
abstract: From the unitary operator used for implementing two-state discrete-time quantum walk on one-, two- and three- dimensional lattice we obtain a two-component Dirac-like Hamiltonian. In particular, using different pairs of Pauli basis as position translation states we obtain three different form of Hamiltonians for evolution on one-dimensional lattice. We extend this to two- and three-dimensional lattices using different Pauli basis states as position translation states for each dimension and show that the external coin operation, which is necessary for one-dimensional walk is not a necessary requirement for a walk on higher dimensions but can serve as an additional resource to control the dynamics. The two-component Hamiltonian we present here for quantum walk on different lattices can serve as a general framework to simulate, control, and study the dynamics of quantum systems governed by Dirac-like Hamiltonian.

id: 1309.3923
title: Quantum Metropolitan Optical Network based on Wavelength Division Multiplexing
authors: Alex Ciurana, Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Momtchil Peev, Andreas Poppe, Nino Walenta, Hugo Zbinden, Vicente Martin
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 2, pp. 1576-1593 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3923
abstract: Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) is maturing quickly. However, the current approaches to its application in optical networks make it an expensive technology. QKD networks deployed to date are designed as a collection of point-to-point, dedicated QKD links where non-neighboring nodes communicate using the trusted repeater paradigm. We propose a novel optical network model in which QKD systems share the communication infrastructure by wavelength multiplexing their quantum and classical signals. The routing is done using optical components within a metropolitan area which allows for a dynamically any-to-any communication scheme. Moreover, it resembles a commercial telecom network, takes advantage of existing infrastructure and utilizes commercial components, allowing for an easy, cost-effective and reliable deployment.

id: 1309.3924
title: Two-atom system as a nano-antenna for mode switching and light routing
authors: Vassilis E. Lembessis, Anwar Al Rsheed, Omar M. Aldossary, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3924
abstract: We determine how a system composed of two nonidentical two-level atoms with different resonance frequencies and different damping rates could work as a nano-antenna for controlled mode switching and light routing. We calculate the angular distribution of the emitted field detected in a far-field zone of the system including the direct interatomic interactions and arbitrary linear dimensions of the system. The calculation is carried out in terms of the symmetric and antisymmetric modes of the two atom system. We find that as long as the atoms are identical, the emission cannot be switched between the symmetric and antisymmetric modes. The switching may occur when the atoms are non-identical and the emission can then be routed to different modes by changing the relative ratio of the atomic frequencies, or damping rates or by a proper tuning of the laser frequency to the atomic resonance frequencies. It is shown that in the case of atoms of different resonance frequencies but equal damping rates, the light routing is independent of the frequency of the driving laser field. It depends only on the sign of the detuning between the atomic resonance frequencies. In the case of atoms of different damping rates, the emission can be switched between different modes by changing the laser frequency from the blue to red detuned from the atomic resonance. The effect of the interatomic interactions is also considered and it is found that in the case of unequal resonance frequencies of the atoms, the interactions slightly modify the visibility of the intensity pattern. The case of unequal damping rates of the atoms is affected rather more drastically, the light routing becoming asymmetric under the dipole-dipole interaction with the enhanced intensities of the modes turned towards the atom of smaller damping rate.

id: 1309.3930
title: Using complete measurement statistics for optimal device-independent randomness evaluation
authors: O. Nieto-Silleras, S. Pironio, J. Silman
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. v2, v3, v4: minor corrections. See also the related independent work arXiv:1309.3894
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013035 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3930
abstract: The majority of recent works investigating the link between non-locality and randomness, e.g. in the context of device-independent cryptography, do so with respect to some specific Bell inequality, usually the CHSH inequality. However, the joint probabilities characterizing the measurement outcomes of a Bell test are richer than just the degree of violation of a single Bell inequality. In this work we show how to take this extra information into account in a systematic manner in order to optimally evaluate the randomness that can be certified from non-local correlations. We further show that taking into account the complete set of outcome probabilities is equivalent to optimizing over all possible Bell inequalities, thereby allowing us to determine the optimal Bell inequality for certifying the maximal amount of randomness from a given set of non-local correlations.

id: 1309.3943
title: Pseudo-Random Circuits from Clifford Plus T-Gates
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3943
abstract: We explore the implementation of pseudo-random single-qubit rotations and multi-qubit pseudo-random circuits constructed only from Clifford gates and the T-gate, a phase rotation of pi/4. Such a gate set would be appropriate for computations performed in a fault tolerant setting. For single-qubit rotations the distribution of parameters found for unitaries constructed from Clifford plus T quickly approaches that of random rotations and require significantly fewer gates than the construction of arbitrary single-qubit rotations. For Clifford plus T pseudo-random circuits we find an exponential convergence to a random matrix element distribution and a Gaussian convergence to the higher order moments of the matrix element distribution. These convergence rates are insensitive to the number of qubits.

id: 1309.3994
title: Quantum estimation of magnetic-field gradient using W-state
authors: H. T. Ng, K. Kim
comments: 7 pages and 5 figures, title changed, updated version with clarification
journal: Optics Communications 331, 353 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3994
abstract: We study the precision limits of detecting a linear magnetic-field gradient by using W-states in the presence of different types of noises. We consider to use an atomic spin chain for probing the magnetic-field gradient, where a W-state is prepared. We compare this method with the measurement of using two uncorrelated atoms. For pure states, W-states can provide an improvement over uncorrelated states in determining the magnetic-field gradient up to four particles. We examine the effects of local dephasing and dissipations on the performances of detections. In presence of dephasing, the uncorrelated atoms can give a higher precision than using W-states. But W-states provide a better performance in the presence of dissipation for a few particles. We briefly discuss the implementation of the detection methods with cold atoms and trapped ions.

id: 1309.4037
title: Non-Hermitian quantum gates are more common than Hermitian quantum gates
authors: Anirban Pathak
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4037
abstract: Most of the frequently used quantum gates (e.g., NOT, Hadamard, CNOT, SWAP, Toffoli, Fredkin and Pauli gates) are self-inverse (Hermitian). However, with a simple minded argument it is established that most of the allowed quantum gates are non-Hermitian (non-self-inverse). It is also shown that the % of non-Hermitian gates increases with the dimension. For example, 58.33% of the 2-qubit gates, 98.10% of the 3-qubit gates and 99.99% of the 4-qubit gates are non-Hermitian. As classical reversible gates are essentially permutation gates so the above statistics is strictly valid for classical reversible gates. Further, since Hermiticity is not of much interest in context of the classical reversible gate, hence the result implies that most of the allowed classical reversible gates are non-self-inverse.

id: 1309.4075
title: Uncontrolled disorder effects in fabricating photonic quantum simulators on a kagome geometry: A projected-entangled pair state versus exact digonalization analysis
authors: Amin Hosseinkhani, Bahareh Ghannad Dezfouli, Fatemeh Ghasemipour, Ali T. Rezakhani, Hamed Saberi
comments: Slightly improved version as published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4075
abstract: We propose a flexible numerical framework for extracting the energy spectra and photon transfer dynamics of a unit kagome cell with disordered cavity-cavity couplings under realistic experimental conditions. A projected-entangled pair state (PEPS) ansatz to the many-photon wavefunction allows to gain a detailed understanding of the effects of undesirable disorder in fabricating well-controlled and scalable photonic quantum simulators. The correlation functions associated with the propagation of two-photon excitations reveal intriguing interference patterns peculiar to the kagome geometry and promise at the same time a highly tunable quantum interferometry device with a signature for the formation of resonant or Fabry-Pe\'rot-like transmission of photons. Our results justify the use of the proposed PEPS technique for addressing the role of disorder in such quantum simulators in the microwave regime and promises a sophisticated numerical machinery for yet further explorations of the scalability of the resulting kagome arrays. The introduced methodology and the physical results may also pave the way for unraveling exotic phases of correlated light on a kagome geometry.

id: 1309.4105
title: Weaving quantum optical frequency combs into continuous-variable hypercubic cluster states
authors: Pei Wang, Moran Chen, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Olivier Pfister
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4105
abstract: Cluster states with higher-dimensional lattices that cannot be physically embedded in three-dimensional space have important theoretical interest in quantum computation and quantum simulation of topologically ordered condensed-matter systems. We present a simple, scalable, top-down method of entangling the quantum optical frequency comb into hypercubic-lattice continuous-variable cluster states of a size of about 10^4 quantum field modes, using existing technology. A hypercubic lattice of dimension D (linear, square, cubic, hypercubic, etc.) requires but D optical parametric oscillators with bichromatic pumps whose frequency splittings alone determine the lattice dimensionality and the number of copies of the state.

id: 1309.4114
title: Random bits, true and unbiased, from atmospheric turbulence
authors: Davide G. Marangon, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 5490 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4114
abstract: Random numbers represent a fundamental ingredient for numerical simulation, games, informa- tion science and secure communication. Algorithmic and deterministic generators are affected by insufficient information entropy. On the other hand, suitable physical processes manifest intrinsic unpredictability that may be exploited for generating genuine random numbers with an entropy reaching the ideal limit. In this work, we present a method to extract genuine random bits by using the atmospheric turbulence: by sending a laser beam along a 143Km free-space link, we took advantage of the chaotic behavior of air refractive index in the optical propagation. Random numbers are then obtained by converting in digital units the aberrations and distortions of the received laser wave-front. The generated numbers, obtained without any post-processing, pass the most selective randomness tests. The core of our extracting algorithm can be easily generalized for other physical processes.

id: 1309.4177
title: The number of product vectors and their partial conjugates in a pair of spaces
authors: Joohan Na
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4177
abstract: Let $D$ and $E$ be subspaces of the tensor product of the finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces $\mathbb{C}^m \otimes \mathbb{C}^n$. We show that the number of product vectors in $D$ with their partial conjugates in $E$ is uniformly bounded depending only on $m$ and $n$ whenever it is finite. We also give an upper bound in qubit-qunit case which we expect to be sharp.

id: 1309.4207
title: The Effect of Slope in the Casimir Rack Gear
authors: Yuliya Voronina, Petr Silaev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4207
abstract: The effect of slope for the rack gear in the massless scalar field model is considered. It appears, that the slope of profile surfaces can essentially change the value of normal Casimir force, whereas average value of tangential force remains almost unchanged. At the same time we observe essential shift of maximum and minimum tangential force positions.

id: 1309.4209
title: Comment on "Quantum Szilard Engine"
authors: Martin Plesch, Oscar Dahlsten, John Goold, Vlatko Vedral
comments: To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 188901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4209
abstract: In a recently published letter [S. W. Kim, T. Sagawa, S. DeLiberato, and M. Ueda, PRL 106, 070401 (2011)] the influence of particle statistics on extractable work in the Szilard engine was discussed. We point out that the expressions given there suggest no work extraction is possible in the low temperature limit if more than two particles are used and thus are not optimal. We argue that the optimal extractable work is in general higher and in particular non-decreasing in the number of particles.

id: 1309.4221
title: Detecting quantum non-Gaussianity of noisy Schr?dinger cat states
authors: Mattia L. Palma, Jimmy Stammers, Marco G. Genoni, Tommaso Tufarelli, Stefano Olivares, M. S. Kim, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, paper presented at CEWQO 2013
journal: Phys. Scr. T160, 014035 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4221
abstract: Highly quantum non-linear interactions between different bosonic modes lead to the generation of quantum non-Gaussian states, i.e. states that cannot be written as mixtures of Gaussian states. A paradigmatic example is given by Schroedinger's cat states, that is coherent superpositions of coherent states with opposite amplitude. We here consider a novel quantum non-Gaussianity criterion recently proposed in the literature and prove its effectiveness on Schroedinger cat states evolving in a lossy bosonic channel. We prove that quantum non-Gaussianity can be effectively detected for high values of losses and for large coherent amplitudes of the cat states.

id: 1309.4253
title: Controlling the Velocities and Number of Emitted Particles in the Tunneling to Open Space Dynamics
authors: Axel U. J. Lode, Shachar Klaiman, Ofir. E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 36 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053620 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4253
abstract: A scheme to control the many-boson tunneling process to open space is derived and demonstrated. The number of ejected particles and their velocities can be controlled by two parameters, the threshold of the potential and the interparticle interaction. Since these parameters are fully under experimental control, this is also the case for the number of ejected particles and their emission spectrum. The process of tunneling to open space can hence be used, for example, for the quantum simulation of complicated tunneling ionization processes and atom lasers. To understand the many-body tunneling process, a generalization of the model introduced in [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 109, 13521 (2012)] for tunneling in the absence of a threshold is put forward and proven to apply for systems with a non-zero threshold value. It is demonstrated that the model is applicable for general interparticle interaction strengths, particle numbers and threshold values. The model constructs the many-body process from single-particle emission processes. The rates and emission momenta of the single-particle processes are determined by the chemical potentials and energy differences to the threshold value of the potential for systems with different particle numbers. The chemical potentials and these energy differences depend on the interparticle interaction. Both the number of confined particles and their rate of emission thus allow for a control by the manipulation of the interparticle interaction and the threshold. Numerically exact results for two, three and one hundred bosons are shown and discussed. The devised control scheme for the many-body tunneling process performs very well for the dynamics of the momentum density, the correlations, the coherence and of the final state, i.e., the number of particles that remain confined in the potential.

id: 1309.4254
title: Joining and splitting the quantum states of photons
authors: Elsa Passaro, Chiara Vitelli, Nicolo' Spagnolo, Fabio Sciarrino, Enrico Santamato, Lorenzo Marrucci
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4254
abstract: A photonic process named as "quantum state joining" has been recently experimentally demonstrated [C. Vitelli et al., Nature Photon. 7, 521 (2013)] that corresponds to the transfer of the internal two-dimensional quantum states of two input photons, i.e., two photonic qubits, into the four-dimensional quantum state of a single photon, i.e., a photonic ququart. A scheme for the inverse process, namely "quantum state splitting", has also been theoretically proposed. Both processes can be iterated in a cascaded layout, to obtain the joining and/or splitting of more than two qubits, thus leading to a general scheme for varying the number of photons in the system while preserving its total quantum state, or quantum information content. Here, we revisit these processes from a theoretical point of view. After casting the theory of the joining and splitting processes in the more general photon occupation number notation, we introduce some modified schemes that are in principle unitary (not considering the implementation of the CNOT gates) and do not require projection and feed-forward steps. This can be particularly important in the quantum state splitting case, to obtain a scheme that does not rely on postselection. Moreover, we formally prove that the quantum joining of two photon states with linear optics requires the use of at least one ancilla photon. This is somewhat unexpected, given that the demonstrated joining scheme involves the sequential application of two CNOT quantum gates, for which a linear optical scheme with just two photons and postselection is known to exist. Finally we explore the relationship between the joining scheme and the generation of clusters of multi-particle entangled states involving more than one qubit per particle.

id: 1309.4277
title: Photonic architecture for scalable quantum information processing in NV-diamond
authors: Kae Nemoto, Michael Trupke, Simon J. Devitt, Ashley M. Stephens, Kathrin Buczak, Tobias Nobauer, Mark S. Everitt, Jorg Schmiedmayer, William J. Munro
comments: 24 pages, 14 Figures. Comment welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031022 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4277
abstract: Physics and information are intimately connected, and the ultimate information processing devices will be those that harness the principles of quantum mechanics. Many physical systems have been identified as candidates for quantum information processing, but none of them are immune from errors. The challenge remains to find a path from the experiments of today to a reliable and scalable quantum computer. Here, we develop an architecture based on a simple module comprising an optical cavity containing a single negatively-charged nitrogen vacancy centre in diamond. Modules are connected by photons propagating in a fiber-optical network and collectively used to generate a topological cluster state, a robust substrate for quantum information processing. In principle, all processes in the architecture can be deterministic, but current limitations lead to processes that are probabilistic but heralded. We find that the architecture enables large-scale quantum information processing with existing technology.

id: 1309.4288
title: Noiseless amplification of weak coherent fields exploiting energy fluctuations of the field
authors: Mikko Partanen, Teppo H?yrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 063804 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4288
abstract: Quantum optics dictates that amplification of a pure state by any linear deterministic amplifier always introduces noise in the signal and results in a mixed output state. However, it has recently been shown that noiseless amplification becomes possible if the requirement of a deterministic operation is relaxed. Here we propose and analyze a noiseless amplification scheme where the energy required to amplify the signal originates from the stochastic fluctuations in the field itself. In contrast to previous amplification setups, our setup shows that a signal can be amplified even if no energy is added to the signal from external sources. We investigate the relation between the amplification and its success rate as well as the statistics of the output states after successful and failed amplification processes. Furthermore, we also optimize the setup to find the maximum success rates in terms of the reflectivities of the beam splitters used in the setup and discuss the relation of our setup with the previous setups.

id: 1309.4300
title: Entanglement in fermionic Fock space
authors: G¨¢bor S¨¢rosi, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 115304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4300
abstract: We propose a generalization of the usual SLOCC and LU classification of entangled pure state fermionic systems based on the Spin group. Our generalization uses the fact that there is a representation of this group acting on the fermionic Fock space which when restricted to fixed particle number subspaces recovers naturally the usual SLOCC transformations. The new ingredient is the occurrence of Bogoliubov transformations of the whole Fock space changing the particle number. The classification scheme built on the Spin group prohibits naturally entanglement between states containing even and odd number of fermions. In our scheme the problem of classification of entanglement types boils down to the classification of spinors where totally separable states are represented by so called pure spinors. We construct the basic invariants of the Spin group and show how some of the known SLOCC invariants are just their special cases. As an example we present the classification of fermionic systems with a Fock space based on six single particle states. An intriguing duality between two different possibilities for embedding three-qubit systems inside the fermionic ones is revealed. This duality is elucidated via an interesting connection to configurations of wrapped membranes reinterpreted as qubits.

id: 1309.4316
title: Extending spin coherence times of diamond qubits by high temperature annealing
authors: T. Yamamoto, T. Umeda, K. Watanabe, S. Onoda, M. L. Markham, D. J. Twitchen, B. Naydenov, L. P. McGuinness, T. Teraji, S. Koizumi, F. Dolde, H. Fedder, J. Honert, J. Wrachtrup, T. Ohshima, F. Jelezko, J. Isoya
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B {\bf{88}}, 075206 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4316
abstract: Spins of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV$^-$) defects in diamond are among the most promising candidates for solid-state qubits. The fabrication of quantum devices containing these spin-carrying defects requires position-controlled introduction of NV$^-$ defects having excellent properties such as spectral stability, long spin coherence time, and stable negative charge state. Nitrogen ion implantation and annealing enable the positioning of NV$^-$ spin qubits with high precision, but to date, the coherence times of qubits produced this way are short, presumably because of the presence of residual radiation damage. In the present work, we demonstrate that a high temperature annealing at 1000$^\circ$C allows 2 millisecond coherence times to be achieved at room temperature. These results were obtained for implantation-produced NV$^-$ defects in a high-purity, 99.99% $^{12}$C enriched single crystal chemical vapor deposited diamond. We discuss these remarkably long coherence times in the context of the thermal behavior of residual defect spins. [Published in Physical Review B {\bf{88}}, 075206 (2013)]

id: 1309.4366
title: Markovian evolution of strongly coupled harmonic oscillators
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Patrik Ohberg, James D. Cresser, Erika Andersson
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, significantly revised and close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063815 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4366
abstract: We investigate how to model Markovian evolution of coupled harmonic oscillators, each of them interacting with a local environment. When the coupling between the oscillators is weak, dissipation may be modeled using local Lindblad terms for each of the oscillators in the master equation, as is commonly done. When the coupling between oscillators is strong, this model may become invalid. We derive a master equation for two coupled harmonic oscillators which are subject to individual heat baths modeled by a collection of harmonic oscillators, and show that this master equation in general contains non-local Lindblad terms. We compare the resulting time evolution with that obtained for dissipation through local Lindblad terms for each individual oscillator, and show that the evolution is different in the two cases. In particular, the two descriptions give different predictions for the steady state and for the entanglement between strongly coupled oscillators. This shows that when describing strongly coupled harmonic oscillators, one must take great care in how dissipation is modeled, and that a description using local Lindblad terms may fail. This may be particularly relevant when attempting to generate entangled states of strongly coupled quantum systems.

id: 1309.4382
title: Intrinsic decoherence in the interaction of two fields with a two-level atom
authors: R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, J.L. Escudero-Jim¨¦nez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Annalen der Physik (Berlin) 18, No. 6, 454 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4382
abstract: We study the interaction of a two-level atom and two fields, one of them classical. We obtain an effective Hamiltonian for this system by using a method recently introduced that produces a small rotation to the Hamiltonian that allows to neglect some terms in the rotated Hamiltonian. Then we solve a variation of the Schr\"odinger equation that models decoherence as the system evolves through intrinsic mechanisms beyond conventional quantum mechanics rather than dissipative interaction with an environment.

id: 1309.4399
title: Precise ultra fast single qubit control using optimal control pulses
authors: Jochen Scheuer, Xi Kong, Ressa S. Said, Jeson Chen, Andrea Kurz, Luca Marseglia, Jiangfeng Du, Philip R. Hemmer, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Boris Naydenov, Fedor Jelezko
comments: New, updated version of the manuscript with supplementary information
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093022 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4399
abstract: Ultra fast and accurate quantum operations are required in many modern scientific areas - for instance quantum information, quantum metrology and magnetometry. However the accuracy is limited if the Rabi frequency is comparable with the transition frequency due to the breakdown of the rotating wave approximation (RWA). Here we report the experimental implementation of a method based on optimal control theory, which does not suffer these restrictions. We realised the most commonly used quantum gates - the Hadamard (\pi/2 pulse) and NOT (\pi pulse) gates with fidelities ($F^{\mathrm{exp}}_{\pi/2}=0.9472\pm0.01$ and $F^{\mathrm{exp}}_{\pi}=0.993\pm0.016$), in an excellent agreement with the theoretical predictions ($F^{\mathrm{theory}}_{\pi/2}=0.9545$ and $F^{\mathrm{theory}}_{\pi}=0.9986$). Moreover, we demonstrate magnetic resonance experiments both in the rotating and lab frames and we can deliberately "switch" between these two frames. Since our technique is general, it could find a wide application in magnetic resonance, quantum computing, quantum optics and broadband magnetometry.

id: 1309.4419
title: Localised Systems in Relativistic Quantum Information
authors: Antony Richard Lee
comments: v2 PhD thesis, 227 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4419
abstract: This thesis collects my own and collaborative work I have been involved with finding localised systems in quantum field theory that are useful for quantum information. It draws from many well established physical theories such as quantum field theory in curved spacetimes, quantum optics and Gaussian state quantum information. The results are split between three chapters. For the first results, we set-up the basic framework for working with quantum fields confined to cavities. By considering the real Klein-Gordon field, we describe how to model the non-uniform motion of a rigid cavity through spacetime. We employ the use of Bogoliubov transformations to describe the effects of changing acceleration. The second set of results investigate how the Dirac field can be confined to a cavity for quantum information purposes. By again considering Bogoliubov transformations, we thoroughly investigate how the entanglement shared between two cavities is affected by non-uniform motion. It is shown that different types of Dirac field states are more robust against motion than others. The final results look at using our second notion of localisation, Unruh- DeWitt detectors. We investigate how allowing for a "non-point-like" spatial profile of the Unruh-DeWitt detector affects how it interacts with a quantum field around it. By engineering suitable detector-field interactions, we use techniques from symplectic geometry to compute the dynamics of a quantum state beyond commonly used perturbation theory. There is also a conclusions chapter at the end of the thesis which summarises the results presented and suggestions of possible new directions of research in relativistic quantum information are made.

id: 1309.4430
title: High fidelity spin entanglement using optimal control
authors: Florian Dolde, Ville Bergholm, Ya Wang, Ingmar Jakobi, Sebastien Pezzagna, Jan Meijer, Philipp Neumann, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, Jacob Biamonte, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 10+6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 3371 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4430
abstract: Precise control of quantum systems is of fundamental importance for quantum device engineering, such as is needed in the fields of quantum information processing, high-resolution spectroscopy and quantum metrology. When scaling up the quantum registers in such devices, several challenges arise: individual addressing of qubits in a dense spectrum while suppressing crosstalk, creation of entanglement between distant nodes, and decoupling from unwanted interactions. The experimental implementation of optimal control is a prerequisite to meeting these challenges. Using engineered microwave pulses, we experimentally demonstrate optimal control of a prototype solid state spin qubit system comprising thirty six energy levels. The spin qubits are associated with proximal nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. We demonstrate precise single-electron spin qubit operations with an unprecedented fidelity F \approx 0.99 in combination with high-efficiency storage of electron spin states in a nuclear spin quantum memory. Matching single-electron spin operations with spin-echo techniques, we further realize high-quality entangled states (F > 0.82) between two electron spins on demand. After exploiting optimal control, the fidelity is mostly limited by the coherence time and imperfect initialization. Errors from crosstalk in a crowded spectrum of 8 lines as well as detrimental effects from active dipolar couplings have been simultaneously eliminated to unprecedented extent. Finally, by entanglement swapping to nuclear spins, nuclear spin entanglement over a length scale of 25 nm is demonstrated. This experiment underlines the importance of optimal control for scalable room temperature spin-based quantum information devices.

id: 1309.4435
title: Complementarity between signalling and local indeterminacy in quantum nonlocal correlations
authors: S. Aravinda, R. Srikanth
comments: 5 pages, no figures; Accepted for publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4435
abstract: The correlations that violate the CHSH inequality are known to have complementary contributions from signaling and local indeterminacy. This complementarity is shown to represent a strengthening of Bell's theorem, and can be used to certify randomness in a device-independent way, assuming neither the validity of quantum mechanics nor even no-signaling. We obtain general nonlocal resources that can simulate the statistics of the singlet state, encompassing existing results. We prove a conjecture due to Hall (2010) and Kar et al. (2011) on the complementarity for such resources.

id: 1309.4443
title: Noiseless amplification of weak coherent fields without external energy
authors: Mikko Partanen, Teppo H?yrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1309.4288
journal: Proc. SPIE 8773, Photon Counting Applications IV; and Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Transfer and Processing, 877312 (May 6, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4443
abstract: According to the fundamental laws of quantum optics, noise is necessarily added to the system when one tries to clone or amplify a quantum state. However, it has recently been shown that the quantum noise related to the operation of a linear phase-insensitive amplifier can be avoided when the requirement of a deterministic operation is relaxed. Nondeterministic noiseless linear amplifiers are therefore realizable. Usually nondeterministic amplifiers rely on using single photon sources. We have, in contrast, recently proposed an amplification scheme in which no external energy is added to the signal, but the energy required to amplify the signal originates from the stochastic fluctuations in the field itself. Applying our amplification scheme, we examine the amplifier gain and the success rate as well as the properties of the output states after successful and failed amplification processes. We also optimize the setup to find the maximum success rates in terms of the reflectivities of the beam splitters used in the setup. In addition, we discuss the nonidealities related to the operation of our setup and the relation of our setup with the previous setups.

id: 1309.4444
title: An indicator energy of two close levels
authors: Alexander V. Shamanin
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4444
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a concept of an indicator energy of two close levels in the perturbation.

id: 1309.4502
title: Quantum Process Tomography of a Molmer-Sorensen Interaction
authors: Nir Navon, Nitzan Akerman, Shlomi Kotler, Yinnon Glickman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4502
abstract: We report the quantum process tomography of a M$\o$lmer-S$\o$rensen entangling gate. The tomographic protocol relies on a single discriminatory transition, exploiting excess micromotion in the trap to realize all operations required to prepare all input states and analyze all output states. Using a master-slave diode lasers setup, we demonstrate a two-qubit entangling gate, with a fidelity of Bell state production of 0.985(10). We characterize its $\chi$-process matrix, the simplest for an entanglement gate on a separable-states basis, and we observe that the dominant source of error is accurately modelled by a quantum depolarization channel.

id: 1309.4530
title: Suppression of electron spin decoherence of the diamond NV center by a transverse magnetic field
authors: Chang S. Shin, Claudia E. Avalos, Mark C. Butler, Hai-Jing Wang, Scott J. Seltzer, Ren-Bao Liu, Alexander Pines, Vikram S. Bajaj
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161412(R) (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4530
abstract: We demonstrate that the spin decoherence of nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond can be suppressed by a transverse magnetic field if the electron spin bath is the primary decoherence source. The NV spin coherence, created in "a decoherence-free subspace" is protected by the transverse component of the zero-field splitting, increasing the spin-coherence time about twofold. The decoherence due to the electron spin bath is also suppressed at magnetic fields stronger than ~25 gauss when applied parallel to the NV symmetry axis. Our method can be used to extend the spin-coherence time of similar spin systems for applications in quantum computing, field sensing, and other metrologies.

id: 1309.4547
title: Orthogonality and Dimensionality
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: Axioms 2 (2013) 477-489
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4547
abstract: In this article, we present what we believe to be a simple way to motivate the use of Hilbert spaces in quantum mechanics. To achieve this, we study the way the notion of dimension can, at a very primitive level, be defined as the cardinality of a maximal collection of mutually orthogonal elements (which, for instance, can be seen as spatial directions). Following this idea, we develop a formalism based on two basic ingredients, namely an orthogonality relation and matroids which are a very generic algebraic structure permitting to define a notion of dimension. Having obtained what we call orthomatroids, we then show that, in high enough dimension, the basic ingredients of orthomatroids (more precisely the simple and irreducible ones) are isomorphic to generalized Hilbert lattices, so that the latter are a direct consequence of an orthogonality-based characterization of dimension.

id: 1309.4549
title: A revised uncertainty budget for measuring the Boltzmann constant using the Doppler Broadening Technique on ammonia
authors: Cyril Lemarchand, Sinda Mejri, Papa Lat Tabara Sow, Meriam Triki, Sean K. Tokunaga, Stephan Briaudeau, Christian Chardonnet, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Christophe Daussy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4549
abstract: We report on our on-going effort to measure the Boltzmann constant, kB, using the Doppler Broadening Technique. The main systematic effects affecting the measurement are discussed. A revised error budget is presented in which the global uncertainty on systematic effects is reduced to 2.3 ppm. This corresponds to a reduction of more than one order of magnitude compared to our previous Boltzmann constant measurement. Means to reach a determination of kB at the part per million accuracy level are outlined.

id: 1309.4669
title: Strong excitation of emitters in an impedance matched cavity: the area theorem, ¦Ð-pulse and self-induced transparency
authors: Thierry Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 4, pp. 4423-4436 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4669
abstract: I theoretically study the behavior of strong pulses exciting emitters inside a cavity. The ensemble is supposed to be inhomogeneously broadened and the cavity matched finding application in quantum storage of optical or RF photons. My analysis is based on energy and pulse area conservation rules predicting important distortions for specific areas. It is well supported by numerical simulations. I propose a qualitative interpretation in terms of slow-light. The analogy with the free space situation is remarkable.

id: 1309.4687
title: Analysis of circuit imperfections in BosonSampling
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, v2: new title, to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 15, 0489-0512 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4687
abstract: BosonSampling is a problem where a quantum computer offers a provable speedup over classical computers. Its main feature is that it can be solved with current linear optics technology, without the need for a full quantum computer. In this work, we investigate whether an experimentally realistic BosonSampler can really solve BosonSampling without any fault-tolerance mechanism. More precisely, we study how the unavoidable errors linked to an imperfect calibration of the optical elements affect the final result of the computation. We show that the fidelity of each optical element must be at least $1 - O(1/n^2)$, where $n$ refers to the number of single photons in the scheme. Such a requirement seems to be achievable with state-of-the-art equipment.

id: 1309.4717
title: Tractable Simulation of Error Correction with Honest Approximations to Realistic Fault Models
authors: Daniel Puzzuoli, Christopher Granade, Holger Haas, Ben Criger, Easwar Magesan, D. G. Cory
comments: 34 pages, 9 tables, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4717
abstract: In previous work, we proposed a method for leveraging efficient classical simulation algorithms to aid in the analysis of large-scale fault tolerant circuits implemented on hypothetical quantum information processors. Here, we extend those results by numerically studying the efficacy of this proposal as a tool for understanding the performance of an error-correction gadget implemented with fault models derived from physical simulations. Our approach is to approximate the arbitrary error maps that arise from realistic physical models with errors that are amenable to a particular classical simulation algorithm in an "honest" way; that is, such that we do not underestimate the faults introduced by our physical models. In all cases, our approximations provide an "honest representation" of the performance of the circuit composed of the original errors. This numerical evidence supports the use of our method as a way to understand the feasibility of an implementation of quantum information processing given a characterization of the underlying physical processes in experimentally accessible examples.

id: 1309.4724
title: State-dependent linear-optical qubit amplifier
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Karel Lemr
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4724
abstract: We propose a linear-optical setup for heralded qubit amplification with tunable output qubit fidelity. We study its success probability as a function of output qubit fidelity showing that at the expense of lower fidelity, the setup can considerably increase probability of successful operation. These results are subsequently applied in a proposal for state dependent qubit amplification. Similarly to state-dependent quantum cloning, the a priori information about the input state allows to optimize the qubit amplification procedure to obtain better fidelity versus success probability trade-off.

id: 1309.4725
title: Nonequilibrium Quantum Phase Transitions in the XY model: comparison of unitary time evolution and reduced density matrix approaches
authors: Shigeru Ajisaka, Felipe Barra, Bojan ?unkovi?
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 033028
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4725
abstract: We study nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions in XY spin 1/2 chain using the $C^*$ algebra. We show that the well-known quantum phase transition at magnetic field $h = 1$ persists also in the nonequilibrium setting as long as one of the reservoirs is set to absolute zero temperature. In addition, we find nonequilibrium phase transitions associated to imaginary part of the correlation matrix for any two different temperatures of the reservoirs at $h = 1$ and $h = h_{\rm c} \equiv|1-\gamma^2|$, where $\gamma$ is the anisotropy and $h$ the magnetic field strength. In particular, two nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions coexist at $h=1$. In addition we also study the quantum mutual information in all regimes and find a logarithmic correction of the area law in the nonequilibrium steady state independent of the system parameters. We use these nonequilibrium phase transitions to test the utility of two models of reduced density operator, namely Lindblad mesoreservoir and modified Redfield equation. We show that the nonequilibrium quantum phase transition at $h = 1$ related to the divergence of magnetic susceptibility is recovered in the mesoreservoir approach, whereas it is not recovered using the Redfield master equation formalism. However none of the reduced density operator approaches could recover all the transitions observed by the $C^*$ algebra. We also study thermalization properties of the mesoreservoir approach.

id: 1309.4751
title: Quantum Interactions with Closed Timelike Curves and Superluminal Signaling
authors: Jeffrey Bub, Allen Stairs
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Revised version of paper presented at conference 'Quantum Mechanics Seen Through Closed Timelike Curves,' Fondation des Treilles, France, June 24--28, 2013. Version 4 corrects some typos, adds reference to paper by C.H. Bennett et al. Selected by editors of Physical Review as Editor's Choice
journal: Physical Review A 89, 022311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4751
abstract: There is now a significant body of results on quantum interactions with closed timelike curves (CTCs) in the quantum information literature, for both the Deutsch model of CTC interactions (D-CTCs) and the projective model (P-CTCs). As a consequence, there is a prima facie argument exploiting entanglement that CTC interactions would enable superluminal and, indeed, effectively instantaneous signaling. In cases of spacelike separation between the sender of a signal and the receiver, whether a receiver measures the local part of an entangled state or a disentangled state to access the signal can depend on the reference frame. We propose a consistency condition that gives priority to either an entangled perspective or a disentangled perspective in spacelike separated scenarios. For D-CTC interactions, the consistency condition gives priority to frames of reference in which the state is disentangled, while for P-CTC interactions the condition selects the entangled state. Using the consistency condition, we show that there is a procedure that allows Alice to signal to Bob in the past via relayed superluminal communications between spacelike separated Alice and Clio, and spacelike separated Clio and Bob. This opens the door to time travel paradoxes in the classical domain. Ralph (arXiv:1107.4675) first pointed this out for P-CTCs, but we show that Ralph's procedure for a 'radio to the past' is flawed. Since both D-CTCs and P-CTCs allow classical information to be sent around a spacetime loop, it follows from a result by Aaronson and Watrous (Proc.Roy.Soc.A, 465:631-647 (2009)) for CTC-enhanced classical computation that a quantum computer with access to P-CTCs would have the power of PSPACE, equivalent to a D-CTC-enhanced quantum computer.

id: 1309.4757
title: Measurement in the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation: Double-slit, Stern-Gerlach and EPR-B
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4757
abstract: We propose a pedagogical presentation of measurement in the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation. In this heterodox interpretation, the position of a quantum particle exists and is piloted by the phase of the wave function. We show how this position explains determinism and realism in the three most important experiments of quantum measurement: double-slit, Stern-Gerlach and EPR-B. First, we demonstrate the conditions in which the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation can be assumed to be valid through continuity with classical mechanics. Second, we present a numerical simulation of the double-slit experiment performed by J\"onsson in 1961 with electrons. It demonstrates the continuity between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics: evolution of the probability density at various distances and convergence of the quantum trajectories to the classical trajectories when h tends to 0. Third, we present an analytic expression of the wave function in the Stern-Gerlach experiment. This explicit solution requires the calculation of a Pauli spinor with a spatial extension. This solution enables to demonstrate the decoherence of the wave function and the three postulates of quantum measurement: quantization, the Born interpretation and wave function reduction. The spinor spatial extension also enables the introduction of the de Broglie-Bohm trajectories, which gives a very simple explanation of the particles' impact and of the measurement process. Finally, we study the EPR-B experiment, the Bohm version of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment. Its theoretical resolution in space and time shows that a causal interpretation exists where each atom has a position and a spin. This interpretation avoids the flaw of the previous causal interpretation. We recall that a physical explanation of non-local influences is possible.

id: 1309.4783
title: Squeezing of mechanical motion via qubit-assisted control
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo Bina, Stefano Olivares, Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013034 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4783
abstract: We propose a feedback control mechanism for the squeezing of the phononic mode of a mechanical oscillator. We show how, under appropriate working conditions, a simple adiabatic approach is able to induce mechanical squeezing. We then go beyond the limitations of such a working point and demonstrate the stationary squeezing induced by using repeated measurements and re-initialisation of the state of a two-level system ancilla coupled to the oscillator. Our non-adaptive feedback loop offers interesting possibilities for quantum state engineering and steering in open-system scenarios.

id: 1309.4792
title: Feedback in a cavity QED system for control of quantum beats
authors: A.D. Cimmarusti, B.D. Patterson, C.A. Schroeder, L.A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, H.J. Carmichael
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, ICAP 2012 23rd International Conference on Atomic Physics
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences 57, 03005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4792
abstract: Conditional measurements on the undriven mode of a two-mode cavity QED system prepare a coherent superposition of ground states which generate quantum beats. The continuous system drive induces decoherence through the phase interruptions from Rayleigh scattering, which manifests as a decrease of the beat amplitude and an increase of the frequency of oscillation. We report recent experiments that implement a simple feedback mechanism to protect the quantum beat. We continuously drive the system until a photon is detected, heralding the presence of a coherent superposition. We then turn off the drive and let the superposition evolve in the dark, protecting it against decoherence. At a later time we reinstate the drive to measure the amplitude, phase, and frequency of the beats. The amplitude can increase by more than fifty percent, while the frequency is unchanged by the feedback.

id: 1309.4804
title: Cooling of a Nanomechanical Resonator in the Presence of a Single Diatomic Molecule
authors: M. Eghbali-Arani, Sh. Barzanjeh, H. Yavari, M. A. Shahzamanian
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 355, April 2015, Pages 130-142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4804
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme for coupling a nanomechanical resonator to a single diatomic molecule via microwave cavity mode of a driven LC resonator. We describe the diatomic molecule by a Morse potential and find the corresponding equations of motion of the hybrid system by using Fokker-Planck formalism. Analytical expressions for the effective frequency and the effective damping of the nanomechanical resonator are obtained. We analyze the ground state cooling of the nanomechanical resonator in presence of the diatomic molecule. The results confirm that presence of the molecule improves the cooling process of the mechanical resonator. Finally, the effect of molecule's parameters on the cooling mechanism is studied.

id: 1309.4833
title: Obtain $W$-state from three-qubit $GHZ$-state on rate 1
authors: Nengkun Yu, Cheng Guo, Runyao Duan
comments: 6 Pages, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 160401(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4833
abstract: In this paper, we study the entanglement transformation rate between multipartite states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). Firstly, we show that the entanglement transformation rate from $\ket{GHZ}=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{000}+\ket{111})$ to $\ket{W}=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(\ket{100}+\ket{010}+\ket{001})$ is 1, that is, one can obtain 1 copy of $W$-state, from 1 copy of $GHZ$-state by SLOCC, asymptotically. We then generalize this result to a lower bound on the rate that from $N$-partite $GHZ$-state to Dicke states. For some special cases, the optimality of this bound is proved. We then discuss the tensor rank of matrix permanent by evaluating the the tensor rank of Dicke state.

id: 1309.4840
title: Topological phase structure of vector vortex beams
authors: C. E. R. Souza, J. A. O. Huguenin, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4840
abstract: The topological phase acquired by vector vortex optical beams is investigated. Under local unitary operations on their polarization and transverse degrees of freedom, the vector vortices can only acquire discrete geometric phase values, 0 or $\pi\,$, associated with closed paths belonging to different homotopy classes on the SO(3) manifold. These discrete values are demonstrated through interferometric measurements and the spin-orbit mode separability is associated to the visibility of the interference patterns. The local unitary operations performed on the vector vortices involved both polarization and transverse mode transformations with birefringent wave plates and astigmatic mode converters. The experimental results agree with our theoretical simulations and generalize our previous results obtained with polarization transformations only.

id: 1309.4842
title: Quantum Fisher information and spin squeezing in one-axis twisting model
authors: Wei Zhong, Jing Liu, Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B, 2014, 23(6): 060302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4842
abstract: We consider the quantum Fisher information and spin squeezing in one-axis twisting model with a coherent spin state $|\theta_{0},\phi_{0}\rangle$. We analytically discuss the dependence of the two parameters: spin squeezing parameter $\xi^2_{K}$ and the average parameter estimation precision $\chi^2$ on the polar angle $\theta_{0}$ and the azimuth angle $\phi_0$. Moreover, we discuss the effects of the collisional dephasing on the dynamics of the two parameters. In this case, the analytical solution of $\xi^2_K$ is also obtained.

id: 1309.4847
title: Coherent states of composite bosons
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Jayne Thompson, Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: Published version, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4847
abstract: We present a systematic analysis on coherent states of composite bosons consisting of two distinguishable particles. By defining an effective composite boson (coboson) annihilation operator, we derive its eigenstate and commutator. Depending on the elementary particles comprising the composite particles, we gauge the resemblance between this eigenstate and traditional coherent states through typical measures of nonclassicality, such as quadrature variances and Mandel's Q parameter. Furthermore, we show that the eigenstate of the coboson annihilation operator is useful in estimating the maximum eigenvalue of the coboson number operator.

id: 1309.4910
title: Coherent exciton dynamics in the presence of underdamped vibrations
authors: Arend G. Dijkstra, Chen Wang, Jianshu Cao, Graham R. Fleming
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 6, 627 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4910
abstract: Recent ultrafast optical experiments show that excitons in large biological light-harvesting complexes are coupled to molecular vibration modes. These high-frequency vibrations will not only affect the optical response, but also drive the exciton transport. Here, using a model dimer system, the frequency of the underdamped vibration is shown to have a strong effect on the exciton dynamics such that quantum coherent oscillations in the system can be present even in the case of strong noise. Two mechanisms are identified to be responsible for the enhanced transport efficiency: critical damping due to the tunable effective strength of the coupling to the bath, and resonance coupling where the vibrational frequency coincides with the energy gap in the system. The interplay of these two mechanisms determines parameters responsible for the most efficient transport, and these optimal control parameters are comparable to those in realistic light-harvesting complexes. Interestingly, oscillations in the excitonic coherence at resonance are suppressed in comparison to the case of an off-resonant vibration.

id: 1309.4923
title: Quantum Walks in artificial electric and gravitational Fields
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Marc Brachet, Fabrice Debbasch
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Physica A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.5821
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4923
abstract: The continuous limit of quantum walks (QWs) on the line is revisited through a recently developed method. In all cases but one, the limit coincides with the dynamics of a Dirac fermion coupled to an artificial electric and/or relativistic gravitational field. All results are carefully discussed and illustrated by numerical simulations.

id: 1309.4948
title: Tomographic causal analysis of two-qubit states and tomographic discord
authors: Evgeny Kiktenko, Aleksey Fedorov
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures; comments are welcome; accepted in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 1704 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4948
abstract: We study a behavior of two-qubit states subject to tomographic measurement. We propose a novel approach to definition of asymmetry in quantum bipartite state based on its tomographic Shannon entropies. We consider two types of measurement bases: the first is one that diagonalizes density matrices of subsystems and is used in a definition of tomographic discord, and the second is one that maximizes Shannon mutual information and relates to symmetrical form quantum discord. We show how these approaches relate to each other and then implement them to the different classes of two-qubit states. Consequently, new subclasses of X-states are revealed.

id: 1309.4957
title: The role of the probability current for time measurements
authors: Nicola Vona, Detlef D¨¹rr
comments: Chapter of the book "The Message of Quantum Science - Attempts Towards a Synthesis", Springer (2014). P. Blanchard, and J. Fr\"ohlich (Eds.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4957
abstract: Time measurements are routinely preformed in laboratories, nevertheless their theoretical account presents some difficulties and for actual experiments an approximate, semiclassical expression is always used. Here, we will discuss their quantum description with particular emphasis on the role of the probability current.

id: 1309.4990
title: "Superluminal paradox" in wavepacket propagation and its quantum mechanical resolution
authors: D. Sokolovski, E. Akhmatskaya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4990
abstract: We analyse in detail the reshaping mechanism leading to apparently "superluminal" advancement of a wave packet traversing a classically forbidden region. In the coordinate representation, a barrier is shown to act as an effective beamsplitter, recombining envelopes of the freely propagating pulse with various spacial shifts. Causality ensures that none of the constituent envelopes are advanced with respect to free propagation, yet the resulting pulse is advanced due to a peculiar interference effect, similar to the one responsible for "anomalous" values which occur in Aharonov's "weak measurements". In the momentum space, the effect is understood as a bandwidth phenomenon, where the incident pulse probes local, rather than global, analytical properties of the transmission amplitude T (p). The advancement is achieved when T (p) mimics locally an exponential behaviour, similar to the one occurring in Berry's "superoscillations". Seen in a broader quantum mechanical context, the "paradox" is but a consequence of an attempt to obtain "which way?" information without destroying the interference between the pathways of interest. This explains, to a large extent, the failure to adequately describe tunnelling in terms of a single "tunnelling time".

id: 1309.4995
title: Nonlinear dependence of the renormalization scale on test functions
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Some overlap with arXiv:1211.2831
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4995
abstract: Quantum electrodynamics exhibits an informal nonlinear dependence on Lorentz invariant test function properties that determine the renormalization scale, such as Mandelstam variables, contrary to the linear dependence on test functions that is required by the Wightman axioms. A first example of an alternative interacting quantum field formalism that has a comparable weakly nonlinear dependence on Dirac spinor test functions is constructed, using U(1)-gauge connections and U(1)-gauge invariant Dirac spinor test functions.

id: 1309.5005
title: Quantum Fingerprinting with Coherent States and a Constant Mean Number of Photons
authors: Juan Miguel Arrazola, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 5 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5005
abstract: We present a protocol for quantum fingerprinting that is ready to be implemented with current technology and is robust to experimental errors. The basis of our scheme is an implementation of the signal states in terms of a coherent state in a superposition of time-bin modes. Experimentally, this requires only the ability to prepare coherent states of low amplitude, and to interfere them in a balanced beam splitter. The states used in the protocol are arbitrarily close in trace distance to states of $\mathcal{O}(\log_2 n)$ qubits, thus exhibiting an exponential separation in communication complexity compared to the classical case. The protocol uses a number of optical modes that is proportional to the size $n$ of the input bit-strings, but a total mean photon number that is constant and independent of $n$. Given the expended resources, our protocol achieves a task that is provably impossible using classical communication only. In fact, even in the presence of realistic experimental errors and loss, we show that there exist a large range of input sizes for which our quantum protocol requires communication that can be more than two orders of magnitude smaller than a classical fingerprinting protocol.

id: 1309.5017
title: Quantum phase-space representation for curved configuration spaces
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Timo Fischer, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 14 pages. Corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5017
abstract: We extend the Wigner-Weyl-Moyal phase-space formulation of quantum mechanics to general curved configuration spaces. The underlying phase space is based on the chosen coordinates of the manifold and their canonically conjugate momenta. The resulting Wigner function displays the axioms of a quasiprobability distribution, and any Weyl-ordered operator gets associated with the corresponding phase-space function, even in the absence of continuous symmetries. The corresponding quantum Liouville equation reduces to the classical curved space Liouville equation in the semiclassical limit. We demonstrate the formalism for a point particle moving on two-dimensional manifolds, such as a paraboloid or the surface of a sphere. The latter clarifies the treatment of compact coordinate spaces as well as the relation of the presented phase-space representation to symmetry groups of the configuration space.

id: 1309.5063
title: Process Characterisation with Monte-Carlo Wave-Functions
authors: Jake Gulliksen, D.D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052129 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5063
abstract: We present a numerically efficient method for the characterisation of a quantum process subject to dissipation and noise. The master equation evolution of a maximally entangled state of the quantum system and a non-evolving ancilla system is simulated by Monte-Carlo wave-functions. We show how each stochastic state vectors provides quantities that are readily combined into an average process \chi-matrix. Our method significantly reduces the computational complexity in comparison with standard characterisation methods. It also readily provides an upper bound on the trace distance between the ideal and simulated process based on the evolution of only a single wave function of the entangled system.

id: 1309.5227
title: Effective cutting of a quantum spin chain by bond impurities
authors: T. J. G. Apollaro, F. Plastina, L. Banchi, A. Cuccoli, R. Vaia, P. Verrucchi, M. Paternostro
comments: 7 pages; revised version, jour. ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5227
abstract: Spin chains are promising media for short-haul quantum communication. Their usefulness is manifested in all those situations where stationary information carriers are involved. In the majority of the communication schemes relying on quantum spin chains, the latter are assumed to be finite in length, with well addressable end-chain spins. In this paper we propose that such configuration could actually be achieved by a mechanism that is able to effectively cut a spin ring through the insertion of bond defects. We then show how suitable physical quantities can be identified as figures of merit for the effectiveness of the cut. We find that, even for modest strengths of the bond defect, a ring is effectively cut at the defect site. In turn, this has important effects on the amount of correlations shared by the spins across the resulting chain, which we study by means of a scattering-based mechanism of a clear physical interpretation.

id: 1309.5248
title: Coexistence of effects from an algebra of two projections
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Jukka Kiukas, Daniel Reitzner
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 225301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5248
abstract: The coexistence relation of quantum effects is a fundamental structure, describing those pairs of experimental events that can be implemented in a single setup. Only in the simplest case of qubit effects an analytic characterization of coexistent pairs is known. We generalize the qubit coexistence characterization to all pairs of effects in arbitrary dimension that belong to the von Neumann algebra generated by two projections. We demonstrate the presented mathematical machinery by several examples, and show that it covers physically relevant classes of effect pairs.

id: 1309.5253
title: Quantum walks on embedded hypercubes
authors: Adi Makmal, Manran Zhu, Daniel Manzano, Markus Tiersch, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5253
abstract: It has been proved by Kempe that discrete quantum walks on the hypercube (HC) hit exponentially faster than the classical analog. The same was also observed numerically by Krovi and Brun for a slightly different property, namely, the expected hitting time. Yet, to what extent this striking result survives in more general graphs, is to date an open question. Here we tackle this question by studying the expected hitting time for quantum walks on HCs that are embedded into larger symmetric structures. By performing numerical simulations of the discrete quantum walk and deriving a general expression for the classical hitting time, we observe an exponentially increasing gap between the expected classical and quantum hitting times, not only for walks on the bare HC, but also for a large family of embedded HCs. This suggests that the quantum speedup is stable with respect to such embeddings.

id: 1309.5268
title: Implementation of a Quantum Metamaterial
authors: Pascal Macha, Gregor Oelsner, Jan-Michael Reiner, Michael Marthaler, Stephan Andr¨¦, Gerd Sch?n, Uwe Huebner, Hans-Georg Meyer, Evgeni Il'ichev, Alexey V. Ustinov
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 5146 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5268
abstract: Manipulating the propagation of electromagnetic waves through sub-wavelength sized artificial structures is the core function of metamaterials. Resonant structures, such as split ring resonators, play the role of artificial "atoms" and shape the magnetic response. Superconducting metamaterials moved into the spotlight for their very low ohmic losses and the possibility to tune their resonance frequency by exploiting the Josephson inductance. Moreover, the nonlinear nature of the Josephson inductance enables the fabrication of truly artificial atoms. Arrays of such superconducting quantum two-level systems (qubits) can be used for the implementation of a quantum metamaterial. Here, we perform an experiment in which 20 superconducting flux qubits are embedded into a single microwave resonator. The phase of the signal transmitted through the resonator reveals the collective resonant coupling of up to 8 qubits. Quantum circuits of many artificial atoms based on this proof-of-principle experiment offer a wide range of prospects, from detecting single microwave photons to phase switching, quantum birefringence and superradiant phase transitions.

id: 1309.5270
title: Non-Markovianity of colored noisy channels
authors: C. Benedetti, M. G. A. Paris, S. Maniscalco
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012114 (2014) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5270
abstract: We address the non-Markovian character of quantum maps describing the interaction of a qubit with a random classical field. In particular, we evaluate trace- and capacity-based non-Markovianity measures for two relevant classes of environments showing non-Gaussian fluctuations, described respectively by random telegraph noise and colored noise with spectra of the the form $1/f^\alpha$. We analyze the dynamics of both the trace distance and the quantum capacity, and show that the behavior of non-Markovianity based on both measures is qualitatively similar. Our results show that environments with a spectrum that contains a relevant low-frequency contribution are generally non-Markovian. We also find that the non-Markovianity of colored environments decreases when the number of fluctuators realizing the environment increases.

id: 1309.5276
title: Reversible work extraction in a hybrid opto-mechanical system
authors: Cyril Elouard, Maxime Richard, Alexia Auff¨¨ves
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5276
abstract: With the progress of nano-technology, thermodynamics also has to be scaled down, calling for specific protocols to extract and measure work. Usually, such protocols involve the action of an external, classical field (the battery) of infinite energy, that controls the energy levels of a small quantum system (the calorific fluid). Here we suggest a realistic device to reversibly extract work in a battery of finite energy : a hybrid optomechanical system. Such devices consist in an optically active two-level quantum system interacting strongly with a nano-mechanical oscillator that provides and stores mechanical work, playing the role of the battery. We identify protocols where the battery exchanges large, measurable amounts of work with the quantum emitter without getting entangled with it. When the quantum emitter is coupled to a thermal bath, we show that thermodynamic reversibility is attainable with state-of-the-art devices, paving the road towards the realization of a full cycle of information-to-energy conversion at the single bit level.

id: 1309.5325
title: Drawbacks of the use of fidelity to assess quantum resources
authors: Matteo Bina, Antonio Mandarino, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 89 , 012305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5325
abstract: Fidelity is a figure of merit widely employed in quantum technology in order to quantify similarity between quantum states and, in turn, to assess quantum resources or reconstruction techniques. Fidelities higher than, say, 0.9 or 0.99, are usually considered as a piece of evidence to say that two states are very close in the Hilbert space. On the other hand, on the basis of several examples for qubits and continuous variable systems, we show that such high fidelities may be achieved by pairs of states with considerably different physical properties, including separable and entangled states or classical and nonclassical ones. We conclude that fidelity as a tool to assess quantum resources should be employed with caution, possibly combined with additional constraints restricting the pool of achievable states, or only as a mere summary of a full tomographic reconstruction.

id: 1309.5339
title: Experimental Tests of Classical and Quantum Dimensions
authors: Johan Ahrens, Piotr Badziag, Marcin Pawlowski, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: Almost identical with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5339
abstract: We report on an experimental test of classical and quantum dimension. We have used a dimension witness which can distinguish between quantum and classical systems of dimension 2,3 and 4 and performed the experiment for all five cases. The witness we have chosen is a base of semi-device independent cryptographic and randomness expansion protocols. Therefore, the part of the experiment, in which qubits were used, is a realization of these protocols. In our work we also present an analytic method for finding the maximal quantum value of the witness along with corresponding measurements and preparations. This method is quite general and can be applied to any linear dimension witness.

id: 1309.5345
title: Relativistic wave equations of n-body systems of fermions and antifermions of various masses in quantum electrodynamics
authors: Mohsen Emami-Razavi, Nantel Bergeron, Jurij W. Darewych
comments: 22 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E v.21 (2012) 1250091
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5345
abstract: The variational method in a reformulated Hamiltonian formalism of Quantum Electrodynamics is used to derive relativistic wave equations for systems consisting of n fermions and antifermions of various masses. The derived interaction kernels of these equations include one-photon exchange interactions. The equations have the expected Schroedinger non-relativistic limit. Application to some exotic few lepton systems is discussed briefly.

id: 1309.5347
title: Exponential Decay and Fermi's Golden Rule from an Uncontrolled Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: P. W. Bryant
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Added references to theory and experiments, distinguished survival from non-decay, and added derivation for multiple decay channels
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5347
abstract: We modify the theory of the Quantum Zeno Effect to make it consistent with the postulates of quantum mechanics. This modification allows one, throughout a sequence of observations of an excited system, to address the nature of the observable and thereby to distinguish survival from non-decay, which is necessary whenever excited states are degenerate. As a consequence, one can determine which types of measurements can possibly inhibit the exponential decay of the system. We find that continuous monitoring taken as the limit of a sequence of ideal measurements will only inhibit decay in special cases, such as in well-controlled experiments. Uncontrolled monitoring of an unstable system, however, can cause exponentially decreasing non-decay probability at all times. Furthermore, calculating the decay rate for a general sequence of observations leads to a straightforward derivation of Fermi's Golden Rule, that avoids many of the conceptual difficulties normally encountered. When multiple decay channels are available, the derivation reveals how the total decay rate naturally partitions into a sum of the decay rates for the various channels, in agreement with observations. Continuous and unavoidable monitoring of an excited system by an uncontrolled environment may therefore be a mechanism by which to explain the exponential decay law.

id: 1309.5358
title: The Circuit Quantum Electrodynamical Josephson Interferometer
authors: Robert Jirschik, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: revised, comparison of numerics and mean-field added
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 1, 4 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5358
abstract: Arrays of circuit cavities offer fascinating perspectives for exploring quantum many-body systems in a driven dissipative regime where excitation losses are continuously compensated by coherent input drives. Here we investigate a system consisting of three transmission line resonators, where the two outer ones are driven by coherent input sources and the central resonator interacts with a superconducting qubit. Whereas a low excitation number regime of such a device has been considered previously with a numerical integration, we here specifically address the high excitation density regime. We present analytical approximations to these regimes in the form of two methods. The first method is a Bogoliubov or linear expansion in quantum fluctuations which can be understood as an approximation for weak nonlinearities. As the second method we introduce a combination of mean-field decoupling for the photon tunneling with an exact approach to a driven Kerr nonlinearity which can be understood as an approximation for low tunneling rates. In contrast to the low excitation regime we find that for high excitation numbers the anti-bunching of output photons from the central cavity does not monotonously disappear as the tunnel coupling between the resonators is increased.

id: 1309.5359
title: Spontaneous Emission from a Two-Level Atom in a Rectangular Waveguide
authors: Moochan B. Kim, Georgios Veronis, Tae-Woo Lee, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5359
abstract: Quantum mechanical treatment of light inside dielectric media is important to understand the behavior of an optical system. In this paper, a two-level atom embedded in a rectangular waveguide surrounded by a perfect electric conductor is considered. Spontaneous emission, propagation, and detection of a photon are described by the second quantization formalism. The quantized modes for light are divided into two types: photonic propagating modes and localized modes with exponential decay along the direction of waveguide. Though spontaneous emission depends on all possible modes including the localized modes, detection far from the source only depends on the propagating modes. This discrepancy of dynamical behaviors gives two di?erent decay rates along space and time in the correlation function of the photon detection.

id: 1309.5375
title: The mass shell of strong-field quantum electrodynamics
authors: H. R. Reiss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5375
abstract: It has long been known that a free electron in an intense plane-wave field has a mass shell that differs from the usual free-electron mass shell, with a form that implies that an intensity-dependent increase in mass occurs. It has been an enticing, but elusive goal to observe this mass shift. Many schemes have been proposed by which a definitive measurement may be made, and some claims of success exist, but these tests are not conclusive. It is shown here that the intense-field mass shell is not the result of a change in mass. Rather, it is a consequence of the potential energy that a charged particle must possess in the presence of a plane-wave field. When the effects of this potential are incorporated in a properly covariant form, the mass shift no longer appears and kinematical relations are conventional. If the plane-wave pulse is sufficiently long to allow the electron to exit the field adiabatically, then there is no alteration at all of the mass shell expression. Other aspects of the role played by the ponderomotive 4-potential are examined. It is also shown that the putative "relativistic mass" of the electron is illusory when confronted with covariance requirements. Both "mass increases" of the electron are thereby discredited by fundamental principles.

id: 1309.5397
title: Fluctuation-Dissipation Inequality for Quadratic Open Systems
authors: Allan Tameshtit
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013), pp. 2735-2742
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5397
abstract: For open systems derived from quadratic total Hamiltonians, we derive a dynamic fluctuation-dissipation (FD) inequality valid for any total initial state and without regard to the sign of the dissipation. With the added constraint that this state be factorized with the reservoir in thermal equilibrium, an uncertainty relation arises naturally from the FD inequality that can be stronger than one common form of the uncertainty principle. We discuss some of the properties of the uncertainty relation relevant to decoherence.

id: 1309.5424
title: Implementation of dynamically corrected gates for single-spin qubits
authors: Xing Rong, Jianpei Geng, Zixiang Wang, Qi Zhang, Chenyong Ju, Fazhan Shi, Chang-Kui Duan, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5424
abstract: Precise control of an open quantum system is critical to quantum information processing, but is challenging due to inevitable interactions between the quantum system and the environment. We demonstrated experimentally at room temperature a type of dynamically corrected gates on the nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. The infidelity of quantum gates caused by environment nuclear spin bath is reduced from being the second-order to the sixth-order of the noise to control field ratio, which offers greater efficiency in reducing the infidelity by reducing the noise level. The decay time of the coherent oscillation driven by dynamically corrected gates is shown to be two orders of magnitude longer than the dephasing time, and is essentially limited by spin-lattice relaxation. The infidelity of DCG, which is actually constrained by the decay time, reaches $4\times 10^{-3}$ at room temperature and is further reducible by 2-3 orders of magnitudes via lowering temperature. The greatly reduced noise dependence of infidelity and the uttermost extension of the coherent time mark an important step towards fault-tolerant quantum computation in realistic systems.

id: 1309.5471
title: Scattering Amplitudes for Multi-indexed Extensions of Solvable Potentials
authors: C.-L. Ho, J.-C. Lee, R. Sasaki
comments: 28 pages, no figures. Acknowledgments revised
journal: Ann. Phys. 343 (2014) 115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5471
abstract: New solvable one-dimensional quantum mechanical scattering problems are presented. They are obtained from known solvable potentials by multiple Darboux transformations in terms of virtual and pseudo virtual wavefunctions. The same method applied to confining potentials, e.g. P\"oschl-Teller and the radial oscillator potentials, has generated the {\em multi-indexed Jacobi and Laguerre polynomials}. Simple multi-indexed formulas are derived for the transmission and reflection amplitudes of several solvable potentials.

id: 1309.5485
title: Robust stationary mechanical squeezing in a kicked quadratic optomechanical system
authors: M. Asjad, G. S. Agarwal, M. S. Kim, P. Tombesi, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. This paper supersedes an earlier version arXiv:1109.3905
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023849 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5485
abstract: We propose a scheme for the generation of a robust stationary squeezed state of a mechanical resonator in a quadratically coupled optomechanical system, driven by a pulsed laser. The intracavity photon number presents periodic intense peaks suddenly stiffening the effective harmonic potential felt by the mechanical resonator. These "optical spring kicks" tend to squeeze the resonator position, and due to the interplay with fluctuation-dissipation processes one can generate a stationary state with more than 13 dB of squeezing even starting from moderately "pre-cooled" initial thermal states.

id: 1309.5492
title: Photon flux and distance from the source: consequences for quantum foundations and technologies
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, B?rje Nilsson, Sven Nordebo, Igor Volovich
comments: 
journal: Foundations of physics. 44. 389-405, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5492
abstract: The paper explores the fundamental physical principles of quantum mechanics (in fact, quantum field theory) which limit the bit rate for long distances. Propagation of photons in optical fibers is modeled using methods of quantum electrodynamics. We define photon "duration" as the standard deviation of the photon arrival time; we find its asymptotics for long distances and then obtain the main result of the paper: the linear dependence of photon duration on the distance. This effect puts the limit to joint increasing of the photon flux and the distance from the source and it has important consequences both for quantum information technologies and quantum foundations. Once quantum communication develops into a real technology, it would be appealing to the engineers to increase both the photon flux and the distance. And here our "photon flux/distance effect" has to be taken into account (at least if successively emitted photons are considered as independent). This effect also has to be taken into account in a loophole free test of Bell's type -- to close jointly the detection and locality loopholes.

id: 1309.5517
title: Fundamental limitations in spin-ensemble quantum memories for cavity fields
authors: Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5517
abstract: Inhomogeneously broadened spin ensembles play an important role in present-day implementation of hybrid quantum processing architectures. When coupled to a resonator such an ensemble may serve as a multi-mode quantum memory for the resonator field, and by employing spin-refocusing techniques the quantum memory time can be extended to the coherence time of individual spins in the ensemble. In the present paper we investigate such a memory protocol capable of storing an unknown resonator-field state, and we examine separately the various constituents of the protocol: the storage and read-out part, the memory hold time with the spin ensemble and resonator field decoupled, and the parts employing spin refocusing techniques. Using both analytical and numerical methods we derive how the obtainable memory performance scales with various physical parameters.

id: 1309.5536
title: Zero field entanglement in dipolar coupling spin system at negative temperatures
authors: Gregory B. Furman, Victor M. Meerovich, Vladimir L. Sokolovsky
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures International Journal of Quantum Information, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5536
abstract: A dipolar coupled spin system can achieve internal thermodynamic equilibrium states at negative absolute temperature. We study analytically and numerically the temperature dependence of the concurrence in a dipolar coupled spin-1/2 system in both non-zero and zero fields and show that, at negative temperatures, entangled states can exist even in zero magnetic field.

id: 1309.5575
title: OCTBEC - A Matlab toolbox for optimal quantum control of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Ulrich Hohenester
comments: toolbox available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5575
abstract: OCTBEC is a Matlab toolbox designed for optimal quantum control, within the framework of optimal control theory (OCT), of Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC). The systems we have in mind are ultracold atoms in confined geometries, where the dynamics takes place in one or two spatial dimensions, and the confinement potential can be controlled by some external parameters. Typical experimental realizations are atom chips, where the currents running through the wires produce magnetic fields that allow to trap and manipulate nearby atoms. The toolbox provides a variety of Matlab classes for simulations based on the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, the multi-configurational Hartree method for bosons, and on generic few-mode models, as well as optimization problems. These classes can be easily combined, which has the advantage that one can adapt the simulation programs flexibly for various applications.

id: 1309.5583
title: Creating a tunable spin squeezing via a time-dependent collective atom-photon coupling
authors: Lixian Yu, Jingtao Fan, Shiqun Zhu, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia, Franco Nori
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5583
abstract: We present an experimentally feasible method to produce a large and tunable spin squeezing when an ensemble of many four-level atoms interacts simultaneously with a single-mode photon and classical driving lasers. Our approach is to simply introduce a time-dependent collective atom-photon coupling. We show that the maximal squeezing factor measured experimentally can be well controlled by both its driving magnitude and driving frequency. In particular, when increasing the driving magnitude, the maximal squeezing factor increases and thus can be rapidly enhanced. We also demonstrate explicitly in the high-frequency approximation that this spin squeezing arises from a strong repulsive spin-spin interaction induced by the time-dependent collective atom-photon coupling. Finally, we evaluate analytically, by using current experimental parameters, the maximal squeezing factor, which can reach 40 dB. This squeezing factor is far larger than previous ones.

id: 1309.5586
title: Statistically preferred basis of an open quantum system: Its relation to the eigenbasis of a renormalized self-Hamiltonian
authors: Lewei He, Wen-ge Wang
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E 89, 022125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5586
abstract: We study the problem of the basis of an open quantum system, under a quantum chaotic environment, which is preferred in view of its stationary reduced density matrix (RDM), that is, the basis in which the stationary RDM is diagonal. It is shown that, under an initial condition composed of sufficiently many energy eigenstates of the total system, such a basis is given by the eigenbasis of a renormalized self-Hamiltonian of the system, in the limit of large Hilbert space of the environment. Here, the renormalized self-Hamiltonian is given by the unperturbed self-Hamiltonian plus a certain average of the interaction Hamiltonian over the environmental degrees of freedom. Numerical simulations, performed in two models, both with the kicked rotor as the environment, give results consistent with the above analytical predictions for the limit of large environment.

id: 1309.5587
title: High-rate quantum low-density parity-check codes assisted by reliable qubits
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, Alexander Gruner, Peter Vandendriessche
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 61 (2015) 1860-1878
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5587
abstract: Quantum error correction is an important building block for reliable quantum information processing. A challenging hurdle in the theory of quantum error correction is that it is significantly more difficult to design error-correcting codes with desirable properties for quantum information processing than for traditional digital communications and computation. A typical obstacle to constructing a variety of strong quantum error-correcting codes is the complicated restrictions imposed on the structure of a code. Recently, promising solutions to this problem have been proposed in quantum information science, where in principle any binary linear code can be turned into a quantum error-correcting code by assuming a small number of reliable quantum bits. This paper studies how best to take advantage of these latest ideas to construct desirable quantum error-correcting codes of very high information rate. Our methods exploit structured high-rate low-density parity-check codes available in the classical domain and provide quantum analogues that inherit their characteristic low decoding complexity and high error correction performance even at moderate code lengths. Our approach to designing high-rate quantum error-correcting codes also allows for making direct use of other major syndrome decoding methods for linear codes, making it possible to deal with a situation where promising quantum analogues of low-density parity-check codes are difficult to find.

id: 1309.5598
title: Stabilizer formalism for generalized concatenated quantum codes
authors: Yun-Jiang Wang, Bei Zeng, Markus Grassl, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, International Symposium on Information Theory, 7 July - 12 July 2013, Istanbul, Turkey
journal: Proceedings 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2013), Istanbul, Turkey, pp. 529-533
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5598
abstract: The concept of generalized concatenated quantum codes (GCQC) provides a systematic way for constructing good quantum codes from short component codes. We introduce a stabilizer formalism for GCQCs, which is achieved by defining quantum coset codes. This formalism offers a new perspective for GCQCs and enables us to derive a lower bound on the code distance of stabilizer GCQCs from component codes parameters,for both non-degenerate and degenerate component codes. Our formalism also shows how to exploit the error-correcting capacity of component codes to design good GCQCs efficiently.

id: 1309.5634
title: Fast transport of two ions in an anharmonic trap
authors: M. Palmero, E. Torrontegui, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5634
abstract: We design fast trajectories of a trap to transport two ions using a shortcut-to-adiabaticity technique based on invariants. The effects of anharmonicity are analyzed first perturbatively, with an approximate, single relative-motion mode, description. Then we use classical calculations and full quantum calculations. This allows to identify discrete transport times that minimize excitation in the presence of anharmonicity. An even better strategy to suppress the effects of anharmonicity in a continuous range of transport times is to modify the trajectory using an effective trap frequency shifted with respect to the actual frequency by the coupling between relative and center of mass motions.

id: 1309.5675
title: Interactive proofs for BQP via self-tested graph states
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 53 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5675
abstract: Using the measurement-based quantum computation model, we construct interactive proofs with non-communicating quantum provers and a classical verifier. Our construction gives interactive proofs for all languages in BQP with a polynomial number of quantum provers, each of which, in the honest case, performs only a single measurement. Our techniques use self-tested graph states. In this regard we introduce two important improvements over previous work. Specifically, we derive new error bounds which scale polynomially with the size of the graph compared with exponential dependence on the size of the graph in previous work. We also extend the self-testing error bounds on measurements to a very general set which includes the adaptive measurements used for measurement-based quantum computation as a special case.

id: 1309.5716
title: Heat-machine control by quantum-state preparation: from quantum engines to refrigerators
authors: David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E 90, 022102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5716
abstract: We explore the dependence of the performance bounds of heat engines and refrigerators on the initial quantum state and the subsequent evolution of their piston, modeled by a quantized harmonic oscillator. Our goal is to provide a fully quantized treatment of self-contained (autonomous) heat machines, as opposed to their prevailing semiclassical description that consists of a quantum system alternately coupled to a hot or a cold heat bath, and parametrically driven by a classical time-dependent piston or field. Here by contrast, there is no external time-dependent driving. Instead, the evolution is caused by the stationary simultaneous interaction of two heat baths (having distinct spectra and temperatures) with a single two-level system that is in turn coupled to the quantum piston. The fully quantized treatment we put forward allows us to investigate work extraction and refrigeration by the tools of quantum-optical amplifier and dissipation theory, particularly, by the analysis of amplified or dissipated phase-plane quasiprobability distributions. Our main insight is that quantum states may be thermodynamic resources and can provide a powerful handle, or control, on the efficiency of the heat machine. In particular, a piston initialized in a coherent state can cause the engine to produce work at an efficiency above the Carnot bound in the linear amplification regime. In the refrigeration regime, the coefficient of performance can transgress the Carnot bound if the piston is initialized in a Fock state. The piston may be realized by a vibrational mode, as in nanomechanical setups, or an electromagnetic field mode, as in cavity-based scenarios.

id: 1309.5745
title: Quantum beats of the rigid rotor
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembieli¨½ski
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5745
abstract: The dynamics is investigated of a free particle on a sphere (rigid rotor or rotator) that is initially in a coherent state. The instability of coherent states with respect to the free evolution leads to nontrivial time-development of averages of observables representing the position of a particle on a sphere that can be interpreted as quantum beats.

id: 1309.5756
title: Quench Induced Growth of Distant Entanglement from Product and Locally Entangled States in Spin Chains
authors: Bedoor Alkurtass, Hannu Wichterich, Sougato Bose
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5756
abstract: We study the problem of entangling two spins at the distant ends of a spin chain by exploiting the nonequilibrium dynamics of the system after a sudden global quench. As initial states we consider a canted/spiral order product state of the spins, and singlets of neighboring pairs of spins. We find that within the class of canted order initial states, no entanglement is generated at any time except for the special case of the Neel state. While an earlier work had shown that the Neel state is indeed an excellent starting resource for the dynamical generation of long distance entanglement, the curious fact that this is the sole point within a large class of initial product states of the spins was not noted. On the other hand, we find that an initial state which is a series of nearest neighbor Bell states, and well motivated by some physical realizations, is also a good starting resource for end to end entanglement in a similar way to the Neel state.

id: 1309.5780
title: Direct and Parallel Tomography of a Quantum Process
authors: Yu-Xiang Zhang, Shengjun Wu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5780
abstract: As the method to completely characterize quantum dynamical processes, quantum process tomography (QPT) is vitally important for quantum information processing and quantum control, where the faithfulness of quantum devices plays an essential role. Here via weak measurements, we present a new QPT scheme characterized by its directness and parallelism. Comparing with the existing schemes, our scheme needs a simpler state preparation and much fewer experimental setups. Furthermore, each parameter of the quantum process is directly determined from only five experimental values in our scheme, meaning that our scheme is robust against the accumulation of errors.

id: 1309.5886
title: Generalized three-intensity decoy state method for measurement device independent quantum key distribution
authors: Z.-W. Yu, Y.-H. Zhou, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 7 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1308.5677, arXiv:1309.0471
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5886
abstract: We present improved results and more general results for the decoy-state measurement device independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) where the intensities of all 3 pulses can be non-zero. We present a more tightened explicit formula for the lower bound of the yield of two single-photon pulses for this generalized 3-intensity protocol, which can be applied to the recently proposed MDI-QKD with imperfect single-photon sources such as the coherent states or the heralded states from the parametric down-conversion. We strictly prove that our result is better than the prior art result. With this result, the final key rate rises drastically.

id: 1309.5889
title: Testing the quantum superposition principle in the frequency domain
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Angelo Bassi, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032127 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5889
abstract: New technological developments allow to explore the quantum properties of very complex systems, bringing the question of whether also macroscopic systems share such features, within experimental reach. The interest in this question is increased by the fact that, on the theory side, many suggest that the quantum superposition principle is not exact, departures from it being the larger, the more macroscopic the system. Here we propose a novel way to test the possible violation of the superposition principle, by analyzing its effect on the spectral properties of a generic two-level system. We will show that spectral lines shapes are modified, if the superposition principle is violated, and we quantify the magnitude of the violation. We show how this effect can be distinguished from that of standard environmental noises. We argue that accurate enough spectroscopic experiments are within reach, with current technology.

id: 1309.5915
title: Quantum Input-Output Theory for Optical Cavities with Arbitrary Coupling Strength: Application to Two-Photon Wave-Packet Shaping
authors: M. G. Raymer, C. J. McKinstrie
comments: v1: Submitted to Phys Rev A (July 14 2013) v2: Accepted Sep. 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5915
abstract: We develop quantum-optical input-output theory for resonators with arbitrary coupling strength, and for input fields whose spectrum can be wider than the cavity free-spectral range, while ensuring that the field-operator commutator relations in space-time variables are correct. The cavity-field commutator exhibits a series of space-time echoes, representing causal connections of certain space-time points by light propagation. We apply the theory to two-photon wave-packet shaping by cavity reflection, which displays a remarkable illustration of dispersion cancellation. We also show that the theory is amenable to inclusion of intracavity absorbing and emitting atoms, allowing, for example, dissipative losses within the cavity to be incorporated in a quantum mechanically correct way.

id: 1309.6003
title: Zonoids and sparsification of quantum measurements
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, C¨¦cilia Lancien
comments: Original posting "On the distinguishability norms in quantum information" evolved into two papers, this one and "Locally restricted measurements on a multipartite quantum system". 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6003
abstract: In this paper, we establish a connection between zonoids (a concept from classical convex geometry) and the distinguishability norms associated to quantum measurements, or POVMs (Positive Operator-Valued Measures), recently introduced in quantum information theory. This correspondence allows us to state and prove the POVM version of classical results from the local theory of Banach spaces about the approximation of zonoids by zonotopes. We show that on $\mathbf{C}^d$, the uniform POVM (the most symmetric POVM) can be sparsified, i.e. approximated by a discrete POVM, the latter having only $O(d^2)$ outcomes. We also show that similar (but weaker) approximation results actually hold for any POVM on $\mathbf{C}^d$. By defining an appropriate notion of tensor product for zonoids, we are then able to extend our results to the multipartite setting: we show, roughly speaking, that local POVMs may be sparsified locally. In particular, the local uniform POVM on $\mathbf{C}^{d_1}\otimes\cdots\otimes\mathbf{C}^{d_k}$ can be approximated by a discrete POVM which is local and has $O(d_1^2\times\cdots\times d_k^2)$ outcomes.

id: 1309.6048
title: On quantum conditional entropies defined in terms of the $f$-divergences
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 13 pages, no figures. The paper is substantially revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6048
abstract: We consider a family of quantum conditional entropies based on the concept of quantum $f$-divergences. First, we explicitly formulate conditions under which the notion of quantum conditional entropy is well defined in this way. In particular, we demand that the value of conditional entropy be independent of any extension of the principal Hilbert space. Using fundamental properties of the quantum $f$-divergences, several interesting relations for such conditional entropies are formulated. We separately examine an especially important case of quantum conditional entropies related to the Tsallis divergence.

id: 1309.6057
title: A logical loophole in the derivation of the CHSH Bell-type inequality
authors: G. Coddens
comments: 4 pages, heavily revised and improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6057
abstract: We point out a loophole in the derivation of the Bell inequalities in the form proposed by Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (CHSH). In this derivation it is assumed that statistical independence is a necessary consequence of locality, but this is not a logical necessity.

id: 1309.6116
title: Optimal parallel quantum query algorithms
authors: Stacey Jeffery, Frederic Magniez, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 19 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6116
abstract: We study the complexity of quantum query algorithms that make p queries in parallel in each timestep. This model is in part motivated by the fact that decoherence times of qubits are typically small, so it makes sense to parallelize quantum algorithms as much as possible. We show tight bounds for a number of problems, specifically Theta((n/p)^{2/3}) p-parallel queries for element distinctness and Theta((n/p)^{k/(k+1)} for k-sum. Our upper bounds are obtained by parallelized quantum walk algorithms, and our lower bounds are based on a relatively small modification of the adversary lower bound method, combined with recent results of Belovs et al. on learning graphs. We also prove some general bounds, in particular that quantum and classical p-parallel complexity are polynomially related for all total functions f when p is small compared to f's block sensitivity.

id: 1309.6145
title: Assessing the number of atoms in a Rydberg-blockaded mesoscopic ensemble
authors: David Petrosyan, Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: modified ms
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013419 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6145
abstract: The dipole blockade of multiple Rydberg excitations in mesoscopic atomic ensembles allows the implementation of various quantum information tasks using collective states of cold, trapped atoms. Precise coherent manipulations of the collective ground and single Rydberg excitation states of an atomic ensemble requires the knowledge of the number of atoms with small uncertainty. We present an efficient method to acquire such information by interrogating the atomic ensemble with resonant pulses while monitoring the resulting Rydberg excitations. We show that after several such steps accompanied by feedback the number of atoms in an ensemble can be assessed with high accuracy. This will facilitate the realization of high fidelity quantum gates, long term storage of quantum information and deterministic sources of single photons with Rydberg-blockaded atomic ensembles.

id: 1309.6155
title: Complexity of measurement of a qubit pair
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: Corfu Summer Institute iQIT - Integrated Quantum Information Technology, 23-27 September 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6155
abstract: Analysis of the process of accumulation of the results of measurements shows that the success of this process substantially depends on the possibility of coordination of actions of two participants of the process - preparator who prepares the series of the states being measured and registrator who chooses in each event of measurement one of incompatible observables. A new value, the complexity of measurement of a state, is used, this characterizes the number of the measurement events needed for solution of the reconstruction problem. By means of this value it is shown that the dependence of the upper limit of the needed number of measurements on the permissible error is a square law one, so a twofold decrease of permissible error corresponds to a fourfold increase of needed number of measurements.

id: 1309.6168
title: Example of Lumped Parameter Modeling of a Quantum Optics Circuit
authors: Paul J. Werbos
comments: 14 pages, 3 figure, 55 equations, 15 references. Revised version adds a new final section, proposing a new experiment to decide between local realistic MRF models and conventional quantum mechanics, and a new appendix
journal: SPIE Proc. Quantum Information and Computation XII, May 2014 SPIE 9123-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6168
abstract: This paper shows that it is sometimes possible for a simple lumped parameter model of a circuit to yield correct quantum mechanical predictions of its behavior, even when there is quantum entanglement between components of that circuit. It addresses a simple but important example, the circuit of the original Bell's Theorem experiments for ideal polarizers. Correct predictions emerge from two alternative simple models based on classical Markov Random Field across space time. Exact agreement with quantum mechanics does not violate Bell's Theorem itself, because the interplay between initial and final outcomes in these calculations does not fall within the classical definition of time forwards causality. Both models raise interesting questions for future research. The final section discusses several possible directions for following up on these results, both in lumped system modeling and in more general approaches. The final section proposes a new experiment with three-photon entanglement which may be able to decide between local realistic MRF models and conventional predictions assuming the usual collapse of the wave function. A new appendix works out what the conventional predictions would be for the new experiment, and also gives a simple master equation version of the collapse assumption which does not involve metaphysical observers. Preliminary indications do suggest that the new expeiment in process may indeed be decisive.

id: 1309.6172
title: Generation of tunable wavelength coherent states and heralded single photons for quantum optics applications
authors: N. Bruno, A. Martin, R. T. Thew
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6172
abstract: Quantum optics experiments frequently involve interfering single photons and coherent states. In the case of multi-photon experiments this requires that all photons are frequency degenerate. We report a simple and practical approach to generate coherent states that can be readily tuned to any wavelength required, for example by non-degenerate photon pair creation. We demonstrate this by performing a two-photon (Hong-Ou-Mandel) interference experiment between a coherent state and a pure heralded single photon source. No spectral filtering is required on either source, the coherent state constrained by the pump and seed lasers and the heralded photon exploits non-local filtering. We expect that such an approach can find a wide range of applications in photonic based quantum information science.

id: 1309.6191
title: Remote creation of hybrid entanglement between particle-like and wave-like optical qubits
authors: Olivier Morin, Kun Huang, Jianli Liu, Hanna Le Jeannic, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 570-574 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6191
abstract: The wave-particle duality of light has led to two different encodings for optical quantum information processing. Several approaches have emerged based either on particle-like discrete-variable states, e.g. finite-dimensional quantum systems, or on wave-like continuous-variable states, e.g. infinite-dimensional systems. Here, we demonstrate the first measurement-induced generation of entanglement between optical qubits of these different types, located at distant places and connected by a lossy channel. Such hybrid entanglement, which is a key resource for a variety of recently proposed schemes, including quantum cryptography and computing, enables to convert information from one Hilbert space to the other via teleportation and therefore connect remote quantum processors based upon different encodings. Beyond its fundamental significance for the exploration of entanglement and its possible instantiations, our optical circuit opens the promises for heterogeneous network implementations, where discrete and continuous-variable operations and techniques can be efficiently combined.

id: 1309.6192
title: Entangling quantum and classical states of light
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Alessandro Zavatta, Minsu Kang, Seung-Woo Lee, Luca S. Costanzo, Samuele Grandi, Timothy C. Ralph, Marco Bellini
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 8, pp. 564-569 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6192
abstract: Entanglement between quantum and classical objects is of special interest in the context of fundamental studies of quantum mechanics and potential applications to quantum information processing. In quantum optics, single photons are treated as light quanta while coherent states are considered the most classical among all pure states. Recently, entanglement between a single photon and a coherent state in a free-traveling field was identified to be a useful resource for optical quantum information processing. However, it was pointed out to be extremely difficult to generate such states since it requires a clean cross-Kerr nonlinear interaction. Here, we devise and experimentally demonstrate a scheme to generate such hybrid entanglement by implementing a coherent superposition of two distinct quantum operations. The generated states clearly show entanglement between the two different types of states. Our work opens a way to generate hybrid entanglement of a larger size and to develop efficient quantum information processing using such a new type of qubits.

id: 1309.6235
title: SL-invariant entanglement measures in higher dimensions: the case of spin $1$ and $3/2$
authors: Andreas Osterloh
comments: 10 pages, subject of the part on maximally entangled states split off, misprints and some of the formulas modified, revtex 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6235
abstract: An SL-invariant extension of the concurrence to higher local Hilbert-space dimension is due to its relation with the determinant of the matrix of a $d\times d$ two qudits state, which is the only SL-invariant of polynomial degree $d$. This determinant is written in terms of antilinear expectation values of the local $SL(d)$ operators. We use the permutation invariance of the comb-condition for creating further local antilinear operators which are orthogonal to the original operator. It means that the symmetric group acts transitively on the space of combs of a given order. This extends the mechanism for writing $SL(2)$-invariants for qubits to qudits. I outline the method, that in principle works for arbitrary dimension $d$, explicitely for spin 1, and spin 3/2. There is an odd-even discrepancy: whereas for half odd integer spin a situation similar to that observed for qubits is found, for integer spin the outcome is an asymmetric invariant of polynomial degree $2d$.

id: 1309.6355
title: Sudden Decoherence Transitions for Quantum Discord
authors: Hyungjun Lim, Robert Joynt
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Lim H and Joynt R 2014, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 135305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6355
abstract: We investigate the disappearance of discord in 2- and multi-qubit systems subject to decohering influences. We formulate the computation of quantum discord in terms of the generalized Bloch vector, which gives useful insights on the time evolution of quantum coherence for the open system, particularly the comparison of entanglement and discord. And we show that the analytical calculation of the global geometric discord is NP-hard in the number of qubits. We present an efficient numerical method to calculating the quantum discord for a certain important class of multipartite states. In agreement with previous work for 2-qubit cases, (Mazzola et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200401 (2010)), we find situations in which there is a sudden transition from classical to quantum decoherence characterized by the discord remaining relatively robust (classical decoherence) until a certain point from where it begins to decay quickly whereas the classical correlation decays more slowly (quantum decoherence). However, we find that as the number of qubits increases, the chance of this kind of transition occurring becomes small.

id: 1309.6374
title: A lower bound on the fidelity between two states in terms of their Bures distance
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, we have corrected some errors appearing in the original manuscript. We have partially fixed the gap in the proof of the previous versions. A new method towards the conjectured inequality in the present version is being expected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6374
abstract: Fidelity is a fundamental and ubiquitous concept in quantum information theory. Fuchs-van de Graaf's inequalities deal with bounding fidelity from above and below. In this paper, we give a lower bound on the quantum fidelity between two states in terms of their Bures distance.

id: 1309.6383
title: Classical Simulation of Quantum Noise
authors: Daniel Crow, Robert Joynt
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6383
abstract: Dephasing decoherence induced by interaction of one qubit with a quantum bath can be simulated classically by random unitary evolution without the need for a bath and this random unitary evolution is equivalent to the quantum case. For a general dephasing model and a single qubit system, we explicitly construct the noise functional and completely specify the random unitary evolution. To demonstrate the technique, we applied our results to three paradigmatic models: spin-boson, central spin, and quantum impurity. For multiple qubits, we identify a class of generalized quantum dephasing models that can be simulated classically. Finally we show that depolarizing quantum models can be simulated classically for all dimensionalities of the principal system.

id: 1309.6405
title: Error matrices in quantum process tomography
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 21 pages (slightly revised version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6405
abstract: We discuss characterization of experimental quantum gates by the error matrix, which is similar to the standard process matrix $\chi$ in the Pauli basis, except the desired unitary operation is factored out, by formally placing it either before or after the error process. The error matrix has only one large element, which is equal to the process fidelity, while other elements are small and indicate imperfections. The imaginary parts of the elements along the left column and/or top row directly indicate the unitary imperfection and can be used to find the needed correction. We discuss a relatively simple way to calculate the error matrix for a composition of quantum gates. Similarly, it is rather straightforward to find the first-order contribution to the error matrix due to the Lindblad-form decoherence. We also discuss a way to identify and subtract the tomography procedure errors due to imperfect state preparation and measurement. In appendices we consider several simple examples of the process tomography and also discuss an intuitive physical interpretation of the Lindblad-form decoherence.

id: 1309.6424
title: Quantum error correction in a solid-state hybrid spin register
authors: G. Waldherr, Y. Wang, S. Zaiser, M. Jamali, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, H. Abe, T. Ohshima, J. Isoya, P. Neumann, J. Wrachtrup
comments: V2: Added note to simultaneous related work arXiv:1309.5452
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6424
abstract: Hybrid quantum systems seek to combine the strength of its constituents to master the fundamental conflicting requirements of quantum technology: fast and accurate systems control together with perfect shielding from the environment, including the measurements apparatus, to achieve long quantum coherence. Excellent examples for hybrid quantum systems are heterogeneous spin systems where electron spins are used for readout and control while nuclear spins are used as long-lived quantum bits. Here we show that joint initialization, projective readout and fast local and non-local gate operations are no longer conflicting requirements in those systems, even under ambient conditions. We demonstrate high-fidelity initialization of a whole spin register (99 %) and single-shot readout of multiple individual nuclear spins by using the ancillary electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy defect in diamond. Implementation of a novel non-local gate generic to our hybrid electron-nuclear quantum register allows to prepare entangled states of three nuclear spins, with fidelities exceeding 85 %. An important tool for scalable quantum computation is quantum error correction. Combining, for the first time, optimal-control based error avoidance with error correction, we realize a three-qubit phase-flip error correction algorithm. Utilizing optimal control, all of the above algorithms achieve fidelities approaching fault tolerant quantum operation, thus paving the way to large scale integrations. Our techniques can be used to improve scaling of quantum networks relying on diamond spins, phosphorous in silicon or other spin systems like quantum dots, silicon carbide or rare earth ions in solids.

id: 1309.6431
title: A quantum access network
authors: Bernd Fr?hlich, James F. Dynes, Marco Lucamarini, Andrew W. Sharpe, Zhiliang Yuan, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 501, 69-72 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6431
abstract: The theoretically proven security of quantum key distribution (QKD) could revolutionise how information exchange is protected in the future. Several field tests of QKD have proven it to be a reliable technology for cryptographic key exchange and have demonstrated nodal networks of point-to-point links. However, so far no convincing answer has been given to the question of how to extend the scope of QKD beyond niche applications in dedicated high security networks. Here we show that adopting simple and cost-effective telecommunication technologies to form a quantum access network can greatly expand the number of users in quantum networks and therefore vastly broaden their appeal. We are able to demonstrate that a high-speed single-photon detector positioned at a network node can be shared between up to 64 users for exchanging secret keys with the node, thereby significantly reducing the hardware requirements for each user added to the network. This point-to-multipoint architecture removes one of the main obstacles restricting the widespread application of QKD. It presents a viable method for realising multi-user QKD networks with resource efficiency and brings QKD closer to becoming the first widespread technology based on quantum physics.

id: 1309.6493
title: Binding energies of composite boson clusters using the Szilard engine
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 12 pages, 6 figs, one numerical typo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6493
abstract: We evaluate the binding energies of systems of bosonic and fermionic particles on the basis of the quantum Szilard engine, which confers an energetic value to information and entropy changes. We extend treatment of the quantum information thermodynamic operation of the Szilard engine to its non-trivial role in Bose-Einstein condensation of the light mass polariton quasiparticle, and binding of large multi-excitonic complexes, and note the same order of magnitudes of exchange and extraction energies in these disparate systems. We examine the gradual decline of a defined information capacitive energy with size of the boson cluster as well as the influence of confinement effects in composite boson systems. Can quantum informational entropy changes partly explain the observations of polariton condensates? We provide energy estimates using the system of polariton condensates placed in a hypothetical quantum Szilard engine, and briefly discuss the importance of incorporating entropy changes introduced during quantum measurements, and in the interpretation of experimental results.

id: 1309.6498
title: A description of the Thomas-Fermi ion with fast converging function series
authors: Herbert E. M¨¹ller
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6498
abstract: This article concerns the description of the electron sea of an atomic ion with the Thomas-Fermi model. The normalized ion radius $X$, ionization potential $b$ and electronic binding energy $B$ of the Thomas-Fermi ion are functions of the ratio $N$ of electrons to protons in the ion. A scheme is given to calculate the Taylor series of $X(N)$, $b(N)$ and $B(N)$. With this scheme, the Taylor coefficients are calculated up to 5th order. The obtained 0th to 3rd order coefficients agree with the values presently available in the literature. To the authors knowledge, the 4th and 5th order coefficients are new results. It is then argued that a different series description of these functions, based on the Taylor series of $c(N) \equiv b^{-1/3}X^{-4/3}$, leads to a significant improvement in convergence.

id: 1309.6502
title: The Uncertainty Principle derived by the finite transmission of light and information
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: submitted for pubblication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6502
abstract: This work shows that in the frame of the stochastic generalization of the quantum hydrodynamic analogy (QHA) the uncertainty principle can be derived by the postulate of finite transmission speed of light and information . The theory shows that the measurement process performed in the large scale classical limit of stochastic QHA (SQHA), cannot have a duration smaller than the time need to the light to travel the distance up to which the quantum non-local interaction extend itself. The product of the minimum measuring time multiplied by the variance of energy fluctuation due to presence of stochastic noise shows to lead to the minimum uncertainty principle. The paper also shows that the uncertainty relations can be also derived if applied to the indetermination of position and momentum of a particle of mass m in a quantum fluctuating environment.

id: 1309.6503
title: An improved semiclassical method with reference potentials
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6503
abstract: We approximate given potentials by means of the specially introduced reference potentials. On the one hand their parameters may be easily found from the usual WKB integral for the given potential; on the other hand they allow a simple determination of the first correction to the usual quantization condition. Such reference potentials are introduced in special variables as some Pade approximants which lead usually to a very good results for various problems. Thus we raise the accuracy of the WKB method for a broad set of potentials without cumbersome calculations. Higher order corrections as well as the exact condition is also considered.

id: 1309.6507
title: Use strong coupling strength to coherently preserve quantum entanglement
authors: Guihua Tian, Shuquan Zhong
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6507
abstract: The dynamics of two qubits ultra-strongly coupled with a quantum oscillator is investigated by the adiabatic approximation method. The evolution formula of the initial four Bell states are studied under the control mechanism of the coherent state of the quantum oscillator. The influential parameters for the preservation of the entanglement are the four parameters: the average number of the coherent state, the ultra-strong coupling strength, the ratio of two frequencies of qubit and oscillator, and the inter-interaction coupling of the two qubits. The novel results show that the appropriate choice of these parameters can enable this mechanism to be utilized to preserve the entanglement of the two qubits, which is initially in the state |I_0> of the four Bell states. We give two different schemes to choose the respective parameters to maintain the entangled state |I_0> almost unchanged. The results will be helpful for the quantum information process.

id: 1309.6508
title: Operational Gaussian Schmidt-Number Witnesses
authors: Farid Shahandeh, Jan Sperling, Werner Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 062323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6508
abstract: The general class of Gaussian Schmidt-number witness operators for bipartite systems is studied. It is shown that any member of this class is reducible to a convex combination of two types of Gaussian operators using local operations and classical communications. This gives rise to a simple operational method, which is solely based on measurable covariance matrices of quantum states. Our method bridges the gap between theory and experiment of entanglement quantification. In particular, we certify lower bounds of the Schmidt number of squeezed thermal and phase-randomized squeezed vacuum states, as examples of Gaussian and non-Gaussian quantum states, respectively.

id: 1309.6556
title: Flow of Quantum Correlations from a Two-Qubit System to its Environment
authors: G. H. Aguilar, O. Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, A. Valdes-Hern¨¢ndez, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, L. Davidovich, S. P. Walborn
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6556
abstract: The open-system dynamics of entanglement plays an important role in the assessment of the robustness of quantum information processes and also in the investigation of the classical limit of quantum mechanics. Here we show that, subjacent to this dynamics, there is a subtle flow of quantum correlations. We use a recently proposed optical setup, which allows joint tomography of system and environment, to show that the decay of an initial bipartite entangled state leads to the build up of multipartite entanglement and quantum discord, the latter exhibiting a non-analytic behavior that signals the emergence of maximal genuine quantum entanglement. The origin of this analyticity is shown to be distinct from similar behavior previously found in bipartite systems. Monogamy relations within the context of open-system dynamics explain this new phenomenon.

id: 1309.6557
title: Graph-state formalism for mutually unbiased bases
authors: Christoph Spengler, Barbara Kraus
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, Mathematica code online at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6557
abstract: A pair of orthonormal bases is called mutually unbiased if all mutual overlaps between any element of one basis with an arbitrary element of the other basis coincide. In case the dimension, $d$, of the considered Hilbert space is a power of a prime number, complete sets of $d+1$ mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) exist. Here, we present a novel method based on the graph-state formalism to construct such sets of MUBs. We show that for $n$ $p$-level systems, with $p$ being prime, one particular graph suffices to easily construct a set of $p^n+1$ MUBs. In fact, we show that a single $n$-dimensional vector, which is associated with this graph, can be used to generate a complete set of MUBs and demonstrate that this vector can be easily determined. Finally, we discuss some advantages of our formalism regarding the analysis of entanglement structures in MUBs, as well as experimental realizations.

id: 1309.6578
title: Estimating the ground state energy of the Schr?dinger equation for convex potentials
authors: Anargyros Papageorgiou, Iasonas Petras
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6578
abstract: In 2011, the fundamental gap conjecture for Schr\"odinger operators was proven. This can be used to estimate the ground state energy of the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation with a convex potential and relative error \epsilon. Classical deterministic algorithms solving this problem have cost exponential in the number of its degrees of freedom d. We show a quantum algorithm, that is based on a perturbation method, for estimating the ground state energy with relative error \epsilon. The cost of the algorithm is polynomial in d and \epsilon^{-1}, while the number of qubits is polynomial in d and \log\epsilon^{-1}. In addition, we present an algorithm for preparing a quantum state that overlaps within 1-\delta, \delta \in (0,1), with the ground state eigenvector of the discretized Hamiltonian. This algorithm also approximates the ground state with relative error \epsilon. The cost of the algorithm is polynomial in d, \epsilon^{-1} and \delta^{-1}, while the number of qubits is polynomial in d, \log\epsilon^{-1} and \log\delta^{-1}.

id: 1309.6586
title: The resource theory of informational nonequilibrium in thermodynamics
authors: Gilad Gour, Markus P. M¨¹ller, Varun Narasimhachar, Robert W. Spekkens, Nicole Yunger Halpern
comments: 51 pages, 9 figures, Revised Version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6586
abstract: We review recent work on the foundations of thermodynamics in the light of quantum information theory. We adopt a resource-theoretic perspective, wherein thermodynamics is formulated as a theory of what agents can achieve under a particular restriction, namely, that the only state preparations and transformations that they can implement for free are those that are thermal at some fixed temperature. States that are out of thermal equilibrium are the resources. We consider the special case of this theory wherein all systems have trivial Hamiltonians (that is, all of their energy levels are degenerate). In this case, the only free operations are those that add noise to the system (or implement a reversible evolution) and the only nonequilibrium states are states of informational nonequilibrium, that is, states that deviate from the maximally mixed state. The degree of this deviation we call the state's nonuniformity; it is the resource of interest here, the fuel that is consumed, for instance, in an erasure operation. We consider the different types of state conversion: exact and approximate, single-shot and asymptotic, catalytic and noncatalytic. In each case, we present the necessary and sufficient conditions for the conversion to be possible for any pair of states, emphasizing a geometrical representation of the conditions in terms of Lorenz curves. We also review the problem of quantifying the nonuniformity of a state, in particular through the use of generalized entropies. Quantum state conversion problems in this resource theory can be shown to be always reducible to their classical counterparts, so that there are no inherently quantum-mechanical features arising in such problems. This body of work also demonstrates that the standard formulation of the second law of thermodynamics is inadequate as a criterion for deciding whether or not a given state transition is possible.

id: 1309.6620
title: Quantum limits on post-selected, probabilistic quantum metrology
authors: Joshua Combes, Christopher Ferrie, Zhang Jiang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: V1:8 pages, 1 figure. V2: 9 pages, 1 figure, revised text. V3: 11 pages, 1 figure, revised text; V4 published version, revised title ;-)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6620
abstract: Probabilistic metrology attempts to improve parameter estimation by occasionally reporting an excellent estimate and the rest of the time either guessing or doing nothing at all. Here we show that probabilistic metrology can never improve quantum limits on estimation of a single parameter, both on average and asymptotically in number of trials, if performance is judged relative to mean-square estimation error. We extend the result by showing that for a finite number of trials, the probability of obtaining better estimates using probabilistic metrology, as measured by mean-square error, decreases exponentially with the number of trials. To be tight, the performance bounds we derive require that likelihood functions be approximately normal, which in turn depends on how rapidly specific distributions converge to a normal distribution with number of trials.

id: 1309.6654
title: Relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations and localization
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Patrycja Rybka, Piotr Witas
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6654
abstract: We calculate correlation functions for a relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type experiment with massive Dirac particles. We take the influence of the Newton-Wigner localization into account and perform the calculations for a couple of physically interesting states.

id: 1309.6703
title: Efficient spectral hole-burning and atomic frequency comb storage in Nd3+:YLiF4
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Jian Wang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3,2754 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6703
abstract: We present spectral hole-burning measurements of the $^{4}I_{9/2}\rightarrow{}^4F_{3/2}$ transition in Nd$^{3+}$:YLiF$_4$. The isotope shifts of Nd$^{3+}$ can be directly resolved in the optical absorption spectrum. We report atomic frequency comb storage with an echo efficiency of up to 35% and a memory bandwidth of 60 MHz in this material. The interesting properties show the potential of this material for use in both quantum and classical information processing.

id: 1309.6736
title: Programmable quantum simulation by dynamic Hamiltonian engineering
authors: David L. Hayes, Steven T. Flammia, Michael J. Biercuk
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 16 083027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6736
abstract: Quantum simulation is a promising near term application for mesoscale quantum information processors, with the potential to solve computationally intractable problems at the scale of just a few dozen interacting quantum systems. Recent experiments in a range of technical platforms have demonstrated the basic functionality of quantum simulation applied to quantum magnetism, quantum phase transitions, and relativistic quantum mechanics. In all cases, the underlying hardware platforms restrict the achievable inter-particle interaction, forming a serious constraint on the ability to realize a versatile, programmable quantum simulator. In this work, we address this problem by developing novel sequences of unitary operations that engineer desired effective Hamiltonians in the time-domain. The result is a hybrid programmable analog simulator permitting a broad class of interacting spin-lattice models to be generated starting only with an arbitrary long-range native inter-particle interaction and single-qubit addressing. Specifically, our approach permits the generation of all symmetrically coupled translation-invariant two-body Hamiltonians with homogeneous on-site terms, a class which includes all spin-1/2 XYZ chains, but generalized to include long-range couplings. Building on previous work proving that universal simulation is possible using both entangling gates and single-qubit unitaries, we show that determining the "program" of unitary pulses to implement an arbitrary spin Hamiltonian can be formulated as a linear program that runs in polynomial time and scales efficiently in hardware resources. Our analysis extends from circuit model quantum information to adiabatic quantum evolutions, where our approach allows for the creation of non-native ground state solutions to a computation.

id: 1309.6753
title: Semiclassical and Quantum Analysis of a Focussing Free Particle Hermite Wavefunction
authors: Paul Strange
comments: 10 pages, 3 diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6753
abstract: In this paper we discuss a solution of the free particle Schrodinger equation in which the time and space dependence are not separable. The wavefunction is written as a product of exponential terms, Hermite polynomials and a phase. The peaks in the wavefunction decelerate and then accelerate around t = 0. We analyse this behaviour within both a quantum and a semi-classical regime. We show that the acceleration does not represent true acceleration of the particle but can be related to the envelope function of the allowed classical paths. Comparison with other "accelerating" wavefunctions is also made. The analysis provides considerable insight into the meaning of the quantum wavefunction.

id: 1309.6759
title: Enhancing entanglement trapping by weak measurement and quantum measurement reversal
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Wei Han, Heng Fan, Yun-Jie Xia
comments: welcome to comment
journal: Annals of Physics, 354, 203-212, (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6759
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme to enhance trapping of entanglement of two qubits in the environment of a photonic band gap material. Our entanglement trapping promotion scheme makes use of combined weak measurements and quantum measurement reversals. The optimal promotion of entanglement trapping can be acquired with a reasonable finite success probability by adjusting measurement strengths.

id: 1309.6777
title: The triangle principle: a new approach to non-contextuality and local realism
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6777
abstract: In this paper we study an application of an information distance between two measurements to the problem of non-contextuality and local realism. We postulate the triangle principle which states that any information distance is well defined on any pair of measurements, even if the two measurements cannot be jointly performed. As a consequence, the triangle inequality for this distance is obeyed for any three measurements. This simple principle is valid in any classical realistic theory, however it does not hold in quantum theory. It allows us to re-derive in an astonishingly simple way a large class of non-contextuality and local realistic inequalities via multiple applications of the triangle inequality. We also show that this principle can be applied to derive monogamy relations. The triangle principle is different than the assumption of non-contextuality and local realism, which is defined as a lack of existence of a joined probability distribution giving rise to all measurable data. Therefore, we show that one can design Bell-Kochen-Specker tests using a different principle.

id: 1309.6837
title: Experimental realisation of a delayed-choice quantum walk
authors: Youn-Chang Jeong, Carlo Di Franco, Hyang-Tag Lim, M. S. Kim, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 8 pages, 5 figure
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 2471 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6837
abstract: Many paradoxes of quantum mechanics come from the fact that a quantum system can possess different features at the same time, such as in wave-particle duality or quantum superposition. In recent delayed-choice experiments, a quantum mechanical system can be observed to manifest one feature such as the wave or particle nature, depending on the final measurement setup, which is chosen after the system itself has already entered the measuring device; hence its behaviour is not predetermined. Here, we adapt this paradigmatic scheme to multi-dimensional quantum walks. In our experiment, the way in which a photon interferes with itself in a strongly non-trivial pattern depends on its polarisation, that is determined after the photon has already been detected. Multi-dimensional quantum walks are a very powerful tool for simulating the behaviour of complex quantum systems, due to their versatility. This is the first experiment realising a multi-dimensional quantum walk with a single-photon source and we present also the first experimental simulation of the Grover walk, a model that can be used to implement the Grover quantum search algorithm.

id: 1309.6890
title: Comment on "Sudden change in quantum discord accompanying the transition from bound to free entanglement"
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 036301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6890
abstract: In a recent article [this http URL, Phys. Rev. A 87, 022340 (2013)], Yan et al have studied geometric discord for a well known class of bound entangled states. Based on their calculation, they claim "It is found that there exists a nondynamic sudden change in quantum discord" for these states. In this Comment, we criticize their work by pointing out that what has been calculated is actually a bound, and not the exact value of discord. Since, generally, it is not possible to infer the exact value (or property) of a quantity just from its bound, we can not conclude about (exact) discord and its change. Thus, the above-mentioned conclusion can not be drawn from the calculations of the paper.

id: 1309.6944
title: From the sandwiched quantum relative Tsallis entropy to its conditional form: Separability criterion beyond local and global spectra
authors: A.K. Rajagopal, Sudha, Anantha S Nayak, A.R. Usha Devi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Revised version; New footnote added; Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6944
abstract: The quantum relative Renyi entropy of two density matrices was recently extended when the two do not commute, from which a conditional entropy is identified. This is here extended to the corresponding Tsallis relative entropy and to its conditional form. This new expression of Tsallis conditional entropy is shown to witness entanglement beyond the method based on global and local spectra of composite quantum states. When the reduced density matrix happens to be a maximally mixed state, this conditional entropy coincides with the expression in terms of Tsallis entropies derived earlier by Abe and Rajagopal (Physica A 289, 157 (2001)). Separability range in one parameter family of W and GHZ states with 3 and 4 qubits is explored here and it is shown that the results inferred from negative Tsallis conditional entropy matches with that obtained through Peres partial transpose criteria for one-parameter family of W states, in one of its partitions. The criteria is shown to be non-spectral through its usefulness in identifying entanglement in isospectral density matrices.

id: 1309.6957
title: Frieden wave function representations via an EPR-Bohm experiment
authors: Jacek Syska
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E. 88, 032130 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6957
abstract: The appearance of the spin-1/2 and spin-1 representations in the Frieden-Soffer extreme physical information (EPI) statistical approach to the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPR-Bohm) experiment is shown. In order to obtain the EPR-Bohm result, in addition to the observed structural and variational information principles of the EPI method, the condition of the regularity of the probability distribution is used. The observed structural information principle is obtained from the analyticity of the logarithm of the likelihood function. It is suggested that, due to the self-consistent analysis of both information principles, quantum mechanics is covered by the statistical information theory. The estimation of the angle between the analyzers in the EPR-Bohm experiment is discussed.

id: 1309.7062
title: Fibre bundle framework for unitary quantum fault tolerance
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Lucy Liuxuan Zhang
comments: 59 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7062
abstract: We introduce a differential geometric framework for describing families of quantum error-correcting codes and for understanding quantum fault tolerance. This work unifies the notion of topological fault tolerance with fault tolerance in other kinds of quantum error-correcting codes. In particular, we use fibre bundles with a natural flat projective connection to study the transformation of codewords under unitary fault-tolerant evolutions. We show that the fault-tolerant logical operations are given by the monodromy group for either of two bundles, both of which have flat projective connections. As concrete realizations of the general framework, we construct the bundles explicitly for two examples of fault-tolerant families of operations, the qudit transversal gates and the string operators in the toric code.

id: 1309.7070
title: How (not) to teach Lorentz covariance of the Dirac equation
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 13 pages, revised, accepted for publication in Eur. J. Phys
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 35, 035003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7070
abstract: In the textbook proofs of Lorentz covariance of the Dirac equation, one treats the wave function as a spinor and gamma matrices as scalars, leading to a quite complicated formalism with several pedagogic drawbacks. As an alternative, I propose to teach Dirac equation and its Lorentz covariance by using a much simpler, but physically equivalent formalism, in which these drawbacks do not appear. In this alternative formalism, the wave function transforms as a scalar and gamma matrices as components of a vector, such that the standard physically relevant bilinear combinations do not change their transformation properties. The alternative formalism allows also a natural construction of some additional non-standard bilinear combinations with well-defined transformation properties.

id: 1309.7134
title: Multimode strong-coupling quantum optomechanics
authors: H. Seok, L. F. Buchmann, E. M. Wright, P. Meystre
comments: 14 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063850 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7134
abstract: We study theoretically the dynamics of multiple mechanical oscillators coupled to a single cavity field mode via linear or quadratic optomechanical interactions. We focus specifically on the strong coupling regime where the cavity decays much faster than the mechanical modes, and the optomechanical coupling is comparable to or larger than the mechanical frequency, so that both the optical and mechanical systems operate in the deep quantum regime. Using the examples of one and two mechanical oscillators we show that the system can classically exhibit bistability and bifurcations, and we explore how these manifest themselves in interference, entanglement, and correlation in the quantum theory, while revealing the impact of decoherence of the mechanical system due to cavity fluctuations and coherent driving.

id: 1309.7174
title: Chasing infinity with matrix product states by embracing divergences
authors: Gregory M. Crosswhite
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7174
abstract: In this paper, we present a formalism for representing infinite systems in quantum mechanics by employing a strategy that embraces divergences rather than avoiding them. We do this by representing physical quantities such as inner products, expectations, etc., as maps from natural numbers to complex numbers which contain information about how these quantities diverge, and in particular whether they scale linearly, quadratically, exponentially, etc. with the size of the system. We build our formalism on a variant of matrix product states, as this class of states has a structure that naturally provides a way to obtain the scaling function. We show that the states in our formalism form a module over the ring of functions that are made up of sums of exponentials times polynomials and delta functions. We analyze properties of this formalism and show how it works for selected systems. Finally, we discuss how our formalism relates to other work.

id: 1309.7188
title: Value-indefinite observables are almost everywhere
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude, Karl Svozil
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7188
abstract: Kochen-Specker theorems assure the breakdown of certain types of non-contextual hidden variable theories through the non-existence of global, holistic frame functions; alas they do not allow us to identify where this breakdown occurs, nor the extent of it. It was recently shown [Phys. Rev. A 86, 062109 (2012)] that this breakdown does not occur everywhere; here we show that it is maximal in that it occurs almost everywhere, and thus prove that quantum indeterminacy--often referred to as contextuality or value indefiniteness--is a global property as is often assumed. In contrast to the Kochen-Specker theorem, we only assume the weaker non-contextuality condition that any potential value assignments that may exist are locally non-contextual. Under this assumption, we prove that once a single arbitrary observable is fixed to occur with certainty, almost (i.e. with Lebesgue measure one) all remaining observables are indeterminate.

id: 1309.7207
title: All photonic quantum repeaters
authors: Koji Azuma, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nature Communications 6:6787 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7207
abstract: Quantum communication holds promise for unconditionally secure transmission of secret messages and faithful transfer of unknown quantum states. Photons appear to be the medium of choice for quantum communication. Owing to photon losses, robust quantum communication over long lossy channels requires quantum repeaters. It is widely believed that a necessary and highly demanding requirement for quantum repeaters is the existence of matter quantum memories at the repeater nodes. Here we show that such a requirement is, in fact, unnecessary by introducing the concept of all photonic quantum repeaters based on flying qubits. As an example of the realization of this concept, we present a protocol based on photonic cluster state machine guns and a loss-tolerant measurement equipped with local high-speed active feedforwards. We show that, with such an all photonic quantum repeater, the communication efficiency still scales polynomially with the channel distance. Our result paves a new route toward quantum repeaters with efficient single-photon sources rather than matter quantum memories.

id: 1309.7278
title: Universal Quantum Computation With Majorana Fermion Edge Modes Through Microwave Spectroscopy Of Quasi-1D Cold Gases In Optical Lattices
authors: Bhuvanesh Sundar, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures; added a new paragraph in sections I, IV, V and IXB1; added citations to sections I and II; corrected typos; conclusions unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063632 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7278
abstract: We describe how microwave spectroscopy of cold fermions in quasi-1D traps can be used to detect, manipulate, and entangle exotic non-local qbits associated with "Majorana" edge modes. We present different approaches to generate the p-wave superfluidity which is responsible for these topological zero-energy edge modes. We find that the edge modes have clear signatures in the microwave spectrum, and that the line shape distinguishes between the degenerate states of a qbit encoded in these edge modes. Moreover, the microwaves rotate the system in its degenerate ground-state manifold. We use these rotations to implement a set of universal quantum gates, allowing the system to be used as a universal quantum computer.

id: 1309.7309
title: Probing the geometry of quantum states with symmetric POVMs
authors: Jose Ignacio Rosado
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7309
abstract: The geometry of the Quantum State Space, described by Bloch vectors, is a very intricate one. A deeper understanding of this geometry could lead to the solution of some difficult problems in Quantum Foundations and Quantum Information such as the existence of SIC-POVMs and the cardinality of the maximal set of MUBs. In this paper we show that the geometry of quantum states can be described by the probability distributions that quantum states induce over the outcomes of symmetric POVMs not necessarily of arbitrary rank or informationally complete. We also describe the properties of these symmetric POVMs.

id: 1309.7349
title: Sharpening the Second Law of Thermodynamics with the Quantum Bayes' Theorem
authors: Hrant Gharibyan, Max Tegmark
comments: Replaced to match accepted PRE version. Significantly expanded, including proofs of which entropy theorems hold for which types of interactions (probing, purity-preserving POVMs, etc). 7 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 032125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7349
abstract: We prove a generalization of the classic Groenewold-Lindblad entropy inequality, combining decoherence and the quantum Bayes theorem into a simple unified picture where decoherence increases entropy while observation decreases it. This provides a rigorous quantum-mechanical version of the second law of thermodynamics, governing how the entropy of a system (the entropy of its density matrix, partial-traced over the environment and conditioned on what is known) evolves under general decoherence and observation. The powerful tool of spectral majorization enables both simple alternative proofs of the classic Lindblad and Holevo inequalities without using strong subadditivity, and also novel inequalities for decoherence and observation that hold not only for von Neumann entropy, but also for arbitrary concave entropies.

id: 1309.7380
title: Entanglement entropy of a scalar field across a spherical boundary in the Einstein universe
authors: Katja Ried
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7380
abstract: A scalar field in the ground state, when partially hidden from observation by a spherical boundary, acquires entanglement entropy $S$ proportional to the area of the surface. This area law is well established in flat space, where it follows almost directly from dimensional arguments. We study its validity in an Einstein universe, whose curvature provides an additional physical parameter on which the entropy could, in principle, depend. The surprisingly simple result is that the entanglement entropy still scales linearly with the area. This is supported by other observations to the effect that the entanglement entropy arises mostly from degrees of freedom near the boundary, making it insensitive to the large-scale geometry of the background space.

id: 1309.7411
title: Impurity-induced Dicke quantum phase transition in an impurity-doped cavity-Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Ji-Bing Yuan, Ya-Ju Song, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7411
abstract: We present a new generalized Dicke model, an impurity-doped Dicke model (IDDM), by the use of an impurity-doped cavity-Bose-Einstein condensate. It is shown that the impurity atom can induce Dicke quantum phase transition (QPT) from the normal phase to superradiant phase at a critic value of the impurity population. It is found that the IDDM exhibits continuous Dicke QPT with an infinite number of critical points, which is significantly different from that observed in the standard Dicke model with only one critical point. It is revealed that the impurity-induced Dicke QPT can happen in an arbitrary coupling regime of the cavity field and atoms while the Dicke QPT in the standard Dicke model occurs only in the strong coupling regime of the cavity field and atoms. This opens a way to observe the Dicke QPT in the intermediate and even weak coupling regime of the cavity field and atoms.

id: 1309.7460
title: BosonSampling Is Far From Uniform
authors: Scott Aaronson, Alex Arkhipov
comments: 41 pages, 2 figures, clarified that Brandao's observation is only nontrivial if the mockup distribution has large entropy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7460
abstract: BosonSampling, which we proposed three years ago, is a scheme for using linear-optical networks to solve sampling problems that appear to be intractable for a classical computer. In arXiv:1306.3995, Gogolin et al. claimed that even an ideal BosonSampling device's output would be "operationally indistinguishable" from a uniform random outcome, at least "without detailed a priori knowledge"; or at any rate, that telling the two apart might itself be a hard problem. We first answer these claims---explaining why the first is based on a definition of "a priori knowledge" so strange that, were it adopted, almost no quantum algorithm could be distinguished from a pure random-number source; while the second is neither new nor a practical obstacle to interesting BosonSampling experiments. However, we then go further, and address some interesting research questions inspired by Gogolin et al.'s mistaken arguments. We prove that, with high probability over a Haar-random matrix A, the BosonSampling distribution induced by A is far from the uniform distribution in total variation distance. More surprisingly, and directly counter to Gogolin et al., we give an efficient algorithm that distinguishes these two distributions with constant bias. Finally, we offer three "bonus" results about BosonSampling. First, we report an observation of Fernando Brandao: that one can efficiently sample a distribution that has large entropy and that's indistinguishable from a BosonSampling distribution by any circuit of fixed polynomial size. Second, we show that BosonSampling distributions can be efficiently distinguished from uniform even with photon losses and for general initial states. Third, we offer the simplest known proof that FermionSampling is solvable in classical polynomial time, and we reuse techniques from our BosonSampling analysis to characterize random FermionSampling distributions.

id: 1309.7495
title: The Quantum PCP Conjecture
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad, Thomas Vidick
comments: 45 pages, 4 figures, an enhanced version of the SIGACT guest column from Volume 44 Issue 2, June 2013
journal: ACM SIGACT News archive Volume 44 Issue 2, June 2013, Pages 47--79
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7495
abstract: The classical PCP theorem is arguably the most important achievement of classical complexity theory in the past quarter century. In recent years, researchers in quantum computational complexity have tried to identify approaches and develop tools that address the question: does a quantum version of the PCP theorem hold? The story of this study starts with classical complexity and takes unexpected turns providing fascinating vistas on the foundations of quantum mechanics, the global nature of entanglement and its topological properties, quantum error correction, information theory, and much more; it raises questions that touch upon some of the most fundamental issues at the heart of our understanding of quantum mechanics. At this point, the jury is still out as to whether or not such a theorem holds. This survey aims to provide a snapshot of the status in this ongoing story, tailored to a general theory-of-CS audience.

id: 1309.7530
title: Parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on the 120-cell
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind
comments: References have been slightly updated, and also include titles of all articles
journal: Foundations of Physics, 44, 1085-1095 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7530
abstract: It is shown how the 300 rays associated with the antipodal pairs of vertices of a 120-cell (a four-dimensional regular polytope) can be used to give numerous "parity proofs" of the Kochen-Specker theorem ruling out the existence of noncontextual hidden variables theories. The symmetries of the 120-cell are exploited to give a simple construction of its Kochen-Specker diagram, which is exhibited in the form of a "basis table" showing all the orthogonalities between its rays. The basis table consists of 675 bases (a basis being a set of four mutually orthogonal rays), but all the bases can be written down from the few listed in this paper using some simple rules. The basis table is shown to contain a wide variety of parity proofs, ranging from 19 bases (or contexts) at the low end to 41 bases at the high end. Some explicit examples of these proofs are given, and their implications are discussed.

id: 1309.7650
title: Genuinely multi-point temporal quantum correlations and universal measurement-based quantum computing
authors: Marcin Markiewicz, Anna Przysiezna, Stephen Brierley, Tomasz Paterek
comments: New presentation of relations between temporal quantum correlations and measurement based quantum computing
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7650
abstract: We introduce a constructive procedure that maps all spatial correlations of a broad class of states into temporal correlations between general quantum measurements. This allows us to present temporal phenomena analogous to genuinely multipartite nonlocal phenomena, such as Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger correlations, which do not exist if only projective measurements on qubits are considered. The map is applied to certain lattice systems in order to replace one spatial dimension with a temporal one, without affecting measured correlations. We use this map to show how repeated application of a 1d-cluster-gate leads to universal one-way quantum computing when supplemented with the general measurements.

id: 1309.7713
title: Span-program-based quantum algorithm for tree detection
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7713
abstract: Span program is a linear-algebraic model of computation originally proposed for studying the complexity theory. Recently, it has become a useful tool for designing quantum algorithms. In this paper, we present a time-efficient span-program-based quantum algorithm for the following problem. Let $T$ be an arbitrary tree. Given query access to the adjacency matrix of a graph $G$ with $n$ vertices, we need to determine whether $G$ contains $T$ as a subgraph, or $G$ does not contain $T$ as a minor, under the promise that one of these cases holds. We call this problem the subgraph/not-a-minor problem for $T$. We show that this problem can be solved by a bounded-error quantum algorithm with $O(n)$ query complexity and $\tilde{O}(n)$ time complexity. The query complexity is optimal, and the time complexity is tight up to polylog factors.

id: 1309.7715
title: The entanglement of two qubits coupled ultrastrongly with a quantum oscillator
authors: Guihua Tian, Shuquan Zhong
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, conference or other essential info
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7715
abstract: We explore the possibility of the controlled manipulation of the entanglement of two qubits with an external apparatus, the Rabi Hamiltonian. The novel results show that the initially entangled two qubits could have very high probability to stay unchanged by the coherent state of the photon with chosen parameters. If the inter-qubit coupling strength is negative, their entanglement could be kept for a much longer time by a relatively strong external quantum control with the suitable and novel choice of some parameters. Furthermore, their entanglement will not show any sudden death and revival. All these results are different from the previous studies and they are given with reasonable explanations. The maintaining of the entanglement of the two qubits with very high fidelity will be very helpful for the quantum information process.

id: 1309.7718
title: Quasiparticle Localisation via Frequent Measurements
authors: David Herrera-Mart¨ª, Ying Li, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7718
abstract: Topological quantum memories in two dimensions are not thermally stable, since once a quasiparticle excitation is created, it will delocalise at no energy cost. This places an upper bound on the lifetime of quantum information stored in them. We address this issue for a topological subsystem code introduced in [Bravyi S. et al., Quant.Inf.Comp.13(11):0963]. By frequently measuring the gauge operators of the code, a technique known as Operator Quantum Zeno Effect [Li Y. et al, preprint arXiv:1305.2464], the dynamics responsible for quasiparticle motion is suppressed, and can eventually be "frozen" in the large frequency limit. A feature of this method is that the density operator of the code does not commute with the measurement operators, so the density matrix will be randomised after a few measurements. However the logical operators commute with the measurement operators and are thus protected.

id: 1309.7773
title: Decoupled Quantum Walks, models of the Klein-Gordon and wave equations
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini
comments: 
journal: EPL 104, 60004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7773
abstract: Decoupling a vectorial PDE consists in solving the system for each component, thereby obtaining scalar PDEs that prescribe the evolution of each component independently. We present a general approach to decoupling of Quantum Walks, again defined as a procedure to obtain an evolution law for each scalar component of the QW, in such a way that it does not depend on the other components. In particular, the method is applied to show the relation between the Dirac (or Weyl) Quantum Walk in three space dimensions with (or without) mass term, and the Klein-Gordon (or wave) equation.

id: 1309.7835
title: Stability of point spectrum for three-state quantum walks on a line
authors: M. Stefanak, I. Bezdekova, I. Jex, S. M. Barnett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7835
abstract: Evolution operators of certain quantum walks possess, apart from the continuous part, also point spectrum. The existence of eigenvalues and the corresponding stationary states lead to partial trapping of the walker in the vicinity of the origin. We analyze the stability of this feature for three-state quantum walks on a line subject to homogenous coin deformations. We find two classes of coin operators that preserve the point spectrum. These new classes of coins are generalizations of coins found previously by different methods and shed light on the rich spectrum of coins that can drive discrete-time quantum walks.

id: 1309.7860
title: Dynamical regimes of dissipative quantum systems
authors: D.M. Kennes, O. Kashuba, V. Meden
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 241110(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7860
abstract: We reveal several distinct regimes of the relaxation dynamics of a small quantum system coupled to an environment within the plane of the dissipation strength and the reservoir temperature. This is achieved by discriminating between coherent dynamics with damped oscillatory behavior on all time scales, partially coherent behavior being nonmonotonic at intermediate times but monotonic at large ones, and purely monotonic incoherent decay. Surprisingly, elevated temperature can render the system `more coherent' by inducing a transition from the partially coherent to the coherent regime. This provides a refined view on the relaxation dynamics of open quantum systems.

id: 1309.7863
title: Single calcium-40 ion as quantum memory for photon polarization: a case study
authors: Philipp M¨¹ller, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: reviewed and published version
journal: Appl. Phys. B (2014) Volume 114, 303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7863
abstract: We present several schemes for heralded storage of polarization states of single photons in single ions, using the calcium-40 ion and photons at 854 nm wavelength as specific example. We compare the efficiencies of the schemes and the requirements for their implementation with respect to the preparation of the initial state of the ion, the absorption process and its analysis. These schemes may be used to create and herald entanglement of two distant ions through entanglement swapping; they are easily adapted to other atomic systems and wavelengths.

id: 1309.7899
title: Comment on "Semiclassical and Quantum Analysis of a Focussing Free Particle Hermite Wavefunction", by Paul Strange (arXiv:1309.6753 [quant-ph])
authors: Andrea Aiello
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7899
abstract: In the recent and very enjoyable paper (Paul Strange, "Semiclassical and Quantum Analysis of a Focussing Free Particle Hermite Wavefunction", arXiv:1309.6753[quant-ph]), Professor Strange has studied a particular solution of the free particle Schroedinger equation in which the time and space dependence are not separable. After recognizing the fact that "The Schroedinger equation has an identical mathematical form to the paraxial wave equation [...]", he claims to "describe and try to gain insight into an exotic, apparently accelerating solution of the free particle Schroedinger equation that is square integrable and which also displays some unusual characteristics." It is the main aim of this short note to show that the wavefunction described by Prof. Strange is simply one particular Hermite-Gauss solution of the paraxial wave equation and even more "exotic" examples can be found by considering, e.g., Laguerre-Gauss solutions.

id: 1309.7915
title: Effects of spontaneous symmetry break in the origin of non-analytic behavior of entanglement at quantum phase transitions
authors: L. Justino, Thiago R. de Oliveira
comments: a brief report, comments welcome. Text improved after referee suggestions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7915
abstract: We present an example where Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking may effect not only the behavior of the entanglement at Quantum Phase Transitions, but also the origin of the non-analyticity. In particular, in the XXZ model, we study the non analyticities in the concurrence between two spins, which was claimed to be accidental, since it had its origin in the optimization involved in the concurrence definition. We show that when one takes in account the effect of the Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking, even tough the values of the entanglement measure does not change, the origin the the non-analytical behavior changes: it is not due to the optimization process anymore and in this sense it is a "natural" non-analyticity. This is a much more subtle influence of the Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking not noticed before. However the non-analytical behavior still suggests a second order quantum phase transition and not the first order that occurs and we explain why. We also show that the value of entanglement between one site and the rest of the chain does change when taking into account the Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking.

id: 1309.7920
title: A cold-atoms based processor for deterministic quantum computation with one qubit in intractably large Hilbert spaces
authors: Chris Mansell, Silvia Bergamini
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7920
abstract: We propose the use of Rydberg interactions and ensembles of cold atoms in mixed state for the implementation of a protocol for deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit (DQC1) that can be readily operated in high dimensional Hilbert spaces. We propose an experimental test for the scalability of the protocol and to study the physics of discord. Furthermore we develop a scheme to add control to non-trivial unitaries that will enable the study of many-body physics with ensembles in mixed states.

id: 1309.7933
title: All-optical quantum information processing using Rydberg gates
authors: D. Paredes-Barato, C. S. Adams
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7933
abstract: In this work we propose a hybrid scheme to implement a photonic controlled-z (CZ) gate using photon storage in highly-excited Rydberg states, which controls the effective photon-photon interaction using resonant microwave fields. Our scheme decouples the light propagation from the interaction and exploits the spatial properties of the dipole blockade phenomenon to realize a CZ gate with minimal loss and mode distortion. Excluding the coupling efficiency, fidelities exceeding 95% are achievable and are found to be mainly limited by motional dephasing and the finite lifetime of the Rydberg levels.

id: 1309.7945
title: Sudden change of quantum discord for a system of two qubits
authors: Jo?o P. G. Pinto, Goktug Karpat, Felipe F. Fanchini
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (Published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 034304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7945
abstract: It is known that quantum discord might experience a sudden transition in its dynamics when calculated for certain Bell-diagonal states (BDS) that are in interaction with their surroundings. We examine this phenomenon known as the sudden change of quantum discord, considering the case of two qubits independently interacting with dephasing reservoirs. We first numerically demonstrate that, for a class of initial states which can be chosen arbitrarily close to BDS, the transition is in fact not sudden, although it might numerically appear so if not studied carefully. Then, we provide an extension of this discussion covering the X-shaped density matrices. Our findings suggest that the transition of quantum discord might be sudden only for an highly idealized zero-measure subset of states within the set of all possible initial conditions of two qubits.

id: 1309.7973
title: Two-way quantum cryptography at different wavelengths
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Carlo Ottaviani, Stefano Pirandola
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7973
abstract: We study the security of two-way quantum cryptography at different wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum, from the optical range down to the microwave range. In particular, we consider a two-way quantum communication protocol where Gaussian-modulated thermal states are subject to random Gaussian displacements and finally homodyned. We show how its security threshold (in reverse reconciliation) is extremely robust with respect to the preparation noise and able to outperform the security thresholds of one-way protocols at any wavelength. As a result, improved security distances are now accessible for implementing quantum key distribution at the very challenging regime of infrared frequencies.

id: 1309.7976
title: Quantum circuits cannot control unknown operations
authors: Mateus Ara¨²jo, Adrien Feix, Fabio Costa, ?aslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Major revision
journal: New J. Phys. 16 093026 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7976
abstract: One of the essential building blocks of classical computer programs is the "if" clause, which executes a subroutine depending on the value of a control variable. Similarly, several quantum algorithms rely on applying a unitary operation conditioned on the state of a control system. Here we show that this control cannot be performed by a quantum circuit if the unitary is completely unknown. However, this no-go theorem does not prevent implementing quantum control of unknown unitaries in practice, as any physical implementation of an unknown unitary provides additional information that makes the control possible. We then argue that one should extend the quantum circuit formalism to capture this possibility in a straightforward way. This is done by allowing unknown unitaries to be applied to subspaces and not only to subsystems.

id: 1309.7992
title: Bound entangled states with extremal properties
authors: Piotr Badziag, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Justin Jenkinson, Stanislaw J. Szarek
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7992
abstract: Following recent work of Beigi and Shor, we investigate PPT states that are "heavily entangled." We first exploit volumetric methods to show that in a randomly chosen direction, there are PPT states whose distance in trace norm from separable states is (asymptotically) at least 1/4. We then provide explicit examples of PPT states which are nearly as far from separable ones as possible. To obtain a distance of 2-{\epsilon} from the separable states, we need a dimension of 2^{poly(\log(1/\epsilon))}, as opposed to 2^{poly(1/\epsilon)} given by the construction of Beigi and Shor. We do so by exploiting the so called {\it private states}, introduced earlier in the context of quantum cryptography. We also provide a lower bound for the distance between private states and PPT states and investigate the distance between pure states and the set of PPT states.

id: 1309.0015
title: Bottom-up superconducting and Josephson junction devices inside a group-IV semiconductor
authors: Yun-Pil Shim, Charles Tahan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; (v2) Fixed math error in estimate of the hole density and critical temperature for one doped atomic layer (all other numbers and figures are unchanged); even a single doped layer may be sufficient to observe superconductivity; (v3) accepted version
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 4225 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0015
abstract: Superconducting circuits are exceptionally flexible, enabling many different devices from sensors to quantum computers. Separately, epitaxial semiconductor devices such as spin qubits in silicon offer more limited device variation but extraordinary quantum properties for a solid-state system. It might be possible to merge the two approaches, making single-crystal superconducting devices out of a semiconductor by utilizing the latest atomistic fabrication techniques. Here we propose superconducting devices made from precision hole-doped regions within a silicon (or germanium) single crystal. We analyze the properties of this superconducting semiconductor and show that practical superconducting wires, Josephson tunnel junctions or weak links, superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), and qubits are feasible. This work motivates the pursuit of "bottom-up" superconductivity for improved or fundamentally different technology and physics.

id: 1309.0130
title: Casimir torque in weak coupling
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, William Long
comments: 11 pages, 8 eps figures, submitted to the Festschrift for Johan Hoye
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0130
abstract: In this paper, dedicated to Johan H{\o}ye on the occasion of his 70th birthday, we examine manifestations of Casimir torque in the weak-coupling approximation, which allows exact calculations so that comparison with the universally applicable, but generally uncontrolled, proximity force approximation may be made. In particular, we examine Casimir energies between planar objects characterized by $\delta$-function potentials, and consider the torque that arises when angles between the objects are changed. The results agree very well with the proximity force approximation when the separation distance between the objects is small compared with their sizes. In the opposite limit, where the size of one object is comparable to the separation distance, the shape dependence starts becoming irrelevant. These calculations are illustrative of what to expect for the torques between, for example, conducting planar objects, which eventually should be amenable to both improved theoretical calculation and experimental verification.

id: 1309.0166
title: Universal Lattice Basis
authors: Jonathan Jerke, C.J. Tymczak
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0166
abstract: We report on the utility of using Shannons Sampling theorem to solve Quantum Mechanical systems. We show that by extending the logic of Shannons interpolation theorem we can define a Universal Lattice Basis, which has superior interpolating properties compared to traditional methods. This basis is orthonormal, semi-local, has a Euclidean norm, and a simple analytic expression for the derivatives. Additionally, we can define a bounded domain for which band-limited functions, such as Gaussians, show quadratic convergence in the representation error in respect to the sampling frequency. This theory also extends to the periodic domain and we illustrate the simple analytic forms of the periodic semi-local basis and derivatives. Additionally, we show that this periodic basis is equivalent to the space defined by the Fast Fourier Transform. This novel basis has great utility in solving quantum mechanical problems for which the wave functions are known to be naturally band-limited. Several numerical examples in single and multi-dimensions are given to show the convergence and equivalence of the periodic and bounded domains for compact states.

id: 1309.0178
title: Symmetric reflection line resonator for semiconductor circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Miao-Lei Zhang, Guang-Wei Deng, Shu-Xiao Li, Hai-Ou Li, Gang Cao, Tao Tu, Ming Xiao, Guang-Can Guo, Hong-Wen Jiang, Irfan Siddiqi, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 083511(2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0178
abstract: We have designed and fabricated a half-wavelength reflection line resonator (RLR) that consists of a pair of two coupled microstrip lines on a GaAs/AlGaAs heterostructure. By changing the top gate voltage on a square of two dimensional electron gas under the resonator, a large range of the quality factors can be obtained. Energy loss in the two-dimensional electron gas can be minimized, thus realizing a versatile resonator suitable for integration with semiconductor quantum circuits.

id: 1309.0206
title: Path-integral approach to the Wigner-Kirkwood expansion
authors: Petr Jizba, Vaclav Zatloukal
comments: 18 pages, RevTeX4, revised version with minor changes, accepted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys.Rev.E89:012135,2014
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0206
abstract: We study the high-temperature behavior of quantum-mechanical path integrals. Starting from the Feynman-Kac formula, we derive a new functional representation of the Wigner-Kirkwood perturbation expansion for quantum Boltzmann densities. As shown by its applications to different potentials, the presented expansion turns out to be quite efficient in generating analytic form of the higher-order expansion coefficients. To put some flesh on the bare bones we apply the expansion to obtain basic thermodynamic functions of the one-dimensional anharmonic oscillator. Further salient issues, such as generalization to the Bloch density matrix and comparison with the more customary world-line formulation are discussed.

id: 1309.0214
title: Gravitation, Equivalence Principle, and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, in german
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0214
abstract: Gravitation, according to General Relativity, is an attribute of space-time's geometry and hence not a force in the Newtonian sense. This is a consequence of Einstein's equivalence principle, which so far passed all experimental tests with high precision. However, the search for possible violations continues, for they, as the case may be, are expected to point towards more fundamental theoretical extensions of General Relativity. In particular, it is expected that useful insights are gained by studying the interaction between gravitational fields and genuine quantum-mechanical systems, like atoms or molecules. But this raises some fundamental issues, for General Relativity and Quantum Theory rest on partially incompatible sets of concepts. This article tries to explain in an elementary fashion how these issues recently entered modern research in atom interferometry. A shorter and editorially adapted version of this paper will appear in "Spektrum der Wissenschaft" -- the German edition of "Scientific American".

id: 1309.0219
title: Polarons, Dressed Molecules, and Itinerant Ferromagnetism in ultracold Fermi gases
authors: Pietro Massignan, Matteo Zaccanti, Georg M. Bruun
comments: Review paper; published version, 48 pages and 23 figures
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 77 (2014) 034401
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0219
abstract: In this review, we discuss the properties of a few impurity atoms immersed in a gas of ultracold fermions, the so-called Fermi polaron problem. On one side, this many-body system is appealing because it can be described almost exactly with simple diagrammatic and/or variational theoretical approaches. On the other, it provides quantitatively reliable insight into the phase diagram of strongly interacting population imbalanced quantum mixtures. In particular, we show that the polaron problem can be applied to study itinerant ferromagnetism, a long standing problem in quantum mechanics.

id: 1309.0231
title: On limitation of mass spectrum in non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric models with the $¦Ã_5$-dependent mass term
authors: V.N.Rodionov
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1303.7053
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0231
abstract: The modified Dirac equations for the massive particles with the replacement of the physical mass $m$ with the help of the relation $m\rightarrow m_1 + \gamma_5 m_2$ are investigated. It is shown that for a free fermion theory with a $\gamma_5$ mass term, the finiteness of the mass spectrum at the value $ m_{max}= {m_1}^2/2m_2$ takes place. In this case the region of the unbroken $\cal PT$-symmetry may be expressed by means of the simple restriction of the physical mass $m\leq m_{max}$. Furthermore, we have that the areas of unbroken $\cal PT$-symmetry $m_1\geq m_2\geq 0$, which guarantees the reality values of the physical mass $m$, consists of three different parametric subregions: i) $0\leq m_2 < m_1/\sqrt{2}$, \,\,ii) $m_2=m_1/\sqrt{2}=m_{max},$ \,\,(iii)$m_1/\sqrt{2}< m_2 \leq m_1$. It is vary important, that only the first subregion (i) defined mass values $m_1,m_2,$ which correspond to the description of traditional particles in the modified models, because this area contain the possibility transform the modified model to the ordinary Dirac theory. The second condition (ii) is defined the "maximon" - the particle with maximal mass $m=m_{max}$. In the case (iii) we have to do with the unusual or "exotic" particles for description of which Hamiltonians and equations of motion have no a Hermitian limit. The formulated criterions may be used as a major test in the process of the division of considered models into ordinary and "exotic fermion theories".

id: 1309.0333
title: Notes on Evanescent Wave Bragg-Reflection Waveguides
authors: Benedikt Pressl, Gregor Weihs
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0333
abstract: We investigate an extended version of the Bragg reflection waveguide (BRW) with air gaps as one of the layers. This design has the potential of drastically simplifying the epitaxial structure for integrated nonlinear optical elements at the expense of more complicated structuring. This approach would afford much more flexibility for designing and varying BRW structures. Here, we discuss an extension of the established theory for BRW slabs and report our results of applying Marcatili's method for rectangular waveguides to the BRW case. With this analytic approach we can estimate the effective index of the modes orders of magnitudes faster than with full numerical techniques such as finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) or finite elements. Initial results are mixed; while phase-matched designs have been found, they currently have no significant advantage over other schemes.

id: 1309.0427
title: Molecular properties by Quantum Monte Carlo: an investigation on the role of the wave function ansatz and the basis set in the water molecule
authors: Andrea Zen, Ye Luo, Sandro Sorella, Leonardo Guidoni
comments: Reprinted (adapted) with permission from J. Chem. Theory Comput., DOI: 10.1021/ct400382m. Copyright (2013) American Chemical Society
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9 (10), 4332-4350 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0427
abstract: Quantum Monte Carlo methods are accurate and promising many body techniques for electronic structure calculations which, in the last years, are encountering a growing interest thanks to their favorable scaling with the system size and their efficient parallelization, particularly suited for the modern high performance computing facilities. The ansatz of the wave function and its variational flexibility are crucial points for both the accurate description of molecular properties and the capabilities of the method to tackle large systems. In this paper, we extensively analyze, using different variational ansatzes, several properties of the water molecule, namely: the total energy, the dipole and quadrupole momenta, the ionization and atomization energies, the equilibrium configuration, and the harmonic and fundamental frequencies of vibration. The investigation mainly focuses on variational Monte Carlo calculations, although several lattice regularized diffusion Monte Carlo calculations are also reported. Through a systematic study, we provide a useful guide to the choice of the wave function, the pseudo potential, and the basis set for QMC calculations. We also introduce a new strategy for the definition of the atomic orbitals involved in the Jastrow - Antisymmetrised Geminal power wave function, in order to drastically reduce the number of variational parameters. This scheme significantly improves the efficiency of QMC energy minimization in case of large basis sets.

id: 1309.0440
title: The nuclear energy density functional formalism
authors: T. Duguet
comments: 64 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Euroschool Lecture Notes in Physics Vol.IV, Christoph Scheidenberger and Marek Pfutzner editors
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0440
abstract: The present document focuses on the theoretical foundations of the nuclear energy density functional (EDF) method. As such, it does not aim at reviewing the status of the field, at covering all possible ramifications of the approach or at presenting recent achievements and applications. The objective is to provide a modern account of the nuclear EDF formalism that is at variance with traditional presentations that rely, at one point or another, on a {\it Hamiltonian-based} picture. The latter is not general enough to encompass what the nuclear EDF method represents as of today. Specifically, the traditional Hamiltonian-based picture does not allow one to grasp the difficulties associated with the fact that currently available parametrizations of the energy kernel $E[g',g]$ at play in the method do not derive from a genuine Hamilton operator, would the latter be effective. The method is formulated from the outset through the most general multi-reference, i.e. beyond mean-field, implementation such that the single-reference, i.e. "mean-field", derives as a particular case. As such, a key point of the presentation provided here is to demonstrate that the multi-reference EDF method can indeed be formulated in a {\it mathematically} meaningful fashion even if $E[g',g]$ does {\it not} derive from a genuine Hamilton operator. In particular, the restoration of symmetries can be entirely formulated without making {\it any} reference to a projected state, i.e. within a genuine EDF framework. However, and as is illustrated in the present document, a mathematically meaningful formulation does not guarantee that the formalism is sound from a {\it physical} standpoint. The price at which the latter can be enforced as well in the future is eventually alluded to.

id: 1309.0445
title: One Atomic Beam as a Detector of Classical Harmonic Vibrations with Micro Amplitudes and Low Frequencies
authors: Yong-Yi Huang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1303.5686. substantial text overlap with arXiv:1303.5686
journal: J. Korea. Phys. Soc. 64, 775 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0445
abstract: We propose a simplest detector of harmonic vibrations with micro amplitudes and low frequencies, i.e. the detector consisting of one atomic beam. Here the atomic beam is induced by a plane harmonic wave and has a classical collective harmonic vibrations, which vibrant directions are perpendicular to the wave vectors of atomic beam. Compared with the detector consisting of atomic Mach-Zehnder interferometer, the new detector has two advantages: (1) it is suitable for the detection of the harmonic vibrations induced either by a longitudinal plane harmonic wave or by a transverse plane harmonic wave; (2) the quantum noise fluctuation of the atomic beam is exactly zero.

id: 1309.0470
title: Origin of long-lived oscillations in 2D-spectra of a Quantum Vibronic Model: Electronic vs Vibrational coherence
authors: M.B. Plenio, J. Almeida, S.F. Huelga
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 235102 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0470
abstract: We demonstrate that the coupling of excitonic and vibrational motion in biological complexes can provide mechanisms to explain the long-lived oscillations that have been obtained in non linear spectroscopic signals of different photosynthetic pigment protein complexes and we discuss the contributions of excitonic versus purely vibrational components to these oscillatory features. Considering a dimer model coupled to a structured spectral density we exemplify the fundamental aspects of the electron-phonon dynamics, and by analyzing separately the different contributions to the non linear signal, we show that for realistic parameter regimes purely electronic coherence is of the same order as purely vibrational coherence in the electronic ground state. Moreover, we demonstrate how the latter relies upon the excitonic interaction to manifest. These results link recently proposed microscopic, non-equilibrium mechanisms to support long lived coherence at ambient temperatures with actual experimental observations of oscillatory behaviour using 2D photon echo techniques to corroborate the fundamental importance of the interplay of electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in the dynamics of light harvesting aggregates.

id: 1309.0514
title: String order in dipole-blockaded quantum liquids
authors: Hendrik Weimer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: New. J. Phys. 16, 093040 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0514
abstract: We study the quantum melting of quasi-one-dimensional lattice models in which the dominant energy scale is given by a repulsive dipolar interaction. By constructing an effective low-energy theory, we show that the melting of crystalline phases can occur into two distinct liquid phases, having the same algebraic decay of density-density correlations, but showing a different non-local correlation function expressing string order. We present possible experimental realizations using ultracold atoms and molecules, introducing an implementation based on resonantly driven Rydberg atoms that offers additional benefits compared to a weak admixture of the Rydberg state.

id: 1309.0626
title: Genuine Multipartite Entanglement in the $XY$ Model
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052305 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0626
abstract: We analyze the $XY$ model characterized by an anisotropy $\gamma$ in an external magnetic field $h$ with respect to its genuine multipartite entanglement content (in the thermodynamic and finite size case). Despite its simplicity we show that the quantity -detecting genuine multipartite entanglement through permutation operators and being a lower bound on measures- witnesses the presence of genuine multipartite entanglement for nearly all values of $\gamma$ and $h$. We further show that the phase transition and scaling properties are fully characterized by this multipartite quantity. Consequently, we provide a useful toolbox for other condensed matter systems, where bipartite entanglement measures are known to fail.

id: 1309.0678
title: Pseudo-fermions in an electronic loss-gain circuit
authors: Fabio Bagarello, Giuseppe Pantano
comments: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, in press
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0678
abstract: In some recent papers a loss-gain electronic circuit has been introduced and analyzed within the context of PT-quantum mechanics. In this paper we show that this circuit can be analyzed using the formalism of the so-called pseudo-fermions. In particular we discuss the time behavior of the circuit, and we construct two biorthogonal bases associated to the Liouville matrix $\Lc$ used in the treatment of the dynamics. We relate these bases to $\Lc$ and $\Lc^\dagger$, and we also show that a self-adjoint Liouville-like operator could be introduced in the game. Finally, we describe the time evolution of the circuit in an {\em Heisenberg-like} representation, driven by a non self-adjoint hamiltonian.

id: 1309.0724
title: A Pedestrian Approach to the Measurement Problem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Stephen Boughn, Marcel Reginatto
comments: 
journal: European Physics Journal H (2013)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0724
abstract: The quantum theory of measurement has been a matter of debate for over eighty years. Most of the discussion has focused on theoretical issues with the consequence that operational prescriptions, which are integral to experimental physics, have been largely ignored. This has undoubtedly exacerbated attempts to find a solution to the "measurement problem". In this paper, we fully embrace the ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics that obviates the need to entertain reduction of the state vector, one of the primary dilemmas of the measurement problem. The other major aspect of the measurement problem, the necessity of describing measurements in terms of classical concepts, remains. However, we argue that the ultimate interface with experiments is described by operational prescriptions and not in terms of the concepts of classical theory. The pedestrian approach presented here suggests that the measurement problem is, in some sense, ill-posed and might never be resolved. This state of affairs is, in part, the result of searching for a theoretical answer to what is fundamentally an experimental question. This point of view is tenable so long as one is willing to view physical theories as providing models of nature rather than complete descriptions of reality. Among other things, these considerations lead us to suggest that the Copenhagen interpretation's insistence on the classicality of the measurement apparatus should be replaced by the requirement that a measurement, which is specified operationally, should simply be of sufficient precision.

id: 1309.0749
title: Exact Stochastic Unraveling of an Optical Coherence Dynamics by Cumulant Expansion
authors: Jan Olsina, Tobias Kramer, Christoph Kreisbeck, Tomas Mancal
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 164109 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0749
abstract: A numerically exact Monte Carlo scheme for calculation of open quantum system dynamics is proposed and implemented. The method consists of a Monte-Carlo summation of a perturbation expansion in terms of trajectories in Liouville phase-space with respect to the coupling between the excited states of the molecule. The trajectories are weighted by a complex decoherence factor based on the second-order cumulant expansion of the environmental evolution. The method can be used with an arbitrary environment characterized by a general correlation function and arbitrary coupling strength. It is formally exact for harmonic environments, and it can be used with arbitrary temperature. Time evolution of an optically excited Frenkel exciton dimer representing a molecular exciton interacting with a charge transfer state is calculated by the proposed method. We calculate the evolution of the optical coherence elements of the density matrix and linear absorption spectrum, and compare them with the predictions of standard simulation methods.

id: 1309.0964
title: Quantum ratchet driven by broadband perturbation
authors: D.V. Makarov, L.E. Kon'kov
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 3093-3097
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0964
abstract: Motion of an atomic ensemble trapped into a deep optical lattice is considered. We propose a novel approach to construct an atomic ratchet by superimposing two additional lattices whose amplitudes are small and subjected to broadband modulation. The broadband modulation is modeled by means of harmonic noise. Directed atomic transport occurs with the properly chosen phase shift between the signals modulating the amplitudes of the additional lattices. It is shown that efficiency of the ratchet depends non-monotonously on the parameter determining the spectral width of modulating signals.

id: 1309.1137
title: An Optical Lattice Clock with Accuracy and Stability at the $10^{-18}$ Level
authors: B. J. Bloom, T. L. Nicholson, J. R. Williams, S. L. Campbell, M. Bishof, X. Zhang, W. Zhang, S. L. Bromley, J. Ye
comments: Nature, in press
journal: Nature 506, 71 - 75 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1137
abstract: The exquisite control exhibited over quantum states of individual particles has revolutionized the field of precision measurement, as exemplified by the most accurate atomic clock realized in single trapped ions. Whereas many-atom lattice clocks have shown advantages in measurement precision over trapped-ion clocks, their accuracy has remained 20 times worse. Here we demonstrate, for the first time, that a many-atom system achieves accuracy (6x10^{-18}) better than a single ion-based clock, with vastly reduced averaging times (3000 s). This is the first time a single clock has achieved the best performance in all three key ingredients necessary for consideration as a primary standard - stability, reproducibility, and accuracy. This work paves the way for future experiments to integrate many-body quantum state engineering into the frontiers of quantum metrology, creating exciting opportunities to advance precision beyond the standard quantum limit. Improved frequency standards will have impact to a wide range of fields from the realization of the SI units, the development of quantum sensors, to precision tests of the fundamental laws of nature.

id: 1309.1181
title: Highly efficient coupling from an optical fiber to a nanoscale silicon optomechanical cavity
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Jeff T. Hill, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jasper Chan, Oskar Painter
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 181104 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1181
abstract: We demonstrate highly efficient coupling of light from an optical fiber to a silicon photonic crystal optomechanical cavity. The fiber-to-cavity coupling utilizes a compact (L ~ 25 um) intermediate adiabatic coupler. The optical coupling is lithographically controlled, broadband, relatively insensitive to fiber misalignment, and allows for light to be transferred from an optical fiber to, in principle, any photonic chip with refractive index greater than that of the optical fiber. Here we demonstrate single-sided cavity coupling with a total fiber-to-cavity optical power coupling efficiency of 85%.

id: 1309.1363
title: Thermostatistics of ¦Ì-deformed analog of Bose gas model
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, I.I. Kachurik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 6 pages (two-column style), 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1363
abstract: For the recently introduced \mu-deformed analog of Bose gas model (\mu-Bose gas model) we study some thermodynamical aspects. Namely, we calculate total number of particles and, from it, the deformed partition function, both involving dependence on the deformation parameter \mu. Such dependence of thermodynamic functions on the \mu-parameter is at the core of modification of Bose gas model and arises through the use of new techniques given by us, the \mu-calculus, an alternative to the well-known q-calculus (Jackson derivative and integral). Necessary elements of \mu-calculus are first presented. Then, for high temperatures we obtain virial expansion of the equation of state and find five first virial coefficients, as functions of \mu. At the other end, for low temperatures the critical temperature of condensation T_c^(\mu) depending on \mu is found and compared with the usual T_c, and with the T_c^(p,q) of earlier studied p,q-Bose gas model. The internal energy, specific heat and the entropy of \mu-Bose gas are also given, both for high and low temperatures. Features peculiar for the \mu-Bose gas model are emphasized.

id: 1309.1419
title: Clarification on the Mapping of Reversible Circuits to the NCV-v1 Library
authors: Zahra Sasanian, Robert Wille, D. Michael Miller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1419
abstract: In previous work and motivated by a theoretical discussion on physical realizations, a new quantum gate library (the NCV-v1 library) for electronic design automation of quantum circuits has been proposed. Here, qudits instead of qubits are assumed, i.e. a basic building block which does not rely on a two level quantum system but a (multiple-valued) d-level quantum system is assumed. However, the descriptions on the foundation of this new library remained brief. This technical report provides an extended description of the applied ideas and concepts.

id: 1309.1441
title: Quantum Joule-Thomson Effect in a Saturated Homogeneous Bose Gas
authors: Tobias F. Schmidutz, Igor Gotlibovych, Alexander L. Gaunt, Robert P. Smith, Nir Navon, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4.2 pages, 4 figures, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1441
abstract: We study the thermodynamics of Bose-Einstein condensation in a weakly interacting quasi-homogeneous atomic gas, prepared in an optical-box trap. We characterise the critical point for condensation and observe saturation of the thermal component in a partially condensed cloud, in agreement with Einstein's textbook picture of a purely statistical phase transition. Finally, we observe the quantum Joule-Thomson effect, namely isoenthalpic cooling of an (essentially) ideal gas. In our experiments this cooling occurs spontaneously, due to energy-independent collisions with the background gas in the vacuum chamber. We extract a Joule-Thomson coefficient $\mu_{\rm JT} > 10^9$ K/bar, about ten orders of magnitude larger than observed in classical gases.

id: 1309.1523
title: Relativistic symmetry in deformed nuclei by similarity renormalization group
authors: Jian-You Guo, Shou-Wan Chen, Zhong-Ming Niu, Dong-Peng Li, Quan Liu
comments: Some suggestions and comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1523
abstract: The similarity renormalization group is used to transform a general Dirac Hamiltonian into diagonal form. The diagonal Dirac operator consists of the nonrelativistic term, the spin-orbit term, the dynamical term, and the relativistic modification of kinetic energy, which are very useful to explore the symmetries hidden in the Dirac Hamiltonian for any deformed system. As an example, the relativistic symmetries in an axially deformed nucleus are investigated by comparing the contributions of every term to the single particle energies and their correlations with the deformation. The result shows that the deformation considerably influences the spin-orbit interaction and dynamical effect, which play a critical role in the relativistic symmetries and its breaking.

id: 1309.1655
title: On the proof of the dipole approximation
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Robert Grummt, Martin Kolb
comments: 7 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1655
abstract: The dipole approximation is widely used to study the interaction of atoms and Lasers. Employing it essentially means to replace the Laser's vector potential A(r,t) in the Hamiltonian by A(0,t). Heuristically this is justified under usual experimental conditions, because the Laser varies only slowly on atomic length scales. We make this heuristics rigorous by proving the dipole approximation in the limit in which the Laser's length scale becomes infinite compared to the atomic length scale. Our results apply to N-body Hamiltonians.

id: 1309.1656
title: Matrix-valued Quantum Lattice Boltzmann Method
authors: Christian B. Mendl
comments: 18 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 26, 1550113 (2015)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1656
abstract: We devise a lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) for a matrix-valued quantum Boltzmann equation, with the classical Maxwell distribution replaced by Fermi-Dirac functions. To accommodate the spin density matrix, the distribution functions become 2 x 2 matrix-valued. From an analytic perspective, the efficient, commonly used BGK approximation of the collision operator is valid in the present setting. The numerical scheme could leverage the principles of LBM for simulating complex spin systems, with applications to spintronics.

id: 1309.1673
title: Dynamical phase transitions, time-integrated observables and geometry of states
authors: James M. Hickey, Sam Genway, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 054301 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1673
abstract: We show that there exist dynamical phase transitions (DPTs), as defined in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 135704 (2013)], in the transverse-field Ising model (TFIM) away from the static quantum critical points. We study a class of special states associated with singularities in the generating functions of time-integrated observables found in [Phys. Rev. B 88 184303 (2013)]. Studying the dynamics of these special states under the evolution of the TFIM Hamiltonian, we find temporal non-analtyicities in the initial-state return probability associated with dynamical phase transitions. By calculating the Berry phase and Chern number we show the set of special states have interesting geometric features similar to those associated with static quantum critical points.

id: 1309.1705
title: Time-dependent renormalized natural orbital theory applied to the two-electron spin-singlet case: ground state, linear response, and autoionization
authors: M. Brics, D. Bauer
comments: REVTeX, 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052514 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1705
abstract: Favorably scaling numerical time-dependent many-electron techniques such as time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) with adiabatic exchange-correlation potentials typically fail in capturing highly correlated electron dynamics. We propose a method based on natural orbitals, i.e., the eigenfunctions of the one-body reduced density matrix, that is almost as inexpensive numerically as adiabatic TDDFT, but which is capable of describing correlated phenomena such as doubly excited states, autoionization, Fano profiles in the photoelectron spectra, and strong-field ionization in general. Equations of motion (EOM) for natural orbitals and their occupation numbers have been derived earlier. We show that by using renormalized natural orbitals (RNO) both can be combined into one equation governed by a hermitian effective Hamiltonian. We specialize on the two-electron spin-singlet system, known as being a "worst case" testing ground for TDDFT, and employ the widely used, numerically exactly solvable, one-dimensional helium model atom (in a laser field) to benchmark our approach. The solution of the full, nonlinear EOM for the RNO is plagued by instabilities, and resorting to linear response is not an option for the ultimate goal to study nonperturbative dynamics in intense laser fields. We therefore make two rather bold approximations: we employ the initial-state-"frozen" effective RNO Hamiltonian for the time-propagation and truncate the number of RNO to only two per spin. Surprisingly, it turns out that even with these strong approximations we obtain a highly accurate ground state, reproduce doubly-excited states, and autoionization.

id: 1309.1708
title: Photoexcitation of graphene with twisted light
authors: M. B. Far¨ªas, G. F. Quinteiro, P. I. Tamborenea
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B vol. 86, 432 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1708
abstract: We study theoretically the interaction of twisted light with graphene. The light-matter interaction matrix elements between the tight-binding states of electrons in graphene are determined near the Dirac points. We examine the dynamics of the photoexcitation process by posing the equations of motion of the density matrix and working up to second order in the field. The time evolution of the angular momentum of the photoexcited electrons and their associated photocurrents are examined in order to elucidate the mechanisms of angular momentum transfer. We find that the transfer of spin and orbital angular momentum from light to the electrons is more akin here to the case of intraband than of interband transitions in semiconductors, due to the fact that the two relevant energy bands of graphene originate from the same atomic orbitals.

id: 1309.1713
title: Compact atomic gravimeter based on a pulsed and accelerated optical lattice
authors: Manuel Andia, Raphael Jannin, Fran?ois Nez, Fran?ois Biraben, Sa?da Guellati-Kh¨¦lifa, Pierre Clad¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1713
abstract: We present a new scheme of compact atomic gravimeter based on atom interferometry. Atoms are maintained against gravity using a sequence of coherent accelerations performed by the Bloch oscillations technique. We demonstrate a sensitivity of 4.8$\times 10^{-8}$ with an integration time of 4 min. Combining this method with an atomic elevator allows to measure the local gravity at different positions in the vacuum chamber. This method can be of relevance to improve the measurement of the Newtonian gravitational constant $G$.

id: 1309.1730
title: Benefits of Objective Collapse Models for Cosmology and Quantum Gravity
authors: Elias Okon, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: 32 pages
journal: Found Phys (2014) 44:114
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1730
abstract: We display a number of advantages of objective collapse theories for the resolution of long-standing problems in cosmology and quantum gravity. In particular, we examine applications of objective reduction models to three important issues: the origin of the seeds of cosmic structure, the problem of time in quantum gravity and the information loss paradox; we show how reduction models contain the necessary tools to provide solutions for these issues. We wrap up with an adventurous proposal, which relates the spontaneous collapse events of objective collapse models to microscopic virtual black holes.

id: 1309.1749
title: Nodal theorems for the Dirac equation in d >= 1 dimensions
authors: Richard L. Hall, Petr Zorin
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 526, 79 - 86 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1749
abstract: A single particle obeys the Dirac equation in $d \ge 1$ spatial dimensions and is bound by an attractive central monotone potential that vanishes at infinity. In one dimension, the potential is even, and monotone for $x\ge 0.$ The asymptotic behavior of the wave functions near the origin and at infinity are discussed. Nodal theorems are proven for the cases $d=1$ and $d > 1$, which specify the relationship between the numbers of nodes $n_1$ and $n_2$ in the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor. For $d=1$, $n_2 = n_1 + 1,$ whereas for $d >1,$ $n_2 = n_1 +1$ if $k_d > 0,$ and $n_2 = n_1$ if $k_d < 0,$ where $k_d = \tau(j + \frac{d-2}{2}),$ and $\tau = \pm 1.$ This work generalizes the classic results of Rose and Newton in 1951 for the case $d=3.$ Specific examples are presented with graphs, including Dirac spinor orbits $(\psi_1(r), \psi_2(r)), r \ge 0.$

id: 1309.1816
title: Fermion in a multi-kink-antikink soliton background, and exotic supersymmetry
authors: Adrian Arancibia, Juan Mateos Guilarte, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures; acknowledgement added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 085034 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1816
abstract: We construct a fermion system in a multi-kink-antikink soliton background, and present in an explicit form all its trapped configurations (bound state solutions) as well as scattering states. This is achieved by exploiting an exotic N=4 centrally extended nonlinear supersymmetry of completely isospectral pairs of reflectionless Schrodinger systems with potentials to be n-soliton solutions for the Korteweg-de Vries equation. The obtained reflectionless Dirac system with a position-dependent mass is shown to possess its own exotic nonlinear supersymmetry associated with the matrix Lax-Novikov operator being a Darboux-dressed momentum. In the process, we get an algebraic recursive representation for the multi-kink-antikink backgrounds, and establish their relation to the the modified Korteweg-de Vries equation. We also indicate how the results can be related to the physics of self-consistent condensates based on the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations.

id: 1309.1927
title: Universality and scaling in the $N$-body sector of Efimov physics
authors: M. Gattobigio, A. Kievsky
comments: Added the derivation of the three-body shift Added calculations with Poschl-Teller potential Added the analysis of Li7 trimer-binding energy experimental data [PRL 108, 210406 (2012)]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1927
abstract: Universal behaviour has been found inside the window of Efimov physics for systems with $N=4,5,6$ particles. Efimov physics refers to the emergence of a number of three-body states in systems of identical bosons interacting {\it via} a short-range interaction becoming infinite at the verge of binding two particles. These Efimov states display a discrete scale invariance symmetry, with the scaling factor independent of the microscopic interaction. Their energies in the limit of zero-range interaction can be parametrized, as a function of the scattering length, by a universal function. We have found, using a particular form of finite-range scaling, that the same universal function can be used to parametrize the energies of $N\le6$ systems inside the Efimov-physics window. Moreover, we show that the same finite-scale analysis reconciles experimental measurements of three-body binding energies with the universal theory.

id: 1309.1996
title: The High-Energy Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Stefano Forte
comments: 13 pages, no figures; two typos corrected
journal: Euresis Journal, Vol. 6, Autumn 2013
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1996
abstract: We address the issue of the interpretation of quantum mechanics by asking why the issue never arises in the description of high-energy interactions. We argue that several tenets of quantum mechanics, specifically the collapse of the wave function, follow directly once one accepts the essential randomness of fundamental interaction events. We then show that scale separation of fundamental interactions ensures that decoherent measurement can be unambiguously separated from the random quantum events. Finally, we argue that the fundamental symmetries of space and time guarantee the existence of a unique preferred basis. We argue that this set of ideas might lead to an interpretation of quantum mechanics, or rather, show in which sense an "interpretation" is (or is not) necessary.

id: 1309.2059
title: Quantum Field Theory Analysis of Polarizations Correlations, Entanglement and Bell's Inequality: Explicit Processes
authors: N. Yongram, E. B. Manoukian
comments: 16 pages
journal: Fortschritte der Physik 61,668-684,2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2059
abstract: This paper provides explicit and detailed quantum field theory (QFT) computations of polarizations correlations of emerging particles in several processes in QED, Electroweak Theory, and even in particle productions from strings, and hence are based on dynamical theries. The novel properties observed in the computations of such polarizations correlations, as predicted by QFT, is that they depend on the speed of the colliding particles, and, in some cases, even on coupling parameters ratios as well as on mass ratios of the underlying theory. These investigations clearly show that arguments based simply on combining spins to generate probabilities of such polarization correlations are not reliable. The novel properties obtained, with details of derivations provided here, hopefully would call for experiments on polarizations correlations which would monitor speeds of colliding particles, and, would, in turn, lead to new tests of the fundamental interactions of QFT such as of QED and of the Electroweak Theory.

id: 1309.2110
title: On Thermal Vacuum Radiation of Nanoparticles and Their Ensembles
authors: G. V. Dedkov, A. A. Kyasov
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: Physica B: Physics of Condensed Matter 433C (2014), pp. 67-71
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2110
abstract: Radiant emittance of dimers and ensembles of particles consisting of gold, graphite and silica glass nanoparticles in vacuum is studied numerically based on the fluctuation-electromagnetic theory. The presence of neighboring particles of the same temperature causes an oscillating character of radiant emittance (per one particle) depending on the particle size, interparticle distance and temperature. We conclude that an ensemble of particles could be a much more intense source of thermal radiation than an equivalent solid body with the same outer surface area. Alternatively, when the neighboring particles create a significant screening effect (silica), an ensemble of particles could be a very good heat protector.

id: 1309.2189
title: On R¨¦nyi entropies of disjoint intervals in conformal field theory
authors: Andrea Coser, Luca Tagliacozzo, Erik Tonni
comments: 66 pages, 34 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P01008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2189
abstract: We study the R\'enyi entropies of N disjoint intervals in the conformal field theories given by the free compactified boson and the Ising model. They are computed as the 2N point function of twist fields, by employing the partition function of the model on a particular class of Riemann surfaces. The results are written in terms of Riemann theta functions. The prediction for the free boson in the decompactification regime is checked against exact results for the harmonic chain. For the Ising model, matrix product states computations agree with the conformal field theory result once the finite size corrections have been taken into account.

id: 1309.2202
title: Thermal Correction to the Molar Polarizability of a Boltzmann Gas
authors: U. D. Jentschura, M. Puchalski, P. J. Mohr
comments: 4 pages; RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.A 84 (2011) 064102
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2202
abstract: Metrology in atomic physics has been crucial for a number of advanced determinations of fundamental constants. In addition to very precise frequency measurements, the molar polarizability of an atomic gas has recently also been measured very accurately. Part of the motivation for the measurements is due to ongoing efforts to redefine the International System of Units (SI) for which an accurate value of the Boltzmann constant is needed. Here, we calculate the dominant shift of the molar polarizability in an atomic gas due to thermal effects. It is given by the relativistic correction to the dipole interaction, which emerges when the probing electric field is Lorenz transformed into the rest frame of the atoms that undergo thermal motion. While this effect is small when compared to currently available experimental accuracy, the relativistic correction to the dipole interaction is much larger than the thermal shift of the polarizability induced by blackbody radiation.

id: 1309.2255
title: Tree tensor networks and entanglement spectra
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Frank Verstraete, Robert M. Konik
comments: 16 pages, 16 figures (20 PDF figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195102 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2255
abstract: A tree tensor network variational method is proposed to simulate quantum many-body systems with global symmetries where the optimization is reduced to individual charge configurations. A computational scheme is presented, how to extract the entanglement spectra in a bipartite splitting of a loopless tensor network across multiple links of the network, by constructing a matrix product operator for the reduced density operator and simulating its eigenstates. The entanglement spectra of 2 x L, 3 x L and 4 x L with either open or periodic boundary conditions on the rungs are studied using the presented methods, where it is found that the entanglement spectrum depends not only on the subsystem but also on the boundaries between the subsystems.

id: 1309.2257
title: Probing the circulation of ring-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Noel Murray, Michael Krygier, Mark Edwards, K. C. Wright, G. K. Campbell, Charles W. Clark
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2257
abstract: This paper reports the results of a theoretical and experimental study of how the initial circulation of ring-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) can be probed by time-of-flight (TOF) images. We have studied theoretically the dynamics of a BEC after release from a toroidal trap potential by solving the 3D Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation. The trap and condensate characteristics matched those of a recent experiment. The circulation, experimentally imparted to the condensate by stirring, was simulated theoretically by imprinting a linear azimuthal phase on the initial condensate wave function. The theoretical TOF images were in good agreement with the experimental data. We find that upon release the dynamics of the ring--shaped condensate proceeds in two distinct phases. First, the condensate expands rapidly inward, filling in the initial hole until it reaches a minimum radius that depends on the initial circulation. In the second phase, the density at the inner radius increases to a maximum after which the hole radius begins slowly to expand. During this second phase a series of concentric rings appears due to the interference of ingoing and outgoing matter waves from the inner radius. The results of the GP equation predict that the hole area is a quadratic function of the initial circulation when the condensate is released directly from the trap in which it was stirred and is a linear function of the circulation if the trap is relaxed before release. These scalings matched the data. Thus, hole size after TOF can be used as a reliable probe of initial condensate circulation. This connection between circulation and hole size after TOF will facilitate future studies of atomtronic systems that are implemented in ultracold quantum gases.

id: 1309.2276
title: A hybrid stochastic hierarchy equations of motion approach to treat the low temperature dynamics of non-Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Jeremy M. Moix, Jianshu Cao
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 134106 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2276
abstract: The hierarchical equations of motion technique has found widespread success as a tool to generate the numerically exact dynamics of non-Markovian open quantum systems. However, its application to low temperature environments remains a serious challenge due to the need for a deep hierarchy that arises from the Matsubara expansion of the bath correlation function. Here we present a hybrid stochastic hierarchical equation of motion (sHEOM) approach that alleviates this bottleneck and leads to a numerical cost that is nearly independent of temperature. Additionally, the sHEOM method generally converges with fewer hierarchy tiers allowing for the treatment of larger systems. Benchmark calculations are presented on the dynamics of two level systems at both high and low temperatures to demonstrate the efficacy of the approach. Then the hybrid method is used to generate the exact dynamics of systems that are nearly impossible to treat by the standard hierarchy. First, exact energy transfer rates are calculated across a broad range of temperatures revealing the deviations from the Forster rates. This is followed by computations of the entanglement dynamics in a system of two qubits at low temperature spanning the weak to strong system-bath coupling regimes.

id: 1309.2491
title: Shortcut to adiabaticity in internal bosonic Josephson junctions
authors: A. Yuste, B. Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, E. Torrontegui, J. Martorell, J. G. Muga, A. Polls
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043647 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2491
abstract: We extend a recent method to shortcut the adiabatic following to internal bosonic Josephson junctions in which the control parameter is the linear coupling between the modes. The approach is based on the mapping between the two-site Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian and a 1D effective Schr\"odinger-like equation, valid in the large $N$ (number of particles) limit. Our method can be readily implemented in current internal bosonic Josephson junctions and it improves substantially the production of spin-squeezing with respect to usually employed linear rampings.

id: 1309.2550
title: On reduction of the wave-packet, decoherence, irreversibility and the second law of thermodynamics
authors: H. Narnhofer, W. F. Wreszinski
comments: 64 pages, final version to appear in Physics Reports, corrects several typos, as well as reference 32 which was incorrect in the previous version
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2550
abstract: We prove a quantum version of the second law of thermodynamics: the (quantum) Boltzmann entropy increases if the initial (zero time) density matrix decoheres, a condition generally satisfied in Nature. It is illustrated by a model of wave-packet reduction, the Coleman-Hepp model, along the framework introduced by Sewell in his approach to the quantum measurement problem. Further models illustrate the monotonic-versus-non-monotonic behavior of the quantum Boltzmann entropy in time. As a last closely related topic, decoherence, which was shown by Narnhofer and Thirring to enforce macroscopic purity in the case of quantum K systems, is analysed within a different class of quantum chaotic systems, viz. the quantum Anosov models as defined by Emch, Narnhofer, Sewell and Thirring. A review of the concept of quantum Boltzmann entropy, as well as of some of the rigorous approaches to the quantum measurement problem within the framework of Schr\"{o}dinger dynamics, is given, together with an overview of the C* algebra approach, which encompasses the relevant notions and definitions in a comprehensive way.

id: 1309.2619
title: Amplification and attenuation of a probe signal by doubly-dressed states
authors: S.N. Shevchenko, G. Oelsner, Ya.S. Greenberg, P. Macha, D.S. Karpov, M. Grajcar, U. Hubner, A.N. Omelyanchouk, E. Il'ichev
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 184504 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2619
abstract: We analyse a system composed of a qubit coupled to electromagnetic fields of two high quality quantum oscillators. Particular realization of such a system is the superconducting qubit coupled to a transmission-line resonator driven by two signals with frequencies close to the resonator's harmonics. One strong signal is used for exciting the system to a high energetic state while the second weak signal is applied for probing effective eigenstates of the system. We demonstrate that a description of the system dynamics as doubly dressed qubit is applicable. Experiments show that in the case of high quality resonators the energy levels and the resonance conditions can be probed even for high driving amplitudes. The interaction of the qubit with photons of two harmonics has prospects to be used as a quantum amplifier or an attenuator.

id: 1309.2646
title: AdS/CFT as classical to quantum correspondence in a Virtual Extra Dimension
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 6 pages. 36th International Conference on High Energy Physics - ICHEP 2012, Melbourne, Australia. Minor corrections. Comments welcome
journal: PoS(ICHEP2012)478
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2646
abstract: The correspondence between classical extra dimensional geometry and quantum behavior, typical of the AdS/CFT, has a heuristic semiclassical interpretation in terms of undulatory mechanics and relativistic geometrodynamics. We note, in fact, that the quantum recurrence of ordinary particles enters into the equations of motions in formal duality with the extra dimensional dynamics of a Kaluza-Klein theory. The kinematics of the particle in a generic interaction scheme can be described as modulations of the spacetime recurrences and encoded in corresponding geometrodynamics. The quantization can be obtained semiclassically by means of boundary conditions, so that the interference of the classical paths with different windings numbers associated to the resulting recurrences turns out to be described by the ordinary Feynman Path Integral. This description applied to the Quark-Gluon-Plasma freeze-out yields basic aspects of AdS/QCD phenomenology.

id: 1309.2651
title: Single-photon nonlinear optics with graphene plasmons
authors: M. Gullans, D. E. Chang, F. H. L. Koppens, F. J. Garc¨ªa de Abajo, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4+ pages, 3 Figures, V2: minor changes, added supplemental
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 247401 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2651
abstract: We show that it is possible to realize significant nonlinear optical interactions at the few photon level in graphene nanostructures. Our approach takes advantage of the electric field enhancement associated with the strong confinement of graphene plasmons and the large intrinsic nonlinearity of graphene. Such a system could provide a powerful platform for quantum nonlinear optical control of light. As an example, we consider an integrated optical device that exploits this large nonlinearity to realize a single photon switch.

id: 1309.2654
title: Construction of Basis Vectors For Symmetric Irreducible Representations of O(5) supset O(3)
authors: Feng Pan, Lina Bao, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Jerry P. Draayer
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2654
abstract: A recursive method for construction of symmetric irreducible representations of O(2l+1) in the O(2l + 1) supset O(3) basis for identical boson systems is proposed. The formalism is realized based on the group chain U(2l + 1) supset U(2l- 1) x U(2), of which the symmetric irreducible representations are simply reducible. The basis vectors of the O(2l+1) supset O(2l-1) x U(1) can easily be constructed from those of U(2l + 1) supset U(2l-1) x U(2) supset O(2l-1) x U(1) with no boson pairs, from which one can construct symmetric irreducible representations of O(2l+1) in the O(2l-1) x U(1) basis when all symmetric irreducible representations of O(2l-1) are known. As a starting point, basis vectors of symmetric irreducible representations of O(5) are constructed in the O1(3) x U(1) basis. Matrix representations of O(5) supset O1(3) x U(1), together with the elementary Wigner coe?cients, are presented. After the angular momentum projection, a three-term relation in determining the expansion coe?cients of the O(5) supset O(3) basis vectors in terms of those of the O1(3) x U(1) is derived. The eigenvectors of the projection matrix with zero eigenvalues constructed according to the three-term relation completely determine the basis vectors of O(5) supset O(3). Formulae for evaluating the elementary Wigner coe?cients of O(5) supset O(3) are derived explicitly. Analytical expressions of some elementary Wigner coe?cients of O(5) supset O(3) for the coupling (tau, 0) x (1,0) with resultant angular momentum quantum number L = 2 tau+ 2 - k for k = 0, 2, 3,...,6 with a multiplicity 2 case for k = 6 are presented.

id: 1309.2659
title: Strongly anisotropic Dirac quasiparticles in irradiated graphene
authors: S.V. Syzranov, Ya.I. Rodionov, K.I. Kugel, F. Nori
comments: 5 pages + 2 pages of Supplemental Material, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 241112(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2659
abstract: We study quasiparticle dynamics in graphene exposed to a linearly-polarized electromagnetic wave of very large intensity. Low-energy transport in such system can be described by an effective time-independent Hamiltonian, characterized by multiple Dirac points in the first Brillouin zone. Around each Dirac point the spectrum is anisotropic: the velocity along the polarization of the radiation significantly exceeds the velocity in the perpendicular direction. Moreover, in some of the points the transverse velocity oscillates as a function of the radiation intensity. We find that the conductance of a graphene p-n junction in the regime of strong irradiation depends on the polarization as $G(\theta)\propto|\sin\theta|^{3/2}$, where $\theta$ is the angle between the polarization and the p-n interface, and oscillates as a function of the radiation intensity.

id: 1309.2669
title: Statistics of the work distribution for a quenched Fermi gas
authors: A. Sindona, N. Lo Gullo, J. Goold, F. Plastina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2669
abstract: The local quench of a Fermi gas, giving rise to the Fermi edge singularity and the Anderson orthogonality catastrophe, is a rare example of an analytically tractable out of equilibrium problem in condensed matter. It describes the universal physics which occurs when a localized scattering potential is suddenly introduced in a Fermi sea leading to a brutal disturbance of the quantum state. It has recently been proposed that the effect could be efficiently simulated in a controlled manner using the tunability of ultra-cold atoms. In this work, we analyze the quench problem in a gas of trapped ultra-cold fermions from a thermodynamic perspective using the full statistics of the so called work distribution. The statistics of work are shown to provide an accurate insight into the fundamental physics of the process.

id: 1309.2680
title: Self-Correcting Quantum Memories Beyond the Percolation Threshold
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Grant H. Watson, Roger G. Melko
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070501 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2680
abstract: We analyze several high dimensional generalizations of the toric code at nonzero temperature. We find that in large enough dimension, there can be a distinct separation between the critical temperature $T_c$, given by thermodynamic singularities, and the percolation temperature $T_p$, given by the percolation of defects. We argue that the regime $T_p<T<T_c$ is a range of temperatures where a self-correcting quantum memory can operate despite having percolating defects. We present analytic arguments and numerical evidence in support of this scenario, including a mean-field treatment and Monte Carlo simulations. Near $T_c$, simulations observe a large hysteretic behavior, which may have applications by allowing the self-correcting phase to survive in a "superheated" regime.

id: 1309.2714
title: Umklapp Superradiance from a Collisionless Quantum Degenerate Fermi Gas
authors: Francesco Piazza, Philipp Strack
comments: Revised version, as accepted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 143003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2714
abstract: The quantum dynamics of the electromagnetic light mode of an optical cavity filled with a coherently driven Fermi gas of ultracold atoms strongly depends on geometry of the Fermi surface. Superradiant light generation and self-organization of the atoms can be achieved at low pumping threshold due to resonant atom-photon Umklapp processes, where the fermions are scattered from one side of the Fermi surface to the other by exchanging photon momenta. The cavity spectrum exhibits sidebands, that, despite strong atom-light coupling and cavity decay, retain narrow linewidth, due to absorptionless transparency windows outside the atomic particle-hole continuum and the suppression of inhomogeneous broadening and thermal fluctuations in the collisionless Fermi gas.

id: 1309.2782
title: Groupoids and the tomographic picture of quantum mechanics
authors: A. Ibort, V.I. Manko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, C. Stornaiolo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2782
abstract: The existing relation between the tomographic description of quantum states and the convolution algebra of certain discrete groupoids represented on Hilbert spaces will be discussed. The realizations of groupoid algebras based on qudit, photon-number (Fock) states and symplectic tomography quantizers and dequantizers will be constructed. Conditions for identifying the convolution product of groupoid functions and the star--product arising from a quantization--dequantization scheme will be given. A tomographic approach to construct quasi--distributions out of suitable immersions of groupoids into Hilbert spaces will be formulated and, finally, intertwining kernels for such generalized symplectic tomograms will be evaluated explicitly.

id: 1309.2851
title: Squeezing a thermal mechanical oscillator by stabilized parametric effect on the optical spring
authors: A. Pontin, M. Bonaldi, A. Borrielli, F. S. Cataliotti, F. Marino, G. A. Prodi, E. Serra, F. Marin
comments: 12 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2851
abstract: We report the confinement of an optomechanical micro-oscillator in a squeezed thermal state, obtained by parametric modulation of the optical spring. We propose and implement an experimental scheme based on parametric feedback control of the oscillator, which stabilizes the amplified quadrature while leaving the orthogonal one unaffected. This technique allows us to surpass the -3dB limit in the noise reduction, associated to parametric resonance, with a best experimental result of -7.4dB. In a moderately cooled system, our technique can be efficiently exploited to produce strong squeezing of a macroscopic mechanical oscillator below the zero-point motion.

id: 1309.2902
title: Towards Quantum Information Processing at the Attosecond Timescale
authors: I. K. Kominis, G. Kolliopoulos, D. Charalambidis, P. Tzallas
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063827 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2902
abstract: Coherent processing of quantum information and attosecond science had so far little in common. We here show that recent data in high harmonic emission reveal quantum information processing at the attosecond timescale. By observing the interference pattern created by the spatiotemporal overlap of photons emitted by two interfering electron paths we generate a photon Hadamard gate and thus erase the electron-trajectory information. This allows the measurement of the relative phase in electron-trajectory quantum superpositions and establishes the era of electron-photon quantum coherence and entanglement at the attosecond timescale of high-field physics.

id: 1309.2962
title: Cumulants associated with geometric phases
authors: Bal¨¢zs Het¨¦nyi, Mohammad Yahyavi
comments: text + 1 figure
journal: EPL 105 40005 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.2962
abstract: The Berry phase can be obtained by taking the continuous limit of a cyclic product $-\mbox{Im} \ln \prod_{I=0}^{M-1} \langle \Psi_0({\boldsymbol \xi}_I)|\Psi_0({\boldsymbol \xi}_{I+1})\rangle$, resulting in the circuit integral $i \oint \mbox{d}{\boldsymbol \xi} \cdot \langle \Psi_0({\boldsymbol \xi})|\nabla_{\boldsymbol \xi}|\Psi_0({\boldsymbol \xi}\rangle$. Considering a parametrized curve ${\boldsymbol \xi}(\chi)$ we show that the product $\prod_{I=0}^{M-1} \langle \Psi_0(\chi_I)|\Psi_0( \chi_{I+1})\rangle$ can be equated to a cumulant expansion. The first contributing term of this expansion is the Berry phase itself, the other terms are the associated spread, skew, kurtosis, etc. The cumulants are shown to be gauge invariant. It is also shown that these quantities can be expressed in terms of an operator.

id: 1309.3007
title: On the Relationship Between Dual Photography and Classical Ghost Imaging
authors: Pradeep Sen
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Graphics (cs.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3007
abstract: Classical ghost imaging has received considerable attention in recent years because of its remarkable ability to image a scene without direct observation by a light-detecting imaging device. In this article, we show that this imaging process is actually a realization of a paradigm known as dual photography, which has been shown to produce full-color dual (ghost) images of 3D objects with complex materials without using a traditional imaging device. Specifically, we demonstrate mathematically that the cross-correlation based methods used to recover ghost images are equivalent to the light transport measurement process of dual photography. Because of this, we are able to provide a new explanation for ghost imaging using only classical optics by leveraging the principle of reciprocity in classical electromagnetics. This observation also shows how to leverage previous work on light transport acquisition and dual photography to improve ghost imaging systems in the future.

id: 1309.3043
title: Thermal Density Functional Theory in Context
authors: Aurora Pribram-Jones, Stefano Pittalis, E.K.U. Gross, Kieron Burke
comments: Submitted to Spring Verlag as chapter in "Computational Challenges in Warm Dense Matter", F. Graziani et al. eds
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3043
abstract: This chapter introduces thermal density functional theory, starting from the ground-state theory and assuming a background in quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics. We review the foundations of density functional theory (DFT) by illustrating some of its key reformulations. The basics of DFT for thermal ensembles are explained in this context, as are tools useful for analysis and development of approximations. We close by discussing some key ideas relating thermal DFT and the ground state. This review emphasizes thermal DFT's strengths as a consistent and general framework.

id: 1309.3121
title: Feedback-enhanced parametric squeezing of mechanical motion
authors: Andrea Vinante, Paolo Falferi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3121
abstract: We present a single-quadrature feedback scheme able to overcome the conventional 3 dB limit on parametric squeezing. The method is experimentally demonstrated in a micromechanical system based on a cantilever with a magnetic tip. The cantilever is detected at low temperature by a SQUID susceptometer, while parametric pumping is obtained by modulating the magnetic field gradient at twice the cantilever frequency. A maximum squeezing of 11.5 dB and 11.3 dB is observed, respectively in the response to a sinusoidal test signal and in the thermomechanical noise. The maximum squeezing factor is limited only by the maximum achievable parametric modulation. The proposed technique can be used to squeeze one quadrature of a mechanical resonator below the quantum noise level, even without the need for a quantum limited detector.

id: 1309.3144
title: Path integral action of a particle in a magnetic field in the noncommutative plane and the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Frederik G Scholtz
comments: 12 pages Latex, References added, To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 075301
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3144
abstract: The formulation of noncommutative quantum mechanics as a quantum system represented in the space of Hilbert-Schmidt operators is used to systematically derive, using the standard time slicing procedure, the path integral action for a particle moving in the noncommutative plane and in the presence of a magnetic field and an arbitrary potential. Using this action, the equation of motion and the ground state energy for the partcle are obtained explicitly. The Aharonov-Bohm phase is derived using a variety of methods and several dualities between this system and other commutative and noncommutative systems are demonstrated. Finally, the equivalence of the path integral formulation with the noncommutative Schr\"{o}dinger equation is also established.

id: 1309.3163
title: Nonlinearity enhanced interfacial thermal conductance and rectification
authors: Lifa Zhang, Juzar Thingna, Dahai He, Jian-Sheng Wang, Baowen Li
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, accepted by EPL on Sep 11, 2013
journal: 2013 EPL 103 64002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3163
abstract: We study the nonlinear interfacial thermal transport across atomic junctions by the quantum self-consistent mean field (QSCMF) theory based on nonequilibrium Green's function approach; the QSCMF theory we propose is very precise and matches well with the exact results from quantum master equations. The nonlinearity at the interface is studied by effective temperature dependent interfacial coupling calculated from the QSCMF theory. We find that nonlinearity can provide an extra channel for phonon transport in addition to the phonon scattering which usually blocks heat transfer. For weak linearly coupled interface, the nonlinearity can enhance the interfacial thermal transport; with increasing nonlinearity or temperature, the thermal conductance shows nonmonotonical behavior. The interfacial nonlinearity also induces thermal rectification, which depends on the mismatch of the two leads and also the interfacial linear coupling.

id: 1309.3358
title: The birth of a quasiparticle in Si observed in time-frequency space
authors: Muneaki Hase, Masahiro Kitajima, Anca Monia Constantinescu, Hrvoje Petek
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature 426, pp.51-54 (2003)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3358
abstract: The concept of quasiparticles in solid-state physics is an extremely powerful way to describe complex many-body phenomena in terms of single particle excitations. Introducing a simple particle such as electron, e, hole, h, or a phonon, p, deforms a many-body system through interaction with other particles. We say the added particle is dressed or renormalized by a self-energy cloud that describes the response of the many-body system forming a new entity, the quasiparticle. With ultrafast laser techniques we can impulsively generate bare particles and observe their dressing by the many-body interactions, that is quasiparticle formation, on the time and energy scales governed by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Here we present the coherent response of Si to excitation with a 10 femtosecond (10-14 s) laser pulse. The optical pulse interacts with the sample via the complex second-order nonlinear susceptibility to generate a force on the lattice driving coherent phonon excitation. Transforming the transient reflectivity signal into frequency-time space by wavelet transform reveals interference effects leading to the coherent phonon generation and subsequent dressing of the phonon by electron-hole, e-h, pair excitations.

id: 1309.3414
title: Entangled phonons in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Stefano Finazzi, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 4 pages of supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033607 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3414
abstract: We theoretically study the entanglement between phonons spontaneously generated in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates by analog Hawking and dynamical Casimir processes. The quantum evolution of the system is numerically modeled by a truncated Wigner method based on a full microscopic description of the condensate and state non-separability is assessed by applying a generalized Peres-Horodecki criterion. The peculiar distribution of entanglement is described in both real and momentum spaces and its robustness against increasing initial temperature is investigated. Viable strategies to experimentally detect the predicted phonon entanglement are briefly discussed.

id: 1309.3438
title: Effective Hamiltonian for doubly excited Helium states based on four dimensional Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Torsten Victor Zache, Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3438
abstract: Effective Hamiltonians for doubly excited Heliums states based on approximate O(4) symmetry are revised. New quantum numbers for a 4D Harmonic Oscillator are assigned to Helium states with both electrons in the n=2 shell. An effective Hamiltonian operator is constructed and optimzed by means of non-linear least-square fits to the energy levels of the Helium isoelectronic series. The results are interpreted in terms of electron correlation and a possible unified description of two-electron atom intrashell states.

id: 1309.3499
title: Unified $(p,q; ¦Á,¦Ã, l)$-deformation of oscillator algebra and two-dimensional conformal field theory
authors: I.M.Burban
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3499
abstract: The unified $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-deformation of a number of well-known deformed oscillator algebras is introduced.The deformation is constructed by imputing new free parameters into the structure functions and by generalizing the defining relations of these algebras. The generalized Jordan-Schwinger and Holstein-Primakoff realizations of the $U_{pq}^{\alpha \gamma l}(su(2))$ algebra by the generalized $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-deformed operators are found. The generalized $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-deformation of the two-dimensional conformal field theory is established. By introducing the $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-operator product expansion (OPE) between the energy momentum tensor and primary fields, we obtain the $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-deformed centerless Virasoro algebra. The two-point correlation function of the primary generalized $ (p,q; \alpha,\gamma, l)$-deformed fields is calculated.

id: 1309.3521
title: Cultural Evolution Entails (Creativity Entails (Concept Combination Entails Quantum Structure))
authors: Liane Gabora
comments: 
journal: Gabora, L. (2007). Proceedings of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Spring Symposium 8: Quantum Interaction, March 26-28, Stanford University, pp. 106-113
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3521
abstract: The theory of natural selection cannot describe how early life evolved, in part because acquired characteristics are passed on through horizontal exchange. It has been proposed that culture, like life, began with the emergence of autopoietic form, thus its evolution too cannot be described by natural selection. The evolution of autopoietic form can be described using a framework referred to as Context-driven Actualization of Potential (CAP), which grew out of a generalization of the formalisms of quantum mechanics, and encompasses nondeterministic as well as deterministic change of state. The autopoietic structure that evolves through culture is the mind, or more accurately the conceptual network that yields an individual's internal model of the world. A branch of CAP research referred to as the state-context-property (SCOP) formalism provides a mathematical framework for reconciling the stability of conceptual structure with its susceptibility to context-driven change. The combination of two or more concepts (an extreme case of contextual influence), as occurs in insight, is modeled as a state of entanglement. Theoretical and empirical findings are presented that challenge assumptions underlying virtually all of cognitive science, such as the notion of spreading activation and the assumption that cognitive processes can be described with a Kolmogorovian probability model.

id: 1309.3740
title: A Relation Between $Z_3$-Graded Symmetry and Shape Invariant Supersymmetric Systems
authors: V.K. Oikonomou
comments: Presentation changed, several clarifications, updated reference list
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3740
abstract: We study an important property of shape invariant supersymmetric quantum mechanical systems. Particularly, we demonstrate that each shape invariant supersymmetric system can constitute a $Z_3$-graded topological symmetric algebra. The latter is known to provide topological invariants which are generalizations of the Witten index. In addition, we relate the $Z_3$-graded algebra to the generators of the SO(2,1) Lie algebra underlying each shape invariant system. We generalize the results to the case of sequential shape invariant systems, in which case we find a sequence of $Z_3$-graded algebras. Finally, we briefly discuss two systems that are related to shape invariance, but have different algebraic origin, namely supersymmetric systems with central charge equipped with an additional symmetry and $Z_3$-graded algebraic systems. In view of the fact that the shape invariance condition is somewhat an additional algebraic condition, with no origin to some concrete algebraic structure, our results might be useful towards this line of research.

id: 1309.3775
title: Beyond the quantum formalism: consequences of a neural-oscillator model to quantum cognition
authors: J. Acacio de Barros
comments: 4 pages; to appear in the Advances in Cognitive Neurodynamics, Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Cognitive Neurodynamics - 2013
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3775
abstract: In this paper we present a neural oscillator model of stimulus response theory that exhibits quantum-like behavior. We then show that without adding any additional assumptions, a quantum model constructed to fit observable pairwise correlations has no predictive power over the unknown triple moment, obtainable through the activation of multiple oscillators. We compare this with the results obtained in de Barros (2013), where a criteria of rationality gives optimal ranges for the triple moment.

id: 1309.3890
title: Single-site-resolved measurement of the current statistics in optical lattices
authors: Stefan Kessler, Florian Marquardt
comments: 5+2 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 061601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3890
abstract: At present, great effort is spent on the experimental realization of gauge fields for quantum many-body systems in optical lattices. At the same time, the single-site-resolved detection of individual atoms has become a new powerful experimental tool. We discuss a protocol for the single-site resolved measurement of the current statistics of quantum many-body systems, which makes use of a bichromatic optical superlattice and single-site detection. We illustrate the protocol by a numerical study of the current statistics for interacting bosons in one and two dimensions and discuss the role of the on-site interactions for the current pattern and the ground-state symmetry for small two-dimensional lattices with artificial magnetic fields.

id: 1309.3931
title: Statistical measures and the Klein tunneling in single-layer graphene
authors: Jaime Sanudo, Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3931
abstract: Statistical complexity and Fisher-Shannon information are calculated in a problem of quantum scattering, namely the Klein tunneling across a potential barrier in graphene. The treatment of electron wave functions as masless Dirac fermions allows us to compute these statistical measures. The comparison of these magnitudes with the transmission coefficient through the barrier is performed. We show that these statistical measures take their minimum values in the situations of total transparency through the barrier, a phenomenon highly anisotropic for the Klein tunneling in graphene.

id: 1309.3972
title: Synchronization in a semiclassical Kuramoto model
authors: Ignacio Hermoso de Mendoza, Leonardo A. Pach¨®n, Jes¨²s G¨®mez-Garde?es, David Zueco
comments: Published version. Notice the change in the title
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 052904 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3972
abstract: Synchronization is a ubiquitous phenomenon occurring in social, biological, and technological systems when the internal rhythms of their constituents are adapted to be in unison as a result of their coupling. This natural tendency towards dynamical consensus has spurred a large body of theoretical and experimental research in recent decades. The Kuramoto model constitutes the most studied and paradigmatic framework in which to study synchronization. In particular, it shows how synchronization appears as a phase transition from a dynamically disordered state at some critical value for the coupling strength between the interacting units. The critical properties of the synchronization transition of this model have been widely studied and many variants of its formulations have been considered to address different physical realizations. However, the Kuramoto model has been studied only within the domain of classical dynamics, thus neglecting its applications for the study of quantum synchronization phenomena. Based on a system-bath approach and within the Feynman path-integral formalism, we derive equations for the Kuramoto model by taking into account the first quantum fluctuations. We also analyze its critical properties, the main result being the derivation of the value for the synchronization onset. This critical coupling increases its value as quantumness increases, as a consequence of the possibility of tunneling that quantum fluctuations provide.

id: 1309.3974
title: Competition of spin and charge excitations in the Hubbard model
authors: Bruno Sciolla, Akiyuki Tokuno, Shun Uchino, Peter Barmettler, Thierry Giamarchi, Corinna Kollath
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063629 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3974
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments with ultracold fermionic atoms in optical lattices, we study finite temperature magnetic correlations, as singlet and triplet correlations, and the double occupancy in the one-dimensional Hubbard model. We point out that for intermediate interaction strengths the double occupancy has an intriguing doubly non-monotonic temperature dependence due to the competition between spin and charge modes, related to the Pomeranchuk effect. Furthermore, we determine properties of magnetic correlations in the temperature regimes relevant for current cold atom experiments and discuss effects of the trap on spatially integrated observables. We estimate the entropy and the temperature reached in the experiment by Greif et al., Science 340, 1307 (2013).

id: 1309.4040
title: Demonstration of spectral correlation control in a source of polarization entangled photon pairs at telecom wavelength
authors: Thomas Lutz, Piotr Kolenderski, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 6, pp. 1481-1484 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4040
abstract: Spectrally correlated photon pairs can be used to improve performance of long range fiber based quantum communication protocols. We present a source based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion producing polarization entangled photons without spectral filtering. In addition, the spectral correlation within the photon pair can be controlled by changing the pump pulse duration or coupled spatial modes characteristics. The spectral and polarization correlations were characterized. The generated photon pairs feature both positive spectral correlations, no correlations, or negative correlations and polarization entanglement with the fidelity as high as 0.97 (no background subtraction) with the expected Bell state.

id: 1309.4076
title: An eight-fold optical quasicrystal with cold atoms
authors: Anuradha Jagannathan, Michel Duneau
comments: Revised second version with new figures. To appear in EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4076
abstract: We propose a means to realize two-dimensional quasiperiodic structures by trapping atoms in an optical potential. The structures have eight-fold symmetry and are closely related to the well-known quasiperiodic octagonal (Ammann-Beenker) tiling. We describe the geometrical properties of the structures obtained by tuning parameters of the system. We discuss some features of the corresponding tight-binding models, and experiments to probe quantum properties of this optical quasicrystal.

id: 1309.4084
title: Unified meta-theory of information, consciousness, time and the classical-quantum universe
authors: Martin A. Green
comments: 27 pages, editorial improvements
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4084
abstract: As time advances in our perceived real world, existing information is preserved and new information is added to history. All the information that may ever be encoded in history must be about some fundamental, unique, atemporal and pre-physical structure: the bare world. Scientists invent model worlds to efficiently explain aspects of the real world. This paper explores the features of and relationships between the bare, real, and model worlds. Time -- past, present and future -- is naturally explained. Both quantum uncertainty and state reduction are needed for time to progress, since unpredictable new information must be added to history. Deterministic evolution preserves existing information. Finite, but steadily increasing, information about the bare world is jointly encoded in equally uncertain spacetime geometry and quantum matter. Because geometry holds no information independent of matter, there is no need to quantize gravity. At the origin of time, information goes to zero and geometry and matter fade away.

id: 1309.4097
title: Seeing Hofstadter's Butterfly in Atomic Fermi Gases
authors: Lei Wang, Matthias Troyer
comments: 5+epsilon pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 011603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4097
abstract: We propose a novel way to detect the fractal energy spectrum of the Hofstadter model from the density distributions of ultracold fermions in an external trap. At low temperature, the local compressibility is proportional to the density of states of the system which reveals the fractal energy spectrum. However, thermal broadening and noises in the real experimental situation inevitably smear out fine features in the density distribution. To overcome this difficulty, we use the maximum entropy method to extract the density of states directly from the noisy thermal density distributions. Simulations show that one is able to restore the core feature of the Hofstadter's butterfly spectrum with current experimental techniques. By further reducing the noise or the temperature, one can refine the resolution and observe fine structures of the butterfly spectrum.

id: 1309.4106
title: Non-Abelian Fractional Chern Insulators from Long-Range Interactions
authors: Zhao Liu, Emil J. Bergholtz, Eliot Kapit
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. As published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 205101 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4106
abstract: The recent theoretical discovery of fractional Chern insulators (FCIs) has provided an important new way to realize topologically ordered states in lattice models. In earlier works, on-site and nearest neighbor Hubbard-like interactions have been used extensively to stabilize Abelian FCIs in systems with nearly flat, topologically nontrivial bands. However, attempts to use two-body interactions to stabilize non-Abelian FCIs, where the ground state in the presence of impurities can be massively degenerate and manipulated through anyon braiding, have proven very difficult in uniform lattice systems. Here, we study the remarkable effect of long-range interactions in a lattice model that possesses an exactly flat lowest band with a unit Chern number. When spinless bosons with two-body long-range interactions partially fill the lowest Chern band, we find convincing evidence of gapped, bosonic Read-Rezayi (RR) phases with non-Abelian anyon statistics. We characterize these states through studying topological degeneracies, the overlap between the ground states of two-body interactions and the exact RR ground states of three- and four-body interactions, and state counting in the particle-cut entanglement spectrum. Moreover, we demonstrate how an approximate lattice form of Haldane's pseudopotentials, analogous to that in the continuum, can be used as an efficient guiding principle in the search for lattice models with stable non-Abelian phases.

id: 1309.4139
title: Transient quantum fluctuation theorems and generalized measurements
authors: B. Prasanna Venkatesh, Gentaro Watanabe, Peter Talkner
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, Additional details provided in included appendices
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 015032
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4139
abstract: The transient quantum fluctuation theorems of Crooks and Jarzynski restrict and relate the statistics of work performed in forward and backward forcing protocols. So far these theorems have been obtained under the assumption that the work is determined by projective measurements at the end and the beginning of each run of the protocols. We found that one can replace these projective measurements only by special error-free generalized energy measurements with pairs of tailored, protocol-dependent post-measurement states that satisfy detailed balance-like relations. For other generalized measurements, the Crooks relation is typically not satisfied. For the validity of the Jarzynski equality, it is sufficient that the measurements are error-free and the post-measurement states form a complete orthonormal set of elements in the Hilbert space of the considered system. We illustrate our results by the example of a two-level system for different generalized measurements.

id: 1309.4169
title: Canonical formalism and quantization of a massless spinning bosonic particle in four dimensions
authors: Shinichi Deguchi, Shouma Negishi, Satoshi Okano, Takafumi Suzuki
comments: 23 pages, minor changes; published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 29 (2014) 1450044
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4169
abstract: A twistor model of a free massless spinning particle in 4-dimensional Minkowski space is studied in terms of spacetime and spinor variables. This model is specified by a simple action, referred to here as the gauged Shirafuji action, that consists of twistor variables and gauge fields on the 1-dimensional parameter space. We consider the canonical formalism of the model by following the Dirac formulation for constrained Hamiltonian systems. In the subsequent quantization procedure, we obtain a plane-wave solution with momentum spinors. From this solution and coefficient functions, we construct positive-frequency and negative-frequency spinor wave functions defined on complexified Minkowski space. It is shown that the Fourier-Laplace transforms of the coefficient functions lead to the spinor wave functions expressed as the Penrose transforms of the corresponding holomorphic functions on twistor space. We also consider the exponential generating function for the spinor wave functions and derive a novel representation for each of the spinor wave functions.

id: 1309.4235
title: The angular momentum controversy: What's it all about and does it matter?
authors: E. Leader, C. Lorce
comments: 96 pages, 11 figures, 5 tables, review prepared for Physics Reports
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4235
abstract: The general question, crucial to an understanding of the internal structure of the nucleon, of how to split the total angular momentum of a photon or gluon into spin and orbital contributions is one of the most important and interesting challenges faced by gauge theories like Quantum Electrodynamics and Quantum Chromodynamics. This is particularly challenging since all QED textbooks state that such an splitting cannot be done for a photon (and a fortiori for a gluon) in a gauge-invariant way, yet experimentalists around the world are engaged in measuring what they believe is the gluon spin! This question has been a subject of intense debate and controversy, ever since, in 2008, it was claimed that such a gauge-invariant split was, in fact, possible. We explain in what sense this claim is true and how it turns out that one of the main problems is that such a decomposition is not unique and therefore raises the question of what is the most natural or physical choice. The essential requirement of measurability does not solve the ambiguities and leads us to the conclusion that the choice of a particular decomposition is essentially a matter of taste and convenience. In this review, we provide a pedagogical introduction to the question of angular momentum decomposition in a gauge theory, present the main relevant decompositions and discuss in detail several aspects of the controversies regarding the question of gauge invariance, frame dependence, uniqueness and measurability. We stress the physical implications of the recent developments and collect into a separate section all the sum rules and relations which we think experimentally relevant. We hope that such a review will make the matter amenable to a broader community and will help to clarify the present situation.

id: 1309.4388
title: Entanglement of scales as a possible mechanism for decoherence and thermalization in relativistic heavy ion collisions
authors: S.V. Akkelin, Yu.M. Sinyukov
comments: 20 pages, minor corrections, to be published in Phys. Rev. C
journal: Phys.Rev.C89:034910,2014
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4388
abstract: Despite the fact that a system created in relativistic heavy ion collisions is an isolated quantum system, which cannot increase its entropy in the course of unitary quantum evolution, hydrodynamical analysis of experimental data seems to indicate that the matter formed in the collisions is thermalized very quickly. Based on common consideration of hydrodynamics as an effective theory in the domain of slow- and long-length modes, we discuss the physical mechanisms responsible for the decoherence and emergence of the hydrodynamic behavior in such collisions, and demonstrate how such physical mechanisms work in the case of the scalar field model. We obtain the evolution equation for the Wigner function of a long-wavelength subsystem that describes its decoherence, isotropization, and approach to thermal equilibrium induced by interaction with short-wavelength modes. Our analysis supports the idea that decoherence, quantum-to-classical transition and thermalization in isolated quantum systems are attributed to the experimental context, and are related to a particular procedure of decomposition of the whole quantum system into relevant and irrelevant from an observational viewpoint subsystems.

id: 1309.4401
title: Electrostatic Interaction due to Patch Potentials on Smooth Conducting Surfaces
authors: C.D. Fosco, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli
comments: Minor changes, version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4401
abstract: We evaluate the electrostatic interaction energy between two surfaces, one flat and the other slightly curved, in terms of the two-point autocorrelation functions for patch potentials on each one of them, and of a single function $\psi$ which defines the curved surface. The resulting interaction energy, a functional of $\psi$, is evaluated up to the second order in a derivative expansion approach. We derive explicit formulae for the coefficients of that expansion as simple integrals involving the autocorrelation functions, and evaluate them for some relevant patch-potential profiles and geometries

id: 1309.4488
title: Impact of cavity spectrum on span in microresonator frequency combs
authors: Ivan S. Grudinin, Lukas Baumgartel, Nan Yu
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4488
abstract: We experimentally study the factors that limit the span in frequency combs derived from the crystalline whispering gallery mode resonators. We observe that cavity dispersion is the key property that governs the parameters of the combs resulting from cascaded four wave mixing process. Two different regimes of comb generation are observed depending on the precise cavity dispersion behavior at the pump wavelength. In addition, the comb generation efficiency is found to be affected by the crossing of modes of different families. The influence of Raman lasing is discussed.

id: 1309.4596
title: Edge theories in Projected Entangled Pair State models
authors: S. Yang, L. Lehman, D. Poilblanc, K. Van Acoleyen, F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac, N. Schuch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 036402 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4596
abstract: We study the edge physics of gapped quantum systems in the framework of Projected Entangled Pair State (PEPS) models. We show that the effective low-energy model for any region acts on the entanglement degrees of freedom at the boundary, corresponding to physical excitations located at the edge. This allows us to determine the edge Hamiltonian in the vicinity of PEPS models, and we demonstrate that by choosing the appropriate bulk perturbation, the edge Hamiltonian can exhibit a rich phase diagram and phase transitions. While for models in the trivial phase any Hamiltonian can be realized at the edge, we show that for topological models, the edge Hamiltonian is constrained by the topological order in the bulk which can e.g. protect a ferromagnetic Ising chain at the edge against spontaneous symmetry breaking.

id: 1309.4635
title: Defining quantumness via the Jordan product
authors: Paolo Facchi, Leonardo Ferro, Giuseppe Marmo, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 
journal: 2014 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 035301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4635
abstract: We propose alternative definitions of classical states and quantumness witnesses by focusing on the algebra of observables of the system. A central role will be assumed by the anticommutator of the observables, namely the Jordan product. This approach turns out to be suitable for generalizations to infinite dimensional systems. We then show that the whole algebra of observables can be generated by three elements by repeated application of the Jordan product.

id: 1309.4727
title: Dissipation, interaction and relative entropy
authors: B. Gaveau, L. Granger, M. Moreau, L. S. Schulman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4727
abstract: Many thermodynamic relations involve inequalities, with equality if a process does not involve dissipation. In this article we provide equalities in which the dissipative contribution is shown to involve the relative entropy (a.k.a. Kullback-Leibler divergence). The processes considered are general time evolutions both in classical and quantum mechanics, and the initial state is sometimes thermal, sometimes partially so. As an application, the relative entropy is related to transport coefficients.

id: 1309.4765
title: Momentum transfers in correlation-assisted tunnelling
authors: Emilio Pisanty, Misha Ivanov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043416 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4765
abstract: We consider correlation-assisted tunnel ionization of a small molecule by an intense low-frequency laser pulse. In this mechanism, the departing electron excites the state of the ion via a Coulomb interaction. We show that the angular distribution for this process has significant qualitative differences compared to direct tunnelling of an electron from a deeper orbital. These differences could be used to distinguish the two contributions, and give rise to interference effects when the contributions are comparable. The saddle-point approximation is also shown to require special attention in this geometric analysis.

id: 1309.4767
title: Log-space counter is useful for unary languages by help of a constant-size quantum register
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: The text is updated by adding a new reference. Technical report. 10 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1207.3880
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4767
abstract: The minimum amount of resources to recognize a nonregular language is a fundamental research topic in theoretical computer science which has been examined for different kinds of resources and many different models. In this note, we focus on unary languages and space complexity on counters. Our model is two-way one-counter automaton with quantum and classical states (2QCCA), which is a two-way finite automaton with one-counter (2DCA) augmented with a fixed size quantum register or a two-way finite automaton with quantum and classical states (2QCFA) augmented with a classical counter. It is known that any 2DCA using a sublinear space on its counter can recognize only regular languages \cite{DG82B}. In this note, we show that bounded-error 2QCCAs can recognize a non-regular unary language by using logarithmic space on its counters for the members. Note that it is still an open problem whether bounded-error 2QCFA can recognize a non-regular unary language.

id: 1309.4830
title: Observation of Rayleigh phonon scattering through excitation of extremely high overtones in low-loss cryogenic acoustic cavities for hybrid quantum systems
authors: M. Goryachev, D.L. Creedon, S. Galliou, M.E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 085502 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4830
abstract: The confinement of high frequency phonons approaching 1 GHz is demonstrated in phonon-trapping acoustic cavities at cryogenic temperatures using a low-coupled network approach. The frequency range is extended by nearly an order of magnitude, with excitation at greater than the 200$^{\text{th}}$ overtone achieved for the first time. Such high frequency operation reveals Rayleigh-type phonon scattering losses due to highly diluted lattice impurities and corresponding glass-like behaviour, with a maximum $Q_L\times f$ product of $8.6\times 10^{17}$ at 3.8K and $4\times10^{17}$ at 15mK. This suggests a limit on the $Q\times f$ product due to unavoidable crystal disorder. Operation at 15 mK is high enough in frequency that the average phonon occupation number is less than unity, with a loaded quality factor above half a billion. This work represents significant progress towards the utilisation of such acoustic cavities for hybrid quantum systems.

id: 1309.4832
title: Extremely Low Loss Phonon-Trapping Cryogenic Acoustic Cavities for Future Physical Experiments
authors: S. Galliou, M. Goryachev, R. Bourquin, Ph. Abb¨¦, J.-P. Aubry, M.E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2132 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4832
abstract: Low loss Bulk Acoustic Wave devices are considered from the point of view of the solid state approach as phonon-confining cavities. We demonstrate effective design of such acoustic cavities with phonon-trapping techniques exhibiting extremely high quality factors for trapped longitudinally-polarized phonons of various wavelengths. Quality factors of observed modes exceed 1 billion, with a maximum $Q$-factor of 8 billion and $Q\times f$ product of $1.6\cdot10^{18}$ at liquid helium temperatures. Such high sensitivities allow analysis of intrinsic material losses in resonant phonon systems. Various mechanisms of phonon losses are discussed and estimated.

id: 1309.4880
title: Markov chains for tensor network states
authors: S. Iblisdir
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.4880
abstract: Markov chains for probability distributions related to matrix product states and 1D Hamiltonians are introduced. With appropriate 'inverse temperature' schedules, these chains can be combined into a random approximation scheme for ground states of such Hamiltonians. Numerical experiments suggest that a linear, i.e. fast, schedule is possible in non-trivial cases. A natural extension of these chains to 2D settings is next presented and tested. The obtained results compare well with Euclidean evolution. The proposed Markov chains are easy to implement and are inherently sign problem free (even for fermionic degrees of freedom).

id: 1309.5002
title: A tossed coin as quantum mechanical object
authors: Alexander M. Soiguine
comments: Minor modifications in expressions to make definitions more clear
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5002
abstract: Comprehensive and physically consistent model of a tossed coin is presented in terms of geometric algebra. The model clearly shows that there is nothing elementary particle specific in the half-spin quantum mechanical formalism. It also demonstrates what really is behind this formalism, feasibly reveals the probabilistic meaning of wave function and shows that arithmetic of packed objects, namely wave functions and Pauli matrices, reduces the amount of available information.

id: 1309.5011
title: Technical advantages for weak value amplification: When less is more
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Juli¨¢n Mart¨ªnez-Rinc¨®n, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011031, 6 March 2014
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5011
abstract: The technical merits of weak value amplification techniques are analyzed. We consider models of several different types of technical noise in an optical context and show that weak value amplification techniques (which only use a small fraction of the photons) compare favorably with standard techniques (which uses all of them). Using the Fisher information metric, we demonstrate that weak value techniques can put all of the Fisher information about the detected parameter into a small portion of the events and show how this fact alone gives technical advantages. We go on to consider a time correlated noise model, and find that a Fisher information analysis indicates that while the standard method can have much larger information about the detected parameter than the postselected technique. However, the estimator needed to gather the information is technically difficult to implement, showing that the inefficient (but practical) signal-to-noise estimation of the parameter is usually superior. We also describe other technical advantages unique to imaginary weak value amplification techniques, focusing on beam deflection measurements. In this case, we discuss combined noise types (such as detector transverse jitter, angular beam jitter before the interferometer and turbulence) for which the interferometric weak value technique gives higher Fisher information over conventional methods. We go on to calculate the Fisher information of the recently proposed photon recycling scheme for beam deflection measurements, and show it further boosts the Fisher information by the inverse postselection probability relative to the standard measurement case.

id: 1309.5060
title: Multi-Layer Potfit: An Accurate Potential Representation for Efficient High-Dimensional Quantum Dynamics
authors: Frank Otto
comments: Copyright (2014) American Institute of Physics. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of the author and the American Institute of Physics
journal: J.Chem.Phys. 140, 014106 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5060
abstract: The multi-layer multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method (ML-MCTDH) is a highly efficient scheme for studying the dynamics of high-dimensional quantum systems. Its use is greatly facilitated if the Hamiltonian of the system possesses a particular structure through which the multi-dimensional matrix elements can be computed efficiently. In the field of quantum molecular dynamics, the effective interaction between the atoms is often described by potential energy surfaces (PES), and it is necessary to fit such PES into the desired structure. For high-dimensional systems, the current approaches for this fitting process either lead to fits that are too large to be practical, or their accuracy is difficult to predict and control. This article introduces multi-layer Potfit (MLPF), a novel fitting scheme that results in a PES representation in the hierarchical tensor (HT) format. The scheme is based on the hierarchical singular value decomposition, which can yield a near-optimal fit and give strict bounds for the obtained accuracy. Here, a recursive scheme for using the HT-format PES within ML-MCTDH is derived, and theoretical estimates as well as a computational example show that the use of MLPF can reduce the numerical effort for ML-MCTDH by orders of magnitude, compared to the traditionally used Potfit representation of the PES. Moreover, it is shown that MLPF is especially beneficial for high-accuracy PES representations, and it turns out that MLPF leads to computational savings already for comparatively small systems with just four modes.

id: 1309.5068
title: Metaplectic sheets and caustic traversals in the Weyl representation
authors: Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 105303 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5068
abstract: The quantum Hamiltonian generates in time a family of evolution operators. Continuity of this family holds within any choice of representation and, in particular, for the Weyl propagator, even though its simplest semiclassical approximation may develop caustic singularities. The phase jumps of the Weyl propagator across caustics have not been previously determined. The semiclassical appproximation relies on individual classical trajectories together with their neighbouring tangent map. Based on the latter, one defines a continuous family of unitary tangent propagators, with an exact Weyl representation that is close to the full semiclassical approximation in an appropriate neighbourhood. The phase increment of the semiclassical Weyl propagator, as a caustic is crossed, is derived from the facts that the corresponding family of tangent operators belong to the metaplectic group and that the products of the tangent propagators are obtained from Gaussian integrals. The Weyl representation of the metaplectic group is here presented, with the correct phases determined within an intrinsic ambiguity for the overall sign. The elements that fully determine the phase increment across a particular caustic are then analysed.

id: 1309.5165
title: Ab-Initio Calculation of Molecular Aggregation Effects: a Coumarin-343 Case Study
authors: Donghyun Lee, Loren Greenman, Mohan Sarovar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5165
abstract: We present time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) calculations for single and dimerized Coumarin-343 molecules in order to investigate the quantum mechanical effects of chromophore aggregation in extended systems designed to function as a new generation of sensors and light-harvesting devices. Using the single-chromophore results, we describe the construction of effective Hamiltonians to predict the excitonic properties of aggregate systems. We compare the electronic coupling properties predicted by such effective Hamiltonians to those obtained from TDDFT calculations of dimers, and to the coupling predicted by the transition density cube (TDC) method. We determine the accuracy of the dipole-dipole approximation and TDC with respect to the separation distance and orientation of the dimers. In particular, we investigate the effects of including Coulomb coupling terms ignored in the typical tight-binding effective Hamiltonian. We also examine effects of orbital relaxation which cannot be captured by either of these models.

id: 1309.5198
title: Component separation of two-component fermion clouds in a spin-dependent external potential by spin-density-functional theory
authors: Gao Xianlong
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023628 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5198
abstract: We investigate the component separation in one-dimensional two-component fermion clouds in a spin-dependent external potential. The density distributions and the state diagram are studied by means of spin-dependent density-functional theory. The component separation between spin-up and spin-down atoms is induced by the interplay of the spin-dependent harmonic confinement and the strong repulsive interaction between the inter-components. We find the existence of a threshold repulsive interaction strength above which the component separation evolves. Different state diagrams are mapped out numerically, from which two regions are distinguished, i.e., the phase-mixed region with both spin-up and spin-down mixtures in the center of the trap and the phase-separated region with only spin-up atoms remaining in the center.

id: 1309.5207
title: Quantum Gravity: physics from supergeometries
authors: Diego Julio Cirilo-Lombardo, Thiago Prudencio
comments: Published in IJGMMP, Improved version (misprints and typos corrected). 13 pages, one figure add and comments
journal: Journal-ref: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Vol. 11 (2014) 1450067
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5207
abstract: We show that the metric (line element) is the first geometrical object to be associated to a discrete (quantum) structure of the spacetime without necessity of black hole-entropy-area arguments, in sharp contrast with other attempts in the literature. To this end, an emergent metric solution obtained previously in [Physics Letters B 661, 186-191 (2008)] from a particular non-degenerate Riemmanian superspace is introduced. This emergent metric is described by a physical coherent state belonging to the metaplectic group Mp (n) with a Poissonian distribution at lower n (number basis) restoring the classical thermal continuum behaviour at large n (n ! 1), or leading to non-classical radiation states, as is conjectured in a quite general basis by mean the Bekenstein- Mukhanov effect. Group-dependent conditions that control the behavior of the macroscopic regime spectrum (thermal or not), as the relationship with the problem of area / entropy of the black hole are presented and discussed.

id: 1309.5259
title: Magnetic properties of quantum rings in the presence of the spin-orbit and electron-electron interaction
authors: O.S. Bauzha
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures (this http URL)
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2013, Vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 888-893
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5259
abstract: The separate and combined influences of the spin-orbit and electron-electron interactions on the electron magnetization in quantum rings have been studied theoretically on the basis of the spin-density-functional theory and the Kohn-Sham equation used for the calculation of electron states in two-dimensional parabolic quantum rings containing from two to six electrons. The magnetization of electrons in a quantum ring is calculated at zero temperature. The revealed abrupt changes in the ring magnetization are associated with the crossing of electron states that occurs if the spin-orbit and/or electron-electron interactions are taken into consideration.

id: 1309.5280
title: On the real representations of the Poincare group
authors: Leonardo Pedro
comments: 31 pages, discussions on the systems of imprimitivity, localization and energy positivity added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5280
abstract: The formulation of quantum mechanics with a complex Hilbert space is equivalent to a formulation with a real Hilbert space and particular density matrix and observables. We study the real representations of the Poincare group, motivated by the fact that the localization of complex unitary representations of the Poincare group is incompatible with causality, Poincare covariance and energy positivity. We review the map from the complex to the real irreducible representations---finite-dimensional or unitary---of a Lie group on a Hilbert space. Then we show that all the finite-dimensional real representations of the identity component of the Lorentz group are also representations of the parity, in contrast with many complex representations. We show that any localizable unitary representation of the Poincare group, compatible with Poincare covariance, verifies: 1) it is a direct sum of irreducible representations which are massive or massless with discrete helicity. 2) it respects causality; 3) if it is complex it contains necessarily both positive and negative energy subrepresentations 4) it is an irreducible representation of the Poincare group (including parity) if and only if it is: a)real and b)massive with spin 1/2 or massless with helicity 1/2. Finally, the energy positivity problem is discussed in a many-particles context.

id: 1309.5394
title: Progress in quantum electrodynamics theory of highly charged ions
authors: A. V. Volotka, D. A. Glazov, G. Plunien, V. M. Shabaev
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 525, 636-646 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5394
abstract: Recent progress in quantum electrodynamics (QED) calculations of highly charged ions is reviewed. The theoretical predictions for the binding energies, the hyperfine splittings, and the g factors are presented and compared with available experimental data. Special attention is paid to tests of bound-state QED at strong field regime. Future prospects for tests of QED at the strongest electric and magnetic fields as well as for determination of the fine structure constant and the nuclear magnetic moments with heavy ions are discussed.

id: 1309.5452
title: Universal control and error correction in multi-qubit spin registers in diamond
authors: T. H. Taminiau, J. Cramer, T. van der Sar, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: V2: Revised to add a reference to simultaneous related work (arXiv:1309.6424)
journal: Nature Nanotech. 9, 171 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5452
abstract: Quantum registers of nuclear spins coupled to electron spins of individual solid-state defects are a promising platform for quantum information processing. Pioneering experiments selected defects with favourably located nuclear spins having particularly strong hyperfine couplings. For progress towards large-scale applications, larger and deterministically available nuclear registers are highly desirable. Here we realize universal control over multi-qubit spin registers by harnessing abundant weakly coupled nuclear spins. We use the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy centre in diamond to selectively initialize, control and read out carbon-13 spins in the surrounding spin bath and construct high-fidelity single- and two-qubit gates. We exploit these new capabilities to implement a three-qubit quantum-error-correction protocol and demonstrate the robustness of the encoded state against applied errors. These results transform weakly coupled nuclear spins from a source of decoherence into a reliable resource, paving the way towards extended quantum networks and surface-code quantum computing based on multi-qubit nodes.

id: 1309.5482
title: Schrodinger Operators with Non-Symmetric Zero-Range Potentials
authors: A. Grod, S. Kuzhel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5482
abstract: Non-self-adjoint Schrodinger operators A which correspond to non-symmetric zero-range potentials are investigated. For a given A, the description of non-real eigenvalues, spectral singularities and exceptional points are obtained; the possibility of interpretation of A as a self-adjoint operator in a Krein space is studied, the problem of similarity of A to a self-adjoint operator in a Hilbert space is solved.

id: 1309.5591
title: Low temperature MQ NMR dynamics in dipolar ordered state
authors: G. B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V. L.Sokolovsky
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures will be published in Solid State Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5591
abstract: We investigate analytically and numerically the Multiple Quantum (MQ) NMR dynamics in dipolar ordered spin systems of nuclear spins 1/2 at a low temperatures. We suggest two different methods of MQ NMR. One of them is based on the measurement of the dipolar energy. The other method uses an additional resonance ({\pi}/4)_{y}-pulse after the preparation period of the standard MQ NMR experiment in solids and allows one to measure the Zeeman energy. The both considered methods are sensitive to the contribution of remote spins in the interaction and to the spin system structure. The QS method is sensitive to the spin number in the molecule while the PS method gives very similar time dependencies of the intensities of MQ coherences for different spin numbers. It is shown that the use of the dipolar ordered initial state has the advantage of exciting the highest order MQ coherences in clusters of 4m identical spins, where m=1,2,3..., that is impossible to do with the standard MQ method. MQ NMR methods based on the dipolar ordered initial states at low temperatures complement the standard NMR spectroscopy for better studying structures and dynamic processes in solids.

id: 1309.5630
title: Probing weak force induced parity violation by high resolution mid-infrared molecular spectroscopy
authors: Sean K. Tokunaga, Clara Stoeffler, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Auguste, Alexander Shelkovnikov, Christophe Daussy, Anne Amy-Klein, Christian Chardonnet, Beno?t Darqui¨¦
comments: 
journal: Molecular Physics 111, 14-15 (2013) 2363-2373
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5630
abstract: To date no experiment has reached the level of sensitivity required to observe weak nuclear force induced parity violation (PV) energy differences in chiral molecules. In this paper, we present the approach, adopted at Laboratoire de Physique des Lasers (LPL), to measure frequency differences in the vibrational spectrum of enantiomers. We review different spectroscopic methods developed at LPL leading to the highest resolutions, as well as 20 years of CO2 laser stabilization work enabling such precise measurements. After a first attempt to observe PV vibrational frequency shifts using sub-Doppler saturated absorption spectroscopy in a cell, we are currently aiming at an experiment based on Doppler-free two-photon Ramsey interferometry on a supersonic beam. We report on our latest progress towards observing PV with chiral organo-metallic complexes containing a heavy rhenium atom.

id: 1309.5673
title: Introduction to the Special Issue on Quantum Cognition
authors: Peter Bruza, Jerome Busemeyer, Liane Gabora
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 53, 303-305
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5673
abstract: The subject of this special issue is quantum models of cognition. At first sight it may seem bizarre, even ridiculous, to draw a connection between quantum mechanics, a highly successful theory usually understood as modeling sub-atomic phenomena, and cognitive science. However, a growing number of researchers are looking to quantum theory to circumvent stubborn problems within their own fields. This is also true within cognitive science and related areas, hence this special issue.

id: 1309.5743
title: Solving the generalized Higgs model from the generalized CRS model
authors: Ci Song, Yan Li, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5743
abstract: In this paper, we reveal a direct relation between the generalized one-dimensional Carinena-Ranada-Santander (CRS) model and the radial part of two-dimensional generalized Higgs model. By this relation, we construct a series of quasi-exactly solutions for the two-dimensional Higgs model from a solved generalized CRS model.

id: 1309.5761
title: Inflation due to quantum potential
authors: Maxim V. Eingorn, Vitaliy D. Rusov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5761
abstract: In the framework of a cosmological model of the Universe filled with a nonrelativistic particle soup, we easily reproduce inflation due to the quantum potential. The lightest particles in the soup serve as a driving force of this simple, natural and promising mechanism. It is explicitly demonstrated that the appropriate choice of their mass and fraction leads to reasonable numbers of e-folds. Thus, the direct introduction of the quantum potential into cosmology of the earliest Universe gives ample opportunities of successful reconsideration of the modern inflationary theory.

id: 1309.5799
title: Cold atom-ion experiments in hybrid traps
authors: Arne H?rter, Johannes Hecker Denschlag
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5799
abstract: In the last 5 years, a novel field of physics and chemistry has developed in which cold trapped ions and ultracold atomic gases are brought into contact with each other. Combining ion traps with traps for neutral atoms yields a variety of new possibilities for research and experiments. These range from studies of cold atom-ion collisions and atom-ion chemistry to applications in quantum information science and condensed matter related research. In this article we give a brief introduction into this new field and describe some of the perspectives for its future development.

id: 1309.5824
title: Polaron dynamics and decoherence in an interacting two-spin system coupled to optical phonon environment
authors: Amit Dey, Sudhakar Yarlagadda
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. B. A new oxide-based charge qubit is proposed
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5824
abstract: We study two anisotropically interacting spins coupled to optical phonons; we restrict our analysis to the regime of strong coupling to the environment, to the antiadiabatic region, and to the subspace with zero value for $S^z_T$ (the z-component of the total spin). In the case where each spin is coupled to a different phonon bath, we assume that the system and the environment are initially uncorrelated (and form a simply separable state) in the polaronic frame of reference. By analyzing the {polaron} dynamics through non-Markovian quantum master equation, we find that the system manifests a small amount of decoherence that decreases both with increasing non-adiabaticity and with enhancing strength of coupling; whereas, under the Markovian approximation, the polaronic system exhibits a decoherence free behavior. For the situation where both spins are coupled to the same phonon bath, we also show that the system is decoherence free in the subspace where $S^z_T$ is fixed. To suppress decoherence through quantum control, we employ a train of pi pulses and demonstrate that unitary evolution of the system can be retained. We propose realization of a weakly decohering charge qubit from an electron in an oxide-based (tunnel-coupled) double quantum dot system.

id: 1309.5855
title: Quantum Decoherence with Holography
authors: Shih-Hao Ho, Wei Li, Feng-Li Lin, Bo Ning
comments: 55 pages, 13 figures; v2 47 pages & 13 figs, minor revision to match published version
journal: JHEP 1401:170,2014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5855
abstract: Quantum decoherence is the loss of a system's purity due to its interaction with the surrounding environment. Via the AdS/CFT correspondence, we study how a system decoheres when its environment is a strongly-coupled theory. In the Feynman-Vernon formalism, we compute the influence functional holographically by relating it to the generating function of Schwinger-Keldysh propagators and thereby obtain the dynamics of the system's density matrix. We present two exactly solvable examples: (1) a straight string in a BTZ black hole and (2) a scalar probe in AdS$_5$. We prepare an initial state that mimics Schr\"odinger's cat and identify different stages of its decoherence process using the time-scaling behaviors of R\'enyi entropy. We also relate decoherence to local quantum quenches, and by comparing the time evolution behaviors of the Wigner function and R\'enyi entropy we demonstrate that the relaxation of local quantum excitations leads to the collapse of its wave-function.

id: 1309.5870
title: High resolution photoassociation spectroscopy of the $^{6}$Li$_2$ $A(1^1¦²_u^+)$ state
authors: Will Gunton, Mariusz Semczuk, Nikesh S. Dattani, Kirk W. Madison
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5870
abstract: We present spectroscopic measurements of seven vibrational levels $v=29-35$ of the $A(1^1\Sigma_u^+)$ excited state of Li$_2$ molecules by the photoassociation of a degenerate Fermi gas of $^6$Li atoms. The absolute uncertainty of our measurements is $\pm 0.00002$ cm$^{-1}$ ($\pm 600$ kHz) and we use these new data to further refine an analytic potential for this state. This work provides high accuracy photo-association resonance locations essential for the eventual high resolution mapping of the $X(1^1\Sigma_g^+)$ state enabling further improvements to the s-wave scattering length determination of Li and enabling the eventual creation of ultra-cold ground state $^6$Li$_2$ molecules.

id: 1309.5882
title: Radical-pair model of magnetoreception with spin-orbit coupling
authors: Neill Lambert, Simone De Liberato, Clive Emary, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (8), 083024 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5882
abstract: The mechanism used by migratory birds to orientate themselves using the geomagnetic field is still a mystery in many species. The radical pair mechanism, in which very weak magnetic fields can influence certain types of spin-dependent chemical reactions, leading to biologically observable signals, has recently imposed itself as one of the most promising candidates for certain species. This is thanks both to its extreme sensitivity and its capacity to reproduce results from behavioral studies. Still, in order to gain a directional sensitivity, an anisotropic mechanism is needed. Recent proposals have explored the possibility that such an anisotropy is due to the electron-nucleus hyperfine interaction. In this work we explore a different possibility, in which the anisotropy is due to spin-orbit coupling between the electron spin and its angular momentum. We will show how a spin-orbit-coupling-based magnetic compass can have performances comparable with the usually-studied nuclear-hyperfine based mechanism. Our results could thus help researchers actively looking for candidate biological molecules which may host magnetoreceptive functions, both to describe magnetoreception in birds as well as to develop artificial chemical compass systems.

id: 1309.5898
title: On the extreme points of quantum channels
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Raphael Loewy
comments: Slightly revised version, 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5898
abstract: Let L(m,n) denote the convex set of completely positive trace preserving operators from C^{m x m} to C^{n x n}$, i.e quantum channels. We give a necessary condition for L in L(m,n) to be an extreme point. We show that generically, this condition is also sufficient. We characterize completely the extreme points of L_(2,2) and L(3,2), i.e. quantum channels from qubits to qubits and from qutrits to qubits.

id: 1309.5921
title: Analytic solutions to the central spin problem for Nitrogen Vacancy centres in diamond
authors: Liam T. Hall, Jared H. Cole, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 30 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5921
abstract: Due to interest in both solid state based quantum computing architectures and the application of quantum mechanical systems to nanomagnetometry, there has been considerable recent attention focused on understanding the microscopic dynamics of solid state spin baths and their effects on the coherence of a controllable, coupled central electronic spin. Many analytic approaches are based on simplified phenomenological models in which it is difficult to capture much of the complex physics associated with this system. Conversely, numerical approaches reproduce this complex behaviour, but are limited in the amount of theoretical insight they can provide. Using a systematic approach based on the spatial statistics of spin bath constituents, we develop a purely analytic theory for the central spin decoherence problem of Nitrogen Vacancy centres in diamond that reproduces the experimental and numerical results found in the literature, whilst correcting a number of limitations and inaccuracies associated with existing analytical approaches.

id: 1309.5941
title: Electron spin separation without magnetic field
authors: J. Paw?owski, P. Szumniak, A. Skubis, S. Bednarek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5941
abstract: A nanodevice capable of separating spins of two electrons confined in a quantum dot formed in a gated semiconductor nanowire is proposed. Two electrons confined initially in a single quantum dot in the singlet state are transformed into the system of two electrons confined in two spatially separated quantum dots with opposite spins. In order to separate the electrons' spins we exploit transitions between the singlet and the triplet state which are induced by resonantly oscillating Rashba spin-obit coupling strength. The proposed device is all electrically controlled and the electron spin separation can be realized within tens of picoseconds. The results are supported by solving numerically quasi-one-dimensional time-dependent Schroedinger equation for two electrons, where the electron-electron correlations are taken into account in the exact manner.

id: 1309.6163
title: Spin-Particles Entanglement in Robertson-Walker Spacetime
authors: Shahpoor Moradi, Roberto Pierini, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 024022 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6163
abstract: We study the entanglement between two modes of Dirac field in an expanding spacetime characterized by the Robertson-Walker metric. This spacetime model turns out to be asymptotically (in the remote past and far future regions) Minkowskian. Then, on the one hand we show entanglement creation between particles and anti-particles when passing from remote past to far future. On the other hand we show that particles entanglement in the remote past degrades into the far future. These effects are traced back to particles creation. In our analysis we highlight the role of spin (polarization) of particles and compare the results with those obtainable without accounting for it.

id: 1309.6167
title: Efficient coupling to an optical resonator by exploiting time-reversal symmetry
authors: Marianne Bader, Simon Heugel, Alexander L. Chekhov, Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 123008
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6167
abstract: The interaction of a cavity with an external field is symmetric under time reversal. Thus, coupling to a resonator is most efficient when the incident light is the time reversed version of a free cavity decay, i.e. when it has a rising exponential shape matching the cavity lifetime. For light entering the cavity from only one side, the maximally achievable coupling efficiency is limited by the choice of the cavity mirrors' reflectivities. Such an empty-cavity experiment serves also as a model system for single-photon single-atom absorption dynamics. We present experiments coupling exponentially rising pulses to a cavity system which allows for high coupling efficiencies. The influence of the time constant of the rising exponential is investigated as well as the effect of a finite pulse duration. We demonstrate coupling 94% of the incident TEM00 mode into the resonator.

id: 1309.6189
title: From the No-Signaling Theorem to Veiled Nonlocality
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 11 pages
journal: NeuroQuantology 12: 12-20 (2014)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6189
abstract: According to the no-signaling theorem, the nonlocal collapse of the wavefunction of an entangled particle by the measurement on its twin particle at a remote location cannot be used to send useful information. Given that experiments on nonlocal correlations continue to have loopholes, we propose a stronger principle that the nonlocality of quantum mechanics itself is veiled. In practical terms, decoherence and noise compels us to view the wavefunction as representing knowledge of potential outcomes rather than the reality. Experimental evidence in favor of naked nonlocality would support the view of the wavefunction as an objective description of physical reality.

id: 1309.6203
title: Numerical range for random matrices
authors: Beno?t Collins, Piotr Gawron, Alexander E. Litvak, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Anal. Appl. 418 (2014) 516-533
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6203
abstract: We analyze the numerical range of high-dimensional random matrices, obtaining limit results and corresponding quantitative estimates in the non-limit case. For a large class of random matrices their numerical range is shown to converge to a disc. In particular, numerical range of complex Ginibre matrix almost surely converges to the disk of radius $\sqrt{2}$. Since the spectrum of non-hermitian random matrices from the Ginibre ensemble lives asymptotically in a neighborhood of the unit disk, it follows that the outer belt of width $\sqrt{2}-1$ containing no eigenvalues can be seen as a quantification the non-normality of the complex Ginibre random matrix. We also show that the numerical range of upper triangular Gaussian matrices converges to the same disk of radius $\sqrt{2}$, while all eigenvalues are equal to zero and we prove that the operator norm of such matrices converges to $\sqrt{2e}$.

id: 1309.6282
title: Exact holographic mapping and emergent space-time geometry
authors: Xiao-Liang Qi
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6282
abstract: In this paper, we propose an {\it exact holographic mapping} which is a unitary mapping from the Hilbert space of a lattice system in flat space (boundary) to that of another lattice system in one higher dimension (bulk). By defining the distance in the bulk system from two-point correlation functions, we obtain an emergent bulk space-time geometry that is determined by the boundary state and the mapping. As a specific example, we study the exact holographic mapping for $(1+1)$-dimensional lattice Dirac fermions and explore the emergent bulk geometry corresponding to different boundary states including massless and massive states at zero temperature, and the massless system at finite temperature. We also study two entangled one-dimensional chains and show that the corresponding bulk geometry consists of two asymptotic regions connected by a worm-hole. The quantum quench of the coupled chains is mapped to dynamics of the worm-hole. In the end we discuss the general procedure of applying this approach to interacting systems, and other open questions.

id: 1309.6300
title: Cavity optomechanics in gallium phosphide microdisks
authors: Matthew Mitchell, Aaron C. Hryciw, Paul E. Barclay
comments: Published Version
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 141104 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6300
abstract: We demonstrate gallium phosphide (GaP) microdisk optical cavities with intrinsic quality factors $ > 2.8\times10^{5}$ and mode volumes $< 10 (\lambda/n)^3$, and study their nonlinear and optomechanical properties. For optical intensities up to $8.0\times10^4$ intracavity photons, we observe optical loss in the microcavity to decrease with increasing intensity, indicating that saturable absorption sites are present in the GaP material, and that two-photon absorption is not significant. We observe optomechanical coupling between optical modes of the microdisk around 1.5 $\mu$m and several mechanical resonances, and measure an optical spring effect consistent with a theoretically predicted optomechanical coupling rate $g_0/2\pi \sim 30$ kHz for the fundamental mechanical radial breathing mode at 488 MHz.

id: 1309.6346
title: Visualizing Angular Momentum Eigenstates using the Spin Coherent State Representation
authors: Yen Lee Loh, Monica Kim
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures; submitted to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6346
abstract: Orbital angular momentum eigenfunctions are readily understood in terms of spherical harmonic wavefunctions. However, the quantum mechanical phenomenon of spin is often said to be mysterious and hard to visualize, with no classical analogue. Many textbooks give a heuristic and somewhat unsatisfying picture of a precessing spin vector. Here we advocate for the "spin wavefunction" in the spin coherent state representation as a striking, elegant, and mathematically meaningful visual tool. We also demonstrate that cartographic projections such as the Hammer projection are useful for visualizing wavefunctions defined on spherical surfaces.

id: 1309.6354
title: Emergent Newtonian dynamics and the geometric origin of mass
authors: Luca D'Alessio, Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: 28 + 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, Vol 345 (June 2014), 141-165
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6354
abstract: We consider a set of macroscopic (classical) degrees of freedom coupled to an arbitrary many-particle Hamiltonian system, quantum or classical. These degrees of freedom can represent positions of objects in space, their angles, shape distortions, magnetization, currents and so on. Expanding their dynamics near the adiabatic limit we find the emergent Newton's second law (force is equal to the mass times acceleration) with an extra dissipative term. In systems with broken time reversal symmetry there is an additional Coriolis type force proportional to the Berry curvature. We give the microscopic definition of the mass tensor relating it to the non-equal time correlation functions in equilibrium or alternatively expressing it through dressing by virtual excitations in the system. In the classical (high-temperature) limit the mass tensor is given by the product of the inverse temperature and the Fubini-Study metric tensor determining the natural distance between the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. For free particles this result reduces to the conventional definition of mass. This finding shows that any mass, at least in the classical limit, emerges from the distortions of the Hilbert space highlighting deep connections between any motion (not necessarily in space) and geometry. We illustrate our findings with four simple examples.

id: 1309.6371
title: On-Chip Optical Squeezing
authors: Avik Dutt, Kevin Luke, Sasikanth Manipatruni, Alexander L. Gaeta, Paulo Nussenzveig, Michal Lipson
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied, 3, 044005 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6371
abstract: We present the first demonstration of all-optical squeezing in an on-chip monolithically integrated CMOS-compatible platform. Our device consists of a low loss silicon nitride microring optical parametric oscillator (OPO) with a gigahertz cavity linewidth. We measure 1.7 dB (5 dB corrected for losses) of sub-shot noise quantum correlations between bright twin beams generated in the microring four-wave-mixing OPO pumped above threshold. This experiment demonstrates a compact, robust, and scalable platform for quantum optics and quantum information experiments on-chip.

id: 1309.6372
title: Robust signals from a quantum-based magnetic compass sensor
authors: Maria Procopio, Thorsten Ritz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6372
abstract: A quantum-based magnetic compass sensor, mediated through radical pair reactions, has been suggested to underlie the sensory ability of migrating birds to receive directional information from the geomagnetic field. Here we extend the currently available models by considering the effects of slow fluctuations in the nuclear spin environment on the directional signal. We quantitatively evaluate the robustness of signals under fluctuations on a timescale longer than the lifetime of a radical pair, utilizing two models of radical pairs. Our results suggest design principles for building a radical-pair based compass sensor that is both robust and highly directional sensitive.

id: 1309.6436
title: Dissipative preparation of phase- and number-squeezed states with ultracold atoms
authors: Roland Cristopher F. Caballar, Sebastian Diehl, Harri M?kel?, Markus Oberthaler, Gentaro Watanabe
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013620 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6436
abstract: We develop a dissipative quantum state preparation scheme for the creation of phase- and number-squeezed states. It utilizes ultracold atoms in a double-well configuration immersed in a background Bose-Einstein condensate, with the latter consisting of an atom species different from the atoms in the double well and acting as a dissipative quantum reservoir. We derive a master equation for this system starting from microscopic physics, and show that squeezing develops on a time scale proportional to $1/N$, where $N$ is the number of particles in the double well. This scaling, caused by bosonic enhancement, allows us to make the time scale for the creation of squeezed states very short. The lifetime of squeezed states is limited by dephasing arising from the intrinsic structure of the setup. However, the dephasing can be avoided by stroboscopically switching the driving off and on. We show that this approach leads to robust stationary squeezed states. Finally, we provide the necessary ingredients for a potential experimental implementation by specifying a parameter regime for rubidium atoms that leads to squeezed states.

id: 1309.6492
title: Investigation of the Casimir interaction between two magnetic metals in comparison with nonmagnetic test bodies
authors: A. A. Banishev, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 40 pages, 14 figures; two typos in Eqs.(25) and (28) and the units on the vertical axes in Figs.12(a), 13(a,b) and 14(a,b) are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.88, p.155410 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6492
abstract: We present the complete results for the dynamic experiment on measuring the gradient of the Casimir force between magnetic (Ni-coated) surfaces of a plate and a sphere. Special attention is paid to the description of some details of the setup, its calibration, error analysis and background effects. Computations are performed in the framework of the Lifshitz theory at nonzero temperature with account of analytic corrections to the proximity force approximation and of surface roughness using both the Drude and the plasma model approaches. The theory of magnetic interaction between a sphere and a plate due to domain structure of their surfaces is developed for both out-of-plane and in-plane magnetizations in the absence and in the presence of spontaneous magnetization. It is shown that in all cases the magnetic contribution to the measured force gradients is much smaller than the total experimental error. The comparison between experiment and theory is done using the rigorous statistical method. It is shown that the theoretical approach taking into account dissipation of free electrons is excluded by the data at a 95% confidence level. The approach neglecting dissipation is confirmed by the data at more than 90% confidence level. We prove that the results of experiments with Ni-Ni, Ni-Au and Au-Au surfaces taken together cannot be reconciled with the approach including free electrons dissipation by the introduction of any unaccounted background force, either attractive or repulsive.

id: 1309.6520
title: Exactly solvable counting statistics in weakly coupled open interacting spin systems
authors: Berislav Buca, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 4 pages in RevTex, with 1 pdf figure, version as accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 067201 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6520
abstract: We study the full counting statistics for interacting quantum many-body spin systems weakly coupled to the environment. In the leading order in the system-bath coupling we derive exact spin current statistics for a large class of parity symmetric spin-1/2 systems driven by a pair of Markovian baths with local coupling operators. Interestingly, in this class of systems the leading order current statistics are universal and do not depend on details of the Hamiltonian. Furthermore, in the specific case of symmetrically boundary driven anisotropic Heisenberg ($XXZ$) spin 1/2 chain we derive explicitly the third-order non-linear corrections to the current statistics.

id: 1309.6548
title: Sensing and atomic-scale structure analysis of single nuclear spin clusters in diamond
authors: Fazhan Shi, Xi Kong, Pengfei Wang, Fei Kong, Nan Zhao, Ren-Bao Liu, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6548
abstract: Single-molecule nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is a crown-jewel challenge in the field of magnetic resonance spectroscopy and has important applications in chemical analysis and in quantum computing. Recently, it becomes possible to tackle this grand challenge thanks to experimental advances in preserving quantum coherence of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center spins in diamond as a sensitive probe and theoretical proposals on atomic-scale magnetometry via dynamical decoupling control. Through decoherence measurement of NV centers under dynamical decoupling control, sensing of single $^{13}\textbf{C}$ at nanometer distance has been realized. Toward the ultimate goal of structure analysis of single molecules, it is highly desirable to directly measure the interactions within single nuclear spin clusters. Here we sensed a single $^{13}\textbf{C}$-$^{13}\textbf{C}$ nuclear spin dimer located about 1 nm from the NV center and characterized the interaction between the two nuclear spins, by measuring NV center spin decoherence under various dynamical decoupling control. From the measured interaction we derived the spatial configuration of the dimer with atomic-scale resolution. These results demonstrate that central spin decoherence under dynamical decoupling control is a feasible probe for NMR structure analysis of single molecules.

id: 1309.6662
title: High resolution photoassociation spectroscopy of the $^{6}$Li$_2$ $1^{3}¦²_{g}^{+}$ state
authors: Mariusz Semczuk, Xuan Li, Will Gunton, Magnus Haw, Nikesh S. Dattani, Julien Witz, Arthur Mills, David J. Jones, Kirk W. Madison
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6662
abstract: We present experimental observations of seven vibrational levels $v'=20-26$ of the $1^{3}\Sigma_{g}^{+}$ excited state of Li$_2$ molecules by the photoassociation (PA) of a degenerate Fermi gas of $^6$Li atoms. For each vibrational level, we resolve the rotational structure using a Feshbach resonance to enhance the PA rates from p-wave collisions. We also, for the first time, determine the spin-spin and spin-rotation interaction constants for this state. The absolute uncertainty of our measurements is $\pm 0.00002$ cm$^{-1}$ ($\pm 600$ kHz). We use these new data to further refine an analytic potential for this state.

id: 1309.6706
title: Single-shot readout of a superconducting flux qubit with a flux-driven Josephson parametric amplifier
authors: Z. R. Lin, K. Inomata, W. D. Oliver, K. Koshino, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai, T. Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 132602 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6706
abstract: We report single-shot readout of a superconducting flux qubit by using a flux-driven Josephson parametric amplifier (JPA). After optimizing the readout power, gain of the JPA and timing of the data acquisition, we observe the Rabi oscillations with a contrast of 74% which is mainly limited by the bandwidth of the JPA and the energy relaxation of the qubit. The observation of quantum jumps between the qubit eigenstates under continuous monitoring indicates the nondestructiveness of the readout scheme.

id: 1309.6755
title: The Scattering amplitude for Rationally extended shape invariant Eckart potentials
authors: Rajesh Kumar Yadav, Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 8 pages. Latex, No fig
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6755
abstract: We consider the rationally extended exactly solvable Eckart potentials which exhibit extended shape invariance property. These potentials are isospectral to the conventional Eckart potential. The scattering amplitude for these rationally ex- tended potentials is calculated analytically for the generalized mth (m = 1, 2, 3, ...) case by considering the asymptotic behavior of the scattering state wave functions which are written in terms of some new polynomials related to the Jacobi polyno- mials. As expected, in the m = 0 limit, this scattering amplitude goes over to the scattering amplitude for the conventional Eckart potential.

id: 1309.6886
title: Enhancement models of momentum densities of annihilating electron-positron pairs: the many-body picture of natural geminals
authors: Ilja Makkonen, Mikko M. Ervasti, Topi Siro, Ari Harju
comments: Resubmitted to Physical Review B (Rapid Communications) on 19 December 2013
journal: Physical Review B 89, 041105(R) (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6886
abstract: The correlated motion of a positron surrounded by electrons is a fundamental many-body problem. We approach this by modeling the momentum density of annihilating electron-positron pairs using the framework of reduced density matrices, natural orbitals and natural geminals (electron-positron pair wave functions) of the quantum theory of many-particle systems. We find that an expression based on the natural geminals provides an exact, unique and compact expression for the momentum density. The natural geminals can be used to define and determine enhancement factors for enhancement models going beyond the independent-particle model for a better understanding of results of positron annihilation experiments.

id: 1309.7032
title: Lattice Model for Fermionic Toric Code
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Zhenghan Wang, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 085140 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7032
abstract: The Z_2 topological order in Z_2 spin liquid and in exactly soluble Kitaev toric code model is the simplest topological order for 2+1D bosonic systems. More general 2+1D bosonic topologically ordered states can be constructed via exact soluble string-net models. However, the most important topologically ordered phases of matter are arguably the fermionic fractional quantum Hall states. Topological phases of matter for fermion systems are strictly richer than their bosonic counterparts because locality has different meanings for the two kinds of systems. In this paper, we describe a simple fermionic version of the toric code model to illustrate many salient features of fermionic exactly soluble models and fermionic topologically ordered states.

id: 1309.7033
title: Precision spectroscopy by photon-recoil signal amplification
authors: Yong Wan, Florian Gebert, Jannes B. W¨¹bbena, Nils Scharnhorst, Sana Amairi, Ian D. Leroux, B?rge Hemmerling, Niels L?rch, Klemens Hammerer, Piet O. Schmidt
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, updated supplementary information, fixed typos
journal: Nat Commun 5, 4096 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7033
abstract: Precision spectroscopy of atomic and molecular ions offers a window to new physics, but is typically limited to species with a cycling transition for laser cooling and detection. Quantum logic spectroscopy has overcome this limitation for species with long-lived excited states. Here, we extend quantum logic spectroscopy to fast, dipole-allowed transitions and apply it to perform an absolute frequency measurement. We detect the absorption of photons by the spectroscopically investigated ion through the photon recoil imparted on a co-trapped ion of a different species, on which we can perform efficient quantum logic detection techniques. This amplifies the recoil signal from a few absorbed photons to thousands of fluorescence photons. We resolve the line center of a dipole-allowed transition in 40Ca+ to 1/300 of its observed linewidth, rendering this measurement one of the most accurate of a broad transition. The simplicity and versatility of this approach enables spectroscopy of many previously inaccessible species.

id: 1309.7068
title: Investigation of commuting Hamiltonian in quantum Markov network
authors: Farzad Ghafari Jouneghani, Mohammad Babazadeh, Rogayeh Bayramzadeh, Hossein Movla
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: IJTP, V 53, I 8, August 2014, P 2521-2530
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7068
abstract: Graphical Models have various applications in science and engineering which include physics, bioinformatics, telecommunication and etc. Usage of graphical models needs complex computations in order to evaluation of marginal functions,so there are some powerful methods including mean field approximation, belief propagation algorithm and etc. Quantum graphical models have been recently developed in context of quantum information and computation, and quantum statistical physics, which is possible by generalization of classical probability theory to quantum theory. The main goal of this paper is preparing a primary generalization of Markov network, as a type of graphical models, to quantum case and applying in quantum statistical physics.We have investigated the Markov network and the role of commuting Hamiltonian terms in conditional independence with simple examples of quantum statistical physics.

id: 1309.7086
title: Triply Extended Group of Translations of $\mathbb{R}^{4}$ as Defining Group of NCQM: relation to various gauges
authors: S. Hasibul Hassan Chowdhury, S. Twareque Ali
comments: 35 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 085301 (29pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7086
abstract: The role of the triply extended group of translations of $\mathbb{R}^{4}$, as the defining group of two dimensional noncommutative quantum mechanics (NCQM), has been studied in \cite{ncqmjmp}. In this paper, we revisit the coadjoint orbit structure and various irreducible representations of the group associated with them. The two irreducible representations corresponding to the Landau and symmetric gauges are found to arise from the underlying defining group. The group structure of the transformations, preserving the commutation relations of NCQM, has been studied along with specific examples. Finally, the relationship of a certain family of UIRs of the underlying defining group with a family of deformed complex Hermite polynomials has been explored .

id: 1309.7091
title: Infinite Dimensional Choi-Jamiolkowski States and Time Reversed Quantum Markov Semigroups
authors: Jorge R. Bolanos-Servin, Roberto Quezada
comments: Manuscript submitted to Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7091
abstract: We propose a definition of infinite dimensional Choi-Jamiolkowski state associated with a completely positive trace preserving map. We introduce the notion of Theta-KMS adjoint of a quantum Markov semigroup, which is identified with the time reversed semigroup. The break down of Theta-KMS symmetry (or Theta-standard quantum detailed balance in the sense of Fagnola-Umanita) is measured by means of the von Neumann relative entropy of the Choi-Jamiolkowski states associated with the semigroup and its Theta-KMS adjoint.

id: 1309.7173
title: Analysis of Optimization Techniques to Improve User Response Time of Web Applications and Their Implementation for MOODLE
authors: Priyanka Manchanda
comments: The original final publication will be available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Performance (cs.PF)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7173
abstract: Analysis of seven optimization techniques grouped under three categories (hardware, back-end, and front-end) is done to study the reduction in average user response time for Modular Object Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment (Moodle), a Learning Management System which is scripted in PHP5, runs on Apache web server and utilizes MySQL database software. Before the implementation of these techniques, performance analysis of Moodle is performed for varying number of concurrent users. The results obtained for each optimization technique are then reported in a tabular format. The maximum reduction in end user response time was achieved for hardware optimization which requires Moodle server and database to be installed on solid state disk.

id: 1309.7219
title: Fractional energy states of strongly-interacting bosons in one dimension
authors: N. T. Zinner, A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, M. Valiente
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: EPL 107 (2014) 60003
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7219
abstract: We study two-component bosonic systems with strong inter-species and vanishing intra-species interactions. A new class of exact eigenstates is found with energies that are {\it not} sums of the single-particle energies with wave functions that have the characteristic feature that they vanish over extended regions of coordinate space. This is demonstrated in an analytically solvable model for three equal mass particles, two of which are identical bosons, which is exact in the strongly-interacting limit. We numerically verify our results by presenting the first application of the stochastic variational method to this kind of system. We also demonstrate that the limit where both inter- and intra-component interactions become strong must be treated with extreme care as these limits do not commute. Moreover, we argue that such states are generic also for general multi-component systems with more than three particles. The states can be probed using the same techniques that have recently been used for fermionic few-body systems in quasi-1D.

id: 1309.7221
title: Maximal tripartite entanglement between singlet-triplet qubits in quantum dots
authors: Tuukka Hiltunen, Ari Harju
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7221
abstract: Singlet-triplet states in double quantum dots are promising realizations of qubits, and capacitive coupling can be used to create entanglement between these qubits. We propose an entangling three-qubit gate of singlet-triplet qubits in a triangular setup. Our simulations using a realistic microscopic model show that a maximally entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state can be generated as the qubits are evolved under exchange. Furthermore, our analysis for the gate operation can be used to extract the actual experimental pulse sequence needed to realize this.

id: 1309.7280
title: A splitting higher order scheme with discrete transparent boundary conditions for the Schr?dinger equation in a semi-infinite parallelepiped
authors: Bernard Ducomet, Alexander Zlotnik, Alla Romanova
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.5398
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7280
abstract: An initial-boundary value problem for the $n$-dimensional ($n\geq 2$) time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation in a semi-infinite (or infinite) parallelepiped is considered. Starting from the Numerov-Crank-Nicolson finite-difference scheme, we first construct higher order scheme with splitting space averages having much better spectral properties for $n\geq 3$. Next we apply the Strang-type splitting with respect to the potential and, third, construct discrete transparent boundary conditions (TBC). For the resulting method, the uniqueness of solution and the unconditional uniform in time $L^2$-stability (in particular, $L^2$-conservativeness) are proved. Owing to the splitting, an effective direct algorithm using FFT (in the coordinate directions perpendicular to the leading axis of the parallelepiped) is applicable for general potential. Numerical results on the 2D tunnel effect for a P\"{o}schl-Teller-like potential-barrier and a rectangular potential-well are also included.

id: 1309.7314
title: Majorana fermions coupled to electromagnetic radiation
authors: Christoph Ohm, Fabian Hassler
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 015009 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7314
abstract: We consider a voltage-biased Josephson junction between two nanowires hosting Majorana zero modes which occur as topological protected zero-energy excitations at the junction. We show that two Majorana fermions localized at the junction, even though being neutral particles, interact with the electromagnetic field and generate coherent radiation similar to the conventional Josephson radiation. Within a semiclassical analysis of the radiation field, we find that the optical phase gets locked to the superconducting phase difference and that the radiation is emitted at half the Josephson frequency. In order to confirm the coherence of the radiation, we study correlations of the radiation emitted by two spatially-separated junctions in a d.c.-SQUID geometry taking into account decoherence due to spontaneous state-switches as well as due to quasi-particle poisoning.

id: 1309.7443
title: Entropic uncertainty relations under the relativistic motion
authors: Jun Feng, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Mark D. Gould, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters B 726 (2013) 527-532
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7443
abstract: The uncertainty principle bounds our ability to simultaneously predict two incompatible observables of a quantum particle. Assisted by a quantum memory to store the particle, this uncertainty could be reduced and quantified by a new Entropic Uncertainty Relation (EUR). In this Letter, we explore how the relativistic motion of the system would affect the EUR in two sample scenarios. First, we show that the Unruh effect of an accelerating particle would surely increase the uncertainty if the system and particle entangled initially. On the other hand, the entanglement could be generated from nonuniform motion once the Unruh decoherence is prevented by utilizing the cavity. We show that, in a uncertainty game between an inertial cavity and a nonuniformly accelerated one, the uncertainty evolves periodically with respect to the duration of acceleration segment. Therefore, with properly chosen cavity parameters, the uncertainty bound could be protected. Implications of our results for gravitation are also discussed.

id: 1309.7561
title: Weak measurement of cotunneling time
authors: Alessandro Romito, Yuval Gefen
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 085417 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7561
abstract: Quantum mechanics allows the existence of "virtual states" that have no classical analogue. Such virtual states defy direct observation through strong measurement, which would destroy the volatile virtual state. Here we show how a virtual state of an interacting many-body system can be detected employing a weak measurement protocol with postselection. We employ this protocol for the measurement of the time it takes an electron to tunnel through a virtual state of a quantum dot (cotunneling). Contrary to classical intuition, this cotunneling time is independent of the strength of the dot-lead coupling and may deviate from that predicted by time-energy uncertainty relation. Our approach, amenable to experimental verification, may elucidate an important facet of quantum mechanics which hitherto was not accessible by direct measurements.

id: 1309.7711
title: Valley-dependent gauge fields for ultracold atoms in square optical superlattices
authors: Dan-Wei Zhang, Chuan-Jia Shan, Feng Mei, Mou Yang, Rui-Qiang Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 5+ pages, 2 figures; language polished, references and discussions added; accepted by PRA
journal: Physical Review A 89, 015601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7711
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to realize the valley-dependent gauge fields for ultracold fermionic atoms trapped in a state-dependent square optical lattice. Our scheme relies on two sets of Raman laser beams to engineer the hopping between adjacent sites populated by two-component fermionic atoms. One set of Raman beams are used to realize a staggered \pi-flux lattice, where low energy atoms near two inequivalent Dirac points should be described by the Dirac equation for spin-1/2 particles. Another set of laser beams with proper Rabi frequencies are added to further modulate the atomic hopping parameters. The hopping modulation will give rise to effective gauge potentials with opposite signs near the two valleys, mimicking the interesting strain-induced pseudo-gauge fields in graphene. The proposed valley-dependent gauge fields are tunable and provide a new route to realize quantum valley Hall effects and atomic valleytronics.

id: 1309.7739
title: Communication complexity of promise problems and their applications to finite automata
authors: Jozef Gruska, Daowen Qiu, Shenggen Zheng
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.2499
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7739
abstract: Equality and disjointness are two of the most studied problems in communication complexity. They have been studied for both classical and also quantum communication and for various models and modes of communication. Buhrman et al. [Buh98] proved that the exact quantum communication complexity for a promise version of the equality problem is ${\bf O}(\log {n})$ while the classical deterministic communication complexity is $n+1$ for two-way communication, which was the first impressively large (exponential) gap between quantum and classical (deterministic and probabilistic) communication complexity. If an error is tolerated, both quantum and probabilistic communication complexities for equality are ${\bf O}(\log {n})$. However, even if an error is tolerated, the gaps between quantum (probabilistic) and deterministic complexity are not larger than quadratic for the disjointness problem. It is therefore interesting to ask whether there are some promise versions of the disjointness problem for which bigger gaps can be shown. We give a positive answer to such a question. Namely, we prove that there exists an exponential gap between quantum (even probabilistic) communication complexity and classical deterministic communication complexity of some specific versions of the disjointness problem. Klauck [Kla00] proved, for any language, that the state complexity of exact quantum/classical finite automata, which is a general model of one-way quantum finite automata, is not less than the state complexity of an equivalent one-way deterministic finite automata (1DFA). In this paper we show, using a communication complexity result, that situation may be different for some promise problems. Namely, we show for certain promise problem that the gap between the state complexity of exact one-way quantum finite automata and 1DFA can be exponential.

id: 1309.7740
title: The quantum approach to human reasoning does explain the belief-bias effect
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7740
abstract: Based on the ideas of quantum physics and dual-process theory of human reasoning that takes into account two primary mechanisms of reasoning : 1) deductive rational thinking and 2) intuitive heuristic judgment, we proposed the "quantum" approach to practical human logic that allows one to specify the most distinctive peculiarities in activity of two reasoning systems mentioned above and in addition to describe phenomenologically well-established experimentally belief-bias effect.

id: 1309.7742
title: Emergent of Majorana Fermion mode and Dirac Equation in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Sujit Sarkar
comments: 13 pages, no figure, comments are well come
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7742
abstract: We present the results of low lying excitation of coupled optical cavity arrays. We derive the Dirac equation for this system and explain the existence of Majorana fermion mode in the system. We present quite a few analytical relations between the Rabi frequency oscillation and the atom-photon coupling strength to achieve the different physical situation of our study and also the condition for massless excitation in the system. We present several analytical relations between the Dirac spinor field, order and disorder operators for our systems. We also show that the Luttinger liquid physics is one of the intrinsic concept in our system.

id: 1309.7805
title: Control of atomic transport using autoresonance
authors: D. V. Makarov, M. Yu. Uleysky, S. V. Prants
comments: 
journal: Chaos, Complexity and Transport, (eds. X. Leoncini, M. Leonetti) World Scientific, 2012, pp. 24-32
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7805
abstract: Dynamics of an atomic wavepacket in an optical superlattice is considered. We propose a simple scheme of wavepacket localization near the minima of the optical potential. In our approach, a wavelike perturbation caused by an additional lattice induces classical resonance which traps an atomic cloud. Adiabatic phase modulation of the perturbation slowly shifts resonance zone in phase space to the range of lower energies, retaining trapped atoms inside. This phenomenon is a kind of autoresonance. Quantum computations agree well with classical modelling.

id: 1309.7877
title: Stability and Dynamics of Cross Solitons in Harmonically Confined Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: T. Morgan, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063610 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7877
abstract: We examine the stability and dynamics of a family of crossed dark solitons in a harmonically confined Bose-Einstein condensate in two dimensions. Working in a regime where the fundamental snake instability is suppressed, we show the existence of an instability which leads to an interesting collapse and revival of the initial state for the fundamental case of two crossed solitons. The instability originates from the singular point where the solitons cross, and we characterise it by examining the Bogoliubov spectrum. Finally, we extend the treatment to systems of higher symmetry.

id: 1309.7889
title: Does Information Have Mass?
authors: Laszlo B. Kish, Claes-Goran Granqvist
comments: published
journal: Proc. IEEE Vol. 101, No. 9, September 2013, pp. 1895-1899
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7889
abstract: Does information have mass? This question has been asked many times and there are many answers even on the Internet, including on Yahoo Answers. Usually the answer is "no". Attempts have been made to assess the physical mass of information by estimating the mass of electrons feeding the power-guzzling computers and devices making up the Internet, the result being around 50 gram. Other efforts to calculate the mass of information have assumed that each electron involved in signal transfer carries one bit of information, which makes the corresponding mass to be about 10^-5 gram. We address the fundamental question of minimum mass related to a bit of information from the angles of quantum physics and special relativity. Our results indicate that there are different answers depending on the physical situation, and sometimes the mass can even be negative. We tend to be skeptical about the earlier mass estimations, mentioned above, because our results indicate that the electron's mass does not play a role in any one of them.

id: 1309.7979
title: When does a physical system compute?
authors: Clare Horsman, Susan Stepney, Rob C. Wagner, Viv Kendon
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures. v3 as accepted by Proc.Roy.Soc.A
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 2014 470, 20140182
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7979
abstract: Computing is a high-level process of a physical system. Recent interest in non-standard computing systems, including quantum and biological computers, has brought this physical basis of computing to the forefront. There has been, however, no consensus on how to tell if a given physical system is acting as a computer or not; leading to confusion over novel computational devices, and even claims that every physical event is a computation. In this paper we introduce a formal framework that can be used to determine whether or not a physical system is performing a computation. We demonstrate how the abstract computational level interacts with the physical device level, drawing the comparison with the use of mathematical models to represent physical objects in experimental science. This powerful formulation allows a precise description of the similarities between experiments, computation, simulation, and technology, leading to our central conclusion: physical computing is the use of a physical system to predict the outcome of an abstract evolution. We give conditions that must be satisfied in order for computation to be occurring, and illustrate these with a range of non-standard computing scenarios. The framework also covers broader computing contexts, where there is no obvious human computer user. We define the critical notion of a 'computational entity', and show the role this plays in defining when computing is taking place in physical systems.

id: 1309.7904
title: Missing solution in a Cornell potential
authors: L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.7904
abstract: Missing bound-state solutions for fermions in the background of a Cornell potential consisting of a mixed scalar-vector-pseudoscalar coupling is examined. Charge-conjugation operation, degeneracy and localization are discussed.

id: 1309.1011
title: Extended Grimus-Stockinger theorem and inverse square law violation in quantum field theory
authors: Vadim A. Naumov, Dmitry S. Shkirmanov
comments: 11 pages, no figures. Some additions are done and references are added
journal: Eur.Phys.J. C73 (2013) 2627
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.1011
abstract: We study higher-order corrections to the Grimus-Stockinger theorem dealing with the large-distance asymptotic behavior of the wave-packet modified neutrino propagator within the framework of field-theoretical description of the neutrino oscillation phenomenon. We discuss the possibility that these corrections are responsible for breakdown of the classical inverse-square law (ISL) at the macroscopic distances. In particular the ISL violation can be an explanation of the well-known reactor antineutrino anomaly.

id: 1309.6746
title: Transition states and thermal collapse of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Andrej Junginger, Manuel Kreibich, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043617 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.6746
abstract: We investigate thermally excited, dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates. Quasi-particle excitations of the atomic cloud cause density fluctuations which can induce the collapse of the condensate if the inter-particle interaction is attractive. Within a variational approach, we identify the collectively excited stationary states of the gas which form transition states on the way to the BEC's collapse. We analyze transition states with different $m$-fold rotational symmetry and identify the one which mediates the collapse. The latter's symmetry depends on the trap aspect ratio of the external trapping potential which determines the shape of the BEC. Moreover, we present the collapse dynamics of the BEC and calculate the corresponding decay rate using transition state theory. We observe that the thermally induced collapse mechanism is important near the critical scattering length, where the lifetime of the condensate can be significantly reduced. Our results are valid for an arbitrary strength of the dipole-dipole interaction. Specific applications are discussed for the elements $^{52}$Cr, $^{164}$Dy and $^{168}$Er with which dipolar BECs have been experimentally realized.

id: 1309.0437
title: Resurgent Deformation Quantisation
authors: Mauricio Garay, Axel de Goursac, Duco van Straten
comments: 28 pages, v2: published version
journal: Ann. Phys. 342: 83-102, 2014
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0437
abstract: We construct a version of the complex Heisenberg algebra based on the idea of endless analytic continuation. In particular, we exhibit an integral formula for the product of resurgent operators with algebraic singularities. This algebra would be large enough to capture quantum effects that escape ordinary formal deformation quantisation.

id: 1309.3205
title: Cold Bose Atoms Around the Crossing of Quantum Waveguides
authors: A. Markowsky, N. Schopohl
comments: 23 pages, 22 figures. Two new figures (Fig.16, Fig.22) now elucidate differences between conservative trap potentials and non standard trapping in waveguides with broken translational symmetry. The methodological part of the previous MS is now represented as supplemental material, figures and results from the previous MS remaining unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013622 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3205
abstract: We show that massive low energy particles traversing a branching zone or a crossing of quantum waveguides may experience a non standard trapping force that cannot be derived from a potential. For interacting cold Bose atoms we report on the formation of a localised Hartree ground state for three prototype waveguide geometries with broken translational symmetry: a cranked L-shaped waveguide L, a T-shaped waveguide T, and the crossing C of two quantum waveguides. The phenomenon is kinetic energy driven and cannot be described within the Thomas-Fermi approximation. Depending on the ratio of joining lateral tube diameters of the respective waveguides C,L,T delocalisation commences when the particle number N approaches a critical value. For the case of a binary mixture of two different Bose atom species A and B we observe non standard trapping of both atom species for subcritical particle numbers. A sudden demixing quantum transition takes place as the total particle number N=N_{A}+N_{B} is increased at fixed mixing ratio N_{A}/N_{B}. Depending on the mass ratio m_{A}/m_{B} the heavier atom species delocalises first for a wide range of interaction parameters. The numerical calculations are based on a splitting scheme involving an analytic approximation to the short time asymptotics of the imaginary time quantum propagator of a single particle obeying to Dirichlet boundary conditions at the walls inside the respective waveguides.

id: 1309.5197
title: Persistent currents in absence of magnetic field in graphene nanorings: The ambiguous role of inter valley scattering
authors: Colin Benjamin, A M Jayannavar
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures, Accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters. Applied Physics Letters (2014)
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 053112 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.5197
abstract: Persistent currents can arise in normal-metal rings due to a magnetic flux threading the ring in equilibrium. However, can persistent currents arise in absence of magnetic flux in the same normal-metal rings? Yes they can but in a non-equilibrium set-up. This is known as current magnification. In this work we show that current magnification can be seen in graphene nanorings. Further, graphene can have electrons polarized with a valley quantum number. Electron scattering between valleys can have a non-trivial effect on these persistent currents including inducing a sign change and generating them for parameters where none existed to begin with.

id: 1309.3990
title: Nanoscale temperature measurements using non-equilibrium Brownian dynamics of a levitated nanosphere
authors: J. Millen, T. Deesuwan, P. Barker, J. Anders
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, supplementary material available upon request
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 9, 425 (2014)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.3990
abstract: Einstein realised that the fluctuations of a Brownian particle can be used to ascertain properties of its environment. A large number of experiments have since exploited the Brownian motion of colloidal particles for studies of dissipative processes, providing insight into soft matter physics, and leading to applications from energy harvesting to medical imaging. Here we use optically levitated nanospheres that are heated to investigate the non-equilibrium properties of the gas surrounding them. Analysing the sphere's Brownian motion allows us to determine the temperature of the centre-of-mass motion of the sphere, its surface temperature and the heated gas temperature in two spatial dimensions. We observe asymmetric heating of the sphere and gas, with temperatures reaching the melting point of the material. This method offers new opportunities for accurate temperature measurements with spatial resolution on the nanoscale, and a new means for testing non-equilibrium thermodynamics

id: 1309.0559
title: Non-abelian Weyl Commutation Relations and the Series Product of Quantum Stochastic Evolutions
authors: D. Gwion Evans, J.E. Gough, M.R. James
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 28 November 2012 vol. 370 no. 1979 5437-5451
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1309.0559
abstract: We show that the series product, which serves as an algebraic rule for connecting state-based input/output systems, is intimately related to the Heisenberg group and the canonical commutation relations. The series product for quantum stochastic models then corresponds to a non-abelian generalization of the Weyl commutation relation. We show that the series product gives the general rule for combining the generators of quantum stochastic evolutions using a Lie-Trotter product formula.

