id: 1310.0017
title: Product-state Approximations to Quantum Ground States
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 44 pages. v2: proof of thm 6 corrected
journal: Proc. of the 45th ACM Symposium on theory of computing (STOC 2013), pp. 871-880
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0017
abstract: The local Hamiltonian problem consists of estimating the ground-state energy (given by the minimum eigenvalue) of a local quantum Hamiltonian. First, we show the existence of a good product-state approximation for the ground-state energy of 2-local Hamiltonians with one or more of the following properties: (1) high degree, (2) small expansion, or (3) a ground state with sublinear entanglement with respect to some partition into small pieces. The approximation based on degree is a surprising difference between quantum Hamiltonians and classical CSPs (constraint satisfaction problems), since in the classical setting, higher degree is usually associated with harder CSPs. The approximation based on low entanglement, in turn, was previously known only in the regime where the entanglement was close to zero. Since the existence of a low-energy product state can be checked in NP, the result implies that any Hamiltonian used for a quantum PCP theorem should have: (1) constant degree, (2) constant expansion, (3) a "volume law" for entanglement with respect to any partition into small parts. Second, we show that in several cases, good product-state approximations not only exist, but can be found in polynomial time: (1) 2-local Hamiltonians on any planar graph, solving an open problem of Bansal, Bravyi, and Terhal, (2) dense k-local Hamiltonians for any constant k, solving an open problem of Gharibian and Kempe, and (3) 2-local Hamiltonians on graphs with low threshold rank, via a quantum generalization of a recent result of Barak, Raghavendra and Steurer. Our work introduces two new tools which may be of independent interest. First, we prove a new quantum version of the de Finetti theorem which does not require the usual assumption of symmetry. Second, we describe a way to analyze the application of the Lasserre/Parrilo SDP hierarchy to local quantum Hamiltonians.

id: 1310.0087
title: Superradiant control of gamma-ray propagation by vibrating nuclear arrays
authors: Xiwen Zhang, Anatoly A. Svidzinsky
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033854 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0087
abstract: The collective nature of light interactions with atomic and nuclear ensembles yields the fascinating phenomena of superradiance and radiation trapping. We study the interaction of gamma rays with a coherently vibrating periodic array of two-level nuclei. Such nuclear motion can be generated, e.g., in ionic crystals illuminated by a strong driving optical laser field. We find that deflection of the incident gamma beam into the Bragg angle can be switched on and off by nuclear vibrations on a superradiant time scale determined by the collective nuclear frequency, which is of the order of terahertz. Namely, if the incident gamma wave is detuned from the nuclear transition by much larger frequency it passes through the static nuclear array. However, if the nuclei vibrate with the frequency of the gamma ray detuning then parametric resonance can yield energy transfer into the Bragg deflected beam on the superradiant time scale, which can be used for fast control of gamma rays.

id: 1310.0102
title: Selective-Resonance-Based Quantum Entangling Operation on Qubits in Circuit QED
authors: Ming Hua, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0102
abstract: We present a fast quantum entangling operation on superconducting qubits assisted by a resonator in the quasi-dispersive regime with a new effect --- the selective resonance coming from the amplified qubit-state-dependent resonator transition frequency and the tunable period relation between a wanted quantum Rabi oscillation and an unwanted one. This operation does not require any kind of drive fields and the interaction between qubits. More interesting, the non-computational third excitation states of the charge qubits can play an important role in shortening largely the operation time of the entangling gates. All those features provide an effective way to realize much faster quantum entangling gates on superconducting qubits than previous proposals.

id: 1310.0129
title: The squashed entanglement of a quantum channel
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Saikat Guha, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v3: 25 pages, 3 figures, significant expansion of paper; v2: error in a prior version corrected (main result unaffected), cited Tucci for his work related to squashed entanglement; 5 + epsilon pages and 2-page appendix
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 60, no. 8, pages 4987-4998, August 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0129
abstract: This paper defines the squashed entanglement of a quantum channel as the maximum squashed entanglement that can be registered by a sender and receiver at the input and output of a quantum channel, respectively. A new subadditivity inequality for the original squashed entanglement measure of Christandl and Winter leads to the conclusion that the squashed entanglement of a quantum channel is an additive function of a tensor product of any two quantum channels. More importantly, this new subadditivity inequality, along with prior results of Christandl, Winter, et al., establishes the squashed entanglement of a quantum channel as an upper bound on the quantum communication capacity of any channel assisted by unlimited forward and backward classical communication. A similar proof establishes this quantity as an upper bound on the private capacity of a quantum channel assisted by unlimited forward and backward public classical communication. This latter result is relevant as a limitation on rates achievable in quantum key distribution. As an important application, we determine that these capacities can never exceed log((1+eta)/(1-eta)) for a pure-loss bosonic channel for which a fraction eta of the input photons make it to the output on average. The best known lower bound on these capacities is equal to log(1/(1-eta)). Thus, in the high-loss regime for which eta << 1, this new upper bound demonstrates that the protocols corresponding to the above lower bound are nearly optimal.

id: 1310.0179
title: Kochen-Specker Sets with a Mixture of 16 Rank-1 and 14 Rank-2 Projectors for a Three-Qubit System
authors: S. P. Toh
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables, 1 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol.30., No.10(2013)100302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0179
abstract: Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem denies the possibility for the noncontextual hidden variable theories to reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics. A set of projection operators (projectors) and bases used to show the impossibility of noncontextual definite values assignment is named as the KS set. Since one KS set with a mixture of 16 rank-1 projectors and 14 rank-2 projectors proposed in 1995 [Kernaghan M and Peres A 1995 Phys. Lett.\ A \textbf{198} 1] for a three-qubit system, there are plenty of the same type KS sets and we propose a systematic way to produce them. We also propose a probabilistic state-dependent proof of the KS theorem that mainly focuses on the values assignment for all the rank-2 projectors.

id: 1310.0190
title: State Independent Proof of Kochen-Specker Theorem with Thirty Rank-Two Projectors
authors: S. P. Toh
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Refer to arXiv:1304.6166 for the steps of generating KS sets with thirty rank-2 projectors
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol.30, No. 10(2013) 100303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0190
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem states that noncontextual hidden variable theories are incompatible with quantum mechanics. We provide a state independent proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem using the smallest number of projectors, i.e., thirty rank-2 projectors, associated with the Mermin pentagram for a three-qubit system.

id: 1310.0197
title: Compact quantum gates on electron-spin qubits assisted by diamond nitrogen-vacancy centers inside cavities
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. To appear in
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0197
abstract: Constructing compact quantum circuits for universal quantum gates on solid-state systems is crucial for quantum computing. We present some compact quantum circuits for a deterministic solid-state quantum computing, including the CNOT, Toffoli, and Fredkin gates on the diamond nitrogen-vacancy centers confined inside cavities, achieved by some input-output processes of a single photon. Our quantum circuits for these universal quantum gates are simple and economic. Moreover, additional electron qubits are not employed, but only a single-photon medium. These gates have a long coherent time. We discuss the feasibility of these universal solid-state quantum gates, concluding that they are feasible with current technology.

id: 1310.0228
title: Measurement-based Quantum Computation Under Different Types of Noises
authors: Ding Zhong, Jian Wang, Ning Dai, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0228
abstract: Measurement based quantum computation (MBQC) is an effective paradigm for universal quantum computation. In this scheme, the universal set of quantum gates are realized by only local measurements on the prior prepared cluster states. The inevitable decoherence is harmful to the realization of those quantum gates. Here, we investigate the performance of the quantum gates exposed to different type of noises. We find that some errors may not influence the success of the quantum gates, in contrast, some others may destroy their realization. We show that there is a controlling pattern that can protect quantum gates from certain types of noises and thus can improve the success probability of the gates implementation.

id: 1310.0240
title: Efficient decoy-state quantum key distribution with quantified security
authors: M. Lucamarini, K. A. Patel, J. F. Dynes, B. Fr?hlich, A. W. Sharpe, A. R. Dixon, Z. L. Yuan, R. V. Penty, A. J. Shields
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: Opt. Express 21, 24550-24565 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0240
abstract: We analyse the finite-size security of the efficient Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol implemented with decoy states and apply the results to a gigahertz-clocked quantum key distribution system. Despite the enhanced security level, the obtained secure key rates are the highest reported so far at all fibre distances.

id: 1310.0276
title: Friction due to inhomogeneous driving of coupled spins in a quantum heat engine
authors: George Thomas, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0276
abstract: We consider two spin-1/2 particles with isotropic Heisenberg interaction, as the working substance of a quantum heat engine. We observe a frictional effect on the adiabatic branches of the heat cycle, which arises due to an inhomogeneous driving at a finite rate of the external magnetic field. The frictional effect is characterized by entropy production in the system and reduction in the work extracted. Corresponding to a sudden and a very slow driving, we find expressions for the lower and upper bounds of work that can be extracted on the adiabatic branches. These bounds are also confirmed with numerical simulations of the corresponding Liouville-von Neumann equation.

id: 1310.0284
title: Causal structures from entropic information: Geometry and novel scenarios
authors: Rafael Chaves, Lukas Luft, David Gross
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, many cones. Minor revisions, new figures and inequalities
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 043001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0284
abstract: The fields of quantum non-locality in physics, and causal discovery in machine learning, both face the problem of deciding whether observed data is compatible with a presumed causal relationship between the variables (for example a local hidden variable model). Traditionally, Bell inequalities have been used to describe the restrictions imposed by causal structures on marginal distributions. However, some structures give rise to non-convex constraints on the accessible data, and it has recently been noted that linear inequalities on the observable entropies capture these situations more naturally. In this paper, we show the versatility of the entropic approach by greatly expanding the set of scenarios for which entropic constraints are known. For the first time, we treat Bell scenarios involving multiple parties and multiple observables per party. Going beyond the usual Bell setup, we exhibit inequalities for scenarios with extra conditional independence assumptions, as well as a limited amount of shared randomness between the parties. Many of our results are based on a geometric observation: Bell polytopes for two-outcome measurements can be naturally imbedded into the convex cone of attainable marginal entropies. Thus, any entropic inequality can be translated into one valid for probabilities. In some situations the converse also holds, which provides us with a rich source of candidate entropic inequalities.

id: 1310.0291
title: Mismatched Quantum Filtering and Entropic Information
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v1: first draft, 8 pages, v2: added introduction and more results on mutual information and channel capacity, 12 pages, v3: minor updates, v4: updated the presentation
journal: Proceedings of IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, June 29-July 4 2014, pp. 321-325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0291
abstract: Quantum filtering is a signal processing technique that estimates the posterior state of a quantum system under continuous measurements and has become a standard tool in quantum information processing, with applications in quantum state preparation, quantum metrology, and quantum control. If the filter assumes a nominal model that differs from reality, however, the estimation accuracy is bound to suffer. Here I derive identities that relate the excess error caused by quantum filter mismatch to the relative entropy between the true and nominal observation probability measures, with one identity for Gaussian measurements, such as optical homodyne detection, and another for Poissonian measurements, such as photon counting. These identities generalize recent seminal results in classical information theory and provide new operational meanings to relative entropy, mutual information, and channel capacity in the context of quantum experiments.

id: 1310.0297
title: Sampling generalized cat states with linear optics is probably hard
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Keith R. Motes, Paul Knott, Joseph Fitzsimons, William Munro, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012342 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0297
abstract: Boson-sampling has been presented as a simplified model for linear optical quantum computing. In the boson-sampling model, Fock states are passed through a linear optics network and sampled via number-resolved photodetection. It has been shown that this sampling problem likely cannot be efficiently classically simulated. This raises the question as to whether there are other quantum states of light for which the equivalent sampling problem is also computationally hard. We present evidence, without using a full complexity proof, that a very broad class of quantum states of light --- arbitrary superpositions of two or more coherent states --- when evolved via passive linear optics and sampled with number-resolved photodetection, likely implements a classically hard sampling problem.

id: 1310.0373
title: Measures of entanglement in non-Abelian anyonic systems
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX 4.1. Changed title to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 035105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0373
abstract: Bipartite entanglement entropies, calculated from the reduced density matrix of a subsystem, provide a description of the resources available within a system for performing quantum information processing. However, these quantities are not uniquely defined on a system of non-Abelian anyons. This paper describes how reduced density matrices and bipartite entanglement entropies (such as the von Neumann and Renyi entropies) may be constructed for non-Abelian anyonic systems, in ways which reduce to the conventional definitions for systems with only local degrees of freedom.

id: 1310.0383
title: Enhancing the sensitivity of the LIGO gravitational wave detector by using squeezed states of light
authors: LIGO Scientific Collaboration
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 613-619 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0383
abstract: Nearly a century after Einstein first predicted the existence of gravitational waves, a global network of earth-based gravitational wave observatories is seeking to directly detect this faint radiation using precision laser interferometry. Photon shot noise, due to the quantum nature of light, imposes a fundamental limit on the attometer level sensitivity of the kilometer-scale Michelson interferometers deployed for this task. Here we inject squeezed states to improve the performance of one of the detectors of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) beyond the quantum noise limit, most notably in the frequency region down to 150 Hz, critically important for several astrophysical sources, with no deterioration of performance observed at any frequency. With the injection of squeezed states, this LIGO detector demonstrated the best broadband sensitivity to gravitational waves ever achieved, with important implications for observing the gravitational wave Uni- verse with unprecedented sensitivity.

id: 1310.0420
title: Two-particle fermionic quantum walks on a cycle graph
authors: Alexey A. Melnikov, Leonid E. Fedichkin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0420
abstract: In this paper we study quantum walks of electrons on a graph. This graph is composed of Si quantum dots arranged in a circle. Electrons can tunnel between neighbouring dots and interact via Coulomb interaction. We show that this mutual repulsion leads to entanglement. Fermionic entanglement dynamics is evaluated by several measures. Current detectors are considered in the paper as a noisy environment. We show that depending on the noise parameters fermionic entanglement can be annihilated, preserved, created for a certain time or re-created after annihilation.

id: 1310.0438
title: Exploring the role of Leggett-Garg inequality for quantum cryptography
authors: Akshata Shenoy H., S. Aravinda, R. Srikanth, D. Home
comments: ReVTEX4; 4 pages + 2 pages (Supplemental Material)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0438
abstract: In the cryptographic context, an earlier unexplored application of the temporal version of the Bell-type inequalities is shown here in the device-independent (DI) scenario. This is achieved in terms of the Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) by demonstrating security against eavesdropping in a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme that involves a certain type of higher dimensional attack against which the standard BB84 protocol is insecure. For this purpose, we invoke an appropriate form of LGI to formulate what we call the LG-BB84 protocol. While the key generation is done by the usual Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) method, the security check against device attacks in the LG-BB84 protocol is provided by testing for the violation of the particular form of LGI used here.

id: 1310.0443
title: Quantum-enhanced Phase Estimation with an Amplified Bell State
authors: Jaspreet Sahota, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063820 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0443
abstract: We propose a phase estimation protocol for optical interferometry that employs a probe state (containing on average n photons) obtained by squeezing each mode, separately, of a single photon path entangled Bell state. This scheme involves a Mach-Zehnder type interferometer for which each mode is squeezed after the first beam splitter. Information about the differential phase is extracted using a parity detection and the resulting measurement signal is super-resolving and supersensitive, with a minimum phase uncertainty 2/(n+1). This probe state can be generated with current technologies where n is in the order of many thousands of photons.

id: 1310.0529
title: Adiabatic quantum optimization with the wrong Hamiltonian
authors: Kevin C. Young, Robin Blume-Kohout, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0529
abstract: Analog models of quantum information processing, such as adiabatic quantum computation and analog quantum simulation, require the ability to subject a system to precisely specified Hamiltonians. Unfortunately, the hardware used to implement these Hamiltonians will be imperfect and limited in its precision. Even small perturbations and imprecisions can have profound effects on the nature of the ground state. Here we consider an imperfect implementation of adiabatic quantum optimization and show that, for a widely applicable random control noise model, quantum stabilizer encodings are able to reduce the effective noise magnitude and thus improve the likelihood of a successful computation or simulation. This reduction builds upon two design principles: summation of equivalent logical operators to increase the energy scale of the encoded optimization problem, and the inclusion of a penalty term comprising the sum of the code stabilizer elements. We illustrate our findings with an Ising ladder and show that classical repetition coding drastically increases the probability that the ground state of a perturbed model is decodable to that of the unperturbed model, while using only realistic two-body interaction. Finally, we note that the repetition encoding is a special case of quantum stabilizer encodings, and show that this in principle allows us to generalize our results to many types of analog quantum information processing, albeit at the expense of many-body interactions.

id: 1310.0592
title: A Dynamical Formulation of One-Dimensional Scattering Theory and Its Applications in Optics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 5 References added, 11 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 341, 77-85 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0592
abstract: We develop a dynamical formulation of one-dimensional scattering theory where the reflection and transmission amplitudes for a general, possibly complex and energy-dependent, scattering potential are given as solutions of a set of dynamical equations. By decoupling and partially integrating these equations, we reduce the scattering problem to a second order linear differential equation with universal initial conditions that is equivalent to an initial-value time-independent Schrodinger equation. We give explicit formulas for the reflection and transmission amplitudes in terms of the solution of either of these equations and employ them to outline an inverse-scattering method for constructing finite-range potentials with desirable scattering properties at any prescribed wavelength. In particular, we construct optical potentials displaying threshold lasing, anti-lasing, and unidirectional invisibility.

id: 1310.0630
title: Effects of the continuous spontaneous localization model in the regime of large localization length scale
authors: Daniel Bedingham
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032713 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0630
abstract: Working in the limit in which the localization length scale is large compared to other relevant length scales we examine three experimental situations with the continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) model---a well-motivated alternative to standard quantum theory. These are the two-slit experiment; scattering from a potential barrier; and the release of two non-interacting particles simultaneously from a potential trap. In each case we calculate the diagonal part of the time evolved density matrix giving a probability density function over final measured states. The case of the two-slit experiment is already well understood and we reproduce some known conditions for observing loss of interference. The other examples have not previously been examined in the context of CSL. For scattering from a potential barrier we find that the probability of reflection is unchanged by CSL, however, the momentum state is spread in a characteristic way. For the case of two particles released simultaneously from a trap we find that it is more likely that the particles diffuse in the same direction than would happen if the particles behaved independently. We assess the possibility of observing these effects.

id: 1310.0633
title: A test of the continuous spontaneous localization model involving two particles
authors: Daniel Bedingham
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. This paper has been withdrawn since it has been incorporated into arXiv:1411.6921
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0633
abstract: We describe a previously unexplored effect of the continuous spontaneous localization model whereby a correlation develops in the distributions of two nearby non-interacting particles following a period of diffusion. We propose the use of this effect as an experimental test differentiating between the continuous spontaneous localization model and standard quantum theory. The test involves building a joint probability distribution for the locations of the two particles by repeatedly releasing them from two nearby traps and subsequently measuring their positions after a brief period of time. We examine the scales of time, trap size, and particle mass necessary for observation.

id: 1310.0644
title: Stochastic Schr?dinger Equations for Markovian and non-Markovian cases
authors: I. Semina, V. Semin, F. Petruccione, A. Barchielli
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn. 21 (2014) 1440008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0644
abstract: Firstly, the Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations are presented, together with their connections with the theory of measurements in continuous time. Moreover, the stochastic evolution equations are translated into a simulation algorithm, which is illustrated by two concrete examples - the damped harmonic oscillator and a two-level atom with homodyne photodetection. Then, we consider how to introduce memory effects in the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation via coloured noise. Specifically, the approach by using the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process is illustrated and a simulation for the non-Markovian process proposed. Finally, an analytical approximation technique is tested with the help of the stochastic simulation in a model of a dissipative qubit.

id: 1310.0668
title: Simulating Bell violations without quantum computers
authors: Peter D. Drummond, Bogdan Opanchuk, Laura Rosales-Z¨¢rate, Margaret D. Reid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0668
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to simulate Bell violations using probabilistic methods. A quantum state corresponding to optical experiments that violate the Bell inequality is generated, demonstrating that these quantum paradoxes can indeed be simulated probabilistically. This provides an explicit counter-example to Feynman's claim that such classical simulations could not be carried out.

id: 1310.0683
title: Quantum heat engines and refrigerators: Continuous devices
authors: Ronnie Kosloff, Amikam Levy
comments: 
journal: Annual Review of Physical Chemistry [2014, 65:365-393]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0683
abstract: Quantum thermodynamics supplies a consistent description of quantum heat engines and refrigerators up to the level of a single few level system coupled to the environment. Once the environment is split into three;a hot, cold and work reservoirs a heat engine can operate. The device converts the positive gain into power;where the gain is obtained from population inversion between the components of the device. Reversing the operation transforms the device into a quantum refrigerator. The quantum tricycle, a device connected by three external leads to three heat reservoirs is used as a template for engines and refrigerators. The equation of motion for the heat currents and power can be derived from first principle. Only a global description of the coupling of the device to the reservoirs is consistent with the first and second laws of thermodynamics. Optimisation of the devices leads to a balanced set of parameters where the couplings to the three reservoirs are of the same order and the external driving field is in resonance. When analysing refrigerators special attention is devoted to a dynamical version of the third law of thermodynamics. Bounds on the rate of cooling when approaching the absolute zero are obtained by optimising the cooling current. At low temperature all refrigerators show universal behavior. Restrictions on the system imposed by the dynamical version of the third law are studied.

id: 1310.0686
title: Formal analogy between the Dirac equation in its Majorana form and the discrete-velocity version of the Boltzmann kinetic equation
authors: F. Fillion-Gourdeau, H.J. Herrmann, M. Mendoza, S. Palpacelli, S. Succi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0686
abstract: We point out a formal analogy between the Dirac equation in Majorana form and the discrete-velocity version of the Boltzmann kinetic equation. By a systematic analysis based on the theory of operator splitting, this analogy is shown to turn into a concrete and efficient computational method, providing a unified treatment of relativistic and non-relativistic quantum mechanics. This might have potentially far-reaching implications for both classical and quantum computing, because it shows that, by splitting time along the three spatial directions, quantum information (Dirac-Majorana wavefunction) propagates in space-time as a classical statistical process (Boltzmann distribution).

id: 1310.0694
title: Elimination of the A-square problem from cavity QED
authors: Andr¨¢s Vukics, Tobias Grie?er, Peter Domokos
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 073601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0694
abstract: We generalize the Power-Zineau-Woolley transformation to obtain a canonical Hamiltonian of cavity quantum electrodynamics for arbitrary geometry of boundaries. This Hamiltonian is free from the A-square term and the instantaneous Coulomb interaction between distinct atoms. The single-mode models of cavity QED (Dicke, Tavis-Cummings, Jaynes-Cummings) are justified by a term by term mapping to the proposed microscopic Hamiltonian. As one straightforward consequence, the basis of no-go argumentations concerning the Dicke phase transition with atoms in electromagnetic fields dissolves.

id: 1310.0706
title: Dirac oscillator and nonrelativistic Snyder-de Sitter algebra
authors: M. M. Stetsko
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0706
abstract: Three dimensional Dirac oscillator was considered in deformed space obeyed to deformed commutation relations known as Snyder-de Sitter algebra. Snyder-de Sitter commutation relations gives rise to appearance minimal uncertainty in position as well as in momentum. To derive energy spectrum and wavefunctions of the Dirac oscillator supersymmetric quantum mechanics and shape invariance technique was applied.

id: 1310.0712
title: Weak-signal conversion from 1550nm to 532nm with 84% efficiency
authors: Aiko Samblowski, Christina E. Vollmer, Christoph Baune, Jaromir Fiurasek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0712
abstract: We report on the experimental frequency conversion of a dim, coherent continuous-wave light field from 1550nm to 532nm with an external photon-number conversion efficiency of (84.4 +/- 1.5)%. We used sum-frequency generation, which was realized in a standing-wave cavity built around a periodically poled type I potassium titanyl phosphate (PPKTP) crystal, pumped by an intense field at 810 nm. Our result is in full agreement with a numerical model. For optimized cavity coupler reflectivities it predicts a conversion efficiency of up to 93% using the same PPKTP crystal.

id: 1310.0715
title: Effectiveness of Depolarizing noise in causing sudden death of entanglement
authors: K. O. Yashodamma, P. J. Geetha, Sudha
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0715
abstract: Continuing on the recent observation that sudden death of entanglement can occur even when a single qubit of a two qubit state is exposed to noisy environment, we examine the local effects of several noises on bipartite qubit-qutrit and qutrit-qutrit systems. In order to rule out any initial interactions with environment, we consider maximally entangled pure states of qubit-qutrit and qutrit-qutrit systems for our analysis. We show that depolarizing and generalized amplitude damping noise can cause sudden death of entanglement in these states even when they act only on one part of the system. We also show that sudden death of entanglement occurs much faster under the action of depolarizing noise when compared to that due to generalized amplitude damping. This result strengthens the observation that depolarizing noise is more effective than other noise models in causing sudden death of entanglement.

id: 1310.0746
title: Modulus of convexity for operator convex functions
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 5 pages, change of title. The new version shows that the main result of the original paper cannot be extended to convex functions that are not operator convex!
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 082201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0746
abstract: Given an operator convex function $f(x)$, we obtain an operator-valued lower bound for $cf(x) + (1-c)f(y) - f(cx + (1-c)y)$, $c \in [0,1]$. The lower bound is expressed in terms of the matrix Bregman divergence. A similar inequality is shown to be false for functions that are convex but not operator convex.

id: 1310.0750
title: Diamond as a solid state quantum computer with a linear chain of nuclear spins system
authors: G.V. L¨®pez
comments: 4 figures,13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0750
abstract: By removing a $^{12}C$ atom from the tetrahedral configuration of the diamond, replace it by a $^{13}C$ atom, and repeating this in a linear direction, it is possible to have a linear chain of nuclear spins one half and to build a solid state quantum computer. One qubit rotation and controlled-not (CNOT) quantum gates are obtained immediately from this configuration, and CNOT quantum gate is used to determined the design parameters of this quantum computer.

id: 1310.0842
title: Essential lack of security proof in quantum key distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: This paper with a similar title is to be published in the Proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Quantum-Physics-Based Information Security held in Dresden, Germany, Sep 23-24, 2013. This v2 corrects some types in v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0842
abstract: All the currently available unconditional security proofs on quantum key distribution, in particular for the BB84 protocol and its variants including continuous-variable ones, are invalid or incomplete at many points. In this paper we discuss some of the main known problems, particularly those on operational security guarantee and error correction. Most basic are the points that there is no security parameter in such protocols and it is not the case the generated key is perfect with probability $\geq 1-\epsilon$ under the trace distance criterion $d\leq\epsilon$, which is widely claimed in the technical and popular literature. The many serious security consequences of this error about the QKD generated key would be explained, including practical ramification on achievable security levels. It will be shown how the error correction problem alone may already defy rigorous quantitative analysis. Various other problems would be touched upon. It is pointed out that rigorous security guarantee of much more efficient quantum cryptosystems may be obtained by abandoning the disturbance-information tradeoff principle and utilizing instead the known KCQ (keyed communication in quantum noise) principle in conjunction with a new DBM (decoy bits method) principle that will be detailed elsewhere.

id: 1310.0863
title: Optimal complexity correction of correlated errors in the surface code
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0863
abstract: The surface code is designed to suppress errors in quantum computing hardware and currently offers the most believable pathway to large-scale quantum computation. The surface code requires a 2-D array of nearest-neighbor coupled qubits that are capable of implementing a universal set of gates with error rates below approximately 1%, requirements compatible with experimental reality. Consequently, a number of authors are attempting to squeeze additional performance out of the surface code. We describe an optimal complexity error suppression algorithm, parallelizable to O(1) given constant computing resources per unit area, and provide evidence that this algorithm exploits correlations in the error models of each gate in an asymptotically optimal manner.

id: 1310.0905
title: Relativistic Spin and Dirac Spin in relativistically covariant Stern-Gerlach Experiment
authors: Taeseung Choi, Yeong Deok Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0905
abstract: We have studied a relativistically covariant Stern-Gerlach (SG) experiment for a relativistic spin and a Dirac spin. We have obtained the relativistic spin in an arbitrary frame by using the classical spin dipole tensor, which gives the covariant spin dipole interactions, and the relation between a spin and a spin magnetic dipole moment. The relativistic spin is shown to have problems to become a proper spin operator for a massive relativistic particle because of two reasons. First, the relativistic spin three-vector operators cannot satisfy the spin algebra. Second, the SG experiment for the relativistic particle provides a paradox between two observers in the particle rest frame and the laboratory frame, in which the particle is moving. We have shown that the paradox in the SG experiment is resolved by the Dirac spin, which is covariantly defined by a Lorentz transformation in the Dirac spinor representation. The Dirac spin three-vector operators satisfy the spin algebra. It is shown that the SG experiment for the Dirac spin in the inertial frame, where there is only magnetic field, can determine the spin without the information of the momentum of the particle. This shows that the reduced spin density matrix for the Dirac particle can be well-defined by integrating out the momentum degrees of freedom.

id: 1310.0964
title: Quantum correlations in the 1-D driven dissipative transverse field XY model
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Felix Nissen, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures (Published version with added section on Mean-field theory and References updated)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 063835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0964
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium steady state (NESS) of a driven dissipative one-dimensional system near a critical point, and explore how the quantum correlations compare to the known critical behavior in the ground state. The model we study corresponds to a cavity array driven parametrically at a two photon resonance, equivalent in a rotating frame to a transverse field anisotropic XY model [C. E. Bardyn and A. Imamo\u{g}lu, Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf 109} 253606 (2012)]. Depending on the sign of transverse field, the steady state of the open system can be either related to the ground state or to the maximum energy state. In both cases, many properties of the entanglement are similar to the ground state, although no critical behavior occurs. As one varies from the Ising limit to the isotropic XY limit, entanglement range grows. The isotropic limit of the NESS is however singular, with simultaneously diverging range and vanishing magnitude of entanglement. This singular limiting behavior is quite distinct from the ground state behavior, it can however be understood analytically within spin-wave theory.

id: 1310.0966
title: Complete analysis for three-qubit mixed-state discrimination
authors: Donghoon Ha, Younghun Kwon
comments: 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0966
abstract: In this article, by treating minimum error state discrimination as a complementarity problem, we obtain the geometric optimality conditions. These can be used as the necessary and sufficient conditions to determine whether every optimal measurement operator can be nonzero. Using these conditions and an inductive approach, we demonstrate a geometric method and the intrinsic polytope for N-qubit mixed-state discrimination. When the intrinsic polytope becomes a point, a line segment, or a triangle, the guessing probability, the necessary and sufficient condition for the exact solution, and the optimal measurement are analytically obtained. We apply this result to the problem of discrimination to arbitrary three-qubit mixed states with given a priori probabilities and obtain the complete analytic solution to the guessing probability and optimal measurement.

id: 1310.1036
title: An optimal dissipative encoder for the toric code
authors: John Dengis, Robert Koenig, Fernando Pastawski
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, v2: updated to match published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 013023 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1036
abstract: We consider the problem of preparing specific encoded resource states for the toric code by local, time-independent interactions with a memoryless environment. We propose a construction of such a dissipative encoder which converts product states to topologically ordered ones while preserving logical information. The corresponding Liouvillian is made up of four-local Lindblad operators. For a qubit lattice of size $L\times L$, we show that this process prepares encoded states in time $O(L)$, which is optimal. This scaling compares favorably with known local unitary encoders for the toric code which take time of order $\Omega(L^2)$ and require active time-dependent control.

id: 1310.1037
title: Generating topological order: no speedup by dissipation
authors: Robert Koenig, Fernando Pastawski
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1037
abstract: We consider the problem of preparing topologically ordered states using unitary and non-unitary circuits, as well as local time-dependent Hamiltonian and Liouvillian evolutions. We prove that for any topological code in $D$ dimensions, the time required to encode logical information into the ground space is at least $\Omega(d^{1/(D-1)})$, where $d$ is the code distance. This result is tight for the toric code, giving a scaling with the linear system size. More generally, we show that the linear scaling is necessary even when dropping the requirement of encoding: preparing any state close to the ground space using dissipation takes an amount of time proportional to the diameter of the system in typical 2D topologically ordered systems, as well as for example the 3D and 4D toric codes.

id: 1310.1110
title: Role of correlations in the two-body-marginal problem
authors: Lin Chen, Oleg Gittsovich, Kavan Modi, Marco Piani
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, close to final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1110
abstract: Quantum properties of correlations have a key role in disparate fields of physics, from quantum information processing, to quantum foundations, to strongly correlated systems. We tackle a specific aspect of the fundamental quantum marginal problem: we address the issue of deducing the global properties of correlations of tripartite quantum states based on the knowledge of their bipartite reductions, focusing on relating specific properties of bipartite correlations to global correlation properties. We prove that strictly classical bipartite correlations may still require global entanglement and that unentangled---albeit not strictly classical---reductions may require global genuine multipartite entanglement, rather than simple entanglement. On the other hand, for three qubits, the strict classicality of the bipartite reductions rules out the need for genuine multipartite entanglement. Our work sheds new light on the relation between local and global properties of quantum states, and on the interplay between classical and quantum properties of correlations.

id: 1310.1123
title: Antiparticle creation in tunneling
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 28, 1350129-9 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1123
abstract: We study particle interaction with a Dirac step potential. In the standard Klein energy zone, the hypothesis of Klein pair production predicts the existence of free/oscillatory antiparticles. In this paper, we discuss the tunneling energy zone characterized by evanescent wave functions in the classically forbidden region. We ask the question of the nature, particle or antiparticle, of the densities within the classically forbidden region. The answer to this question is relevant to the correct form of the reflection coefficient.

id: 1310.1205
title: Exact dynamics for optical coherent-state qubits subject to environment noise
authors: Ming-Jay Yang, Shin-Tza Wu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1205
abstract: We study the exact dynamics of optical qubits encoded via coherent states with opposite phases which are interacting with an environment modeled as a collection of simple harmonic oscillators. Making use of a coherent-state path integral formulation, we are able to study memory effects on the dynamics of the coherent-state qubits due to strong environment coupling. We apply this formulation to examine the time evolution of a noisy quantum channel formed by two coherent-state qubits that are subject to uncorrelated local environment noises. In particular, we examine the time evolution of entanglement and maximal teleportation fidelity of the noisy quantum channel and show that at strong coupling, due to large feedback effects from the environment noise, it is possible to maintain a robust quantum channel in the long-time limit if appropriate error-correcting code is applied.

id: 1310.1212
title: Coherent propagation of a single photon in a lossless medium: $0¦Ð$ pulse formation, slow photon, storage and retrieval in multiple temporal modes
authors: Shushan Petrosyan, Yuri Malakyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1212
abstract: Single-photon coherent optics represents a fundamental importance for the investigation of quantum light-matter interactions. While most work has considered the interaction in the steady-state regime, here we demonstrate that a single-photon pulse shorter than any relaxation time in a medium propagates without energy loss and is consistently transformed into a zero-area pulse. A general analytical solution is found for photon passage through a cold ensemble of $\Lambda$-type atoms confined inside a hollow core of a single-mode photonic-crystal fiber. We use the robust far off-resonant Raman scheme to control the pulse reshaping by an intense control laser beam and show that in the case of cw control field, for exact two-photon resonance, the outgoing photon displays an oscillating temporal distribution, which is the quantum counterpart of a classical field ringing, while for nonzero two-photon detuning a slow photon is produced. We demonstrate also that a train of readout control pulses coherently recalls the stored photon in many well-separated temporal modes, thus producing time-bin entangled single-photon states. Such states, which allow sharing quantum information among many users, are highly demanded for applications in long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1310.1220
title: Evaluation of nitrogen- and silicon-vacancy defect centres as single photon sources in quantum key distribution
authors: Matthias Leifgen, Tim Schr?der, Friedemann G?deke, Robert Riemann, Valentin M¨¦tillon, Elke Neu, Christian Hepp, Carsten Arend, Christoph Becher, Kristian Lauritsen, Oliver Benson
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1220
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum key distribution (QKD) testbed for room temperature single photon sources based on defect centres in diamond. A BB84 protocol over a short free-space transmission line is implemented. The performance of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) as well as silicon-vacancy defect (SiV) centres is evaluated and an extrapolation for next-generation sources with enhanced efficiency is discussed.

id: 1310.1228
title: Homodyne tomography of a single photon retrieved on demand from a cavity-enhanced cold atom memory
authors: Erwan Bimbard, Rajiv Boddeda, Nicolas Vitrant, Andrey Grankin, Valentina Parigi, Jovica Stanojevic, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Philippe Grangier
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 133601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1228
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that a non-classical state prepared in an atomic memory can be efficiently transferred to a single mode of free-propagating light. By retrieving on demand a single excitation from a cold atomic gas, we realize an efficient source of single photons prepared in a pure, fully controlled quantum state. We characterize this source using two detection methods, one based on photon-counting analysis, and the second using homodyne tomography to reconstruct the density matrix and Wigner function of the state. The latter technique allows us to completely determine the mode of the retrieved photon in its fine phase and amplitude details, and demonstrate its nonclassical field statistics by observing a negative Wigner function. We measure a photon retrieval efficiency up to 82% and an atomic memory coherence time of 900 ns. This setup is very well suited to study interactions between atomic excitations, and to use them in order to create and manipulate more sophisticated quantum states of light with a high degree of experimental control.

id: 1310.1271
title: Testing honesty of quantum server
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure; News and Views article for Nature Physics; different from the published version
journal: Nature Physics 9, 693 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1271
abstract: Alice, who does not have any sophisticated quantum technology, delegates her quantum computing to Bob, who has a fully-fledged quantum computer. Can she check whether the computation Bob performs for her is correct? She cannot recalculate the result by herself, since she does not have any quantum computer. A recent experiment with photonic qubits suggests she can. Here, I explain the basic idea of the result, and recent developments about secure cloud quantum computing.

id: 1310.1272
title: Test of the He-McKellar-Wilkens topological phase by atom interferometry. Part II: the experiment and its results
authors: Steven Lepoutre, Jonathan Gillot, Alexandre Gauguet, Matthias B¨¹chner, Jacques Vigu¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1272
abstract: In this paper, we describe an experimental test of the He-McKellar-Wilkens (HMW) topological phase with our lithium atom interferometer. The expected value of the HMW phase shift in our experiment is small and its measurement was difficult because of stray phase shifts due to small experimental defects. We start by describing our setup and we characterize the effects of the electric and magnetic fields needed to observe the HMW effect. Then, we develop a model of our interferometer signals including all the defects we have identified. After various tests of this model, we use it to suppress the largest part of the stray phase shifts. We thus obtain a series of measurements of the HMW phase: the results are 31% larger than expected and this discrepancy is probably due to some limitations of our model.

id: 1310.1295
title: What do kets represent?
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1295
abstract: It is usually assumed that a ket represents the state of an actually existing particle. But one can show there is no evidence for particles. The particle-like properties of mass, spin and charge, as well as particle-like trajectories, the photoelectric effect, and localized effects from spread-out wave functions can be explained using quantum mechanics alone. It is therefore proposed instead that kets represent particle-like solutions to a pre-representational linear partial differential equation which has Poincar\'e and internal symmetries. This equation underlies the completely representational character, including mass, spin, charge, internal symmetries, and symmetric and antisymmetric statistics, of current quantum mechanics.

id: 1310.1298
title: Laser Theory for Optomechanics: Limit Cycles in the Quantum Regime
authors: Niels L?rch, Jiang Qian, Aashish Clerk, Florian Marquardt, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1298
abstract: Optomechanical systems can exhibit self-sustained limit cycles where the quantum state of the mechanical resonator possesses nonclassical characteristics such as a strongly negative Wigner density, as was shown recently in a numerical study by Qian et al. [Physical Review Letters, 109, 253601 (2012)]. Here we derive a Fokker-Planck equation describing mechanical limit cycles in the quantum regime which correctly reproduces the numerically observed nonclassical features. The derivation starts from the standard optomechanical master equation, and is based on techniques borrowed from the laser theory due to Haake's and Lewenstein. We compare our analytical model with numerical solutions of the master equation based on Monte-Carlo simulations, and find very good agreement over a wide and so far unexplored regime of system parameters. As one main conclusion, we predict negative Wigner functions to be observable even for surprisingly classical parameters, i.e. outside the single-photon strong coupling regime, for strong cavity drive, and rather large limit cycle amplitudes. The general approach taken here provides a natural starting point for further studies of quantum effects in optomechanics.

id: 1310.1312
title: Properties of subentropy
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Tony Dorlas, Richard Jozsa, Fabio Benatti
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1312
abstract: Subentropy is an entropy-like quantity that arises in quantum information theory; for example, it provides a tight lower bound on the accessible information for pure state ensembles, dual to the von Neumann entropy upper bound in Holevo's theorem. Here we establish a series of properties of subentropy, paralleling the well-developed analogous theory for von Neumann entropy. Further, we show that subentropy is a lower bound for min-entropy. We introduce a notion of conditional subentropy and show that it can be used to provide an upper bound for the guessing probability of any classical-quantum state of two qubits; we conjecture that the bound applies also in higher dimensions. Finally we give an operational interpretation of subentropy within classical information theory.

id: 1310.1319
title: Reply to the Comment "Past of a quantum particle and weak measurement"
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 2 pages, to be published in PRA, Reply to arXiv:1306.3048
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1319
abstract: Misinterpretation in the preceding Comment of my recent analysis of the past of a photon is corrected. There is nothing in this analysis which is "contrary to the usual quantum expectations" but, nevertheless, it does provide "further understanding and interpretation of the system considered". In particular, it teaches us that the naive common sense argument frequently used in the literature including the Comment has to be abandoned.

id: 1310.1324
title: Matrix computations for the dynamics of fermionic systems
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: In press in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1324
abstract: In a series of recent papers we have shown how the dynamical behavior of certain classical systems can be analyzed using operators evolving according to Heisenberg-like equations of motions. In particular, we have shown that raising and lowering operators play a relevant role in this analysis. The technical problem of our approach stands in the difficulty of solving the equations of motion, which are, first of all, {\em operator-valued} and, secondly, quite often nonlinear. In this paper we construct a general procedure which significantly simplifies the treatment for those systems which can be described in terms of fermionic operators. The proposed procedure allows to get an analytic solution, both for quadratic and for more general hamiltonians.

id: 1310.1350
title: Test of the He-McKellar-Wilkens topological phase by atom interferometry. Part I: theoretical discussion
authors: Steven Lepoutre, Alexandre Gauguet, Matthias B¨¹chner, Jacques Vigu¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1350
abstract: We have recently tested the topological phase predicted by He and McKellar and by Wilkens: this phase appears when an electric dipole propagates in a transverse magnetic field. In the present paper, we first recall the physical origin of this phase and its relations to the Aharononov-Bohm and Aharonov-Casher phases. We then explain possible detection schemes and we briefly describe the lithium atom interferometer we have used for this purpose. Finally, we analyze in great detail the phase shifts induced by electric and magnetic fields acting on such an interferometer, taking into account experimental defects. The experiment and its results are described in a companion paper.

id: 1310.1410
title: An investigation of the Bell-type quantum nonlocality of spatially-entangled Fock states using homodyne detection
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Christoph Wildfeuer, Moochan B. Kim, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1410
abstract: We investigate the quantum nonlocality of spatially-entangled two-mode Fock states of the form $(|m\ >_a|m'\ >_b+e^{i (m-m')\phi}|m'\ >_a|m\ >_b)/\sqrt{2}$, $m\neq m'$, with respect to the Bell-Clauser-Horne and Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequalities, using two well-known homodyne-based techniques. For a given total photon number $m+m'=N$, such states corresponding to different values of $m$ and $m'$ differ in their phase sensitivities in interferometric phase estimation. We explore the connection between their quantum nonlocality with respect to the above Bell's inequalities and sensitivity of phase estimation.

id: 1310.1428
title: Computational complexity of time-dependent density functional theory
authors: J. D. Whitfield, M.-H. Yung, D. G. Tempel, S. Boixo, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 083035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1428
abstract: Time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) is rapidly emerging as a premier method for solving dynamical many-body problems in physics and chemistry. The mathematical foundations of TDDFT are established through the formal existence of a fictitious non-interacting system (known as the Kohn-Sham system), which can reproduce the one-electron reduced probability density of the actual system. We build upon these works and show that on the interior of the domain of existence, the Kohn-Sham system can be efficiently obtained given the time-dependent density. Since a quantum computer can efficiently produce such time-dependent densities, we present a polynomial time quantum algorithm to generate the time-dependent Kohn-Sham potential with controllable error bounds. As a consequence, in contrast to the known intractability result for ground state density functional theory (DFT), the computation of the necessary time-dependent potentials given the initial state is in the complexity class described by bounded error quantum computation in polynomial time (BQP).

id: 1310.1435
title: Orthogonal-state-based protocols of quantum key agreement
authors: Chitra Shukla, Nasir Alam, Anirban Pathak
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1435
abstract: Two orthogonal-state-based protocols of quantum key agreement (QKA) are proposed. The first protocol of QKA proposed here is designed for two-party QKA, whereas the second protocol is designed for multi-party QKA. Security of these orthogonal-state-based protocols arise from monogamy of entanglement. This is in contrast to the existing protocols of QKA where security arises from the use of non-orthogonal state (non-commutativity principle). Further, it is shown that all the quantum systems that are useful for implementation of quantum dialogue and most of the protocols of secure direct quantum communication can be modified to implement protocols of QKA.

id: 1310.1451
title: NV-Center Based Digital Quantum Simulation of a Quantum Phase Transition in Topological Insulators
authors: Chenyong Ju, Chao Lei, Xiangkun Xu, Dimitrie Culcer, Zhenyu Zhang, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1451
abstract: Nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond are ideal platforms for quantum simulation, which allows one to handle problems that are intractable theoretically or experimentally. Here we propose a digital quantum simulation scheme to simulate the quantum phase transition occurring in an ultrathin topological insulator film placed in a parallel magnetic field [Zyuzin \textit{et al.}, Phys. Rev. B \textbf{83}, 245428 (2011)]. The quantum simulator employs high quality spin qubits achievable in nitrogen-vacancy centers and can be realized with existing technology. The problem can be mapped onto the Hamiltonian of two entangled qubits represented by the electron and nuclear spins. The simulation uses the Trotter algorithm, with an operation time of the order of 100 $\mu$s for each individual run.

id: 1310.1465
title: Observation of environment-induced double sudden transitions in geometric quantum correlations
authors: F. M. Paula, I. A. Silva, J. D. Montealegre, A. M. Souza, E. R. deAzevedo, R. S. Sarthour, A. Saguia, I. S. Oliveira, D. O. Soares-Pinto, G. Adesso, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: Minor corrections. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 250401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1465
abstract: Correlations in quantum systems exhibit a rich phenomenology under the effect of various sources of noise. We investigate theoretically and experimentally the dynamics of quantum correlations and their classical counterparts in two nuclear magnetic resonance setups, as measured by geometric quantifiers based on trace-norm. We consider two-qubit systems prepared in Bell diagonal states, and perform the experiments in decohering environments resulting from Bell diagonal-preserving Markovian local noise. We then report the first observation of environment-induced double sudden transitions in the geometric quantum correlations, a genuinely nonclassical effect not observable in classical correlations. The evolution of classical correlations in our physical implementation reveals in turn the finite-time relaxation to a pointer basis under nondissipative decoherence, which we characterize geometrically in full analogy with predictions based on entropic measures.

id: 1310.1484
title: Quantum Probability Theory and the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Fr?hlich, B. Schubnel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1484
abstract: We attempt to contribute some novel points of view to the "foundations of quantum mechanics", using mathematical tools from "quantum probability theory" (such as the theory of operator algebras). We first introduce an abstract algebraic framework for the formulation of mathematical models of physical systems that is general enough to encompass classical and quantum mechanical models. After a short discussion on the properties of classical systems (realism and determinism), we move on to the study of a general class of quantum-mechanical models of physical systems and explain what some of the key problems in a quantum theory of observations and measurements are. In the last part of our essay, we attempt to elucidate the roles played by entanglement between a system and its environment and of information loss in understanding "decoherence" and "dephasing", which are key mechanisms in a quantum theory of measurements and experiments. We also discuss the problem of "time in quantum mechanics" and sketch an answer to the question when an experiment can be considered to have been completed successfully.

id: 1310.1489
title: Why "noncommuting common causes" don't explain anything
authors: Dustin Lazarovici
comments: To appear in: Galavotti et.al.(eds.), New Directions in the Philosophy of Science (Proceedings of the PSE workshops held in 2012). V2: References fixed, typos corrected, minor changes in the text for better readability
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1489
abstract: In my commentary, I will argue that the conclusions drawn in the paper "Noncommutative causality in algebraic quantum field" theory by G\'abor Hofer-Szab\'o (and similar publications) are incorrect. As proven by J.S. Bell, a local common causal explanation of correlations violating the Bell inequality is impossible.

id: 1310.1523
title: Symmetries and conserved quantities in Lindblad master equations
authors: Victor V. Albert, Liang Jiang
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures; comment on quantum feedback control, new example, more references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1523
abstract: This work is concerned with determination of the steady-state structure of time-independent Lindblad master equations, especially those possessing more than one steady state. The approach here is to treat Lindblad systems as generalizations of unitary quantum mechanics, extending the intuition of symmetries and conserved quantities to the dissipative case. We combine and apply various results to obtain an exhaustive characterization of the infinite-time behavior of Lindblad evolution, including both the structure of the infinite-time density matrix and its dependence on initial conditions. The effect of the environment in the infinite time limit can therefore be tracked exactly for arbitrary state initialization and without knowledge of dynamics at intermediate time. As a consequence, sufficient criteria for determining the steady state of a Lindblad master equation are obtained. These criteria are knowledge of the initial state, a basis for the steady-state subspace, and all conserved quantities. We give examples of two-qubit dissipation and single-mode $d$-photon absorption where all quantities are determined analytically. Applications of these techniques to quantum information, computation, and feedback control are discussed.

id: 1310.1608
title: Adaptive Multicarrier Quadrature Division Modulation for Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: v2: 37 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, added security proof
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1608
abstract: In a continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD) system, the information is conveyed by coherent state carriers. The quantum continuous variables are sent through a quantum channel, where the presence of the eavesdropper adds a white Gaussian noise to the transmission. The amount of tolerable noise and loss is a crucial point in CVQKD, since it determines the overall performance of the protocol, including the secure key rates and transmission distances. In this work, we propose the adaptive multicarrier quadrature division (AMQD) modulation technique for CVQKD. The method granulates the Gaussian random input into Gaussian subcarrier continuous variables in the encoding phase, which are then decoded by a continuous unitary transformation. The subcarrier coherent variables formulate Gaussian sub-channels from the physical link with strongly diverse transmission capabilities, which leads to significantly improved transmission efficiency, higher tolerable loss, and excess noise. We also investigate a modulation-variance adaption technique within the AMQD scheme, which provides optimal capacity-achieving communication over the sub-channels in the presence of a Gaussian noise.

id: 1310.1621
title: Dynamical control of state transfer through noisy quantum channels: optimal tradeoff of speed and fidelity
authors: Analia Zwick, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Guy Bensky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1621
abstract: We propose a method of optimally controlling state transfer through a noisy quantum channel (spin-chain). This process is treated as qubit state-transfer through a fermionic bath. We show that dynamical modulation of the boundary-qubits levels suffices to ensure fast and high-fidelity state transfer. This is achievable by dynamically optimizing the transmission spectrum of the channel. The resulting optimal control is robust against both static and fluctuating noise.

id: 1310.1652
title: Dynamically corrected gates for qubits with always-on Ising couplings: Error model and fault-tolerance with the toric code
authors: Amrit De, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1652
abstract: We describe how a universal set of dynamically-corrected quantum gates can be implemented using sequences of shaped decoupling pulses on any qubit network forming a sparse bipartite graph with always-on Ising interactions. These interactions are constantly decoupled except when they are needed for two-qubit gates. We analytically study the error operators associated with the constructed gates up to third order in the Magnus expansion, analyze these errors numerically in the unitary time evolution of small qubit clusters, and give a bound on high-order errors for qubits on a large square lattice. We prove that with a large enough toric code the present gate set can be used to implement a fault-tolerant quantum memory.

id: 1310.1667
title: Information-Based Physics: An Observer-Centric Foundation
authors: Kevin H. Knuth
comments: To be published in Contemporary Physics. The manuscript consists of 43 pages and 9 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1667
abstract: It is generally believed that physical laws, reflecting an inherent order in the universe, are ordained by nature. However, in modern physics the observer plays a central role raising questions about how an observer-centric physics can result in laws apparently worthy of a universal nature-centric physics. Over the last decade, we have found that the consistent apt quantification of algebraic and order-theoretic structures results in calculi that possess constraint equations taking the form of what are often considered to be physical laws. I review recent derivations of the formal relations among relevant variables central to special relativity, probability theory and quantum mechanics in this context by considering a problem where two observers form consistent descriptions of and make optimal inferences about a free particle that simply influences them. I show that this approach to describing such a particle based only on available information leads to the mathematics of relativistic quantum mechanics as well as a description of a free particle that reproduces many of the basic properties of a fermion. The result is an approach to foundational physics where laws derive from both consistent descriptions and optimal information-based inferences made by embedded observers.

id: 1310.1719
title: Dynamically generated darkness in the Dicke model
authors: Michael Tomka, Dionys Baeriswyl, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1719
abstract: We study the dynamics of a driven Dicke model, where the collective spin is rotated with a constant velocity around a fixed axis. The time evolution of the mean photon number and of the atomic inversion is calculated using, on the one hand, a numerical technique for the quantum dynamics of a small number of two-level atoms, on the other hand, time-dependent mean-field theory for the limit of a large number of atoms. We observe a reduction of the mean photon number as compared to its equilibrium value. This dynamically generated darkness is particularly pronounced slightly above the transition to a superradiant phase. We attribute the effect to a slowing down of the motion in the classical limit of a large ensemble and to an interplay of dynamic and geometric phases in the quantum case.

id: 1310.1722
title: Continuous-variable qubit on an optical transverse mode
authors: Makoto Takeuchi, Takahiro Kuga
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1722
abstract: Continuous-variable (CV) qubits can be created on an optical longitudinal mode in which quantum information is encoded by the superposition of even and odd Schroedinger's cat states with quadrature amplitude. Based on the analogous features of paraxial optics and quantum mechanics, we propose a system to generate and detect CV qubits on an optical transverse mode. As a proof-of-principle experiment, we generate six CV qubit states and observe their probability distributions in position and momentum space. This enabled us to prepare a non-Gaussian initial state for CV quantum computing. Other potential applications of the CV qubit include adiabatic control of a beam profile, phase shift keying on transverse modes, and quantum cryptography using CV qubit states.

id: 1310.1728
title: Principles of a 2nd Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mioara Mugur-Sch?chter
comments: 283 pages, 8 figures, text in French. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0903.4976, arXiv:0801.1893
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1728
abstract: A qualitative but formalized representation of microstates is first established quite independently of the quantum mechanical mathematical formalism, exclusively under epistemological-operational-methodological constraints. Then, using this representation as a reference-and-imbedding-structure, the foundations of an intelligible reconstruction of the Hilbert-Dirac formulation of Quantum Mechanics is developed. Inside this reconstruction the measurement problem as well as the other major problems raised by the quantum mechanical formalism, dissolve.

id: 1310.1734
title: Cooperativity of a few quantum emitters in a single-mode cavity
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Dario Gerace, Marcelo Fran?a Santos, Alexia Auff¨¨ves
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063825 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1734
abstract: We theoretically investigate the emission properties of a single-mode cavity coupled to a mesoscopic number of incoherently pumped quantum emitters. We propose an operational measure for the medium cooperativity, valid both in the bad and in the good cavity regimes. We show that the opposite regimes of subradiance and superradiance correspond to negative and positive cooperativity, respectively. The lasing regime is shown to be characterized by nonnegative cooperativity. In the bad cavity regime we show that the cooperativity defines the transitions from subradiance to superradiance. In the good cavity regime it helps to define the lasing threshold, also providing distinguishable signatures indicating the lasing regime. Increasing the quality of the cavity mode induces a crossover from the solely superradiant to the lasing regime. Furthermore, we verify that lasing is manifested in a wide range of positive cooperative behavior, showing that stimulated emission and superradiance can coexist. The robustness of the cooperativity is studied with respect to experimental imperfections, such as inhomogeneous broadening and pure dephasing.

id: 1310.1738
title: Fast creation of conditional quantum gate and entanglement using a common bath only
authors: Nan Qiu, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1738
abstract: We propose a scheme to for fast conditional phase shift and creation entanglement of two qubits that interact with a common heat bath. Dynamical decoupling is applied in the scheme so that it works even in the regime of strong interaction between qubits and environment. Our scheme does not request any direct interaction between the two qubits.

id: 1310.1768
title: Efficient Amplification of Photonic Qubits by Optimal Quantum Cloning
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Karel Lemr, Jan Soubusta, Magdalena Stobi¨½ska
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures (Fig.1 fixed)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1768
abstract: We demonstrate that a phase-independent quantum amplifier of a polarization qubit is a complementary amplifier of the heralded qubit amplifier [N. Gisin, S. Pironio and N. Sangouard, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 070501 (2010)]. It employs the multi-functional cloner in 1 to 2 copying regime, capable of providing approximate copies of qubits given by various probability distributions, and is optimized for distributions with axial symmetry. Direct applications of the proposed solution are possible in quantum technologies, doubling the range where quantum information is coherently broadcast. It also outperforms natural nonlinear amplifiers that use stimulated emission in bulk nonlinear materials. We consider the amplifier to be an important tool for amplifying quantum information sent via quantum channels with phase-independent damping.

id: 1310.1784
title: Non-Markovian effect on remote state preparation
authors: Zhen-Yu Xu, Chen Liu, Shunlong Luo, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 356, 29 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1784
abstract: Memory effect of non-Markovian dynamics in open quantum systems is often believed to be beneficial for quantum information processing. In this work, we employ an experimentally controllable two-photon open system, with one photon experiencing a dephasing environment and the other being free from noise, to show that non-Markovian effect may also have a negative impact on quantum tasks such as remote state preparation: For a certain period of controlled time interval, stronger non-Markovian effect yields lower fidelity of remote state preparation, as opposed to the common wisdom that more information leads to better performance. As a comparison, a positive non-Markovian effect on the RSP fidelity with another typical non-Markovian noise is analyzed. Consequently, the observed dual character of non-Markovian effect will be of great importance in the field of open systems engineering.

id: 1310.1824
title: Monte Carlo evaluation of the equilibrium isotope effects using the Takahashi-Imada factorization of the Feynman path integral
authors: Marcin Buchowiecki, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1824
abstract: The Feynman path integral approach for computing equilibrium isotope effects and isotope fractionation corrects the approximations made in standard methods, although at significantly increased computational cost. We describe an accelerated path integral approach based on three ingredients: the fourth- order Takahashi-Imada factorization of the path integral, thermodynamic integration with respect to mass, and centroid virial estimators for relevant free energy derivatives. While the frst ingredient speeds up convergence to the quantum limit, the second and third improve statistical convergence. The combined method is applied to compute the equilibrium constants for isotope exchange reactions H2+D=H+HD and H2+D2=2HD.

id: 1310.1846
title: Macroscopic State Interferometry Over Large Distances Using State Discrimination
authors: B. T. Kirby, J. D. Franson
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033861 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1846
abstract: The propagation of macroscopic entangled states over large distances in the presence of loss is of fundamental interest and may have practical applications as well. Here we describe two different techniques in which state discrimination can be used to violate Bell's inequality with macroscopic phase-entangled coherent states. We find that Bell's inequality can be violated by these macroscopic states over a distance of approximately 400 km in commercially-available optical fibers.

id: 1310.1897
title: Circuit QED - Lecture Notes
authors: Nathan K. Langford
comments: 79 pages, 11 figures, lecture notes for a third-year undergraduate course at Royal Holloway, University of London
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1897
abstract: The new and rapidly growing field of circuit QED offers extremely exciting prospects for learning about and exercising intimate control over quantum systems, providing flexible, engineerable design and strong nonlinearities and interactions in systems consisting of microwave radiation fields and fixed artificial "atoms". These notes aim to provide a non-expert introduction to the field of circuit QED, to give a basic appreciation of the promise and challenges of the field, along with a number of key concepts that will hopefully be useful for the reader who is new to the field and beginning to explore the research literature. They were written as a pedagogical text designed to complement a course delivered to third-year undergraduate students. After a introductory section which discusses why studying circuit QED might be worthwhile and interesting, I introduce the basic theory tools from quantum optics and quantum information which are needed to understand the key elements of circuit QED. I also provide a brief overview of superconductivity, focussing on the concepts which are most relevant to operation in the regimes of interest in circuit QED. I then describe the three main types of superconducting qubits, and finally give a basic introduction to decoherence and mixture and how they relate to quantum behaviour in electronic circuits.

id: 1310.1899
title: Long-time relaxation in pilot-wave theory
authors: Eitan Abraham, Samuel Colin, Antony Valentini
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures. Significant improvements in v2; new section on confinement of trajectories. Accepted by J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 395306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1899
abstract: We initiate the study of relaxation to quantum equilibrium over long timescales in pilot-wave theory. We simulate the time evolution of the coarse-grained H-function Hbar(t) for a two-dimensional harmonic oscillator. For a (periodic) wave function that is a superposition of the first 25 energy states we confirm an approximately exponential decay of Hbar over five periods. For a superposition of only the first four energy states we are able to calculate Hbar(t) over 50 periods. We find that, depending on the set of phases in the initial wave function, Hbar can decay to a large nonequilibrium residue exceeding 10% of its initial value or it can become indistinguishable from zero (the equilibrium value). We show that a large residue in Hbar is caused by a tendency for the trajectories to be confined to sub-regions of configuration space for some wave functions, and that this is less likely to occur for larger numbers of energy states (if the initial phases are chosen randomly). Possible cosmological implications are briefly discussed.

id: 1310.1903
title: High posterior density ellipsoids of quantum states
authors: Christopher Ferrie
comments: TL;DR version: computationally feasible region estimators
journal: New J. Phys. 16 023006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1903
abstract: Regions of quantum states generalize the classical notion of error bars. High posterior density (HPD) credible regions are the most powerful of region estimators. However, they are intractably hard to construct in general. This paper reports on a numerical approximation to HPD regions for the purpose of testing a much more computationally and conceptually convenient class of regions: posterior covariance ellipsoids (PCEs). The PCEs are defined via the covariance matrix of the posterior probability distribution of states. Here it is shown that PCEs are near optimal for the example of Pauli measurements on multiple qubits. Moreover, the algorithm is capable of producing accurate PCE regions even when there is uncertainty in the model.

id: 1310.1933
title: Quadratic constrained mixed discrete optimization with an adiabatic quantum optimizer
authors: Rishabh Chandra, N. Tobias Jacobson, Jonathan E. Moussa, Steven H. Frankel, Sabre Kais
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1933
abstract: We extend the family of problems that may be implemented on an adiabatic quantum optimizer (AQO). When a quadratic optimization problem has at least one set of discrete controls and the constraints are linear, we call this a quadratic constrained mixed discrete optimization (QCMDO) problem. QCMDO problems are NP-hard, and no efficient classical algorithm for their solution is known. Included in the class of QCMDO problems are combinatorial optimization problems constrained by a linear partial differential equation (PDE) or system of linear PDEs. An essential complication commonly encountered in solving this type of problem is that the linear constraint may introduce many intermediate continuous variables into the optimization while the computational cost grows exponentially with problem size. We resolve this difficulty by developing a constructive mapping from QCMDO to quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) such that the size of the QUBO problem depends only on the number of discrete control variables. With a suitable embedding, taking into account the physical constraints of the realizable coupling graph, the resulting QUBO problem can be implemented on an existing AQO. The mapping itself is efficient, scaling cubically with the number of continuous variables in the general case and linearly in the PDE case if an efficient preconditioner is available.

id: 1310.1970
title: The Classical-Quantum Multiple Access Channel with Conferencing Encoders and with Common Messages
authors: Holger Boche, Janis Noetzel
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1970
abstract: We prove coding theorems for two scenarios of cooperating encoders for the multiple access channel with two classical inputs and one quantum output. In the first scenario (ccq-MAC with common messages), the two senders each have their private messages, but would also like to transmit common messages. In the second scenario (ccq-MAC with conferencing encoders), each sender has its own set of messages, but they are allowed to use a limited amount of noiseless classical communication amongst each other prior to encoding their messages. This conferencing protocol may depend on each individual message they intend to send. The two scenarios are related to each other not only in spirit - the existence of near-optimal codes for the ccq-MAC with common messages is used for proving the existence of near-optimal codes for the ccq-MAC with conferencing encoders.

id: 1310.1995
title: Unified Dynamics of Electrons and Photons via Zitterbewegung and Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: C.C. Leary, Karl H. Smith
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1995
abstract: We show that when an electron or photon propagates in a cylindrically symmetric waveguide, it experiences both a zitterbewegung effect and a spin-orbit interaction leading to identical propagation dynamics for both particles. Applying a unified perturbative approach to both particles simultaneously, we find that to first-order in perturbation theory their Hamiltonians each contain identical Darwin (zitterbewegung) and spin-orbit terms, resulting in the unification of their dynamics. The presence of the zitterbewegung effect may be interpreted physically as the delocalization of the electron on the scale of its Compton wavelength, or the delocalization of the photon on the scale of its wavelength in the waveguide. The presence of the spin-orbit interaction leads to the prediction of several rotational effects: the spatial or time evolution of either particle's spin/polarization vector is controlled by the sign of its orbital angular momentum quantum number, or conversely, its spatial wave function is controlled by its spin angular momentum.

id: 1310.2035
title: A Survey of Quantum Property Testing
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 66 pages, 163 references; v3: many minor changes in response to referee comments, new proof added in Sec 3.2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2035
abstract: The area of property testing tries to design algorithms that can efficiently handle very large amounts of data: given a large object that either has a certain property or is somehow "far" from having that property, a tester should efficiently distinguish between these two cases. In this survey we describe recent results obtained for quantum property testing. This area naturally falls into three parts. First, we may consider quantum testers for properties of classical objects. We survey the main examples known where quantum testers can be much (sometimes exponentially) more efficient than classical testers. Second, we may consider classical testers of quantum objects. This is the situation that arises for instance when one is trying to determine if quantum states or operations do what they are supposed to do, based only on classical input-output behavior. Finally, we may also consider quantum testers for properties of quantum objects, such as states or operations. We survey known bounds on testing various natural properties, such as whether two states are equal, whether a state is separable, whether two operations commute, etc. We also highlight connections to other areas of quantum information theory and mention a number of open questions.

id: 1310.2040
title: Quantum Computing's Classical Problem, Classical Computing's Quantum Problem
authors: Rodney Van Meter
comments: Post-proceedings of Quantum Horizons, Taipei, Oct. 2012. 10 pages, no figures
journal: Foundations of Physics 44(8), 819-828, Aug. 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2040
abstract: Tasked with the challenge to build better and better computers, quantum computing and classical computing face the same conundrum: the success of classical computing systems. Small quantum computing systems have been demonstrated, and intermediate-scale systems are on the horizon, capable of calculating numeric results or simulating physical systems far beyond what humans can do by hand. However, to be commercially viable, they must surpass what our wildly successful, highly advanced classical computers can already do. At the same time, those classical computers continue to advance, but those advances are now constrained by thermodynamics, and will soon be limited by the discrete nature of atomic matter and ultimately quantum effects. Technological advances benefit both quantum and classical machinery, altering the competitive landscape. Can we build quantum computing systems that out-compute classical systems capable of some $10^{30}$ logic gates per month? This article will discuss the interplay in these competing and cooperating technological trends.

id: 1310.2042
title: Criterion of Local Unitary Equivalence for Multipartite States
authors: Ting-Gui Zhang, Ming-Jing Zhao, Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 12pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A 88 042304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2042
abstract: We study the local unitary equivalence of arbitrary dimensional multipartite quantum mixed states. We present a necessary and sufficient criterion of the local unitary equivalence for general multipartite states based on matrix realignment. The criterion is shown to be operational even for particularly degenerated states by detailed examples. Besides, explicit expressions of the local unitary operators are constructed for locally equivalent states. In complement to the criterion, an alternative approach based on partial transposition of matrices is also given, which makes the criterion more effective in dealing with generally degenerated mixed states.

id: 1310.2109
title: Various methods of optimizing control pulses for quantum systems with decoherence
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Przemys?aw Sadowski
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, fixed paper size
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2109
abstract: We study three methods of obtaining an approximation of unitary evolution of a quantum system under decoherence. We use three methods of optimizing the control pulses: genetic optimization, approximate evolution method and approximate gradient method. To model the noise in the system we use the Lindblad equaiton. We obtain results showing that genetic optimization may give a better approximation of a unitary evolution in the case of high noise.

id: 1310.2123
title: Ground state of the double-well condensate for quantum metrology
authors: Juha Javanainen, Han Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2123
abstract: We discuss theoretically the ground state of a Bose-Einstein condensate with attractive atom-atom interactions in a double-well trap as a starting point of Heisenberg-limited atom interferometry. The dimensionless parameter governing the quality of the ground state for this purpose is identified. The near-degeneracy between the ground state and the first excited state severely curtails the prospects of the thermally prepared ground state in quantum metrology.

id: 1310.2149
title: The Leggett-Garg Inequalities and Non-Invasive Measurability
authors: JM Yearsley
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2149
abstract: The Leggett-Garg inequalities are a set of inequalities obeyed by classical systems but violated in quantum theory. Their violation has been taken as evidence that quantum theory lacks a `realistic' formulation. However in addition to realism the derivation of the Leggett-Garg inequalities relies on another, more obscure assumption of `non-invasive measurability.' The significance of this assumption and the consequences for the interpretation of violations of the Leggett-Garg inequalities have been hotly debated. In this paper we present a pedagogical introduction to the issues, focussing on the significance of non-invasive measurability. We give a simple derivation of the Leggett-Garg inequalities paying particular attention to where and when the two assumptions are used, and we give an example of a realist but not non-invasively measurable hidden variable theory which violates them. We also discuss recent attempts to experimentally implement non-invasive measurements via so called `undetectable measurements' and we show that even undetectable measurements are not necessarily non-invasive.

id: 1310.2155
title: Lower Bounds for Quantum Parameter Estimation
authors: Michael Walter, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 60, no. 12, pages 8007-8023 (December 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2155
abstract: The laws of quantum mechanics place fundamental limits on the accuracy of measurements and therefore on the estimation of unknown parameters of a quantum system. In this work, we prove lower bounds on the size of confidence regions reported by any region estimator for a given ensemble of probe states and probability of success. Our bounds are derived from a previously unnoticed connection between the size of confidence regions and the error probabilities of a corresponding binary hypothesis test. In group-covariant scenarios, we find that there is an ultimate bound for any estimation scheme which depends only on the representation-theoretic data of the probe system, and we evaluate its asymptotics in the limit of many systems, establishing a general "Heisenberg limit" for region estimation. We apply our results to several examples, in particular to phase estimation, where our bounds allow us to recover the well-known Heisenberg and shot-noise scaling.

id: 1310.2217
title: Lower Bounds on the Communication Complexity of Binary Local Quantum Measurement Simulation
authors: Adrian Kosowski, Marcin Markiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2217
abstract: We consider the problem of the classical simulation of quantum measurements in the scenario of communication complexity. Regev and Toner (2007) have presented a 2-bit protocol which simulates one particular correlation function arising from binary projective quantum measurements on arbitrary state, and in particular does not preserve local averages. The question of simulating other correlation functions using a protocol with bounded communication, or preserving local averages, has been posed as an open one. Within this paper we resolve it in the negative: we show that any such protocol must have unbounded communication for some subset of executions. In particular, we show that for any protocol, there exist inputs for which the random variable describing the number of communicated bits has arbitrarily large variance.

id: 1310.2221
title: Suppressing the loss of ultracold molecules via the continuous quantum Zeno effect
authors: Bihui Zhu, Bryce Gadway, Michael Foss-Feig, Johannes Schachenmayer, Michael Wall, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Bo Yan, Steven A. Moses, Jacob P. Covey, Deborah S. Jin, Jun Ye, Murray Holland, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 4+ pages main text, 4 figures. 3 pages supplementary material, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2221
abstract: We investigate theoretically the suppression of two-body losses when the on-site loss rate is larger than all other energy scales in a lattice. This work quantitatively explains the recently observed suppression of chemical reactions between two rotational states of fermionic KRb molecules confined in one-dimensional tubes with a weak lattice along the tubes [Yan et al., Nature 501, 521-525 (2013)]. New loss rate measurements performed for different lattice parameters but under controlled initial conditions allow us to show that the loss suppression is a consequence of the combined effects of lattice confinement and the continuous quantum Zeno effect. A key finding, relevant for generic strongly reactive systems, is that while a single-band theory can qualitatively describe the data, a quantitative analysis must include multiband effects. Accounting for these effects reduces the inferred molecule filling fraction by a factor of five. A rate equation can describe much of the data, but to properly reproduce the loss dynamics with a fixed filling fraction for all lattice parameters we develop a mean-field model and benchmark it with numerically exact time-dependent density matrix renormalization group calculations.

id: 1310.2269
title: Spin squeezing and entanglement for arbitrary spin
authors: Giuseppe Vitagliano, Iagoba Apellaniz, Inigo L. Egusquiza, Geza Toth
comments: 18 pages including 3 figures, revtex4; v2: references added, typos corrected; v3: typos corrected, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 89, 032307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2269
abstract: A complete set of generalized spin-squeezing inequalities is derived for an ensemble of particles with an arbitrary spin. Our conditions are formulated with the first and second moments of the collective angular momentum coordinates. A method for mapping the spin-squeezing inequalities for spin-1/2 particles to entanglement conditions for spin-j particles is also presented. We apply our mapping to obtain a generalization of the original spin-squeezing inequality to higher spins. We show that, for large particle numbers, a spin-squeezing parameter for entanglement detection based on one of our inequalities is strictly stronger than the original spin-squeezing parameter defined in [A. Sorensen et al., Nature 409, 63 (2001)]. We present a coordinate system independent form of our inequalities that contains, besides the correlation and covariance tensors of the collective angular momentum operators, the nematic tensor appearing in the theory of spin nematics. Finally, we discuss how to measure the quantities appearing in our inequalities in experiments.

id: 1310.2271
title: Steering the optimization pathway in the control landscape using constraints
authors: Jos¨¦ P. Palao, Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053409 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2271
abstract: We show how additional constraints, restricting the spectrum of the optimized pulse or confining the system dynamics, can be used to steer optimization in quantum control towards distinct solutions. Our examples are multi-photon excitation in atoms and vibrational population transfer in molecules. We show that a spectral constraint is most effective in enforcing non-resonant two-photon absorption pathways in atoms and avoiding unnecessarily broad spectra in Raman transitions in molecules. While a constraint restricting the system to stay in an allowed subspace is also capable of identifying non-resonant excitation pathways, it does not avoid spurious peaks in the pulse spectrum. Both constraints are compatible with monotonic convergence but imply different additional numerical costs.

id: 1310.2278
title: Closed hierarchy of correlations in Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Bojan ?unkovi?
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2278
abstract: We study the Lindblad master equation in the space of operators and provide simple criteria for closeness of the hierarchy of equations for correlations. We separately consider the time evolution of closed and open systems and show that open systems satisfying the closeness conditions are not necessary of Gaussian type. In addition, we show that dissipation can induce the closeness of the hierarchy of correlations in interacting quantum systems. As an example we study an interacting optomechanical model, the Fermi-Hubbard model, and the Rabi model, all coupled to a fine-tuned Markovian environment and obtain exact analytic expressions for the time evolution of two-point correlations.

id: 1310.2393
title: A simple decoder for topological codes
authors: James R. Wootton
comments: v3: Corrected error and added data for correlated errors. v4: Added data for improved version of decoder. This is the published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2393
abstract: Here we study an efficient algorithm for decoding the topological codes. It is based on a simple principle, which should allow straightforward generalization to complex decoding problems. It is benchmarked with the planar code for both i.i.d. and spatially correlated errors and is found to compare well with existing methods.

id: 1310.2405
title: Multi-channel parallel continuous variable quantum key distribution with Gaussian modulation
authors: Jian Fang, Peng Huang, Guihua Zeng
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2405
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for continuous variable quantum key distribution(CV-QKD) using the subcarrier multiplexing technique which was employed in microwave photonics. This scheme allows to distribute N channels independent Gaussian modulated CV-QKD in parallel with one laser source and several phase modulators. We analyze the influence of nonlinear signal mixing and the security in the asymptotic limit. Results indicate that by using this multiplexing technique, each channel will be introduced a non-Gaussian extra source noise, resulting slightly short of the maximum transmission distance, while the total secret key rate can be considerably increased. This scheme could also be used for key distribution for multi-users and combined with the WDM devices it has the potential to construct a CV-QKD network.

id: 1310.2426
title: Can violations of Bell's inequalities be considere as the final proof of quantum physics ?
authors: Francois Henault
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures Proceedings of the SPIE 2013, vol. 8832
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2426
abstract: Nowadays, it is commonly admitted that the experimental violation of Bell's inequalities that was successfully demonstrated in the last decades by many experimenters, are indeed the ultimate proof of quantum physics and of its ability to describe the whole microscopic world and beyond. But the historical and scientific story may not be envisioned so clearly: it starts with the original paper of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) aiming at demonstrating that the formalism of quantum theory is incomplete. It then goes through the works of D. Bohm, to finally proceed to the famous John Bell's relationships providing an experimental setup to solve the EPR paradox. In this communication is proposed an alternative reading of this history, showing that modern experiments based on correlations between light polarizations significantly deviate from the original spirit of the EPR paper. It is concluded that current experimental violations of Bell's inequalities cannot be considered as an ultimate proof of the completeness of quantum physics models.

id: 1310.2427
title: Quantum state reconstruction of spectral field modes: homodyne and resonator detection schemes
authors: Felippe A. S. Barbosa, Antonio S. Coelho, Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Paulo Nussenzveig, Claude Fabre, Alessandro S. Villar, Marcelo Martinelli
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 052113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2427
abstract: We revisit the problem of quantum state reconstruction of light beams from the photocurrent quantum noise. As is well-known, but often overlooked, two longitudinal field modes contribute to each spectral component of the photocurrent (sideband modes). We show that spectral homodyne detection is intrinsically incapable of providing all the information needed for the full reconstruction of the two-mode spectral quantum state. Such a limitation is overcome by the technique of resonator detection. A detailed theoretical description and comparison of both methods is presented, as well as an experiment to measure the six-mode quantum state of pump-signal-idler beams of an optical parametric oscillator above the oscillation threshold.

id: 1310.2429
title: Squeezing and photon counting with the cubic phase state
authors: Seckin Sefi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2429
abstract: Recently, a non-Gaussian state, which is called cubic phase state has been experimentally realized. In this work we show that, in case one has access to a proper cubic phase state, it is possible to make photon counting experiments and generate extremely squeezed states.

id: 1310.2453
title: High Capacity Imaging and Rotationally Insensitive Object Identification with Correlated Orbital Angular Momentum States
authors: Casey A. Fitzpatrick, David S. Simon, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 15 page, 10 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 12, 1560013 (2014) [16 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2453
abstract: Using no conventional measurements in position space, information extraction rates exceeding one bit per photon are achieved by employing high-dimensional correlated orbital angular momentum (OAM) states for object recognition. The correlations are shown to be insensitive to axial rotation of the target object: the information structure of an object's joint OAM coincidence spectrum is unchanged even when the object undergoes random rotations between each measurement. Additionally, OAM correlations alone are shown to be sufficient for full image reconstruction of complex, off-axis objects, and novel object symmetries are observed in the phases of OAM-object interaction transition amplitudes. Variations in mutual information rates, due to off-axis translation in the beam field, are studied, and it is shown that object symmetry signatures and information rates are independent of environmental factors sufficiently far from the beam center. The results motivate dynamic scanning applications in contexts where symmetry and small numbers of noninvasive measurements are desired.

id: 1310.2483
title: Quantum localization of chaotic eigenstates and the level spacing distribution
authors: Benjamin Batisti?, Marko Robnik
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2483
abstract: The phenomenon of quantum localization in classically chaotic eigenstates is one of the main issues in quantum chaos (or wave chaos), and thus plays an important role in general quantum mechanics or even in general wave mechanics. In this work we propose two different localization measures characterizing the degree of quantum localization, and study their relation to another fundamental aspect of quantum chaos, namely the (energy) spectral statistics. Our approach and method is quite general, and we apply it to billiard systems. One of the signatures of the localization of chaotic eigenstates is a fractional power-law repulsion between the nearest energy levels in the sense that the probability density to find successive levels on a distance $S$ goes like $\propto S^\beta$ for small $S$, where $0 \leq \beta \leq 1$, and $\beta = 1$ corresponds to completely extended states. We show that there is a clear functional relation between the exponent {\beta} and the two different localization measures. One is based on the information entropy and the other one on the correlation properties of the Husimi functions. We show that the two definitions are surprisingly linearly equivalent. The approach is applied in the case of a mixed-type billiard system (Robnik 1983), in which the separation of regular and chaotic eigenstates is performed.

id: 1310.2504
title: Notes on nonlocal projective measurements in relativistic systems
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; minor changes
journal: Annals of Physics 351 (2014) 773-786
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2504
abstract: In quantum mechanical bipartite systems, naive extensions of von Neumann's projective measurement to nonlocal variables can produce superluminal signals and thus violate causality. We analyze the projective quantum nondemolition state-verification in a two-spin system and see how the projection introduces nonlocality without entanglement. For the ideal measurements of "R-nonlocal" variables, we argue that causality violation can be resolved by introducing further restrictions on the post-measurement states, which makes the measurement "Q-nonlocal". After we generalize these ideas to quantum mechanical harmonic oscillators, we look into the projective measurements of the particle number of a single mode or a wave-packet of a relativistic quantum field in Minkowski space. It turns out that the causality-violating terms in the expectation values of the local operators, generated either by the ideal measurement of the "R-nonlocal" variable or the quantum nondemolition verification of a Fock state, are all suppressed by the IR and UV cutoffs of the theory. Thus relativistic quantum field theories with such projective measurements are effectively causal.

id: 1310.2541
title: Nonequilibrium quantum fluctuation relations for harmonic systems in nonthermal environments
authors: D. Pagel, P. Nalbach, A. Alvermann, H. Fehske, M. Thorwart
comments: 21 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 105008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2541
abstract: We formulate exact generalized nonequilibrium fluctuation relations for the quantum mechanical harmonic oscillator coupled to multiple harmonic baths. Each of the different baths is prepared in its own individual (in general nonthermal) state. Starting from the exact solution for the oscillator dynamics we study fluctuations of the oscillator position as well as of the energy current through the oscillator under general nonequilibrium conditions. In particular, we formulate a fluctuation-dissipation relation for the oscillator position autocorrelation function that generalizes the standard result for the case of a single bath at thermal equilibrium. Moreover, we show that the generating function for the position operator fullfills a generalized Gallavotti-Cohen-like relation. For the energy transfer through the oscillator, we determine the average energy current together with the current fluctuations. Finally, we discuss the generalization of the cumulant generating function for the energy transfer to nonthermal bath preparations.

id: 1310.2543
title: Quantum mechanical retrodiction through an extended mean King problem
authors: Amir Kalev, Ady Mann, Michael Revzen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2543
abstract: The mean King problem is a conditional retrodiction problem. In this problem Alice prepares a two prime-dimensional particles state and avails one of the particles to the King who measures its state in one of mutually unbiased bases of his choice. The King tells Alice his choice of basis after she completes a control measurement on his particle. Conditioned on this knowledge, she now infers the state observed by the King by utilizing the outcome of her control measurement. In the extended mean King problem, studied in this paper, the King does not tell Alice his measurement basis, but instead both the King and Alice repeat their measurements. Proper ordering of these allows Alice to deduce both the basis used by the King and the outcome of his first measurement, with the King reticent throughout, i.e., this protocol effects a complete (almost) retrodiction of the King's first measurement.

id: 1310.2554
title: Transmission of O-band wavelength-division-multiplexed heralded photons over a noise-corrupted optical fiber channel
authors: Mao Tong Liu, Han Chuen Lim
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, No. 25, 30358-30369 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2554
abstract: We transmitted O-band heralded photons over 10 km of optical fiber in a proof-of-concept experiment demonstrating the feasibility of using heralded photons to improve the noise tolerance of quantum key distribution. In our experiment, the optical fiber channel was corrupted by noise photons to the extent that if we had used an attenuated laser as the photon source, a photon signal-to-noise ratio of < 4.0 at the receiver, corresponding to a quantum bit-error rate of > 10.0%, would have prevented the effective generation of secure keys. Using a photon heralding scheme, the photon signal-to-noise ratio in our experiment was shown to be > 7.8. This corresponds to a quantum bit-error rate of < 5.7%, which is good enough for distilling secure keys. In addition, we showed that it is possible to incorporate wavelength-division-multiplexing into the photon heralding scheme to improve overall key rate. We discussed and clarified the prospects and limitations of the photon heralding scheme for noise-tolerant quantum key distribution.

id: 1310.2576
title: Preparation of a three-photon state in a nonlinear cavity - quantum dot system
authors: Juan Camilo L¨®pez-Carre?o, Herbert Vinck-Posada
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T160, 014027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2576
abstract: We study theoretically the properties of a three-photon state prepared inside a semiconductor cavity, due to the interaction between a quantum dot and an electromagnetic field, and two consecutive spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) processes. Thus, we consider a scheme involving three modes of the electromagnetic field, whose frequencies are given by the SPDC processes: $\omega_0 \rightarrow \omega_1 + \omega_2$, and $\omega_2 \rightarrow \omega_1 + \omega_1$. Furthermore, we study the low excitation regime, in which a three-photon state is accessible within the system's dynamics.

id: 1310.2602
title: Experimental test of the "special state" theory of quantum measurement
authors: L. S. Schulman
comments: This has already been published (see Journal reference), but I have since found an error and corrected it. See endnote 28
journal: Entropy 14, 665-686 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2602
abstract: An experimental test of the "special state" theory of quantum measurement is proposed. It should be feasible with present-day laboratory equipment and involves a slightly elaborated Stern-Gerlach setup. The "special state" theory is conservative with respect to quantum mechanics, but radical with respect to statistical mechanics, in particular regarding the arrow of time. In this article background material is given on both quantum measurement and statistical mechanics aspects. For example, it is shown that future boundary conditions would not contradict experience, indicating that the fundamental equal-a-priori-probability assumption at the foundations of statistical mechanics is far too strong (since future conditioning reduces the class of allowed states). The test is based on a feature of this theory that was found necessary in order to recover standard (Born) probabilities in quantum measurements. Specifically, certain systems should have "noise" whose amplitude follows the long-tailed Cauchy distribution. This distribution is marked by the occasional occurrence of extremely large signals as well as a non-self-averaging property. The proposed test is a variant of the Stern-Gerlach experiment in which protocols are devised, some of which will require the presence of this noise, some of which will not. The likely observational schemes would involve the distinction between detection and non-detection of that "noise". The signal to be detected (or not) would be either single photons in the visible and UV range or electric fields (and related excitations) in the neighborhood of the ends of the magnets.

id: 1310.2677
title: Dynamics of a three-photon state interacting with a quantum dot
authors: Juan Camilo L¨®pez Carre?o, Juan Pablo Restrepo Cuartas, Herbert Vinck Posada
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2677
abstract: In this paper, we study the dynamics of the interaction of a three-photon state and a quantum dot embedded in a semiconductor cavity. In the first place, we consider an ideal cavity in which the effects due to the environment are neglected. Under this conditions, the most important feature of the dynamics is its periodicity, which may be seen on the temporal evolution of the light state. The entanglement dynamics, which is studied through the negativity and the linear entropy, shows a periodic behaviour too. On the other hand, when considering the interaction between the cavity and the environment, taking into account both an incoherent pumping and a photon leakage, the dynamics is no longer periodic. Instead, it may be seen that the entanglement reach stationary values, which depend on the incoherent pumping and photon leakage rates. Finally, we discuss the possibility of using this sort of systems for quantum information processing.

id: 1310.2687
title: Quantum Fisher information for states in exponential form
authors: Zhang Jiang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032128 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2687
abstract: We derive explicit expressions for the quantum Fisher information and the symmetric logarithmic derivative (SLD) of a quantum state in the exponential form; the SLD is expressed in terms of the generator. Applications include quantum-metrology problems with Gaussian states and general thermal states. Specifically, we give the SLD for a Gaussian state in two forms, in terms of its generator and its moments; the Fisher information is also calculated for both forms. Special cases are discussed, including pure, degenerate, and very noisy Gaussian states.

id: 1310.2689
title: Two-setting multi-site Bell inequalities for loophole-free tests with up to 50% loss
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A87 062108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2689
abstract: We consider Bell experiments with N spatially separated qubits where loss is present and restrict to two measurement settings per site. We note the Mermin-Ardehali-Belinskii-Klyshko (MABK) Bell inequalities do not present a tight bound for the predictions of local hidden variable (LHV) theories. The Holder-type Bell inequality derived by Cavalcanti, Foster, Reid and Drummond provides a tighter bound, for high losses. We analyse the actual tight bound for the MABK inequalities, given the measure W=\prod_{k=1}^{N}\eta_{k} of overall detection efficiency, where \eta_{k} is the efficiency at the site k . Using these inequalities, we confirm that the maximally entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state enables loophole-free falsification of LHV theories provided \prod_{k=1}^{N}\eta_{k}>2^{(2-N)}, which implies a symmetric threshold efficiency of \eta\rightarrow50%, as N\rightarrow\infty . Furthermore, loophole-free violations remain possible, even when the efficiency at some sites is reduced well below 0.5, provided N>3 .

id: 1310.2690
title: Criteria for genuine N-partite continuous variable entanglement and Einstein-Podolsky_Rosen steering
authors: R. Y. Teh, M. D. Reid
comments: 19 pages, 14 Figures, many new proofs and results added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062337 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2690
abstract: Following previous work, we distinguish between genuine $N$-partite entanglement and full $N$-partite inseparability. Accordingly, we derive criteria to detect genuine multipartite entanglement using continuous variable (position and momentum) measurements. Our criteria are similar but different to those based on the van Loock-Furusawa inequalities, which detect full $N$-partite inseparability. We explain how the criteria can be used to detect the genuine $N$-partite entanglement of continuous variable states generated from squeezed and vacuum state inputs, including the continuous variable Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, with explicit predictions for up to $N=9$$ $. This makes our work accessible to experiment. For $N=3$, we also present criteria for tripartite Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering. These criteria provide a means to demonstrate a genuine three-party EPR paradox, in which any single party is steerable by the remaining two parties.

id: 1310.2702
title: Emergent irreversibility and entanglement spectrum statistics
authors: Claudio Chamon, Alioscia Hamma, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 240501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2702
abstract: We study the problem of irreversibility when the dynamical evolution of a many-body system is described by a stochastic quantum circuit. Such evolution is more general than a Hamiltonian one, and since energy levels are not well defined, the well-established connection between the statistical fluctuations of the energy spectrum and irreversibility cannot be made. We show that the entanglement spectrum provides a more general connection. Irreversibility is marked by a failure of a disentangling algorithm and is preceded by the appearance of Wigner-Dyson statistical fluctuations in the entanglement spectrum. This analysis can be done at the wave-function level and offers an alternative route to study quantum chaos and quantum integrability.

id: 1310.2729
title: Monogamy inequalities for the EPR paradox and quantum steering
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, presented at ICSSUR Nuremberg 2013, corrections made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2729
abstract: Monogamy inequalities for the way bipartite EPR steering can be distributed among N systems are derived. One set of inequalities is based on witnesses with two measurement settings, and may be used to demonstrate correlation of outcomes between two parties, that cannot be shared with more parties. It is shown that the monogamy for steering is directional. Two parties cannot independently demonstrate steering of a third system, using the same two-setting steering witness, but it is possible for one party to steer two independent systems. This result explains the monogamy of two-setting Bell inequality violations, and the sensitivity of the continuous variable (CV) EPR criterion to losses on the steering party. We generalise to m settings. A second type of monogamy relation gives the quantitative amount of sharing possible, when the number of parties is less than or equal to m, and takes a form similar to the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters (CKW) relation for entanglement. The results enable characterisation of the tripartite steering for CV Gaussian systems and qubit GHZ and W states.

id: 1310.2737
title: Quantum measurement and thermally assisted proton tunnelling
authors: A. D. Godbeer, J. S. Al-Khalili, P. D. Stevenson
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2737
abstract: Despite compelling evidence to the contrary in recent years, the view still persists that quantum effects cannot survive very long within a warm, noisy and complex environment that washes out quantum effects at timescales far too short for any chemically or biochemically interesting processes. It is also assumed that as the temperature of the surrounding environment increases, so the efficiency of processes such as quantum tunnelling drops. One way of viewing this has been to invoke the quantum Zeno effect: that the watched pot never boils. In this work we show that the opposite is true. For a quite general open quantum system, a proton in an asymmetric double-well potential, the action of the environment is to enhance the tunnelling rate (an anti-Zeno effect). We compare two simple mathematical models to show that, over a specific temperature range, thermally enhanced quantum tunnelling is equivalent to increasing the frequency of a von Neumann-type measurement by the environment on the system.

id: 1310.2739
title: Effect of retardation in the atom-field interaction on entanglement in a double Jaynes-Cummings system
authors: Smail Bougouffa, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2739
abstract: The effect of retardation in the atom-field interaction on the dynamics of entanglement in a double Jaynes-Cummings system is investigated. We consider large cavities in which a finite time necessary for light to travel between the atoms and the cavity mirrors may result in retardation effects. Our results demonstrate the qualitatively new behaviour observable in the time evolution of entanglement when the retardation effects are included. Solutions for single and double excitation in the system are presented. We follow the temporal evolution of an initial entanglement and find that the evolution is affected drastically by the retardation effects. In particular, the harmonic oscillations of the atomic populations and the concurrence, characteristic of single-mode Jaynes-Cummings systems, are suppressed when the retardation effects are included. The process of revival of the entanglement degrades with an increasing number of the cavity modes to which the atoms are coupled. It is also found that the effect of the retardation on the doubly excited states is more drastic than on the single excitation states that at relatively short times, the retardation leads to a complete distortion of entanglement carried by a doubly excited state.

id: 1310.2799
title: Free Particle Wave Function and Niederer's Transformation
authors: K. Andrzejewski, J. Gonera, P. Kosinski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2799
abstract: The solutions to the free Schroedinger equation discussed by P. Strange (arXiv: 1309.6753) and A. Aiello (arXiv: 1309.7899) are analyzed. It is shown that their properties can be explained with the help of Niederer's transformation.

id: 1310.2844
title: Optimal measurements in phase estimation: simple examples
authors: T. Wasak, J. Chwedenczuk, L. Pezze, A. Smerzi
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2844
abstract: We identify optimal measurement strategies for phase estimation in different scenarios. For pure states of a single qubit, we show that optimal measurements form a broad set parametrized with a continuous variable. When the state is mixed this set reduces to merely two possible measurements. For two qubits, we focus on the symmetric Werner state. We find an optimal measurement and show that estimation from the population imbalance is optimal only if the state is pure. Finally, for a pure state of $N$ qubits, we finds under which conditions the estimation from the full $N$-body correlation and from the population imbalance are optimal.

id: 1310.2856
title: Quantum Subdivision Capacities and Continuous-time Quantum Coding
authors: Alexander M¨¹ller-Hermes, David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 28 pages plus 6 pages appendix, 6 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol.61, no.1, pp.565-581, Jan. 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2856
abstract: Quantum memories can be regarded as quantum channels that transmit information through time without moving it through space. Aiming at a reliable storage of information we may thus not only encode at the beginning and decode at the end, but also intervene during the transmission - a possibility not captured by the ordinary capacities in Quantum Shannon Theory. In this work we introduce capacities that take this possibility into account and study them in particular for the transmission of quantum information via dynamical semigroups of Lindblad form. When the evolution is subdivided and supplemented by additional continuous semigroups acting on arbitrary block sizes, we show that the capacity of the ideal channel can be obtained in all cases. If the supplementary evolution is reversible, however, this is no longer the case. Upper and lower bounds for this scenario are proven. Finally, we provide a continuous coding scheme and simple examples showing that adding a purely dissipative term to a Liouvillian can sometimes increase the quantum capacity.

id: 1310.2862
title: Discrete mechanics, time machines and hybrid systems
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 14 pages; invited talk at the conference The Time Machine Factory (Torino, October 2012)
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences 58, 01013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2862
abstract: Modifying the discrete mechanics proposed by T.D. Lee, we construct a class of discrete classical Hamiltonian systems, in which time is one of the dynamical variables. This includes a toy model of time machines which can travel forward and backward in time and which differ from models based on closed timelike curves (CTCs). In the continuum limit, we explore the interaction between such time reversing machines and quantum mechanical objects, employing a recent description of quantum-classical hybrids.

id: 1310.2863
title: Spin entanglement and nonlocality of multifermion systems
authors: Marsel Arifullin, Vitaly Berdinskiy
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2863
abstract: Spin density matrices of the system, containing arbitrary even number N of indistinguishable fermions with spin S = 1/2, described by antisymmetric wave function, have been calculated. The indistinguishability and the Pauli principles are proved to determine uniquely spin states, spin correlations and entanglement of fermion spin states. Increase of the particle number in the multifermion system reduces the spin correlation in any pair of fermions. The fully entangled system of N electrons are shown to be composed by pairs with nonentangled spin states that is the incoherent superposition of the singlet and triplet states. Any large system of N fermions, such as electrons with spin S = 1/2, the spin state of any particle are shown to be entangled with the other part of the system containing N-1 particle. However, the spin state of this electron is not entangled with any other particle, and spin state of any electron pair is not entangled. These properties of spin states manifest in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen as confirmation or violation of the Bell inequalities indicating the presence of non-local quantum spin correlations.

id: 1310.2927
title: Quantum Computing with black-box Subroutines
authors: Jayne Thompson, Mile Gu, Kavan Modi, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, this version citations have been shifted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2927
abstract: Modern programming relies on our ability to treat preprogrammed functions as black boxes - we can invoke them as subroutines without knowing their physical implementation. Here we show it is generally impossible to execute an unknown quantum subroutine. This, as a special case, forbids applying black-box subroutines conditioned on an ancillary qubit. We explore how this limits many quantum algorithms - forcing their circuit implementation to be individually tailored to specific inputs and inducing failure if these inputs are not known in advance. We present a method to avoid this situation for certain computational problems. We apply this method to enhance existing quantum factoring algorithms; reducing their complexity, and the extent to which they need to be tailored to factor specific numbers. Thus, we highlight a natural property of classical information that fails in the advent of quantum logic; and simultaneously demonstrate how to mitigate its effects in practical situations.

id: 1310.2929
title: Geometric phase effects in low-energy dynamics near conical intersections: A study of the multidimensional linear vibronic coupling model
authors: Loic Joubert-Doriol, Ilya G. Ryabinkin, Artur F. Izmaylov
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys., 139, 234103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2929
abstract: In molecular systems containing conical intersections (CIs), a nontrivial geometric phase (GP) appears in the nuclear and electronic wave-functions in the adiabatic representation. We study GP effects in nuclear dynamics of an N-dimensional linear vibronic coupling (LVC) model. The main impact of GP on low-energy nuclear dynamics is reduction of population transfer between the local minima of the LVC lower energy surface. For the LVC model, we proposed an isometric coordinate transformation that confines non-adiabatic effects within a two-dimensional subsystem interacting with an N-2 dimensional environment. Since environmental modes do not couple electronic states, all GP effects originate from nuclear dynamics within the subsystem. We explored when the GP affects nuclear dynamics of the isolated subsystem, and how the subsystem-environment interaction can interfere with GP effects. Comparing quantum dynamics with and without GP allowed us to devise simple rules to determine significance of the GP for nuclear dynamics in this model.

id: 1310.2984
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation with Constant Overhead
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 32 pages. v2 has new title, discussion of hyperbolic codes, other minor edits. v3 has additional corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2984
abstract: What is the minimum number of extra qubits needed to perform a large fault-tolerant quantum circuit? Working in a common model of fault-tolerance, I show that in the asymptotic limit of large circuits, the ratio of physical qubits to logical qubits can be a constant. The construction makes use of quantum low-density parity check codes, and the asymptotic overhead of the protocol is equal to that of the family of quantum error-correcting codes underlying the fault-tolerant protocol.

id: 1310.3016
title: Increasing sensing resolution with error correction
authors: Gilad Arrad, Yuval Vinkler, Dorit Aharonov, Alex Retzker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 150801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3016
abstract: The signal to noise ratio of quantum sensing protocols scales with the square root of the coherence time. Thus, increasing this time is a key goal in the field. Dynamical decoupling has proven to be efficient in prolonging the coherence times for the benefit of quantum sensing. However, dynamical decoupling can only push the sensitivity up to a certain limit. In this work we present a new approach to increasing the coherence time further through error correction which can improve the efficiency of quantum sensing beyond the fundamental limits of current state of the art methods.

id: 1310.3046
title: Dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in triple-well potentials
authors: R¨¹diger Fortanier, Damir Zajec, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 235301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3046
abstract: Dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in triple-well potentials are well-suited model systems for periodic optical potentials with important contributions of the non-local and anisotropic dipole-dipole interaction, which show a variety of effects such as self-organisation and formation of patterns. We address here a macroscopic sample of dipolar bosons in the mean-field limit. This work is based on the Gross-Pitaevskii description of dipolar condensates in triple-well potentials by Peter et al 2012 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 225302. Our analysis goes beyond the calculation of ground states presented there and clarifies the role of excited and metastable states in such systems. In particular, we find the formation of phases originating from the interplay of several states with distinct stability properties. As some of the phases are formed by metastable states special attention is paid to the characteristics of phase transitions in real-time and the dynamical stabilisation of the condensate.

id: 1310.3047
title: Quantum algorithm for universal implementation of projective measurement of energy
authors: Shojun Nakayama, Akihito Soeda, Mio Murao
comments: 4 pages with 9-page supplemental, 4 figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 190501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3047
abstract: A projective measurement of energy (PME) on a quantum system is a quantum measurement, determined by the Hamiltonian of the system. PME protocols exist when the Hamiltonian is given in advance. Unknown Hamiltonians can be identified by quantum tomography, but the time cost to achieve a given accuracy increases exponentially with the size of the quantum system. In this letter, we improve the time cost by adapting quantum phase estimation, an algorithm designed for computational problems, to measurements on physical systems. We present a PME protocol without quantum tomography for Hamiltonians whose dimension and energy scale are given but otherwise unknown. Our protocol implements a PME to arbitrary accuracy without any dimension dependence on its time cost. We also show that another computational quantum algorithm may be used for efficient estimation of the energy scale. These algorithms show that computational quantum algorithms have applications beyond their original context with suitable modifications.

id: 1310.3089
title: Entanglement entropy in quasi-symmetric multi-qubit states
authors: Zhi-Hua Li, An-Min Wang
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3089
abstract: We generalize the symmetric multi-qubit states to their q-analogs, whose basis vectors are identified with the q-Dicke states. We study the entanglement entropy in these states and find that entanglement is extruded towards certain regions of the system due to the inhomogeneity aroused by q-deformation. We also calculate entanglement entropy in ground states of a related q-deformed Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and show that the singularities of entanglement can correctly signify the quantum phase transition points for different strengths of q-deformation.

id: 1310.3092
title: Storing High-Dimensional Quantum States in a Cold Atomic Ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Wei Zhang, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Jian-Song Pan, Guo-Yong Xiang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Comments are welcome,13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3092
abstract: The reversible transfer of the quantum information between a photon, an information carrier, and a quantum memory with high fidelity and reliability is the prerequisite for realizing a long-distance quantum communication and a quantum network. Encoding photons into higher-dimensional states could significantly increase their information-carrying capability and network capacity. Moreover, the large-alphabet quantum key distribution affords a more secure flux of information. Quantum memories have been realized in different physical systems, such as atomic ensembles and solid systems etc., but to date, all quantum memories only realize the storage and retrieval of the photons lived in a two-dimensional space spanned for example by orthogonal polarizations, therefore only a quantum bit could be stored there. Here, we report on the first experimental realization of a quantum memory storing a photon lived in a three-dimensional space spanned by orbital angular momentums via electromagnetically induced transparency in a cold atomic ensemble. We reconstruct the storage process density matrix with the fidelity of 85.3% by the aid of a 4-f imaging system experimentally. The ability to store a high-dimensional quantum state with high fidelity is very promising for building a high-dimensional quantum network.

id: 1310.3116
title: A Wigner distribution function for finite oscillator systems
authors: Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 475302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3116
abstract: We define a Wigner distribution function for a one-dimensional finite quantum system, in which the position and momentum operators have a finite (multiplicity-free) spectrum. The distribution function is thus defined on discrete phase-space, i.e. on a finite discrete square grid. These discrete Wigner functions possess a number of properties similar to the Wigner function for a continuous quantum system such as the quantum harmonic oscillator. As an example, we consider the so-called su(2) oscillator model in dimension 2j+1, which is known to tend to the canonical oscillator when j tends to infinity. In particular, we compare plots of our discrete Wigner functions for the su(2) oscillator with the well known plots of Wigner functions for the canonical quantum oscillator. This comparison supports our approach to discrete Wigner functions.

id: 1310.3147
title: Finding structural anomalies in star graphs: A general approach
authors: Seth Cottrell, Mark Hillery
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 030501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3147
abstract: We develop a general theory for a quantum-walk search on a star graph. A star graph has N edges each of which is attached to a central vertex. A graph G is attached to one of these edges, and we would like to find out to which edge it is attached. This is done by means of a quantum walk, a quantum version of a random walk. This walk contains O(\sqrt{N}) steps, which represents a speedup over a classical search, which would require O(N) steps. The overall graph, star plus G, is divided into two parts, and we find that for a quantum speedup to occur, the eigenvalues associated with these two parts in the N goes to infinity limit must be the same. Our theory tells us how the initial state of the walk should be chosen, and how many steps the walk must make in order to find G.

id: 1310.3177
title: Reduced back-action for phase sensitivity 10 times beyond the standard quantum limit
authors: Justin G. Bohnet, Kevin C. Cox, Matthew A. Norcia, Joshua M. Weiner, Zilong Chen, James K. Thompson
comments: 9 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3177
abstract: Collective measurements can project a system into an entangled state with enhanced sensitivity for measuring a quantum phase, but measurement back-action has limited previous efforts to only modest improvements. Here we use a collective measurement to produce and directly observe, with no background subtraction, an entangled, spin-squeezed state with phase resolution improved in variance by a factor of 10.5(1.5), or 10.2(6) dB, compared to the initially unentangled ensemble of N = 4.8 x 10^5 87Rb atoms. The measurement uses a cavity-enhanced probe of an optical cycling transition to mitigate back-action associated with state-changing transitions induced by the probe. This work establishes collective measurements as a powerful technique for generating entanglement for precision measurement, with potential impacts in biological sensing, communication, navigation, and tests of fundamental physics.

id: 1310.3187
title: What is the best way to teleport a qudit?
authors: Kevin Marshall, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 31, Issue 3, pp. 423-428 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3187
abstract: The need for high fidelity quantum teleportation arises in a variety of quantum algorithms and protocols. Unfortunately, conventional continuous variable teleportation schemes rely on EPR states that yield a fidelity that approaches unity only in the limit of an unphysical amount of squeezing. A new method, which utilizes an ensemble of single photon entangled states to teleport continuous variable states with fidelity approaching unity with finite resources was recently proposed by Andersen and Ralph [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050504 (2013)]. We extend these ideas to consider the general case of using maximally entangled states of an arbitrary dimension to teleport a continuous variable state and discuss how the corresponding results are affected.

id: 1310.3188
title: Renormalisation as an inference problem
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3188
abstract: In physics we attempt to infer the rules governing a system given only the results of imprecise measurements. This is an ill-posed problem because certain features of the system's state cannot be resolved by the measurements. However, by ignoring the irrelevant features, an effective theory can be made for the remaining observable relevant features. We explain how these relevant and irrelevant degrees of freedom can be concretely characterised using quantum distinguishability metrics, thus solving the ill-posed inference problem. This framework then allows us to provide an information-theoretic formulation of the renormalisation group, applicable to both statistical physics and quantum field theory. Using this formulation we show that, given a natural model for an experimentalist's spatial and field-strength measurement uncertainties, the n-point correlation functions of bounded momenta emerge as relevant observables. Our methods also provide a way to extend renormalisation techniques to effective models which are not based on the usual quantum field formalism. In particular, we can explain in elementary terms, using the example of a simple classical system, some of the problems occurring in quantum field theory and their solution.

id: 1310.3225
title: A Turing test for free will
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 20 pages, plain TeX
journal: Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A 28, 3597-3610 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3225
abstract: Before Alan Turing made his crucial contributions to the theory of computation, he studied the question of whether quantum mechanics could throw light on the nature of free will. This article investigates the roles of quantum mechanics and computation in free will. Although quantum mechanics implies that events are intrinsically unpredictable, the `pure stochasticity' of quantum mechanics adds only randomness to decision making processes, not freedom. By contrast, the theory of computation implies that even when our decisions arise from a completely deterministic decision-making process, the outcomes of that process can be intrinsically unpredictable, even to -- especially to -- ourselves. I argue that this intrinsic computational unpredictability of the decision making process is what give rise to our impression that we possess free will. Finally, I propose a `Turing test' for free will: a decision maker who passes this test will tend to believe that he, she, or it possesses free will, whether the world is deterministic or not.

id: 1310.3235
title: Hardness of decoding quantum stabilizer codes
authors: Pavithran Iyer, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3235
abstract: In this article we address the computational hardness of optimally decoding a quantum stabilizer code. Much like classical linear codes, errors are detected by measuring certain check operators which yield an error syndrome, and the decoding problem consists of determining the most likely recovery given the syndrome. The corresponding classical problem is known to be NP-complete, and a similar decoding problem for quantum codes is also known to be NP-complete. However, this decoding strategy is not optimal in the quantum setting as it does not take into account error degeneracy, which causes distinct errors to have the same effect on the code. Here, we show that optimal decoding of stabilizer codes is computationally much harder than optimal decoding of classical linear codes, it is #P.

id: 1310.3238
title: Lorentz Transformation of Blackbody Radiation
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review E 88, 044101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3238
abstract: We present a simple calculation of the Lorentz transformation of the spectral distribution of blackbody radiation at temperature T. Here we emphasize that T is the temperature in the blackbody rest frame and does not change. We thus avoid the confused and confusing question of how temperature transforms. We show by explicit calculation that at zero temperature the spectral distribution is invariant. At finite temperature we find the well known result familiar in discussions of the the 2.7! K cosmic radiation.

id: 1310.3244
title: Asymptotic entanglement transformation between W and GHZ states
authors: Peter Vrana, Matthias Christandl
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3244
abstract: We investigate entanglement transformations with stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) in an asymptotic setting using the concepts of degeneration and border rank of tensors from algebraic complexity theory. Results well-known in that field imply that GHZ states can be transformed into W states at rate 1 for any number of parties. As a generalization, we find that the asymptotic conversion rate from GHZ states to Dicke states is bounded as the number of subsystems increase and the number of excitations is fixed. By generalizing constructions of Coppersmith and Winograd and by using monotones introduced by Strassen we also compute the conversion rate from W to GHZ states.

id: 1310.3260
title: Quantum Error Correction for Metrology
authors: Eric M. Kessler, Igor Lovchinsky, Alexander O. Sushkov, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: Revised manuscript; 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 150802 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3260
abstract: We propose and analyze a new approach based on quantum error correction (QEC) to improve quantum metrology in the presence of noise. We identify the conditions under which QEC allows one to improve the signal-to-noise ratio in quantum-limited measurements, and we demonstrate that it enables, in certain situations, Heisenberg-limited sensitivity. We discuss specific applications to nanoscale sensing using nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond in which QEC can significantly improve the measurement sensitivity and bandwidth under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1310.3262
title: Optimal bounds for quantum weak oblivious transfer
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Gus Gutoski, Jamie Sikora
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3262
abstract: Oblivious transfer is a fundamental cryptographic primitive in which Bob transfers one of two bits to Alice in such a way that Bob cannot know which of the two bits Alice has learned. We present an optimal security bound for quantum oblivious transfer protocols under a natural and demanding definition of what it means for Alice to cheat. Our lower bound is a smooth tradeoff between the probability B with which Bob can guess Alice's bit choice and the probability A with which Alice can guess both of Bob's bits given that she learns one of the bits with certainty. We prove that 2B + A is greater than or equal to 2 in any quantum protocol for oblivious transfer, from which it follows that one of the two parties must be able to cheat with probability at least 2/3. We prove that this bound is optimal by exhibiting a family of protocols whose cheating probabilities can be made arbitrarily close to any point on the tradeoff curve.

id: 1310.3265
title: On Negacyclic MDS-Convolutional Codes
authors: Giuliano Gadioli La Guardia
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.4654. Accepted for publication in Linear Algebra and its Applications - LAA
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications, 448 (2014) 85--96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3265
abstract: New families of classical and quantum optimal negacyclic convolutional codes are constructed in this paper. This optimality is in the sense that they attain the classical (quantum) generalized Singleton bound. The constructions presented in this paper are performed algebraically and not by computational search.

id: 1310.3288
title: Testing Bell's Inequality with Cosmic Photons: Closing the Setting-Independence Loophole
authors: Jason Gallicchio, Andrew S. Friedman, David I. Kaiser
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Minor edits to closely match journal version to be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 110405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3288
abstract: We propose a practical scheme to use photons from causally disconnected cosmic sources to set the detectors in an experimental test of Bell's inequality. In current experiments, with settings determined by quantum random number generators, only a small amount of correlation between detector settings and local hidden variables, established less than a millisecond before each experiment, would suffice to mimic the predictions of quantum mechanics. By setting the detectors using pairs of quasars or patches of the cosmic microwave background, observed violations of Bell's inequality would require any such coordination to have existed for billions of years --- an improvement of 20 orders of magnitude.

id: 1310.3304
title: Quantizations from (P)OVM's
authors: Herv¨¦ Bergeron, Evaldo M.F. Curado, Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Ligia M.C.S. Rodrigues
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3304
abstract: We explain the powerful role that operator-valued measures can play in quantizing any set equipped with a measure, for instance a group (resp. group coset) with its invariant (resp. quasi-invariant) measure. Coherent state quantization is a particular case. Such integral quantizations are illustrated with two examples based on the Weyl-Heisenberg group and on the affine group respectively. An interesting application of the affine quantization in quantum cosmology is mentioned, and we sketch a construction of new coherent states for the hydrogen atom.

id: 1310.3318
title: Double-double electromagnetically induced transparency with amplification
authors: Hessa M. M. Alotaibi, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 021802 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3318
abstract: We show that an alkali atom with a tripod electronic structure can yield rich electromagnetically induced transparency phenomena even at room temperature. In particular we introduce double-double electromagnetically induced transparency wherein signal and probe fields each have two transparency windows. Their group velocities can be matched in either the first or second pair of transparency windows. Moreover signal and probe fields can each experience coherent gain in the second transparency windows. We explain using a semi-classical-dressed-picture to connect the tripod electronic structure to a double-\Lambda\ scheme.

id: 1310.3419
title: Primitive Nonclassical Structures of the $N$-qubit Pauli Group
authors: Mordecai Waegell
comments: 29 pages, 9 tables, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3419
abstract: Several types of nonclassical structures within the $N$-qubit Pauli group that can be seen as fundamental resources for quantum information processing are presented and discussed. Identity Products (IDs), structures fundamentally related to entanglement, are defined and explored. The Kochen-Specker theorem is proved by particular sets of IDs that we call KS sets. We also present a new theorem that we call the $N$-qubit Kochen-Specker theorem, which is proved by particular sets of IDs that we call NKS sets, and whose utility is that it leads to efficient constructions for KS sets. We define the criticality, or irreducibility, of these structures, and its connection to entanglement. All representative critical IDs for up to $N=4$ qubits are presented, and numerous families of critical IDs for arbitrarily large values of $N$ are discussed. The critical IDs for a given $N$ are a finite set of geometric objects that appear to fully characterize the nonclassicality of the $N$-qubit Pauli group. Methods for constructing critical KS sets and NKS sets from IDs are given, and experimental tests of entanglement, contextuality, and nonlocality are discussed. Possible applications and connections to other work are also discussed

id: 1310.3432
title: Heisenberg limited metrology using Quantum Error-Correction Codes
authors: Roee Ozeri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3432
abstract: Methods borrowed from the world of quantum information processing have lately been used to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of quantum detectors. Here we analyze the use of stabilizer quantum error-correction codes for the purpose of signal detection. We show that using quantum error-correction codes a small signal can be measured with Heisenberg limited uncertainty even in the presence of noise. We analyze the limitations to the measurement of signals of interest and discuss two simple examples. The possibility of long coherence times, combined with their Heisenberg limited sensitivity to certain signals, pose quantum error-correction codes as a promising detection scheme.

id: 1310.3443
title: Exploring adiabatic quantum trajectories via optimal control
authors: Constantin Brif, Matthew D. Grace, Mohan Sarovar, Kevin C. Young
comments: The final version accepted by New J. Phys., 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 065013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3443
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation employs a slow change of a time-dependent control function (or functions) to interpolate between an initial and final Hamiltonian, which helps to keep the system in the instantaneous ground state. When the evolution time is finite, the degree of adiabaticity (quantified in this work as the average ground-state population during evolution) depends on the particulars of a dynamic trajectory associated with a given set of control functions. We use quantum optimal control theory with a composite objective functional to numerically search for controls that achieve the target final state with a high fidelity while simultaneously maximizing the degree of adiabaticity. Exploring properties of optimal adiabatic trajectories in model systems elucidates the dynamic mechanisms that suppress unwanted excitations from the ground state. Specifically, we discover that the use of multiple control functions makes it possible to access a rich set of dynamic trajectories, some of which attain a significantly improved performance (in terms of both fidelity and adiabaticity) through the increase of the energy gap during most of the evolution time.

id: 1310.3525
title: Optically-driven nuclear-spin-selective Rabi oscillations of single electron spins in diamond
authors: D. Andrew Golter, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3525
abstract: Optically-driven Rabi oscillations of single electron spins in a diamond nitrogen vacancy center are realized with two Raman-resonant optical pulses that are detuned from the respective dipole optical transitions. The Rabi oscillations are nuclear-spin selective and are robust against rapid decoherence of the underlying optical transitions, opening the door to generating phonon-mediated spin entanglement in an optically-driven spin-phonon system. A direct comparison between the Rabi oscillations and simulated Raman adiabatic passage along with a detailed theoretical analysis provide a wealth of information on the coherent spin dynamics and in particular reveal that decoherence and environmental fluctuations associated with the optical transitions affect the fidelity of the Rabi oscillations through relatively large jumps in the transition frequencies.

id: 1310.3530
title: Symmetric Extension of Two-Qubit States
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, David Kribs, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Bei Zeng
comments: 10 pages, no figure. comments are welcome. Version 2: introduction rewritten
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3530
abstract: Quantum key distribution uses public discussion protocols to establish shared secret keys. In the exploration of ultimate limits to such protocols, the property of symmetric extendibility of underlying bipartite states $\rho_{AB}$ plays an important role. A bipartite state $\rho_{AB}$ is symmetric extendible if there exits a tripartite state $\rho_{ABB'}$, such that the $AB$ marginal state is identical to the $AB'$ marginal state, i.e. $\rho_{AB'}=\rho_{AB}$. For a symmetric extendible state $\rho_{AB}$, the first task of the public discussion protocol is to break this symmetric extendibility. Therefore to characterize all bi-partite quantum states that possess symmetric extensions is of vital importance. We prove a simple analytical formula that a two-qubit state $\rho_{AB}$ admits a symmetric extension if and only if $\tr(\rho_B^2)\geq \tr(\rho_{AB}^2)-4\sqrt{\det{\rho_{AB}}}$. Given the intimate relationship between the symmetric extension problem and the quantum marginal problem, our result also provides the first analytical necessary and sufficient condition for the quantum marginal problem with overlapping marginals.

id: 1310.3562
title: Adiabatic computing using 2-local Hamiltonians on a line
authors: Brian Pepper
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a critical error in the state transition rules
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3562
abstract: Here we consider the power of a line of quantum particles under a nearest-neighbor 2-local Hamiltonian. Currently, it has been shown that 8-state particles are sufficient for universal adiabatic computing. We improve this result to show that 7-state particles are sufficient.

id: 1310.3604
title: The complete Heyting algebra of subsystems and contextuality
authors: A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 082105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3604
abstract: The finite set of subsystems of a finite quantum system with variables in ${\mathbb Z}(n)$, is studied as a Heyting algebra. The physical meaning of the logical connectives is discussed. It is shown that disjunction of subsystems is more general concept than superposition. Consequently the quantum probabilities related to projectors in the subsystems, are incompatible with associativity of the join in the Heyting algebra, unless if the variables belong to the same chain. This leads to contextuality, which in the present formalism has as contexts, the chains in the Heyting algebra. Logical Bell inequalities, which contain `Heyting factors', are discussed. The formalism is also applied to the infinite set of all finite quantum systems, which is appropriately enlarged in order to become a complete Heyting algebra.

id: 1310.3638
title: Resonant interactions between a Mollow triplet sideband of a quantum dot and a strongly coupled cavity
authors: Hyochul Kim, Thomas C. Shen, Kaushik Roy-Choudhury, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3638
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that the Mollow triplet sidebands of a quantum dot strongly coupled to a cavity exhibit anomalous power induced broadening and enhanced emission when one sideband is tuned over the cavity frequency. We observe a nonlinear increase of the sideband linewidth with excitation power when the Rabi frequency exceeds the detuning between the quantum dot and the cavity, consistent with a recent theoretical model that accounts for acoustic phonon-induced processes between the exciton and the cavity. In addition, the sideband tuned to the cavity shows strong resonant emission enhancement.

id: 1310.3684
title: What Do Experiments in Optics tell us about Photon Momentum in Media?
authors: Iver Brevik
comments: 11 pages latex,no figures. Submitted to the Festschrift for Johan H\oye
journal: Trans. Roy. Norw. Soc. Sci. Lett. 2014 No. 3, pp. 83-93
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3684
abstract: In order to get some insight in the intricacies of the Abraham-Minkowski energy-momentum problem in phenomenological electrodynamics, we briefly analyze eight different experimental situations in radiation optics. Six of the experiments are already existing, while the remaining two are suggestions for future endeavors. Among the first six, we distinguish between three which are incapable of informing about photon momentum in a medium, and the remaining three which are able to give us useful information. Our general conclusion is that the Abraham-Minkowski "problem" is essentially a matter of convenience. In actual physical situations it is the Minkowski expression which is most natural alternative to employ. Also, in a canonical context, it is the Minkowski energy-momentum tensor which is the most convenient alternative to work with, as this tensor is divergence-free causing the total radiation momentum and energy to make up a four-vector, although notably a spacelike one.

id: 1310.3698
title: Quantum theory realises all joint measurability graphs
authors: Chris Heunen, Tobias Fritz, Manuel L. Reyes
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 89:032121, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3698
abstract: Joint measurability of sharp quantum observables is determined pairwise, and so can be captured in a graph. We prove the converse: any graph, whose vertices represent sharp observables, and whose edges represent joint measurability, is realised by quantum theory. This leads us to show that it is not always possible to use Neumark dilation to turn unsharp observables into sharp ones with the same joint measurability relations, highlighting a caveat in the church of the larger Hilbert space".

id: 1310.3715
title: Quantum Simulation of the Haldane Phase Using Trapped Ions
authors: Itsik Cohen, Alex Retzker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3715
abstract: A proposal to use trapped ions to simulate spin-one XXZ antiferromagnetic (AFM) chains as an experimental tool to explore the Haldane phase is presented. We explain how to reach the Haldane phase adiabatically, demonstrate the robustness of the ground states to noise in the magnetic field and Rabi frequencies, and propose a way to detect them using their characterizations: an excitation gap and exponentially decaying correlations, a nonvanishing nonlocal string order and a double degenerate entanglement spectrum. Scaling up to higher dimensions and more frustrated lattices, we obtain richer phase diagrams, and we can reach spin liquid phase, which can be detected by its entanglement entropy which obeys the boundary law.

id: 1310.3750
title: Improved quantum metrology using quantum error-correction
authors: W. D¨¹r, M. Skotiniotis, F. Fr?wis, B. Kraus
comments: Version 2 is the published version. Appendices contain Supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 080801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3750
abstract: We consider quantum metrology in noisy environments, where the effect of noise and decoherence limits the achievable gain in precision by quantum entanglement. We show that by using tools from quantum error-correction this limitation can be overcome. This is demonstrated in two scenarios, including a many-body Hamiltonian with single-qubit dephasing or depolarizing noise, and a single-body Hamiltonian with transversal noise. In both cases we show that Heisenberg scaling, and hence a quadratic improvement over the classical case, can be retained. Moreover, for the case of frequency estimation we find that the inclusion of error-correction allows, in certain instances, for a finite optimal interrogation time even in the asymptotic limit.

id: 1310.3769
title: Single-Valued Hamiltonian via Legendre-Fenchel Transformation and Time Translation Symmetry
authors: Huan-Hang Chi, Hong-Jian He
comments: Journal Version, 16pp. All results + conclusions un-changed, only minor refinements to clarify the importance of our new LFT method and its physics applications; references added
journal: Nuclear Physics B 885 (2014) 448-458
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3769
abstract: Under conventional Legendre transformation, systems with a non-convex Lagrangian will result in a multi-valued Hamiltonian as a function of conjugate momentum. This causes problems such as non-unitary time evolution of quantum state and non-determined motion of classical particles, and is physically unacceptable. In this work, we propose a new construction of single-valued Hamiltonian by applying Legendre-Fenchel transformation, which is a mathematically rigorous generalization of conventional Legendre transformation, valid for non-convex Lagrangian systems, but not yet widely known to the physics community. With the new single-valued Hamiltonian, we study spontaneous breaking of time translation symmetry and derive its vacuum state. Applications to theories of cosmology and gravitation are discussed.

id: 1310.3780
title: Controlling discrete and continuous symmetries in 'superradiant' phase transitions
authors: Alexandre Baksic, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 112 (2014) 173601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3780
abstract: We explore theoretically the physics of a collection of two-level systems coupled to a single-mode bosonic field in the non-standard configuration where each (artificial) atom is coupled to both field quadratures of the boson mode. We determine the rich phase diagram showing 'superradiant' phases with different symmetries. We demonstrate that it is possible to pass from a discrete, parity-like $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry to a continuous U(1) symmetry even in the ultrastrong coupling regime where the rotating wave approximation for the interaction between field and two-level systems is no longer applicable. By applying this general paradigm, we propose a scheme for the experimental implementation of such continuous U(1) symmetry in circuit QED systems, with the appearance of photonic Goldstone and amplitude modes above a critical point.

id: 1310.3782
title: Fiber-pigtailed optical tweezer for single-atom trapping and single-photon generation
authors: S¨¦bastien Garcia, Dominik Maxein, Leander Hohmann, Jakob Reichel, Romain Long
comments: pages : 4
journal: Applied Physics Letters 103, 11 (2013) 4103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3782
abstract: We demonstrate a miniature, fiber-coupled optical tweezer to trap a single atom. The same fiber is used to trap a single atom and to read out its fluorescence. To obtain a low background level, the tweezer light is chopped, and we measure the influence of the chopping frequency on the atom's lifetime. We use the single atom as a single-photon source at 780 nm and measure the second-order correlation function of the emitted photons. Because of its miniature, robust, fiber-pigtailed design, this tweezer can be implemented in a broad range of experiments where single atoms are used as a resource.

id: 1310.3789
title: Synchronizing the dynamics of a single NV spin qubit on a parametrically coupled radio-frequency field through microwave dressing
authors: Sven Rohr, Eva Dupont-Ferrier, Benjamin Pigeau, Pierre Verlot, Vincent Jacques, Olivier Arcizet
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters (2014) Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3789
abstract: A hybrid spin-oscillator system in parametric interaction is experimentally emulated using a single NV spin qubit immersed in a radio frequency (RF) field and probed with a quasi resonant microwave (MW) field. We report on the MW mediated locking of the NV spin dynamics onto the RF field, appearing when the MW driven Rabi precession frequency approaches the RF frequency and for sufficiently large RF amplitudes. These signatures are analog to a phononic Mollow triplet in the MW rotating frame for the parametric interaction and promise to have impact in spin-dependent force detection strategies.

id: 1310.3794
title: Binary Constraint System Games and Locally Commutative Reductions
authors: Zhengfeng Ji
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures; v2 contains an explicit proof of Lemma 4, a theorem on HORN-SAT* and several extended discussions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3794
abstract: A binary constraint system game is a two-player one-round non-local game defined by a system of Boolean constraints. The game has a perfect quantum strategy if and only if the constraint system has a quantum satisfying assignment [R. Cleve and R. Mittal, arXiv:1209.2729]. We show that several concepts including the quantum chromatic number and the Kochen-Specker sets that arose from different contexts fit naturally in the binary constraint system framework. The structure and complexity of the quantum satisfiability problems for these constraint systems are investigated. Combined with a new construct called the commutativity gadget for each problem, several classic NP-hardness reductions are lifted to their corresponding quantum versions. We also provide a simple parity constraint game that requires $\Omega(\sqrt{n})$ EPR pairs in perfect strategies where $n$ is the number of variables in the constraint system.

id: 1310.3804
title: Multiple intrinsically identical single photon emitters in the solid-state
authors: Lachlan J. Rogers, Kay D. Jahnke, T. Teraji, Luca Marseglia, Christoph. M¨¹ller, Boris Naydenov, Hardy Schauffert, C. Kranz, Junichi Isoya, Liam P. McGuinness, Fedor Jelezko
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4739 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3804
abstract: Emitters of indistinguishable single photons are crucial for the growing field of quantum technologies. To realize scalability and increase the complexity of quantum optics technologies, multiple independent yet identical single photon emitters are also required. However typical solid-state single photon sources are inherently dissimilar, necessitating the use of electrical feedback or optical cavities to improve spectral overlap between distinct emitters. Here, we demonstrate bright silicon-vacancy (SiV-) centres in low-strain bulk diamond which intrinsically show spectral overlap of up to 91% and near transform-limited excitation linewidths. Our results have impact upon the application of single photon sources for quantum optics and cryptography, and the production of next generation fluorophores for bio-imaging.

id: 1310.3846
title: Decoding non-Abelian topological quantum memories
authors: James R. Wootton, Jan Burri, Sofyan Iblisdir, Daniel Loss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011051 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3846
abstract: The possibility of quantum computation using non-Abelian anyons has been considered for over a decade. However the question of how to obtain and process information about what errors have occurred in order to negate their effects has not yet been considered. This is in stark contrast with quantum computation proposals for Abelian anyons, for which decoding algorithms have been tailor-made for many topological error-correcting codes and error models. Here we address this issue by considering the properties of non-Abelian error correction in general. We also choose a specific anyon model and error model to probe the problem in more detail. The anyon model is the charge submodel of $D(S_3)$. This shares many properties with important models such as the Fibonacci anyons, making our method applicable in general. The error model is a straightforward generalization of those used in the case of Abelian anyons for initial benchmarking of error correction methods. It is found that error correction is possible under a threshold value of $7 \%$ for the total probability of an error on each physical spin. This is remarkably comparable with the thresholds for Abelian models.

id: 1310.3885
title: Universal State Transfer on Graphs
authors: Stephen Cameron, Shannon Fehrenbach, Leah Granger, Oliver Hennigh, Sunrose Shrestha, Christino Tamon
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: Linear Algebra and Its Applications 455:115-142, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3885
abstract: A continuous-time quantum walk on a graph $G$ is given by the unitary matrix $U(t) = \exp(-itA)$, where $A$ is the Hermitian adjacency matrix of $G$. We say $G$ has pretty good state transfer between vertices $a$ and $b$ if for any $\epsilon > 0$, there is a time $t$, where the $(a,b)$-entry of $U(t)$ satisfies $|U(t)_{a,b}| \ge 1-\epsilon$. This notion was introduced by Godsil (2011). The state transfer is perfect if the above holds for $\epsilon = 0$. In this work, we study a natural extension of this notion called universal state transfer. Here, state transfer exists between every pair of vertices of the graph. We prove the following results about graphs with this stronger property: (1) Graphs with universal state transfer have distinct eigenvalues and flat eigenbasis (where each eigenvector has entries which are equal in magnitude). (2) The switching automorphism group of a graph with universal state transfer is abelian and its order divides the size of the graph. Moreover, if the state transfer is perfect, then the switching automorphism group is cyclic. (3) There is a family of prime-length cycles with complex weights which has universal pretty good state transfer. This provides a concrete example of an infinite family of graphs with the universal property. (4) There exists a class of graphs with real symmetric adjacency matrices which has universal pretty good state transfer. In contrast, Kay (2011) proved that no graph with real-valued adjacency matrix can have universal perfect state transfer. We also provide a spectral characterization of universal perfect state transfer graphs that are switching equivalent to circulants.

id: 1310.3898
title: Quantum Algorithms for Matrix Products over Semirings
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3898
abstract: In this paper we construct quantum algorithms for matrix products over several algebraic structures called semirings, including the (max,min)-matrix product, the distance matrix product and the Boolean matrix product. In particular, we obtain the following results. We construct a quantum algorithm computing the product of two n x n matrices over the (max,min) semiring with time complexity O(n^{2.473}). In comparison, the best known classical algorithm for the same problem, by Duan and Pettie, has complexity O(n^{2.687}). As an application, we obtain a O(n^{2.473})-time quantum algorithm for computing the all-pairs bottleneck paths of a graph with n vertices, while classically the best upper bound for this task is O(n^{2.687}), again by Duan and Pettie. We construct a quantum algorithm computing the L most significant bits of each entry of the distance product of two n x n matrices in time O(2^{0.64L} n^{2.46}). In comparison, prior to the present work, the best known classical algorithm for the same problem, by Vassilevska and Williams and Yuster, had complexity O(2^{L}n^{2.69}). Our techniques lead to further improvements for classical algorithms as well, reducing the classical complexity to O(2^{0.96L}n^{2.69}), which gives a sublinear dependency on 2^L. The above two algorithms are the first quantum algorithms that perform better than the $\tilde O(n^{5/2})$-time straightforward quantum algorithm based on quantum search for matrix multiplication over these semirings. We also consider the Boolean semiring, and construct a quantum algorithm computing the product of two n x n Boolean matrices that outperforms the best known classical algorithms for sparse matrices. For instance, if the input matrices have O(n^{1.686...}) non-zero entries, then our algorithm has time complexity O(n^{2.277}), while the best classical algorithm has complexity O(n^{2.373}).

id: 1310.3910
title: Hybrid Atom--Photon Quantum Gate in a Superconducting Microwave Resonator
authors: J. D. Pritchard, J. A. Isaacs, M. A. Beck, R. McDermott, M. Saffman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3910
abstract: We propose a novel hybrid quantum gate between an atom and a microwave photon in a superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity by exploiting the strong resonant microwave coupling between adjacent Rydberg states. Using experimentally achievable parameters gate fidelities $> 0.99$ are possible on sub-$\mu$s timescales for waveguide temperatures below 40 mK. This provides a mechanism for generating entanglement between two disparate quantum systems and represents an important step in the creation of a hybrid quantum interface applicable for both quantum simulation and quantum information processing.

id: 1310.3921
title: Coherent control of mesoscopic atomic ensembles for quantum information
authors: I.I. Beterov, M. Saffman, V.P. Zhukov, D.B. Tretyakov, V.M. Entin, E.A. Yakshina, I.I. Ryabtsev, C.W.Mansell, C. MacCormick, S. Bergamini, M.P. Fedoruk
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, to be published in Proceedings of the 6th International Symposium on Modern Problems of Laser Physics (MPLP-2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3921
abstract: We discuss methods for coherently controlling mesoscopic atomic ensembles where the number of atoms varies randomly from one experimental run to the next. The proposed schemes are based on adiabatic passage and Rydberg blockade and can be used for implementation of a scalable quantum register formed by an array of randomly loaded optical dipole traps.

id: 1310.3922
title: Polarization-entangled photon-pair generation in commercial-grade polarization-maintaining fiber
authors: Bin Fang, Offir Cohen, Virginia Lorenz
comments: arguments on page4 has changed
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 277-81 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3922
abstract: We demonstrate a fiber-based source of polarization-entangled photon pairs at visible wavelengths suitable for integration with local quantum processing schemes. The photons are created through birefringent phase-matching in spontaneous four-wave mixing inside a Sagnac interferometer. We address entanglement degradation due to temporal distinguishability of the photons to enable the generation of a spectrally unfiltered polarization-entangled photon-pair state with $95.86\pm0.10%$ fidelity to a maximally entangled Bell state, evaluated with a tomographic state reconstruction without applying any corrections or background subtractions. Owing to the large birefringence of the fiber, photons are created far detuned from the pump, where Raman contamination is negligible. This source's spatial mode and ability to produce spectrally uncorrelated photons make it suitable for implementing quantum information protocols over free-space and fiber-based networks.

id: 1310.3931
title: Enhanced correlation of electron-positron pair in the two and three dimensions
authors: Suo Tang, Bai-Song Xie, Hong-Yu Wang, Jie Liu, Li-Bin Fu, M. Y. Yu
comments: 9 pages 4 figures, Submitted to Chin. Phys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3931
abstract: Early-time electron-positron correlation in vacuum pair-production in an external field is investigated. The entangled electron and positron wave functions are obtained analytically in the configuration and momentum spaces. It is shown that, relative to that of the one-dimensional theory, two- and three-dimensional calculations yield enhanced spatial correlation and broadened momentum spectrum. In fact, at early times the electron and positron almost coincide spatially. The correlation also depends on the direction of the applied field. For the spatial correlation, the transverse correlation is stronger than the longitudinal one.

id: 1310.3944
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-steering using quantum correlations in non-Gaussian entangled states
authors: Priyanka Chowdhury, Tanumoy Pramanik, A. S. Majumdar, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3944
abstract: In view of the increasing importance of non-Gaussian entangled states in quantum information protocols like teleportation and violations of Bell inequalities, the steering of continuous variable non-Gaussian entangled states is investigated. The EPR steering for Gaussian states may be demonstrated through the violation of the Reid inequality involving products of the inferred variances of non-commuting observables. However, for arbitrary states the Reid inequality is not always necessary because of the higher order correlations in such states. One then needs to use the entropic steering inequality. We examine several classes of currently important non-Gaussian entangled states, such as the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator, the photon subtracted two mode squeezed vacuum, and the NOON state, in order to demonstrate the steering property of such states. A comparative study of the violation of the Bell-inequality for these states shows that the entanglement present is more easily revealed through steering compared to Bell-violation for several such states.

id: 1310.3952
title: Ground states and dynamics of a trapped charged particle in the magnetic field
authors: Maciej Janowicz, Jan Mostowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3952
abstract: A system of two charged particles in a harmonic trap with additional magnetic field is considered. The problem is reduced to a single-particle one in relative coordinates. The ground- and lowest excited-state energies and wave functions are found. The ground state exhibits non-zero expectation value of the velocity (kinetic momentum) and the probability current density does not vanish as well. When the ground state becomes degenerate the expectation value of velocity becomes discontinuous. The effects associated with turning on of the magnetic field are studied by solving the appropriate time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. No substantial differences between abrupt (discontinuous in time) and continuous switching on have been observed. Evolution of a wave packet which is initially Gaussian is also investigated. The wave packet loses its Gaussian nature and, after sufficiently large time, a system of diffractive maxima and minima is built.

id: 1310.3966
title: Investigation of nonlinear effects in Josephson parametric oscillators used in circuit QED
authors: Philip Krantz, Yarema Reshitnyk, Waltraut Wustmann, Jonas Bylander, Simon Gustavsson, William D. Oliver, Timothy Duty, Vitaly Shumeiko, Per Delsing
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 105002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3966
abstract: We experimentally study the behavior of a parametrically pumped nonlinear oscillator, which is based on a superconducting \lambda /4 resonator, and is terminated by a flux-tunable SQUID. We extract parameters for two devices. In particular, we study the effect of the nonlinearities in the system and compare to theory. The Duffing nonlinearity, \alpha, is determined from the probe-power dependent frequency shift of the oscillator, and the nonlinearity, \beta, related to the parametric flux pumping, is determined from the pump amplitude for the onset of parametric oscillations. Both nonlinearities depend on the parameters of the device and can be tuned in-situ by the applied dc flux. We also suggest how to cancel the effect of \beta by adding a small dc flux and a pump tone at twice the pump frequency.

id: 1310.3991
title: Asymptotic Compressibility of Entanglement and Classical Communication in Distributed Quantum Computation
authors: Eyuri Wakakuwa, Mio Murao
comments: Section II and VIII added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3991
abstract: We consider implementations of a bipartite unitary on many pairs of unknown input states by local operation and classical communication assisted by shared entanglement. We investigate to what extent the entanglement cost and the classical communication cost can be compressed by allowing nonzero but vanishing error in the asymptotic limit of infinite pairs. We show that a lower bound on the minimal entanglement cost, the forward classical communication cost, and the backward classical communication cost per pair is given by the Schmidt strength of the unitary. We also prove that an upper bound on these three kinds of the cost is given by the amount of randomness that is required to partially decouple a tripartite quantum state associated with the unitary. In the proof, we construct a protocol in which quantum state merging is used. For generalized Clifford operators, we show that the lower bound and the upper bound coincide. We then apply our result to the problem of distributed compression of tripartite quantum states, and derive a lower and an upper bound on the optimal quantum communication rate required therein.

id: 1310.4034
title: Photon Number Splitting of Squeezed Light by a Single Qubit in Circuit QED
authors: Kyungsun Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4034
abstract: We theoretically propose an efficient way to generate and detect squeezed light by a single qubit in circuit QED. By tuning the qubit energy splitting close to the fundamental frequency of the first harmonic mode (FHM) in a transmission line resonator and placing the qubit at the nodal point of the third harmonic mode, one can generate the resonantly enhanced squeezing of the FHM upon pumping with the second harmonic mode. In order to investigate the photon number splitting for the squeezed FHM, we have numerically calculated the qubit absorption spectrum, which exhibits regularly spaced peaks at frequencies separated by twice the effective dispersive shift. It is also shown that adding a small pump field for the FHM makes additional peaks develop in between the dominant ones as well.

id: 1310.4043
title: An analysis of the trade-off between spatial and temporal resources for measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Jisho Miyazaki, Michal Hajdu?ek, Mio Murao
comments: 20 pages, 25 figures, improved presentation of results, and changes in the title and the abstract
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 052302 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4043
abstract: In measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC), elementary quantum operations can be more parallelized than the quantum circuit model by employing a larger Hilbert space of graph states used as the resource. Thus MBQC can be regarded as a method of quantum computation where the temporal resource described by the depth of quantum operations can be reduced compared to the quantum circuit model by using the extra spatial resource described by graph states. To analyze the trade-off relationship of the spatial and temporal resources, we consider a method to obtain quantum circuit decompositions of general unitary transformations represented by MBQC on graph states with a certain underlying geometry called generalized flow. We present a method to translate any MBQC with generalized flow into quantum circuits without extra spatial resource. We also show an explicit way to unravel acausal gates that appear in the quantum circuit decomposition derived by a translation method presented in [V. Danos and E. Kashefi, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 74}, 052310 (2006)] and that represent an effect of the reduction of the temporal resource in MBQC. Finally, by considering a way to deterministically simulate these acausal gates, we investigate a general framework to analyze the trade-off between the spacial and temporal resources for quantum computation.

id: 1310.4061
title: Parallelized adiabatic gate teleportation
authors: Kosuke Nakago, Michal Hajdu?ek, Shojun Nakayama, Mio Murao
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4061
abstract: We study adiabatic gate teleportation (AGT), a model of quantum computation recently proposed by D. Bacon and S. T. Flammia, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 120504 (2009), to investigate a new property of quantum computation, namely causal order manipulation. We develop parallelized adiabatic gate teleportation (PAGT) where a sequence of gate operations is performed in a single step of the adiabatic process by introducing a gate Hamiltonian implementing a single-qubit unitary gate. By parallelizing the AGT scheme, the necessary time for the adiabatic evolution implementing a sequence of gates increases quadratically, however it allows us to map causal order of gate operations to spatial order of interactions in the final Hamiltonian. Using this property, we also present controlled-PAGT scheme to manipulate the causal order of gate operations by a control-qubit. The scheme allows us to coherently perform two differently ordered unitary operations $GF$ and $FG$ depending on the state of a control-qubit by simultaneously applying the gate Hamiltonians of $F$ and $G$.

id: 1310.4078
title: Oblique spin-flip reflection of relativistic electrons from a potential barrier
authors: Wlodek Zawadzki, Pawel Pfeffer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4078
abstract: The Dirac equation is used to describe oblique spin-conserving and spin-flip reflections of relativistic electrons from a one-dimensional potential barrier in a vacuum. When an electron hits the barrier from an oblique direction, its spin-up and spin-down states have different energies due to the spin-orbit interaction and the fact that the system has a structural inversion asymmetry. When the electron is reflected in an elastic spin-conserving process, incoming and outgoing angles are the same. If an elastic reflection is a spin-flip process, the outgoing angle is different from the incoming one. As a result, a beam of incoming spin-polarized electrons is split after the reflection into two beams. Angles and intensities of the reflected beams are calculated. Spin splitting of energies for relativistic electrons due to the spin-orbit interaction in an asymmetric quantum well is described.

id: 1310.4095
title: Adiabatic quantum control hampered by entanglement
authors: David Viennot
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 295301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4095
abstract: We study defects in adiabatic control of a quantum system caused by the entanglement of the system with its environment. Such defects can be assimilated to decoherence processes due to perturbative couplings between the system and the environment. To analyse these effects, we propose a geometric approach based on a field theory on the control manifold issued from the higher gauge theory associated with the $C^*$-geometric phases. We study a visualization method to analyse the defects of adiabatic control based on the drawing of the field strengths of the gauge theory. To illustrate the present methodology we consider the example of the atomic STIRAP (stimulated Raman adiabatic passage) where the controlled atom is entangled with another atom. We study the robustness of the STIRAP effect when the controlled atom is entangled with another one.

id: 1310.4113
title: A parallel repetition theorem for entangled projection games
authors: Irit Dinur, David Steurer, Thomas Vidick
comments: 30 pages. v2: improved exponent for expanding games; typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4113
abstract: We study the behavior of the entangled value of two-player one-round projection games under parallel repetition. We show that for any projection game $G$ of entangled value 1-eps < 1, the value of the $k$-fold repetition of G goes to zero as O((1-eps^c)^k), for some universal constant c\geq 1. Previously parallel repetition with an exponential decay in $k$ was only known for the case of XOR and unique games. To prove the theorem we extend an analytical framework recently introduced by Dinur and Steurer for the study of the classical value of projection games under parallel repetition. Our proof, as theirs, relies on the introduction of a simple relaxation of the entangled value that is perfectly multiplicative. The main technical component of the proof consists in showing that the relaxed value remains tightly connected to the entangled value, thereby establishing the parallel repetition theorem. More generally, we obtain results on the behavior of the entangled value under products of arbitrary (not necessarily identical) projection games. Relating our relaxed value to the entangled value is done by giving an algorithm for converting a relaxed variant of quantum strategies that we call "vector quantum strategy" to a quantum strategy. The algorithm is considerably simpler in case the bipartite distribution of questions in the game has good expansion properties. When this is not the case, rounding relies on a quantum analogue of Holenstein's correlated sampling lemma which may be of independent interest. Our "quantum correlated sampling lemma" generalizes results of van Dam and Hayden on universal embezzlement.

id: 1310.4120
title: Noise-resilient quantum evolution steered by dynamical decoupling
authors: Gang-Qin Liu, Hoi Chun Po, Jiangfeng Du, Ren-Bao Liu, Xin-Yu Pan
comments: Originally submitted version. Revised version and Supplementary information can be download at this http URL
journal: Nat. Commun. 4:2254 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4120
abstract: Realistic quantum computing is subjected to noise. A most important frontier in research of quantum computing is to implement noise-resilient quantum control over qubits. Dynamical decoupling can protect coherence of qubits. Here we demonstrate non-trivial quantum evolution steered by dynamical decoupling control, which automatically suppresses the noise effect. We designed and implemented a self-protected controlled-NOT gate on the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy centre and a nearby carbon-13 nuclear spin in diamond at room temperature, by employing an engineered dynamical decoupling control on the electron spin. Final state fidelities of 0.91 and 0.88 were observed even with imperfect initial states. In the mean time, the qubit coherence time has been elongated by at least 30 folds. The design scheme does not require that the dynamical decoupling control commute with the qubit interaction and works for general systems. This work marks a step toward realistic quantum computing.

id: 1310.4125
title: Generalised probabilistic theories and conic extensions of polytopes
authors: Samuel Fiorini, Serge Massar, Manas K. Patra, Hans Raj Tiwary
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4125
abstract: Generalized probabilistic theories (GPT) provide a general framework that includes classical and quantum theories. It is described by a cone $C$ and its dual $C^*$. We show that whether some one-way communication complexity problems can be solved within a GPT is equivalent to the recently introduced cone factorisation of the corresponding communication matrix $M$. We also prove an analogue of Holevo's theorem: when the cone $C$ is contained in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$, the classical capacity of the channel realised by sending GPT states and measuring them is bounded by $\log n$. Polytopes and optimising functions over polytopes arise in many areas of discrete mathematics. A conic extension of a polytope is the intersection of a cone $C$ with an affine subspace whose projection onto the original space yields the desired polytope. Extensions of polytopes can sometimes be much simpler geometric objects than the polytope itself. The existence of a conic extension of a polytope is equivalent to that of a cone factorisation of the slack matrix of the polytope, on the same cone. We show that all $0/1$ polytopes whose vertices can be recognized by a polynomial size circuit, which includes as a special case the travelling salesman polytope and many other polytopes from combinatorial optimisation, have small conic extension complexity when the cone is the completely positive cone. Using recent exponential lower bounds on the linear extension complexity of polytopes, this provides an exponential gap between the communication complexity of GPT based on the completely positive cone and classical communication complexity, and a conjectured exponential gap with quantum communication complexity. Our work thus relates the communication complexity of generalisations of quantum theory to questions of mainstream interest in the area of combinatorial optimisation.

id: 1310.4127
title: Quantum Algorithms for Finding Constant-sized Sub-hypergraphs
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 18 pages; v2: changed title, added more backgrounds to the introduction, added another application
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4127
abstract: We develop a general framework to construct quantum algorithms that detect if a $3$-uniform hypergraph given as input contains a sub-hypergraph isomorphic to a prespecified constant-sized hypergraph. This framework is based on the concept of nested quantum walks recently proposed by Jeffery, Kothari and Magniez [SODA'13], and extends the methodology designed by Lee, Magniez and Santha [SODA'13] for similar problems over graphs. As applications, we obtain a quantum algorithm for finding a $4$-clique in a $3$-uniform hypergraph on $n$ vertices with query complexity $O(n^{1.883})$, and a quantum algorithm for determining if a ternary operator over a set of size $n$ is associative with query complexity $O(n^{2.113})$.

id: 1310.4140
title: Information-theoretical formulation of anyonic entanglement
authors: Kohtaro Kato, Fabian Furrer, Mio Murao
comments: v4: 12 pages, 4 figures; Revised version, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4140
abstract: Anyonic systems are modeled by topologically protected Hilbert spaces which obey complex superselection rules restricting possible operations. These Hilbert spaces cannot be decomposed into tensor products of spatially localized subsystems, whereas the tensor product structure is a foundation of the standard entanglement theory. We formulate bipartite entanglement theory for pure anyonic states and analyze its properties as a non-local resource for quantum information processing. We introduce a new entanglement measure, asymptotic entanglement entropy (AEE), and show that it characterizes distillable entanglement and entanglement cost similarly to entanglement entropy in conventional systems. AEE depends not only on the Schmidt coefficients but also on the quantum dimensions of the anyons shared by the local subsystems. Moreover, it turns out that AEE coincides with the entanglement gain by anyonic excitations in certain topologically ordered phases.

id: 1310.4150
title: Asymptotically Optimal Topological Quantum Compiling
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov, Alex Bocharov, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 24 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4150
abstract: In a topological quantum computer, universality is achieved by braiding and quantum information is natively protected from small local errors. We address the problem of compiling single-qubit quantum operations into braid representations for non-abelian quasiparticles described by the Fibonacci anyon model. We develop a probabilistically polynomial algorithm that outputs a braid pattern to approximate a given single-qubit unitary to a desired precision. We also classify the single-qubit unitaries that can be implemented exactly by a Fibonacci anyon braid pattern and present an efficient algorithm to produce their braid patterns. Our techniques produce braid patterns that meet the uniform asymptotic lower bound on the compiled circuit depth and thus are depth-optimal asymptotically. Our compiled circuits are significantly shorter than those output by prior state-of-the-art methods, resulting in improvements in depth by factors ranging from 20 to 1000 for precisions ranging between $10^{-10}$ and $10^{-30}$.

id: 1310.4153
title: Hamiltonian quantum simulation with bounded-strength controls
authors: Adam D. Bookatz, Pawel Wocjan, Lorenza Viola
comments: 24 pages, 5 color figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 045021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4153
abstract: We propose dynamical control schemes for Hamiltonian simulation in many-body quantum systems that avoid instantaneous control operations and rely solely on realistic bounded-strength control Hamiltonians. Each simulation protocol consists of periodic repetitions of a basic control block, constructed as a suitable modification of an "Eulerian decoupling cycle," that would otherwise implement a trivial (zero) target Hamiltonian. For an open quantum system coupled to an uncontrollable environment, our approach may be employed to engineer an effective evolution that simulates a target Hamiltonian on the system, while suppressing unwanted decoherence to the leading order. We present illustrative applications to both closed- and open-system simulation settings, with emphasis on simulation of non-local (two-body) Hamiltonians using only local (one-body) controls. In particular, we provide simulation schemes applicable to Heisenberg-coupled spin chains exposed to general linear decoherence, and show how to simulate Kitaev's honeycomb lattice Hamiltonian starting from Ising-coupled qubits, as potentially relevant to the dynamical generation of a topologically protected quantum memory. Additional implications for quantum information processing are discussed.

id: 1310.4193
title: Weak values beyond weak measurement
authors: Jeff Z. Salvail
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, v2 updated to address anonymous and friendly feedback
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4193
abstract: The AAV effect is the well-known phenomenon where a weak measurement followed by post-selection leads to a pointer shift proportional to the weak value of the measured observable. The effect is usually derived by considering a perturbative expansion of the time-evolution operator corresponding to the measurement. We show that the AAV effect can be instead derived given three simple conditions on the pointer states. The most important condition is that the pointer states be approximately indistinguishable. The other two conditions relate the observables used to characterize the pointer with the measured system observable. This intuitive approach does not require any model for the measurement process, but is completely consistent with the usual approach based on the von Neumann Hamiltonian. Moreover, this approach predicts and explains a new phenomenon, called weak echo, where the usual weak value behaviour can re-emerge at high interaction strengths.

id: 1310.4220
title: Three maximally entangled states can require two-way LOCC for local discrimination
authors: Michael Nathanson
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure, 1 table. (Published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4220
abstract: We show that there exist sets of three mutually orthogonal $d$-dimensional maximally entangled states which cannot be perfectly distinguished using one-way local operations and classical communication (LOCC) for arbitrarily large values of $d$. This contrasts with several well-known families of maximally entangled states, for which any three states can be perfectly distinguished. We then show that two-way LOCC is sufficient to distinguish these examples. We also show that any three mutually orthogonal $d$-dimensional maximally entangled states can be perfectly distinguished using measurements with a positive partial transpose (PPT) and can be distinguished with one-way LOCC with high probability. These results circle around the question of whether there exist three maximally entangled states which cannot be distinguished using the full power of LOCC; we discuss possible approaches to answer this question.

id: 1310.4253
title: Applying Gaussian quantum discord to quantum key distribution
authors: Xiaolong Su
comments: 
journal: Chin. Sci. Bull. 59(11), 1083-1090 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4253
abstract: In this paper, we theoretically prove that the Gaussian quantum discord state of optical field can be used to complete continuous variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD). The calculation shows that secret key can be distilled with a Gaussian quantum discord state against entangling cloner attack. Secret key rate is increased with the increasing of quantum discord for CV QKD with the Gaussian quantum discord state. Although the calculated results point out that secret key rate using the Gaussian quantum discord state is lower than that using squeezed state and coherent state at the same energy level, we demonstrate that the Gaussian quantum discord, which only involving quantum correlation without the existence of entanglement, may provide a new resource for realizing CV QKD.

id: 1310.4267
title: Quantum contextual finite geometries from dessins d'enfants
authors: Michel Planat, Alain Giorgetti, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Holweck, Metod Saniga
comments: to appear in International Journal of Geometrical Methods in Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4267
abstract: We point out an explicit connection between graphs drawn on compact Riemann surfaces defined over the field $\bar{\mathbb{Q}}$ of algebraic numbers --- so-called Grothendieck's {\it dessins d'enfants} --- and a wealth of distinguished point-line configurations. These include simplices, cross-polytopes, several notable projective configurations, a number of multipartite graphs and some 'exotic' geometries. Among them, remarkably, we find not only those underlying Mermin's magic square and magic pentagram, but also those related to the geometry of two- and three-qubit Pauli groups. Of particular interest is the occurrence of all the three types of slim generalized quadrangles, namely GQ(2,1), GQ(2,2) and GQ(2,4), and a couple of closely related graphs, namely the Schl\"{a}fli and Clebsch ones. These findings seem to indicate that {\it dessins d'enfants} may provide us with a new powerful tool for gaining deeper insight into the nature of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces and their associated groups, with a special emphasis on contextuality.

id: 1310.4297
title: Enhanced two-photon absorption using true thermal light
authors: Andreas Jechow, Michael Seefeldt, Henning Kurzke, Axel Heuer, Ralf Menzel
comments: Nature Photonics 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4297
abstract: Two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) is a standard technique in modern microscopy but still affected by photo-damage of the probe. It was proposed that TPEF can be enhanced by using entangled photons, but has proven to be challenging. Recently it was shown that some features of entangled photons can be mimicked with thermal light, which finds application in ghost imaging, sub-wavelength lithography and metrology. Here, we utilize true thermal light from a super-luminescence diode to demonstrate enhanced TPEF compared to coherent light using two common fluorophores and luminescent quantum dots. We find that the two-photon absorption rate is directly proportional to the measured degree of second-order coherence, as predicted by theory. Our results show that photon bunching can be exploited in two-photon microscopy with the photon statistic providing a new degree of freedom.

id: 1310.4302
title: Generation of correlated photon pairs in micro/nano-fibers
authors: Liang Cui, Xiaoying Li, Cheng Guo, Y. H. Li, Z. Y. Xu, L. J. Wang, Wei Fang
comments: To appear in Opt. Lett
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 23, pp. 5063-5066 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4302
abstract: We study the generation of correlated photon pairs via spontaneous four wave mixing in a 15 cm long micro/nano-fiber (MNF). The MNF is properly fabricated to satisfy the phase matching condition for generating the signal and idler photon pairs at the wavelengths of about 1310 and 851 nm, respectively. Photon counting measurements yield a coincidence-to-accidental ratio of 530 for a photon production rate of about 0.002 (0.0005) per pulse in the signal (idler) band. We also analyze the spectral information of the signal photons originated from the spontaneous four wave mixing and Raman scattering. In addition to discovering some unique feature of Raman scattering, we find the bandwidth of the individual signal photons is much greater than the calculated value for the MNF with homogeneous structure. Our investigations indicate the MNF is a promising candidate for developing the sources of nonclassical light and the spectral property of photon pairs can be used to non-invasively test the diameter and homogeneity of the MNF.

id: 1310.4376
title: Quantum Dot Spin Cellular Automata for Realizing a Quantum Processor
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Charles E. Creffield, John H. Jefferson, Michael Pepper, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages + 4 pages of supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4376
abstract: We show how "single" quantum dots, each hosting a singlet-triplet qubit, can be placed in arrays to build a spin quantum cellular automaton. A fast ($\sim 10$ ns) deterministic coherent singlet-triplet filtering, as opposed to current incoherent tunneling/slow-adiabatic based quantum gates (operation time $\sim 300$ ns), can be employed to produce a two-qubit gate through capacitive (electrostatic) coupling that can operate over significant distances. This is the coherent version of the widely discussed charge and nano-magnet cellular automata and would offer speed, reduce dissipation, perform quantum computation, while interfacing smoothly with its classical counterpart. This combines the best of two worlds -- the coherence of spin pairs known from quantum technologies, and the strength and range of electrostatic couplings from the charge based classical cellular automata.

id: 1310.4385
title: Insensitivity of Ion Motional Heating Rate to Trap Material over a Large Temperature Range
authors: J. Chiaverini, J. M. Sage
comments: v1: 6 pages, 3 figures; v2: 7 pages, 3 figures, analysis of temperature dependence and calculation of effects of collisions expanded and improved, minor errors corrected in discussions of Johnson noise and collisions and in appendix B
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4385
abstract: We present measurements of trapped-ion motional-state heating rates in niobium and gold surface-electrode ion traps over a range of trap-electrode temperatures from approximately 4 K to room temperature (295 K) in a single apparatus. Using the sideband-ratio technique after resolved-sideband cooling of single ions to the motional ground state, we find low-temperature heating rates more than two orders of magnitude below the room-temperature values and approximately equal to the lowest measured heating rates in similarly-sized cryogenic traps. We find similar behavior in the two very different electrode materials, suggesting that the anomalous heating process is dominated by non-material-specific surface contaminants. Through precise control of the temperature of cryopumping surfaces, we also identify conditions under which elastic collisions with the background gas can lead to an apparent steady heating rate, despite rare collisions.

id: 1310.4401
title: Recursive encoding and decoding of the noiseless subsystem for qudits
authors: Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Chi-Kwong Li, Mikio Nakahara, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4401
abstract: We give a full explanation of the noiseless subsystem that protects a single-qubit against collective errors and the corresponding recursive scheme described by C.-K. Li et. al. [Phys. Rev. A 84, 044301 (2011)] from a representation theory point of view. Furthermore, we extend the construction to qudits under the influence of collective SU($d$) errors. We find that under this recursive scheme, the asymptotic encoding rate is $1/d$.

id: 1310.4420
title: Exact Nonequilibrium Steady State of an Open Hubbard Chain
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 5 pages in RevTeX with 1 color pdf figure; version v3 as accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 030603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4420
abstract: We discuss current carrying non-equilibrium steady state of an open fermionic Hubbard chain that is strongly driven by markovian incoherent processes localized at the chain ends. An explicit form of exact many-body density operator for any value of the coupling parameter is presented. The structure of a matrix product form of the solution is encoded in terms of a novel diagrammatic technique which should allow for generalization to other integrable non-equillibrium models.

id: 1310.4452
title: Continuous discretization of infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: P. Vernaz-Gris, A. Ketterer, A. Keller, S. P. Walborn, T. Coudreau, P. Milman
comments: 5 pages + Supplementary Information
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4452
abstract: In quantum theory, observables with a continuous spectrum are known to be fundamentally different from those with a discrete and finite spectrum. While some fundamental tests and applications of quantum mechanics originally formulated for discrete variables have been translated to continuous ones, this is not the case in general. For instance, despite their importance, no experimental demonstration of nonlocality exists in the continuous variables regime. Attempts to bridge this gap and put continuous variables on a closer footing to discrete ones used dichotomization. However, this approach considers only discrete properties of the continuum, and its infinitesimal properties are not fully exploited. Here we show that it is possible to manipulate, detect and classify continuous variable states using observables with a continuous spectrum revealing properties and symmetries which are analogous to finite discrete systems. Our approach leads to an operational way to define and adapt, to arbitrary continuous quantum systems, quantum protocols and algorithms typical to discrete systems.

id: 1310.4473
title: Local Records and Global Entanglement: A Unique Multi-Partite Generalization of the Schmidt Decomposition
authors: C. Jess Riedel
comments: I am seeking comments on this initial offering. Fancier version to follow
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4473
abstract: We show that there is a unique maximal decomposition of a pure multi-partite (N>2) quantum state into a sum of states which are "locally orthogonal" in the sense that the local reduced state for a term in the sum lives in its own orthogonal subspace for each subsystem. Observers can make local measurements on any subsystem and determine which "branch" they are on. The Shannon entropy of the resulting branch weights defines a new measure of global, GHZ-like entanglement, which is insensitive to local pairwise entangling operations and vanishes when there is no piece of information recorded at every subsystem. In the bi-partite (N=2) case, this decomposition reduces to the (not necessarily unique) Schmidt decomposition and the entropy reduces to the entropy of entanglement

id: 1310.4477
title: Cumulative measure of correlation for multipartite quantum states
authors: Andr¨¦ L. Fonseca de Oliveira, Efrain Buksman, Jes¨²s Garc¨ªa L¨®pez de Lacalle
comments: 
journal: IJMPB Vol. 28 1450050 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4477
abstract: The present article proposes a measure of correlation for multiqubit mixed states. The measure is defined recursively, accumulating the correlation of the subspaces, making it simple to calculate without using of regression. Unlike usual measures, the proposed measure is continuous additive and reflects the dimensionality of the state space, allowing to compare states with different dimensions. Examples show that the measure can signal critical points (CP) in the analysis of Quantum Phase Transitions in Heisenberg models.

id: 1310.4492
title: Robust, self-consistent, closed-form tomography of quantum logic gates on a trapped ion qubit
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, John King Gamble, Erik Nielsen, Jonathan Mizrahi, Jonathan D. Sterk, Peter Maunz
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4492
abstract: We introduce and demonstrate experimentally: (1) a framework called "gate set tomography" (GST) for self-consistently characterizing an entire set of quantum logic gates on a black-box quantum device; (2) an explicit closed-form protocol for linear-inversion gate set tomography (LGST), whose reliability is independent of pathologies such as local maxima of the likelihood; and (3) a simple protocol for objectively scoring the accuracy of a tomographic estimate without reference to target gates, based on how well it predicts a set of testing experiments. We use gate set tomography to characterize a set of Clifford-generating gates on a single trapped-ion qubit, and compare the performance of (i) standard process tomography; (ii) linear gate set tomography; and (iii) maximum likelihood gate set tomography.

id: 1310.4534
title: Quantum Superpositions and Causality: On the Multiple Paths to the Measurement Result
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4534
abstract: The following analysis attempts to provide a general account of the multiple solutions given to the quantum measurement problem in terms of causality. Leaving aside instrumentalism which restricts its understanding of quantum mechanics to the algorithmic prediction of measurement outcomes, the many approaches which try to give an answer can be distinguished by their explanation based on the efficient cause -recovering in this way a classical physical description- or based on the final cause -which goes back to the hylomorphic tradition. Going beyond the limits of these two schemes we call the attention to an 'inversion of the measurement problem' and its proposed solution based on the immanent cause. By replacing both the final and efficient causes by the immanent cause we attempt to lay down new conditions for representing quantum superpositions in a realist way which coherently relates the quantum formalism with outcomes.

id: 1310.4544
title: Robust Device-Independent Randomness Amplification with Few Devices
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Andrzej Grudka, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Tomasz Szarek, Hanna Wojewodka
comments: 36 pages, 5 figure. v2 major revision, correcting error in previous proof of security of the protocol. Two new authors added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4544
abstract: Randomness amplification is the task of transforming a source of somewhat random bits into a source of fully random bits. Although it is impossible to amplify randomness from a single source by classical means, the situation is different considering non-local correlations allowed by quantum mechanics. Here we give the first device-independent protocol for randomness amplification using a constant number of devices. The protocol involves four devices, can amplify any non-deterministic source into a fully random source, tolerates a constant rate of error, and has its correctness based solely on the assumption of no-signaling between the devices. In contrast all previous protocols either required an unbounded number of devices, or could only amplify sources sufficiently close to fully random.

id: 1310.4581
title: Quantum Side Information: Uncertainty Relations, Extractors, Channel Simulations
authors: Mario Berta
comments: PhD thesis, ETH Zurich. 214 pages, 13 figures, 1 table. Chapter 2 is based on arXiv:1107.5460 and arXiv:1308.4527 . Section 3.1 is based on arXiv:1302.5902 and Section 3.2 is a preliminary version of arXiv:1308.4527 (you better read arXiv:1308.4527). Chapter 4 is (partly) based on arXiv:1012.6044 and arXiv:1111.2026 . Chapter 5 is based on arXiv:0912.3805, arXiv:1108.5357 and arXiv:1301.1594
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4581
abstract: In the first part of this thesis, we discuss the algebraic approach to classical and quantum physics and develop information theoretic concepts within this setup. In the second part, we discuss the uncertainty principle in quantum mechanics. The principle states that even if we have full classical information about the state of a quantum system, it is impossible to deterministically predict the outcomes of all possible measurements. In comparison, the perspective of a quantum observer allows to have quantum information about the state of a quantum system. This then leads to an interplay between uncertainty and quantum correlations. We provide an information theoretic analysis by discussing entropic uncertainty relations with quantum side information. In the third part, we discuss the concept of randomness extractors. Classical and quantum randomness are an essential resource in information theory, cryptography, and computation. However, most sources of randomness exhibit only weak forms of unpredictability, and the goal of randomness extraction is to convert such weak randomness into (almost) perfect randomness. We discuss various constructions for classical and quantum randomness extractors, and we examine especially the performance of these constructions relative to an observer with quantum side information. In the fourth part, we discuss channel simulations. Shannon's noisy channel theorem can be understood as the use of a noisy channel to simulate a noiseless one. Channel simulations as we want to consider them here are about the reverse problem: simulating noisy channels from noiseless ones. Starting from the purely classical case (the classical reverse Shannon theorem), we develop various kinds of quantum channel simulation results. We achieve this by using classical and quantum randomness extractors that also work with respect to quantum side information.

id: 1310.4609
title: A high-speed optical link to entangle quantum dots
authors: Cody Jones, Kristiaan De Greve, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4609
abstract: A long-distance quantum network for distributing entangled states would support novel information applications, such as unconditionally secure cryptography and distributed quantum computing. Realizing such a network requires hardware that can reliably and efficiently establish entanglement over long distances, despite challenges like loss and transmission delay. We propose a new scheme for distributing entanglement that increases communication rates one to two orders of magnitude over existing protocols. The method is less sensitive to overall system loss because it transmits many signals within one round-trip-time window and efficiently discriminates lost-photon events. While the scheme applies to many types of matter qubits, we analyze a specific implementation with optical quantum dots, showing that the method uses practical hardware consistent with recent experiments.

id: 1310.4610
title: Versatile shaper-assisted discretization of energy-time entangled photons
authors: B?nz Bessire, Christof Bernhard, Andr¨¦ Stefanov, Thomas Feurer
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 033017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4610
abstract: We demonstrate the capability to discretize the frequency spectrum of broadband energy-time entangled photons by means of a spatial light modulator to encode qudits in various bases. Exemplarily, we implement three different discretization schemes, namely frequency bins, time bins and Schmidt modes. Entangled qudits up to dimension $d=4$ are then revealed by two-photon interference experiments with visibilities violating a $d$-dimensional Bell inequality.

id: 1310.4684
title: Orbits of mutually unbiased bases
authors: Kate Blanchfield
comments: 21 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 135303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4684
abstract: We express Alltop's construction of mutually unbiased bases as orbits under the Weyl-Heisenberg group in prime dimensions and find a related construction in dimensions 2 and 4. We reproduce Alltop's mutually unbiased bases using abelian subgroups of the Clifford group in prime dimensions, in direct analogy to the well-known construction of mutually unbiased bases using abelian subgroups of the Weyl-Heisenberg group. Finally, we prove three theorems relating to the distances and linear dependencies among different sets of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1310.4691
title: Time from quantum entanglement: an experimental illustration
authors: Ekaterina Moreva, Giorgio Brida, Marco Gramegna, Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone, Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4691
abstract: In the last years several theoretical papers discussed if time can be an emergent property deriving from quantum correlations. Here, to provide an insight into how this phenomenon can occur, we present an experiment that illustrates Page and Wootters' mechanism of "static" time, and Gambini et al. subsequent refinements. A static, entangled state between a clock system and the rest of the universe is perceived as evolving by internal observers that test the correlations between the two subsystems. We implement this mechanism using an entangled state of the polarization of two photons, one of which is used as a clock to gauge the evolution of the second: an "internal" observer that becomes correlated with the clock photon sees the other system evolve, while an "external" observer that only observes global properties of the two photons can prove it is static.

id: 1310.4733
title: Heralded generation of Bell states using atomic ensembles
authors: David Shwa, Raphael D. Cohen, Alex Retzker, Nadav Katz
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4733
abstract: We propose a scheme that utilizes the collective enhancement of a photonic mode inside an atomic ensemble together with a proper Zeeman manifold in order to achieve a heralded polarization entangled Bell state. The entanglement is between two photons that are separated in time and can be used as a post selected deterministic source for applications such as quantum repeaters where a subsequent entanglement swapping measurement is employed. We present a detailed analysis of the practical limitation of the scheme.

id: 1310.4762
title: Robertson-Schroedinger type formulation of Ozawa's noise-disturbance uncertainty principle
authors: Catarina Bastos, Alex E. Bernardini, Orfeu Bertolami, Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 5 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4762
abstract: In this work we derive a matrix formulation of a noise-disturbance uncertainty relation, which is akin to the Robertson-Schr\"odinger uncertainty principle. Our inequality is stronger than Ozawa's uncertainty principle and takes noise-disturbance correlations into account. Moreover, we show that, for certain types of measurement interactions, it is covariant with respect to linear symplectic transformations of the noise and disturbance operators.

id: 1310.4775
title: A non self-adjoint model on a two dimensional noncommutative space with unbound metric
authors: Fabio Bagarello, Andreas Fring
comments: 11 pages, in press in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4775
abstract: We demonstrate that a non self-adjoint Hamiltonian of harmonic oscillator type defined on a two-dimensional noncommutative space can be diagonalized exactly by making use of pseudo-bosonic operators. The model admits an antilinear symmetry and is of the type studied in the context of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. Its eigenvalues are computed to be real for the entire range of the coupling constants and the biorthogonal sets of eigenstates for the Hamiltonian and its adjoint are explicitly constructed. We show that despite the fact that these sets are complete and biorthogonal, they involve an unbounded metric operator and therefore do not constitute (Riesz) bases for the Hilbert space $\Lc^2(\Bbb R^2)$, but instead only D-quasi bases. As recently proved by one of us (FB), this is sufficient to deduce several interesting consequences.

id: 1310.4790
title: Dissociation and annihilation of multipartite entanglement structure in dissipative quantum dynamics
authors: Sergey N. Filippov, Alexey A. Melnikov, Mario Ziman
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4790
abstract: We study the dynamics of the entanglement structure of a multipartite system experiencing a dissipative evolution. We characterize the processes leading to a particular form of output system entanglement and provide a recipe for their identification via concatenations of particular linear maps with entanglement-breaking operations. We illustrate the applicability of our approach by considering local and global depolarizing noises acting on general multiqubit states. A difference in the typical entanglement behavior of systems subjected to these noises is observed: the originally genuine entanglement dissociates by splitting off particles one by one in the case of local noise, whereas intermediate stages of entanglement clustering are present in the case of global noise. We also analyze the definitive phase of evolution when the annihilation of the entanglement compound finally takes place.

id: 1310.4811
title: Entanglement dynamics in a system attached to self-interacting spinbaths
authors: Nageswaran Rajendran
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4811
abstract: Dynamics of quantum entanglement shared between system spins which are connected to thermal equilibrium baths is studied. Central spin system comprises of the entangled spins, and is connected to baths and one of the bath has strong intra-environmental coupling. The dynamics between the system and baths are studied and inferred that that intra-envirnomental coupling guards against the system from the effects of the spin baths.

id: 1310.4831
title: Local interferometric symmetries for Gaussian pure states
authors: Natasha C. Gabay, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: v2: minor content revisions, additional figures and explanation, 23 pages, 18 figures. v1: 22 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4831
abstract: We interpret optical Gaussian pure states as systems of entangled spins using the Schwinger representation of SU(2). As these are continuous-variable systems, we are interested in the nullifiers for any given system in terms of Schwinger operators. Considering also a Schwinger representation of U(2) and generalising this to U(n) for n modes, we show that these nullifiers correspond to passive interferometric symmetries of the system. We present necessary and sufficient conditions that the adjacency matrix for a given Gaussian pure state and its corresponding nullifiers must satisfy. For the class of Gaussian pure states with bipartite graphs, we provide a method to derive the corresponding nullifiers. We derive the class of Gaussian pure states on two modes that is left invariant under an arbitrary passive interferometric operation and provide examples of these for some simple interferometers. We derive nullifiers for optical Gaussian pure states on two, four, and n modes. These nullifiers reveal information about the structure of the entangled Schwinger spins in the system, providing intuition to applying the Schwinger mapping to large, optical Gaussian states. These nullifiers also provide local, interferometric symmetries for the corresponding optical Gaussian systems. These symmetries could lend themselves to applications such as gate teleportation in continuous-variable systems, whereby the symmetry of the entangled resource enables specific gates to be teleported with minimal noise.

id: 1310.4860
title: Scalable Implementation of Boson Sampling with Trapped Ions
authors: Chao Shen, Zhen Zhang, Luming Duan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 050504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4860
abstract: Boson sampling solves a classically intractable problem by sampling from a probability distribution given by matrix permanents. We propose a scalable implementation of Boson sampling using local transverse phonon modes of trapped ions to encode the Bosons. The proposed scheme allows deterministic preparation and high-efficiency readout of the Bosons in the Fock states and universal mode mixing. With the state-of-the-art trapped ion technology, it is feasible to realize Boson sampling with tens of Bosons by this scheme, which would outperform the most powerful classical computers and constitute an effective disproof of the famous extended Church-Turing thesis.

id: 1310.4873
title: Single-Shot Quantum Non-Demolition Measurement of a Quantum Dot Electron Spin, using Cavity Exciton-Polaritons
authors: Shruti Puri, Peter McMahon, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155421 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4873
abstract: We propose a scheme to perform single-shot quantum non-demolition (QND) readout of the spin of an electron trapped in a semiconductor quantum dot (QD). Our proposal relies on the interaction of the QD electron spin with optically excited, quantum well (QW) microcavity exciton-polaritons. The spin-dependent Coulomb exchange interaction between the QD electron and cavity polaritons causes the phase and intensity response of left circularly polarized light to be different to that of the right circularly polarized light, in such a way that the QD electron's spin can be inferred from the response to a linearly polarized probe. We show that, by careful design of a sample with coupled QD and QW, it is possible to eliminate spin-flip Raman transitions. Thus, a QND measurement of the QD electron spin can be performed within a few 10's of nanoseconds with fidelity $\sim 99.9$%. This improves upon current optical QD spin readout techniques across multiple metrics, including speed and scalability.

id: 1310.4901
title: Making and identifying optical superposition of very high orbital angular momenta
authors: Lixiang Chen, Wuhong Zhang, Qinghong Lu, Xinyang Lin
comments: Submitted for publication consideration (4 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4901
abstract: We report the experimental preparation of optical superpositions of high orbital angular momenta(OAM). Our method is based on the use of spatial light modulator to modify the standard Laguerre-Gaussian beams to bear excessive phase helices. We demonstrate the surprising performance of a traditional Mach-Zehnder interferometer with one inserted Dove prism to identify these superposed twisted lights, where the high OAM numbers as well as their possible superpositions can be inferred directly from the interfered bright multiring lattices. The possibility of present scheme working at photon-count level is also shown using an electron multiplier CCD camera. Our results hold promise in high-dimensional quantum information applications when high quanta are beneficial.

id: 1310.4922
title: Quantum Hashing
authors: Farid Ablayev, Alexander Vasiliev
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4922
abstract: We present a version of quantum hash function based on non-binary discrete functions. The proposed quantum procedure is "classical-quantum", that is, it takes a classical bit string as an input and produces a quantum state. The resulting function has the property of a one-way function (pre-image resistance), in addition it has the properties analogous to classical cryptographic hash second pre-image resistance and collision resistance. This function can be naturally used in a quantum digital signature protocol.

id: 1310.4956
title: On the Uncertainty of the Ordering of Nonlocal Wavefunction Collapse when Relativity is Considered
authors: Chris D. Richardson, Jon P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4956
abstract: The temporal measurement order and therefore the originator of the instantaneous collapse of the wavefunction of a spatiality entangled particle pair can change depending on the reference frame of an observer. This can lead to a paradox in which its seems that both measurements collapsed the wavefunction before the other. We resolve this paradox by demonstrating how attempting to determine the order of measurement of the entangled pair introduces uncertainty which makes the measurement order impossible to know.

id: 1310.4959
title: Quantum-enhanced metrology for multiple phase estimation with noise
authors: Jie-Dong Yue, Yu-Ran Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 5933(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4959
abstract: We present a general framework to study the simultaneous estimation of multiple phases in the presence of noise as a discretized model for phase imaging. This approach can lead to nontrivial bounds of the precision for multiphase estimation. Our results show that simultaneous estimation (SE) of multiple phases is always better than individual estimation (IE) of each phase even in noisy environment. However with $d$ being the number of phases, the $O(d)$ advantage in the variance of the estimation, with which SE outperforms IE schemes for noiseless processes, may disappear asymptotically. When noise is low, those bounds recover the Heisenberg scale with the $O(d)$ advantage. The utility of the bound of multiple phase estimation for photon loss channels is exemplified.

id: 1310.4963
title: Casimir Friction for Media of Finite Density
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 5 pages latex, no figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1305.4269
journal: Progress in Electromagnetic Research Symposium Proceedings, Stockholm, Aug. 12-15, 2013, p. 801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4963
abstract: This work is a continuation of our papers from the last couple of years on the Casimir friction for a pair of particles at low relative velocity. The new element in the present analysis is to allow the media to be dense. Then the situation becomes more complex due to induced dipolar correlations, both within the two planes, and between the planes. We show that the structure of the problem can be simplified by regarding the two plates to be a generalized version of a pair of particles. The force is predicted to be very small, far beyond what is practically measurable.

id: 1310.4970
title: A temporal steering inequality
authors: Yueh-Nan Chen, Che-Ming Li, Neill Lambert, Shin-Liang Chen, Yukihiro Ota, Guang-Yin Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4970
abstract: Quantum steering is the ability to remotely prepare different quantum states by using entangled pairs as a resource. Very recently, the concept of steering has been quantified with the use of inequalities, leading to substantial applications in quantum information and communication science. Here, we highlight that there exists a natural temporal analogue of the steering inequality when considering measurements on a single object at different times. We give non-trivial operational meaning to violations of this temporal inequality by showing that it is connected to the security bound in the BB84 protocol and thus may have applications in quantum communication.

id: 1310.4974
title: Some properties of multi-qubit systems under effect of the Lorentz transformation
authors: N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: DOI 10.1007/s10773-015-2543-0 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4974
abstract: Effect of Lorentz transformation on some properties of multi-qubit systems is investigated. It is shown that, properties like, the fidelity and entanglement decay as the Wigner's angles increase, but can be improved, if all the transformed particles are transformed with the same Wigner's angles. The upper bounds of the average capacity of the GHZ state increases while it decreases and more robust with the W-state as the Wigner's angle of the observer decreases. Under Lorentz transformation, the tripartite states transform into another equivalent states and hence no change on the efficiency of these states to perform quantum information tasks.

id: 1310.4990
title: Classical systems can be contextual too: Analogue of the Mermin-Peres square
authors: Pawel Blasiak
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. Final version as published in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 353, 326-338 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4990
abstract: Contextuality lays at the heart of quantum mechanics. In the prevailing opinion it is considered as a signature of 'quantumness' that classical theories lack. However, this assertion is only partially justified. Although contextuality is certainly true of quantum mechanics, it cannot be taken by itself as discriminating against classical theories. Here we consider a representative example of contextual behaviour, the so-called Mermin-Peres square, and present a discrete toy model of a bipartite system which reproduces the pattern of quantum predictions that leads to contradiction with the assumption of non-contextuality. This illustrates that quantum-like contextual effects have their analogues within classical models with epistemic constraints such as limited information gain and measurement disturbance.

id: 1310.5001
title: Effective magnetic fields for photons in waveguide and coupled resonator lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 3570 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5001
abstract: A method to realize effective magnetic fields for photons in square lattices of coupled optical waveguides or resonators is suggested, which is inspired by an optical analogue of photon-assisted tunneling of atom optics. It is shown that an artificial magnetic field can be achieved by application of an index gradient and periodic lumped phase shifts or modulation of the propagation constants/resonances, without the need to modulate the coupling strength.

id: 1310.5004
title: Convective and absolute PT symmetry breaking in tight-binding lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures (to appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5004
abstract: We investigate the onset of parity-time ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetry breaking in non-Hermitian tight-binding lattices with spatially-extended loss/gain regions in presence of an advective term. Similarly to the instability properties of hydrodynamic open flows, it is shown that $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking can be either absolute or convective. In the former case, an initially-localized wave packet shows a secular growth with time at any given spatial position, whereas in the latter case the growth is observed in a reference frame moving at some drift velocity while decay occurs at any fixed spatial position. In the convective unstable regime, $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry is restored when the spatial region of gain/loss in the lattice is limited (rather than extended). We consider specifically a non-Hermitian extension of the Rice-Mele tight binding lattice model, and show the existence of a transition from absolute to convective symmetry breaking when the advective term is large enough. An extension of the analysis to ac-dc-driven lattices is also presented, and an optical implementation of the non-Hermitian Rice-Mele model is suggested, which is based on light transport in an array of evanescently-coupled optical waveguides with a periodically-bent axis and alternating regions of optical gain and loss.

id: 1310.5010
title: Floquet bound states in the continuum
authors: Stefano Longhi, Giuseppe Della Valle
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2219 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5010
abstract: Quantum mechanics predicts that certain stationary potentials can sustain bound states with an energy buried in the continuous spectrum of scattered states, the so-called bound states in the continuum (BIC). Originally regarded as mathematical curiosities, BIC have found an increasing interest in recent years, particularly in quantum and classical transport of matter and optical waves in mesoscopic and photonic systems where the underlying potential can be judiciously tailored. Most of our knowledge of BIC is so far restricted to static potentials. Here we introduce a new kind of BIC, referred to as Floquet BIC, which corresponds to a normalizable Floquet state of a time-periodic Hamiltonian with a quasienergy embedded into the spectrum of Floquet scattered states. We discuss the appearance of Floquet BIC states in a tight-binding lattice model driven by an ac field in the proximity of the dynamic localization regime

id: 1310.5059
title: Squashing model for detectors and applications to quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Normand J. Beaudry, Varun Narasimhachar, Ruben Romero Alvarez, Tobias Moroder, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 24 pages main text, 12 figures, 4 pages appendix, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5059
abstract: We develop a framework that allows a description of measurements in Hilbert spaces that are smaller than their natural representation. This description, which we call a "squashing model", consists of a squashing map that maps the input states of the measurement from the original Hilbert space to the smaller one, followed by a targeted prescribed measurement on the smaller Hilbert space. This framework has applications in quantum key distribution, but also in other cryptographic tasks, as it greatly simplifies the theoretical analysis under adversarial conditions.

id: 1310.5060
title: Parallelism of the measures in non-Markovian environments
authors: Abolfathiyar Masoud, Faizi Esfandyar, Entekhabi Sina
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5060
abstract: There are various measures to compute correlation in various conditions, but none of them can be used publicly, because each of them has abnormality in their calculations or behaviors. These abnormalities do not depend on genus of environments. Therefore, in this work we will show correlation diversity of evolution that is computed by each measure for two oscillators with their non-Markovian stochastic reservoir. We will see that while the situation is the same for all of them, they will have symmetrical plots. In more expressive words, process of the measures has a kind of parallelism when angular momentum and time are increasing. In the other hand, increase of quantum correlation under the non-Markovian drive is observable in all of studied measures. Also, in all of them (quantum discord's measures and entanglement's measures)recently occurrences are done.

id: 1310.5079
title: Entropic uncertainty assisted by temporal memory
authors: H. S. Karthik, A. R. Usha Devi, J. Prabhu Tej, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 6 pages, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5079
abstract: The uncertainty principle brings out intrinsic quantum bounds on the precision of measuring non-commuting observables. Statistical outcomes in the measurement of incompatible observables reveal a trade-off on the sum of corresponding entropies. Massen-Uffink entropic uncertainty relation (Phys. Rev. Lett. 60, 1103 (1988)) constrains the sum of entropies associated with incompatible measurements. The entropic uncertainty principle in the presence of quantum memory (Nature Phys. 6, 659 (2010)) brought about a fascinating twist by showing that quantum side information, enabled due to entanglement, helps in beating the uncertainty of non-commuting observables. Here we explore the interplay between temporal correlations and uncertainty. We show that with the assistance of a prior quantum temporal information achieved by sequential observations on the same quantum system at different times, the uncertainty bound on entropies gets reduced.

id: 1310.5088
title: Dirichlet polynomials, Majorization, and Trumping
authors: Rajesh Pereira, Sarah Plosker
comments: 14 pages; corrected the accidental omission of the two zeros of \zeta in Observation 3.2
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 46, 225302, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5088
abstract: Majorization and trumping are two partial orders which have proved useful in quantum information theory. We show some relations between these two partial orders and generalized Dirichlet polynomials, Mellin transforms, and completely monotone functions. These relations are used to prove a succinct generalization of Turgut's characterization of trumping.

id: 1310.5097
title: Cavities in curved spacetimes: the response of particle detectors
authors: Aida Ahmadzadegan, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Robert B. Mann
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. RevTex 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 024013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5097
abstract: We introduce a method to compute particle detector transition probability in spacetime regions of general curved spacetimes provided that the curvature is not above a maximum threshold. In particular we use this method to compare the response of two detectors, one in a spherically symmetric gravitational field and the other one in Rindler spacetime to compare the Unruh and Hawking effects: We study the vacuum response of a detector freely falling through a stationary cavity in a Schwarzschild background as compared with the response of an equivalently accelerated detector traveling through an inertial cavity in the absence of curvature. We find that as we set the cavity in further radiuses from the black hole, the thermal radiation measured by the detector approaches the quantity recorded by the detector in Rindler background showing in which way and at what scales the equivalent principle is recovered in the Hawking-Unruh effect. I.e. when the Hawking effect in a Schwarzschild background becomes equivalent to the Unruh effect in Rindler spacetime.

id: 1310.5100
title: Hybrid valence-bond states for universal quantum computation
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Poya Haghnegahdar, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, title changed in published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042333 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5100
abstract: The spin-3/2 Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) valence-bond state on the hexagonal lattice was shown to be a universal resource state for measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC). Can AKLT states of higher spin magnitude support universal MBQC? We demonstrate that several hybrid 2D AKLT states involving mixture of spin-2 and other lower-spin entities, such as spin-3/2 and spin-1, are also universal for MBQC. This significantly expands universal resource states in the AKLT family. Even though frustration may be a hinderance to quantum computational universality, lattices can be modified to yield AKLT states that are universal. The family of AKLT states thus provides a versatile playground for quantum computation.

id: 1310.5119
title: Generation of multipartite spin entanglement from multimode squeezed states
authors: Niranjan Sridhar, Olivier Pfister
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5119
abstract: We investigate the systematic use of the Schwinger representation, by virtue of which two boson fields are equivalent to an effective spin, for casting multimode squeezed states into multipartite spin entangled states. The motivation for this endeavor is the following established fact: finitely squeezed, two-mode entangled states can be recast into maximally entangled bipartite spin states, irrespective of their level of squeezing (in the lossless case). This work explores the generalization of this interesting property to multipartite entanglement. While we found that the generalization of multipartite Gaussian entanglement to multipartite spin entanglement is not straightforward, there are nonetheless interesting features and entangled states to be found. Here we study a few CV entangled states already realized experimentally, and show that some of them correspond to multipartite spin entangled states.

id: 1310.5136
title: On the symmetry of the quantum-mechanical particle in a cubic box
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5136
abstract: In this paper we show that the point-group (geometrical) symmetry is insufficient to account for the degeneracy of the energy levels of the particle in a cubic box. The discrepancy is due to hidden (dynamical symmetry). We obtain the operators that commute with the Hamiltonian one and connect eigenfunctions of different symmetries. We also show that the addition of a suitable potential inside the box breaks the dynamical symmetry but preserves the geometrical one.The resulting degeneracy is that predicted by point-group symmetry.

id: 1310.5185
title: Adversary Lower Bounds for the Collision and the Set Equality Problems
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Ansis Rosmanis
comments: 18 pages, v2: rewritten paper, v3: minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5185
abstract: We prove tight $\Omega(n^{1/3})$ lower bounds on the quantum query complexity of the Collision and the Set Equality problems, provided that the size of the alphabet is large enough. We do this using the negative-weighted adversary method. Thus, we reprove the result by Aaronson and Shi, as well as a very recent development by Zhandry.

id: 1310.5208
title: Improved Error-Tradeoff and Error-Disturbance Relations
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Sixia Yu, Kazuo Fujikawa, C.H. Oh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5208
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is quantified by error-disturbance tradeoff relations, which have been tested experimentally in various scenarios. Here we shall report improved new versions of various error-disturbance tradeoff relations by decomposing the measurement errors into two different components, namely, operator bias and fuzziness. Our improved uncertainty relations reveal the tradeoffs between these two components of errors, and imply various conditionally valid error-tradeoff relations for the unbiased and projective measurements. We also design a quantum circuit to measure the two components of the error and disturbance.

id: 1310.5226
title: Time-optimal control of SU(2) quantum operations
authors: A. Garon, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043422 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5226
abstract: We propose an analysis of the time-optimal control of SU(2) quantum operations. By using the Pontryagin Maximum Principle, we show how to determine the optimal trajectory reaching a given target state. Explicit analytical solutions are given for two specific examples. We discuss the role of the detuning in the construction of the optimal synthesis.

id: 1310.5229
title: Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the anharmonic oscillator $V(x,y)=x^{2}y^{2}$
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5229
abstract: We obtain sufficiently accurate eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for the anharmonic oscillator with potential $V(x,y)=x^{2}y^{2}$ by means of three different methods. Our results strongly suggest that the spectrum of this oscillator is discrete in agreement with early rigorous mathematical proofs and against a recent statement that cast doubts about it.

id: 1310.5286
title: Topology of quantum discord
authors: Nga T. T. Nguyen, Robert Joynt
comments: Revised version submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5286
abstract: Quantum discord is an important measure of quantum correlations that can serve as a resource for certain types of quantum information processing. \ Like entanglement, discord is subject to destruction by external noise. The routes by which this destruction can take place depends on the shape of the hypersurface of zero discord $\mathcal{C}$ in the space of generalized Bloch vectors. For 2 qubits, we show that with a few points subtracted, this hypersurface is a simply-connected 9-dimensional manifold embedded in a 15-dimensional background space. \ We do this by constructing an explicit\ homeomorphism from a known manifold to the subtracted version of $\mathcal{C} $. We also construct a coordinate map on $\mathcal{C}$ that can be used for integration or other purposes. This topological characterization of $% \mathcal{C}$ has important implications for the classification of the possible time evolutions of discord in physical models. The classification for discord contrasts sharply with the possible evolutions of entanglement. Using topological methods, we classify the possible joint evolutions of entanglement and discord. There are 9 allowed categories: 6 categories for a Markovian process and 3 categories for a non-Markovian process, respectively. We illustrate these conclusions with an anisotropic XY spin model. All 9 categories can be obtained by adjusting parameters.

id: 1310.5291
title: Ultrafast and Fault-Tolerant Quantum Communication across Long Distances
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Jungsang Kim, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Mikhail D. Lukin, Liang Jiang
comments: 5 pages + supplemental material (updated in new version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 250501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5291
abstract: Quantum repeaters (QRs) provide a way of enabling long distance quantum communication by establishing entangled qubits between remote locations. We investigate a new approach to QRs in which quantum information can be faithfully transmitted via a noisy channel without the use of long distance teleportation, thus eliminating the need to establish remote entangled links. Our approach makes use of small encoding blocks to fault-tolerantly correct both operational and photon loss errors. We describe a way to optimize the resource requirement for these QRs with the aim of the generation of a secure key. Numerical calculations indicate that the number of quantum memory bits required for our scheme has favorable poly-logarithmic scaling with the distance across which the communication is desired.

id: 1310.5302
title: Precision metrology using weak measurements
authors: Lijian Zhang, Animesh Datta, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5302
abstract: Weak values and measurements have been proposed as means to achieve dramatic enhancements in metrology based on the greatly increased range of possible measurement outcomes. Unfortunately, the very large values of measurement outcomes occur with highly suppressed probabilities. This raises three vital questions in weak-measurement-based metrology, namely, (Q1) Does post-selection enhance the measurement precision ? (Q2) Does weak measurement offer better precision than strong measurement ? (Q3) Is it possible to beat the standard quantum limit or to achieve Heisenberg limit with weak measurement using only classical resources ? We answer the first two questions in the negative and the last in the affirmative for two prototypical, and generic, measurement protocols. Our results are instructive for the design of weak-measurement-based protocols for quantum metrology.

id: 1310.5308
title: The GRW flash theory: a relativistic quantum ontology of matter in space-time?
authors: Michael Esfeld, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5308
abstract: John Bell proposed an ontology for the GRW modification of quantum mechanics in terms of flashes occurring at space-time points. The paper spells out the motivation for this ontology, enquires into the status of the wave-function in it, critically examines the claim of its being Lorentz-invariant and considers whether it is a parsimonious, but nevertheless physically adequate ontology.

id: 1310.5309
title: The imaginary Kapitza pendulum
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5309
abstract: We extend the theory of Kapitza stabilization within the complex domain, i.e. for the case of an imaginary oscillating potential. At a high oscillation frequency, the quasi-energy spectrum is found to be entirely real-valued, however a substantial difference with respect to a real potential emerges, that is the formation of a truly bound state instead of a resonance. The predictions of the Kapitza averaging method and the transition from a complex to an entirely real-valued quasi-energy spectrum at high frequencies are confirmed by numerical simulations of the Schrodinger equation for an oscillating Gaussian potential. An application and a physical implementation of the imaginary Kapitza pendulum to the stability of optical resonators with variable reflectivity is discussed.

id: 1310.5323
title: Shortcuts to adiabatic passage for population transfer and maximum entanglement creation between two atoms in a cavity
authors: Mei Lu, Yan Xia, Li-Tuo Shen, Jie Song, Nguyen Ba An
comments: Accepted by Physical Review A as a Regular Article
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5323
abstract: We use the approach of "transitionless quantum driving" proposed by Berry to construct shortcuts to the population transfer and the creation of maximal entanglement between two $\Lambda $-type atoms based on the cavity quantum electronic dynamics (CQED) system. An effective Hamiltonian is designed by resorting to an auxiliary excited level, a classical driving field and an extra cavity field mode to supplement or substitute the original reference Hamiltonian, and steer the system evolution along its instantaneous eigenstates in an arbitrarily short time, speeding up the rate of population transfer and creation of maximal entanglement between the two atoms inside a cavity. Numerical simulation demonstrates that our shortcuts' performance is robust against the decoherences caused by atomic spontaneous emission and cavity photon leakage.

id: 1310.5325
title: Compatibility of state assignments and pooling of information
authors: Todd A. Brun, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Christopher Perry
comments: 11 pages with two columns format, 2 figures, comments welcomed. v2: added new author (Christopher Perry)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5325
abstract: We say that two (or more) state assignments for one and the same quantum system are compatible if they could represent the assignments of observers with differing information about the system. A criterion for compatibility was proposed in [Phys. Rev. A 65, 032315 (2002)]; however, this leaves unanswered the question of whether there are degrees of compatibility which could be represented by some quantitative measure, and whether there is a straightforward procedure whereby the observers can pool their information to arrive at a unique joint state assignment. We argue that such measures are only sensible given some assumption about what kind of information was used in making the state assignments in the first place, and that in general state assignments do not represent all of the information possessed by the observers. However, we examine one particular measure, and show that it has a straightforward interpretation, assuming that the information was acquired from a particular type of measurement, and that in this case there is a natural rule for pooling information. We extend this measure to compatibility of states for k observers, and show that the value is the solution to a semidefinite program. Similar compatibility measures can be defined for alternative notions of state compatibility, including Post-Peierls (PP) and Equal Support (ES) compatibility.

id: 1310.5348
title: A symmetrical theory of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Michael B. Heaney
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1211.4645
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5348
abstract: This paper presents a new Symmetrical Theory (ST) of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics which postulates: quantum mechanics is a theory about complete experiments, not particles; a complete experiment is maximally described by a complex transition amplitude density; and this transition amplitude density never collapses. This new ST is compared to the Conventional Theory (CT) of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics for the analysis of a beam-splitter experiment. The ST makes several experimentally testable predictions that differ from the CT, which can be checked using existing technology. The ST also solves one part of the CT measurement problem, and resolves some of the paradoxes of the CT. This nonrelativistic ST is the low energy limit of a relativistic ST presented in an earlier paper \cite{Heaney1}.

id: 1310.5370
title: Topological Order and Reflection Positivity
authors: Arthur Jaffe, Fabio L. Pedrocchi
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhysics Letters (EPL) 105, 40002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5370
abstract: The interplay between the two fundamental concepts of topological order and reflection positivity allows one to characterize the ground states of certain many-body Hamiltonians. We define topological order in an appropriate fashion and show that certain operators have positive expectation value in all ground states. We apply our method to vortex loops in a model relevant to topological quantum memories.

id: 1310.5372
title: An Almost Sudden Jump in Quantum Complexity
authors: Or Sattath
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5372
abstract: The Quantum Satisfiability problem (QSAT) is the generalization of the canonical NP-complete problem - Boolean Satisfiability. (k,s)-QSAT is the following variant of the problem: given a set of projectors of rank 1, acting non-trivially on k qubits out of n qubits, such that each qubit appears in at most s projectors, decide whether there exists a quantum state in the null space of all the projectors. Let f*(k) be the maximal integer s such that every (k,s)-QSAT instance is satisfiable. Deciding (k,f*(k))-QSAT is computationally easy: by definition the answer is "satisfiable". But, by relaxing the conditions slightly, we show that (k,f*(k)+2)-QSAT is QMA_1-hard, for k >=15. This is a quantum analogue of a classical result by Kratochv\'il et al. [KST93]. We use the term "an almost sudden jump" to stress that the complexity of (k,f*(k)+1)-QSAT is open, where the jump in the classical complexity is known to be sudden. We present an implication of this finding to the quantum PCP conjecture, arguably one of the most important open problems in the field of Hamiltonian complexity. Our implications impose constraints on one possible way to refute the quantum PCP.

id: 1310.5432
title: Experimental Study of Quantum Noise in Optical Heterodyne Detection
authors: Dechao He, Boya Xie, Yu Xiao, Sheng Feng
comments: Revised version with corrections, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5432
abstract: We experimentally investigate the quantum-noise performance of a conventional heterodyne detector and find significant discrepancy between experiment and theory. Further investigations are highly recommended for deeper insight into the physics related to the quantum noise in optical heterodyne detection.

id: 1310.5433
title: Efficient entanglement operator for a multi-qubit system
authors: Chiara Bagnasco, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 89 (2014) 085102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5433
abstract: In liquid-state NMR quantum computation, a selective entanglement operator between qubits 2 and 3 of a three-qubit molecule is conventionally realized by applying a pair of short $\pi$-pulses to qubit 1. This method, called refocusing, is well suited for heteronuclear molecules. When the molecule is homonuclear, however, the $\pi$-pulses applied to qubit 1 often induce unwanted $z$-rotations on qubits 2 and 3, even if the $z$-components of qubits 2 and 3 are left unchanged. This phenomenon is known as the transient Bloch-Siegert effect, and compensation thereof is required for precise gate operation. We propose an alternative refocusing method, in which a weak square pulse is applied to qubit 1. This technique has the advantage of curbing the Bloch-Siegert effect, making it suitable for both hetero- and homonuclear molecules.

id: 1310.5453
title: Natural correlation between a system and a thermal reservoir
authors: Takashi Mori
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 040101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5453
abstract: Non-Markovian corrections to the Markovian quantum master equation of an open quantum system are investigated up to the second order of the interaction between the system of interest and a thermal reservoir. The concept of "natural correlation" is discussed. When the system is naturally correlated with a thermal reservoir, the time evolution of the reduced density matrix looks Markovian even in a short-time regime. If the total system was initially in an "unnatural" state, the natural correlation is established during the time evolution, and after that the time evolution becomes Markovian in a long-time regime. It is also shown that for a certain set of reduced density matrices, the naturally correlated state does not exist. If the initial reduced density matrix has no naturally correlated state, the time evolution is inevitably non-Markovian in a short-time regime.

id: 1310.5473
title: Entanglement distribution over 300 km of fiber
authors: Takahiro Inagaki, Nobuyuki Matsuda, Osamu Tadanaga, Masaki Asobe, Hiroki Takesue
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 21, 23241 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5473
abstract: We report the distribution of time bin entangled photon pairs over 300 km of optical fiber. We realized this by using a high speed and high signal to noise ratio entanglement generation and evaluation setup that consists of periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides and superconducting single photon detectors. The observed two-photon interference fringes exhibited a visibility of 84 %. We confirmed the violation of Bell's inequality by 2.9 standard deviations.

id: 1310.5553
title: Hypothesis Testing on Invariant Subspaces of the Symmetric Group, Part I - Quantum Sanov's Theorem and Arbitrarily Varying Sources
authors: J. N?tzel
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5553
abstract: We report a proof of the quantum Sanov Theorem by elementary application of basic facts about representations of the symmetric group, together with a complete characterization of the optimal error exponent in a situation where the null hypothesis is given by an arbitrarily varying quantum source instead. Our approach differs from previous ones in two points: First, it supports a reasoning inspired by the method of types. Second, the measurement scheme we propose to distinguish the two alternatives not only does that job asymptotically perfect, but also yields additional information about the null hypothesis. An example of that is given. The measurement is composed of projections onto permutation-invariant subspaces, thus providing a direct link between one of the most basic tasks in quantum information on the one hand side and fundamental objects in representation theory on the other. We additionally connect to representation theory by proving a relation between Kostka numbers and quantum states, and to state estimation via a generalization of a well-known spectral estimation theorem to non-i.i.d. sequences.

id: 1310.5575
title: The Generation of Super-Resolving Single-Photon Path-Entangled State
authors: Wei Feng, Kebei Jiang, Michelle L.-J. Lollie, M. Suhail Zubairy, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043824 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5575
abstract: In this paper, we propose two protocols for generating super-resolving \textit{single-photon} path-entangled states from general maximally path-entangled N00N states. We also show that both protocols generate the desired state with different probabilities depending on the type of detectors being used. Such super-resolving single-photon path-entangled states preserve high resolving power but lack the requirement of a multi-photon absorbing resist, which makes this state a perfect candidate for quantum lithography.

id: 1310.5581
title: Disorder Correlation Frequency Controlled Diffusion in the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard Model
authors: James Q. Quach
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 88, 053843 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5581
abstract: We investigate time-dependent stochastic disorder in the one-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model and show that it gives rise to diffusive behaviour. We find that disorder correlation frequency is effective in controlling the level of diffusivity. In the defectless system the mean squared displacement (MSD), which is a measure of the diffusivity, increases with increasing disorder frequency. Contrastingly, when static defects are present the MSD increases with disorder frequency only at lower frequencies; at higher frequencies, increasing disorder frequency actually reduces the MSD.

id: 1310.5593
title: $GHZ$ state generation of three Josephson qubits in presence of bosonic baths
authors: S. Spilla, R. Migliore, M. Scala, A. Napoli
comments: 16 pages and 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 065501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5593
abstract: We analyze an entangling protocol to generate tripartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states in a system consisting of three superconducting qubits with pairwise coupling. The dynamics of the open quantum system is investigated by taking into account the interaction of each qubit with an independent bosonic bath with an ohmic spectral structure. To this end a microscopic master equation is constructed and exactly solved. We find that the protocol here discussed is stable against decoherence and dissipation due to the presence of the external baths.

id: 1310.5594
title: Generating squeezed vacuum field with non-zero orbital angular momentum with atomic ensembles
authors: Mi Zhang, Joseph Soultanis, Irina Novikova, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 22, pp. 4833-4836 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5594
abstract: We demonstrated that by using a pump field with non-zero orbital angular momentum (OAM) in the polarization self-rotation squeezing process it is possible to generate a squeezed vacuum optical field with the matching OAM. We found a similar level of maximum quantum noise reduction for a first-order Laguerre-Gaussian pump beam and a regular Gaussian pump beam, even though the optimal operational conditions differed in these two cases. Also, we investigated the effect of self-defocusing on the level of the vacuum squeezing by simultaneously monitoring the minimum quantum noise level and the output beam transverse profile at various pump laser powers and atomic densities, and found no direct correlations between the increased beam size and the degree of measured squeezing.

id: 1310.5614
title: Three-dimensional Quantum Slit Diffraction and Diffraction in Time
authors: Mathieu Beau, T.C. Dorlas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5614
abstract: We study the quantum slit diffraction problem in three dimensions. In the treatment of diffraction of particles by a slit, it is usually assumed that the motion perpendicular to the slit is classical. Here we take into account the effect of the quantum nature of the motion perpendicular to the slit using the Green function approach [18]. We treat the diffraction of a Gaussian wave packet for general boundary conditions on the shutter. The difference between the standard and our three-dimensional slit diffraction models is analogous to the diffraction in time phenomenon introduced in [16]. We derive corrections to the standard formula for the diffraction pattern, and we point out situations in which this might be observable. In particular, we discuss the diffraction in space and time in the presence of gravity.

id: 1310.5644
title: On compression of non-classically correlated bit strings
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Marcin Markiewicz, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: This is a substantially revised version of the previous paper. In fact, it is so revised that it is an entirely new paper. All comments are welcome and appreciated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5644
abstract: In this short note we present a new approach to non-classical correlations that is based on the compression rates for bit strings generated by Alice and Bob. We use normalised compression distance introduced by Cilibrasi and Vitanyi to derive information-theoretic inequalities that must be obeyed by classically correlated bit strings and that are violated by PR-boxes. We speculate about a violation of our inequalities by quantum mechanical correlations.

id: 1310.5664
title: Quantum Locally Testable Codes
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Lior Eldar
comments: Some of the results presented here appeared in an initial form in our quant-ph submission arXiv:1301.3407. This is a much extended and improved version. 30 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5664
abstract: We initiate the study of quantum Locally Testable Codes (qLTCs). We provide a definition together with a simplification, denoted sLTCs, for the special case of stabilizer codes, together with some basic results using those definitions. The most crucial parameter of such codes is their soundness, $R(\delta)$, namely, the probability that a randomly chosen constraint is violated as a function of the distance of a word from the code ($\delta$, the relative distance from the code, is called the proximity). We then proceed to study limitations on qLTCs. In our first main result we prove a surprising, inherently quantum, property of sLTCs: for small values of proximity, the better the small-set expansion of the interaction graph of the constraints, the less sound the qLTC becomes. This phenomenon, which can be attributed to monogamy of entanglement, stands in sharp contrast to the classical setting. The complementary, more intuitive, result also holds: an upper bound on the soundness when the code is defined on poor small-set expanders (a bound which turns out to be far more difficult to show in the quantum case). Together we arrive at a quantum upper-bound on the soundness of stabilizer qLTCs set on any graph, which does not hold in the classical case. Many open questions are raised regarding what possible parameters are achievable for qLTCs. In the appendix we also define a quantum analogue of PCPs of proximity (PCPPs) and point out that the result of Ben-Sasson et. al. by which PCPPs imply LTCs with related parameters, carries over to the sLTCs. This creates a first link between qLTCs and quantum PCPs.

id: 1310.5673
title: The Bell states in noncommutative algebraic geometry
authors: Charlie Beil
comments: 18 pages. Previously titled "Quantum entanglement, emergence, and noncommutative blowups"
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol. 12, no. 05, 1450033 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5673
abstract: We introduce new mathematical aspects of the Bell states using matrix factorizations, nonnoetherian singularities, and noncommutative blowups. A matrix factorization of a polynomial $p$ consists of two matrices $\phi_1,\phi_2$ such that $\phi_1\phi_2 = \phi_2\phi_1 = p \operatorname{id}$. Using this notion, we show how the Bell states emerge from the separable product of two mixtures, by defining pure states over complex matrices rather than just the complex numbers. We then show in an idealized algebraic setting that pure states are supported on nonnoetherian singularities. Moreover, we find that the collapse of a Bell state is intimately related to the representation theory of the noncommutative blowup along its singular support. This presents an exchange in geometry: the nonlocal commutative spacetime of the entangled state emerges from an underlying local noncommutative spacetime.

id: 1310.5680
title: Nonadiabatic quantum state engineering driven by fast quench dynamics
authors: Marcela Herrera, Marcelo S. Sarandy, Eduardo I. Duzzioni, Roberto M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5680
abstract: There are a number of tasks in quantum information science that exploit non-transitional adiabatic dynamics. Such a dynamics is bounded by the adiabatic theorem, which naturally imposes a speed limit in the evolution of quantum systems. Here, we investigate an approach for quantum state engineering exploiting a shortcut to the adiabatic evolution, which is based on rapid quenches in a continuous-time Hamiltonian evolution. In particular, this procedure is able to provide state preparation faster than the adiabatic brachistochrone. Remarkably, the evolution time in this approach is shown to be ultimately limited by its "thermodynamical cost,"provided in terms of the average work rate (average power) of the quench process. We illustrate this result in a scenario that can be experimentally implemented in a nuclear magnetic resonance setup.

id: 1310.5737
title: A squeeze-like operator approach to position-dependent mass in quantum mechanics
authors: H¨¦ctor M. Moya-Cessa, Francisco Soto-Eguibar, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5737
abstract: We provide a squeeze-like transformation that allows one to remove a position dependent mass from the Hamiltonian. Methods to solve the Schr\"{o}dinger equation may then be applied to find the respective eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. As an example, we consider a position-dependent-mass that leads to the integrable Morse potential and therefore to well-known solutions.

id: 1310.5802
title: The Fisher information and the quantum Cramer-Rao sensitivity limit of continuous measurements
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Published version, significantly revised. Supplemental Information available upon request to the second author
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 170401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5802
abstract: Precision measurements with quantum systems rely on our ability to trace the differences between experimental signals to variations in unknown physical parameters. In this Letter we derive the Fisher information and the ensuing Cramer-Rao sensitivity limit for parameter estimation by continuous measurements on an open quantum system. We illustrate our theory by application to resonance fluorescence from a laser driven two-state atom and we show that photon counting and homodyne detection records yield different sensitivity to the atomic parameters, while none of them exceed our general result.

id: 1310.5807
title: Dispersion cancellation in high resolution two-photon interference
authors: Masayuki Okano, Ryo Okamoto, Akira Tanaka, Shutaro Ishida, Norihiko Nishizawa, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043845 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5807
abstract: The dispersion cancellation observed in Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference between frequency-entangled photon pairs has been the basis of quantum optical coherence tomography and quantum clock synchronization. Here we explore the effect of phase dispersion on ultranarrow HOM dips. We show that the higher-order dispersion, the line width of the pump laser, and the spectral shape of the parametric fluorescence have a strong effect on the dispersion cancellation in the high-resolution regime with several experimental verifications. Perfect dispersion cancellation with a linewidth of 3\mu m is also demonstrated through 25 mm of water.

id: 1310.5823
title: Shielding vacuum fluctuations with graphene
authors: Sofia Ribeiro, Stefan Scheel
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5823
abstract: The Casimir-Polder interaction of ground-state and excited atoms with graphene is investigated with the aim to establish whether graphene systems can be used as a shield for vacuum fluctuations of an underlying substrate. We calculate the zero-temperature Casimir-Polder potential from the reflection coefficients of graphene within the framework of the Dirac model. For both doped and undoped graphene we show limits at which graphene could be used effectively as a shield. Additional results are given for AB-stacked bilayer graphene.

id: 1310.5832
title: Threshold for Non-Thermal Stabilization of Open Quantum Systems
authors: C. Y. Cai, Li-Ping Yang, C. P. Sun
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5832
abstract: We generally study whether or not the information of an open quantum system could be totally erased by its surrounding environment in the long time. For a harmonic oscillator coupled to a bath of a spectral density with zero-value regions, we quantitatively present a threshold of system-bath coupling \eta_{c}, above which the initial information of the system can remains partially as its long time stablization deviates from the usual thermalization. This non-thermal stabilization happens as a non-Markovian effect.

id: 1310.5889
title: Ultrasensitive Atomic Spin Measurements with a Nonlinear Interferometer
authors: R. J. Sewell, M. Napolitano, N. Behbood, G. Colangelo, F. Martin Ciurana, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 5 figures
journal: Physical Review X 4, 021045 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5889
abstract: We study nonlinear interferometry applied to a measurement of atomic spin and demonstrate a sensitivity that cannot be achieved by any linear-optical measurement with the same experimental resources. We use alignment-to-orientation conversion, a nonlinear-optical technique from optical magnetometry, to perform a nondestructive measurement of the spin alignment of a cold $^{87}$Rb atomic ensemble. We observe state-of-the-art spin sensitivity in a single-pass measurement, in good agreement with covariance-matrix theory. Taking the degree of measurement-induced spin squeezing as a figure of merit, we find that the nonlinear technique's experimental performance surpasses the theoretical performance of any linear-optical measurement on the same system, including optimization of probe strength and tuning. The results confirm the central prediction of nonlinear metrology, that superior scaling can lead to superior absolute sensitivity.

id: 1310.5941
title: Monotonicity of the von Neumann entropy expressed as a function of R¨¦nyi entropies
authors: Mark Fannes
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5941
abstract: The von Neumann entropy of a density matrix of dimension d, expressed in terms of the first d-1 integer order R\'enyi entropies, is monotonically increasing in R\'enyi entropies of even order and decreasing in those of odd order.

id: 1310.5970
title: Trapping atoms using nanoscale quantum vacuum forces
authors: D.E. Chang, K. Sinha, J.M. Taylor, H.J. Kimble
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4343 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5970
abstract: Quantum vacuum forces dictate the interaction between individual atoms and dielectric surfaces at nanoscale distances. For example, their large strengths typically overwhelm externally applied forces, which makes it challenging to controllably interface cold atoms with nearby nanophotonic systems. Here, we show that it is possible to tailor the vacuum forces themselves to provide strong trapping potentials. The trapping scheme takes advantage of the attractive ground state potential and adiabatic dressing with an excited state whose potential is engineered to be resonantly enhanced and repulsive. This procedure yields a strong metastable trap, with the fraction of excited state population scaling inversely with the quality factor of the resonance of the dielectric structure. We analyze realistic limitations to the trap lifetime and discuss possible applications that might emerge from the large trap depths and nanoscale confinement.

id: 1310.5986
title: Quantum discord from system-environment correlations
authors: Richard Tatham, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 6 pages, submitted to the special issue of Physica Scripta on CEWQO 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5986
abstract: In an initially uncorrelated mixed separable bi-partite system, quantum correlations can emerge under the action of a local measurement or local noise [A. Streltsov, H. Kampermann, and D. Bru\ss{}, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170502 (2011)]. We analyze this counter-intuitive phenomenon using quantum discord as a quantifier. We then relate changes in quantum discord to system-environment correlations between the system in a mixed state and some purifying environmental mode using the Koashi-Winter inequality. On this basis, we suggest an interpretation of discord as a byproduct of transferring entanglement and correlations around the different subsystems of a global pure state.

id: 1310.5990
title: Multiplicativity of superoperator norms for some entanglement breaking channels
authors: Christopher King
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5990
abstract: It is known that the minimal output entropy is additive for any product of entanglement breaking (EB) channels. The same is true for the Renyi entropy, where additivity is equivalent to multiplicativity of the $1 \rightarrow q$ norm for all $q \ge 1$. In this paper we consider the related question of multiplicativity of the $2 \rightarrow q$ norm for entanglement breaking channels. We prove that multiplicativity holds in this case for certain classes of EB channels, including both the CQ and QC channels.

id: 1310.6002
title: Weak Values with Remote Postselection and Shared Entanglement
authors: Arun Kumar Pati, Uttam Singh
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6002
abstract: We propose a new protocol for the weak measurement of any observable with remote pre and postselections. We show that if two parties share a pure entangled state, then by using local operations and classical communication they can preselect and postselect at distant locations leading to the weak value of an observable as a shift in the pointer of the apparatus at one location in the process of the weak measurement. This can be achieved with either sharing of a pure maximally or non-maximally entangled state. We generalize the protocol for realizing the weak value of any observable with remote pre and postselection of mixed states. Finally, we show how the weak value is modified in the remote pre and postselection setting if Alice and Bob share a mixed entangled state.

id: 1310.6028
title: A stochastic model for quantum measurement
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 12 pages, accepted for publication in Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1301.5345
journal: J. Stat. Mech.: Theory and Experiment P11007, 1 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6028
abstract: We develop a statistical model of microscopic stochastic deviation from classical mechanics based on a stochastic processes with a transition probability that is assumed to be given by an exponential distribution of infinitesimal stationary action. We apply the statistical model to stochastically modify a classical mechanical model for the measurement of physical quantities reproducing the prediction of quantum mechanics. The system+apparatus always have a definite configuration all the time as in classical mechanics, fluctuating randomly following a continuous trajectory. On the other hand, the wave function and quantum mechanical Hermitian operator corresponding to the physical quantity arise formally as artificial mathematical constructs. During a single measurement, the wave function of the whole system+apparatus evolves according to a Schr\"odinger equation and the configuration of the apparatus acts as the pointer of the measurement so that there is no wave function collapse. We will also show that while the result of each single measurement event does not reveal the actual value of the physical quantity prior to measurement, its average in an ensemble of identical measurement is equal to the average of the actual value of the physical quantity prior to measurement over the distribution of the configuration of the system.

id: 1310.6043
title: Heisenberg-limited atom clocks based on entangled qubits
authors: Eric M. Kessler, Peter K¨®m¨¢r, Michael Bishof, Liang Jiang, Anders S. S?rensen, Jun Ye, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 190403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6043
abstract: We present a quantum-enhanced atomic clock protocol based on groups of sequentially larger Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states, that achieves the best clock stability allowed by quantum theory up to a logarithmic correction. The simultaneous interrogation of the laser phase with such a cascade of GHZ states realizes an incoherent version of the phase estimation algorithm that enables Heisenberg-limited operation while extending the Ramsey interrogation time beyond the laser noise limit. We compare the new protocol with state of the art interrogation schemes, and show that entanglement allow a significant quantum gain in the stability for short averaging time.

id: 1310.6045
title: A quantum network of clocks
authors: Peter K¨®m¨¢r, Eric M. Kessler, Michael Bishof, Liang Jiang, Anders S. S?rensen, Jun Ye, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6045
abstract: The development of precise atomic clocks has led to many scientific and technological advances that play an increasingly important role in modern society. Shared timing information constitutes a key resource for positioning and navigation with a direct correspondence between timing accuracy and precision in applications such as the Global Positioning System (GPS). By combining precision metrology and quantum networks, we propose here a quantum, cooperative protocol for the operation of a network consisting of geographically remote optical atomic clocks. Using non-local entangled states, we demonstrate an optimal utilization of the global network resources, and show that such a network can be operated near the fundamental limit set by quantum theory yielding an ultra-precise clock signal. Furthermore, the internal structure of the network, combined with basic techniques from quantum communication, guarantees security both from internal and external threats. Realization of such a global quantum network of clocks may allow construction of a real-time single international time scale (world clock) with unprecedented stability and accuracy.

id: 1310.6053
title: Measurement- and comparison-based sizes of Schr?dinger cat states of light
authors: T.J. Volkoff, K.B. Whaley
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6053
abstract: We extend several measurement-based definitions of effective "cat-size" to coherent state superpositions with branches composed of either single coherent states or tensor products of coherent states. These effective cat-size measures depend on determining the maximal quantum distinguishability of certain states associated with the superposition state: e.g., in one measure, the maximal distinguishability of the branches of the superposition is considered as in quantum binary decision theory; in another measure, the maximal distinguishability of the initial superposition and its image after a one-parameter evolution generated by a local Hermitian operator is of interest. The cat-size scaling with the number of modes and mode intensity (i.e., photon number) is compared to the scaling derived directly from the Wigner function of the superposition and to that estimated experimentally from decoherence. We also apply earlier comparison-based methods for determining macroscopic superposition size that require a reference GHZ state. The case of a hierarchical Schr\"{o}dinger cat state with branches composed of smaller superpositions is also analyzed from a measurement-based perspective.

id: 1310.6060
title: Tight Bounds for the Entanglement of Formation of Gaussian States
authors: Fernando Nicacio, Marcos Cesar de Oliveira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012336 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6060
abstract: We establish tight upper and lower bounds for the Entanglement of Formation of an arbitrary two-mode Gaussian state employing necessary properties of Gaussian channels. Both bounds are strictly given by the Entanglement of Formation of symmetric Gaussian states, which are simply constructed from the reduced states obtained by partial trace of the original one.

id: 1310.6112
title: Two-Qubit Gate Operation on Selected Nearest-Neighbor Neutral Atom Qubits
authors: Elham Hosseini Lapasar, Kenichi Kasamatsu, Sile Nic Chormaic, Takeji Takui, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara, Tetsuo Ohmi
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1101.4300
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 83 (2014) 044005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6112
abstract: We have previously discussed the design of a neutral atom quantum computer with an on-demand interaction [E. Hosseini Lapasar, et al., J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80, 114003 (2011)]. In this contribution, we propose an experimental method to demonstrate a selective two-qubit gate operation that is less demanding than our original proposal, although the gate operation is limited to act between two neighboring atoms. We evaluate numerically the process of a two-qubit gate operation that is applied to a selected pair of nearest-neighbor, trapped atoms and we estimate the upper bound of the gate operation time and corresponding gate fidelity. The proposed scheme is scalable and, though challenging, is feasible with current experimental capabilities.

id: 1310.6140
title: Dynamics of the Dicke model close to the classical limit
authors: L. Bakemeier, A. Alvermann, H. Fehske
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6140
abstract: We study the dynamical properties of the Dicke model for increasing spin length, as the system approaches the limit of a classical spin. First, we describe the emergence of collective excitations above the groundstate that converge to the coupled spin-oscillator oscillations found in the classical limit. The corresponding Green functions reveal quantum dynamical signatures close to the superradiant quantum phase transition. Second, we identify signatures of classical quasi-periodic orbits in the quantum time evolution using numerical time-propagation of the wave function. The resulting phase space plots are compared to the classical trajectories. We complete our study with the analysis of individual eigenstates close to the quasi-periodic orbits.

id: 1310.6184
title: Long range universal quantum computation in large-size coupled cavity array independent of cavity number
authors: Xiao-Qiang Shao, Tai-Yu Zheng, Jia-Bin You, C. H. Oh, Shou Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6184
abstract: We present a new approach for implementing a $\sqrt{\rm swap}$ gate between two spatially far apart sites connected by a large-size coupled cavity array as quantum bus. The duration is only related to the parity of cavity number but independent of a specific number of cavity, thus it is possible to process quantum information in an arbitrary long distance in principle without time varied. Referring to the recent experimental progresses on coupled-cavity array, we also make an assessment of the scalability and take the cavity number $N$ = 5 as an example to illustrate the robustness of our proposal via quantum process tomography.

id: 1310.6194
title: Multiple re-encounter approach to radical pair reactions and the role of nonlinear master equations
authors: Jens Clausen, Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Markus Tiersch, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 054107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6194
abstract: We formulate a multiple-encounter model of the radical pair mechanism that is based on a random coupling of the radical pair to a minimal model environment. These occasional pulse-like couplings correspond to the radical encounters and give rise to both dephasing and recombination. While this is in agreement with the original model of Haberkorn and its extensions that assume additional dephasing, we show how a nonlinear master equation may be constructed to describe the conditional evolution of the radical pairs prior to the detection of their recombination. We propose a nonlinear master equation for the evolution of an ensemble of independently evolving radical pairs whose nonlinearity depends on the record of the fluorescence signal. We also reformulate Haberkorn's original argument on the physicality of reaction operators using the terminology of quantum optics/open quantum systems. Our model allows one to describe multiple encounters within the exponential model and connects this with the master equation approach. We include hitherto neglected effects of the encounters, such as a separate dephasing in the triplet subspace, and predict potential new effects, such as Grover reflections of radical spins, that may be observed if the strength and time of the encounters can be experimentally controlled.

id: 1310.6203
title: If vacuum energy can be negative, why is mass always positive?: Uses of the subdominant trace energy condition
authors: Jacob D. Bekenstein
comments: LaTeX, 19 pages, added references and some clarifying remarks. Conclusions unchanged
journal: Physical Review D 88, 125005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6203
abstract: Diverse calculations have shown that a relativistic field confined to a cavity by well defined boundary conditions can have a negative Casimir or vacuum energy. Why then can one not make a finite system with negative mass by confining the field in a some way? We recall, and justify in detail, the not so familiar subdominant trace energy condition for ordinary (baryon-electron nonrelativistic) matter. With its help we show, in two ways, that the mass-energy of the cavity structure necessary to enforce the boundary conditions must exceed the magnitude of the negative vacuum energy, so that all systems of the type envisaged necessarily have positive mass-energy.

id: 1310.6206
title: State estimation: direct state measurement vs. tomography
authors: Lorenzo Maccone, Cosimo C. Rusconi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: L. Maccone, C.C. Rusconi, "State estimation: A comparison between direct state measurement and tomography", Phys. Rev. A 89, 022122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6206
abstract: We compare direct state measurement (DST or weak state tomography) to conventional state reconstruction (tomography) through accurate Monte-Carlo simulations. We show that DST is surprisingly robust to its inherent bias. We propose a method to estimate such bias (which introduces an unavoidable error in the reconstruction) from the experimental data. As expected we find that DST is much less precise than tomography. We consider both finite and infinite-dimensional states of the DST pointer, showing that they provide comparable reconstructions.

id: 1310.6225
title: Confidential Continuous Variable Direct Communication Protocol by Using Fock-Coherent Entangled States
authors: Soudeh Jahanshahi, Soroosh Alighanbari, Alireza Bahrampour, Mohammad Hossein Zandi
comments: This paper has been withdraw by the author due to an error in the last section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6225
abstract: We propose a scheme for the secure direct communication based on the entangled phase-coherent states, which shows an elevated level of confidentiality. The protocol gives a simultaneous security control for every bit of transferred information. The security-check-per-bit is provided by sending an additional mode to prove the legitimate parties' authenticity. Other benefit include increased transfer rate, since a separate control sequences is unnecessary. We study the security of the scheme for both ideal and realistic quantum channel. The protocol shows a robust security and prepares 50% probability to detect the presence of the eavesdropper.

id: 1310.6227
title: Controlled entanglement routing between two virtual pathways
authors: Qiang Zhou, Shuai Dong, Wei Zhang, Lixing You, Yuhao He, Weijun Zhang, Yidong Huang, Jiangde Peng
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6227
abstract: We demonstrate controlled entanglement routing between bunching and antibunching path-entangled two-photon states in an unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometer (UMZI), in which the routing process is controlled by the relative phase difference in the UMZI. Regarding bunching and antibunching path-entangled two-photon states as two virtual ports, we can consider the UMZI as a controlled entanglement router, which bases on the coherent manipulation of entanglement. Half of the entanglement within the input two-photon state is coherently routed between the two virtual ports, while the other is lost due to the time distinguishability introduced by the UMZI. Pure bunching or antibunching path entangled two-photon states are obtained based on this controlled entanglement router. The results show that we can employ the UMZI as general entanglement router for practical quantum information application.

id: 1310.6238
title: Quantum computation of discrete logarithms in semigroups
authors: Andrew M. Childs, G¨¢bor Ivanyos
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Mathematical Cryptology 8, no. 4, 405-416 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6238
abstract: We describe an efficient quantum algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in semigroups using Shor's algorithms for period finding and discrete log as subroutines. Thus proposed cryptosystems based on the presumed hardness of discrete logarithms in semigroups are insecure against quantum attacks. In contrast, we show that some generalizations of the discrete log problem are hard in semigroups despite being easy in groups. We relate a shifted version of the discrete log problem in semigroups to the dihedral hidden subgroup problem, and we show that the constructive membership problem with respect to $k \ge 2$ generators in a black-box abelian semigroup of order $N$ requires $\tilde \Theta(N^{\frac{1}{2}-\frac{1}{2k}})$ quantum queries.

id: 1310.6241
title: Collective Interactions in an Array of Atoms Coupled to a Nanophotonic Waveguide
authors: Hashem Zoubi
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043831 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6241
abstract: A lattice of trapped atoms strongly coupled to a one-dimensional nanophotonic waveguide is investigated in exploiting the concept of polariton as the system natural eigenstate. We apply a bosonization procedure, which was presented separately by P. W. Anderson and V. M. Agranovich, to transform excitation spin-half operators into interacting bosons, and which shown here to confirm the hard-core boson model. We derive polariton-polariton kinematic interactions and study them by solving the scattering problem. In using the excitation-photon detuning as a control parameter, we examine the regime in which polaritons behave as weakly interacting photons, and propose the system for realizing superfluidity of photons. We implement the kinematic interaction as a mechanism for nonlinear optical processes that provide an observation tool for the system properties, e.g. the interaction strength produces a blue shift in pump-probe experiments.

id: 1310.6243
title: Effect of the generalized uncertainty principle on Galilean and Lorentz transformations
authors: V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 16 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1301.1891
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6243
abstract: Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) was obtained in string theory and quantum gravity and suggested the existence of a fundamental minimal length which, as was established, can be obtained within the deformed Heisenberg algebra. We use the deformed commutation relations or in classical case (studied in this paper) the deformed Poisson brackets, which are invariant with respect to the translation in configurational space. We have found transformations relating coordinates and times of moving and rest frames of reference in the space with GUP in the first order over parameter of deformation. For the non-relativistic case we find the deformed Galilean transformation which is similar to the Lorentz one written for Euclidean space with signature $(+,+,+,+)$. The role of the speed of light here plays some velocity $u$ related to the parameter of deformation, which as we estimate is many order of magnitude larger than the speed of light $u\simeq 1.2 \times 10^{22} c$. The coordinates of the rest and moving frames of reference for relativistic particle in the space with GUP satisfy the Lorentz transformation with some effective speed of light. We estimate that the relative deviation of this effective speed of light $\tilde c$ from $c$ is ${(\tilde c-c)/ c}\simeq 3.5\times 10^{-45}$. The influence of GUP on the motion of particle and the Lorentz transformation in the first order over parameter of deformation is hidden in $1/c^2$ relativistic effects.

id: 1310.6246
title: Scattering approach to two-colour light forces and self-ordering of polarizable particles
authors: Stefan Ostermann, Matthias Sonnleitner, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6246
abstract: Collective coherent scattering of laser light by an ensemble of polarizable point particles creates long range interactions, whose properties can be tailored by choice of injected laser powers, frequencies and polarizations. We use a transfer matrix approach to study the forces induced by non-interfering fields of orthogonal polarization or different frequencies in a 1D geometry and find long range self-ordering of particles without a prescribed order. Adjusting laser frequencies and powers allows to tune inter-particle distances and provides a wide range of possible dynamical couplings not accessible in usual standing light wave geometries with prescribed order. In this work we restrict the examples to two frequencies and polarisations but the framework also allows to treat multicolour light beams with random phases. These dynamical effects should be observable in existing experimental setups with effective 1D geometries such as atoms or nanoparticles coupled to the field of an optical nanofibre or transversely trapped in counterpropagating Gaussian beams.

id: 1310.6251
title: Steady state entanglement, cooling, and tristability in a nonlinear optomechanical cavity
authors: S.Shahidani, M.H. Naderi, M.Soltanolkotabi, Sh.Barzanjeh
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1303.1143
journal: Journal of the Optical Society of America B 04/2014; 31(5):1087-1095
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6251
abstract: The interaction of a single-mode field with both a weak Kerr medium and a parametric nonlinearity in an intrinsically nonlinear optomechanical system is studied. The nonlinearities due to the optomechanical coupling and Kerr-down conversion lead to the bistability and tristability in the mean intracavity photon number. Also, our work demonstrates that the lower bound of the resolved sideband regime and the minimum attainable phonon number can be less than that of a bare cavity by controlling the parametric nonlinearity and the phase of the driving field. Moreover, we find that in the system under consideration the degree of entanglement between the mechanical and optical modes is dependent on the two stability parameters of the system. For both cooling and entanglement, while parametric nonlinearity increases the optomechanical coupling, the weak Kerr nonlinearity is very useful for extending the domain of the stability region to the desired range in which the minimum effective temperature and maximal entanglement are attainable. Also, as shown in this paper, the present scheme allows to have significant entanglement in the tristable regime for the lower and middle branches which makes the current scheme distinct from the bare optomechanical system.

id: 1310.6300
title: Bell-type inequality and quantum nonlocality in four-qubit systems
authors: Dong Ding, Fengli Yan, Ting Gao
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6300
abstract: We present a Bell-type inequality for four-qubit systems. Using the inequality we investigate quantum nonlocality of a generic family of states $\left|G_{abcd}\right >$ [Phys. Rev. A 65, 052112 (2002)] and several canonical four-qubit entangled states. It has been demonstrated that the inequality is maximally violated by so called "four-qubit maximal entangled state $\left|G_{m}\right >$" and it is also violated by the four-qubit W state and a special family of states $\left|G_{ab00}\right >$. Moreover, a useful entanglement-nonlocality relationship for the family of states $\left|G_{ab00}\right >$ is obtained.

id: 1310.6333
title: Threshold Quantum Cryptography
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1206.6778
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6333
abstract: Most current research on quantum cryptography requires transmission and reception of single photons that creates severe implementation challenges and limits range. This paper argues for the development of threshold quantum cryptography protocols in which the system is secure so long as the number of photons being exchanged between Alice and Bob is below a specified threshold. We speak of a (p-k-n) threshold system where if the number of photons exchanged is less than p, the system is completely secure, when it is between p and k, the system is partially secure, and when it exceeds k, the system is insecure. The BB84 protocol is (1-1-1) whereas the three-stage protocol appears to be (p-4p-n), where p is the least number of photons necessary to determine the polarization state of identically prepared photons. New quantum cryptography systems should be sought that provide greater flexibility in the choice of p and k.

id: 1310.6347
title: Evidence for gravitons from decoherence by bremsstrahlung
authors: C. Jess Riedel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6347
abstract: It is thought that gravitons are impossible to detect, even with the technological ability to construct experiments larger than Jupiter. However, in principle it is possible to detect the emission of single gravitons through the decoherence of relativistic Planck-mass superpositions by gravitational bremsstrahlung. Although enormous experimental challenges ensure that such an experiment will not be achievable in the foreseeable future, this possibility suggests that gravitons are not forever outside our empirical grasp. It is also evidence that decoherence as a detection method has untapped potential.

id: 1310.6446
title: Simplified Factoring Algorithms for Validating Small-Scale Quantum Information Processing Technologies
authors: Omar Gamel, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6446
abstract: Tomography has reached its practical limits in characterization of new quantum devices, and there is a need for a new means of characterizing and validating new technological advances in this field. We propose a different verification scheme based on compiled versions of Shor's factoring algorithm that may be extended to large circuits in the future. The general version Shor's algorithm has been experimentally elusive due to bottlenecks associated with the modular exponentiation operation. Experiments to date have only been able to execute compiled versions of the latter operation. We provide some new compiled circuits for experimentalists to use in the near future. We also demonstrate that an additional layer of compilation can be added using classical operations, that will reduce the number of qubits and gates needed in a given compiled circuit.

id: 1310.6448
title: Tomography via Correlation of Noisy Measurement Records
authors: Colm A. Ryan, Blake R. Johnson, Jay M. Gambetta, Jerry M. Chow, Marcus P. da Silva, Oliver E. Dial, Thomas A. Ohki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022118 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6448
abstract: We present methods and results of shot-by-shot correlation of noisy measurements to extract entangled state and process tomography in a superconducting qubit architecture. We show that averaging continuous values, rather than counting discrete thresholded values, is a valid tomographic strategy and is in fact the better choice in the low signal-to-noise regime. We show that the effort to measure $N$-body correlations from individual measurements scales exponentially with $N$, but with sufficient signal-to-noise the approach remains viable for few-body correlations. We provide a new protocol to optimally account for the transient behavior of pulsed measurements. Despite single-shot measurement fidelity that is less than perfect, we demonstrate appropriate processing to extract and verify entangled states and processes.

id: 1310.6470
title: Minkowski structure for purity and entanglement of Gaussian bipartite states
authors: Marcos C. de Oliveira, Fernando Nicacio, Salomon S. Mizrahi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6470
abstract: The relation between the symplectic and Lorentz groups is explored to investigate entanglement features in a two-mode bipartite Gaussian state. We verify that the correlation matrix of arbitrary Gaussian states can be associated to a hyperbolic space with a Minkowski metric, which is divided in two regions - separablelike and entangledlike, in equivalence to timelike and spacelike in special relativity. This correspondence naturally allows the definition of two insightful invariant squared distances measures - one related to the purity and another related to amount of entanglement. The second distance allows us to define a measure for entanglement in terms of the invariant interval between the given state and its closest separable state, given in a natural manner without the requirement of a minimization procedure.

id: 1310.6490
title: Local convertibility of the ground state of the perturbed Toric code
authors: Siddhartha Santra, Alioscia Hamma, Lukasz Cincio, Yigit Subasi, Paolo Zanardi, Luigi Amico
comments: 19 Pages,11 Figures. Updated to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 245128 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6490
abstract: We present analytical and numerical studies of the behaviour of the $\alpha$-Renyi entropies in the Toric code in presence of several types of perturbations aimed at studying the simulability of these perturbations to the parent Hamiltonian using local operations and classical communications (LOCC) - a property called local-convertibility. In particular, the derivatives, with respect to the perturbation parameter, present different signs for different values of $\alpha$ within the topological phase. From the information-theoretic point of view, this means that such ground states cannot be continuously deformed within the topological phase by means of catalyst assisted local operations and classical communications (LOCC). Such LOCC differential convertibility is on the other hand always possible in the trivial disordered phase. The non-LOCC convertibility is remarkable because it can be computed on a system whose size is independent of correlation length. This method can therefore constitute an experimentally feasible witness of topological order.

id: 1310.6537
title: Stabilizing entanglement in the presence of local decay processes
authors: Simeon Sauer, Clemens Gneiting, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 12 pages. Corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022327 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6537
abstract: We investigate to what extent a suitably chosen system Hamiltonian can counteract local dissipative processes and preserve entanglement in the stationary state. The results determine prospects and limitations of dissipative state preparation schemes based on natural dissipative processes -- in contrast to engineered, typically non-local dissipative schemes. As an exemplary case, we determine the stationary state of two spontaneously decaying two-level systems with optimal entanglement properties. The corresponding system Hamiltonian is derived, and its possible experimental implementation is discussed in detail. Finally, we discuss generalizations for many qubits.

id: 1310.6553
title: A single photon transistor based on superconducting systems
authors: Marco T. Manzoni, Florentin Reiter, Jacob Taylor, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 180502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6553
abstract: We present a realistic scheme for how to construct a single-photon transistor where the presence or absence of a single microwave photon controls the propagation of a subsequent strong signal signal field. The proposal is designed to work with existing superconducting artificial atoms coupled to cavities. We study analytically and numerically the efficiency and the gain of our proposal and show that current transmon qubits allow for error probabilities ~1% and gains of the order of hundreds.

id: 1310.6558
title: Simulating Zeno physics by quantum quench with superconducting circuits
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, L. C. Kwek, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 060101(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6558
abstract: Studying out-of-equilibrium physics in quantum systems under quantum quench is of vast experimental and theoretical interests. Using periodic quantum quenches, we present an experimentally accessible scheme to simulate the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in an open quantum system of a single superconducting qubit interacting with an array of transmission line resonators. The scheme is based on the following two observations: Firstly, compared with conventional systems, the short-time non-exponential decay in our superconducting circuit system is readily observed; and secondly, a quench-off process mimics an ideal projective measurement when its time duration is sufficiently long. Our results show the active role of quantum quench in quantum simulation and control.

id: 1310.6603
title: Noise and disturbance in quantum measurements: an information-theoretic approach
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Michael J. W. Hall, Masanao Ozawa, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v3: to appear on PRL (some issues fixed, supplemental material expanded). v2: replaced with submitted version; 5 two-column pages + 6 one-column pages + 3 figures; one issue corrected and few references added. v1: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 112, 050401 (February 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6603
abstract: We introduce information-theoretic definitions for noise and disturbance in quantum measurements and prove a state-independent noise-disturbance tradeoff relation that these quantities have to satisfy in any conceivable setup. Contrary to previous approaches, the information-theoretic quantities we define are invariant under relabelling of outcomes, and allow for the possibility of using quantum or classical operations to `correct' for the disturbance. We also show how our bound implies strong tradeoff relations for mean square deviations.

id: 1310.6621
title: Reduced dimensionality and spatial entanglement in highly anisotropic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alexandre B. Tacla, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes in text to be in agreement with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013605 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6621
abstract: We investigate the reduced dimensionality of highly anisotropic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) in connection to the entanglement between its spatial degrees of freedom. We argue that the reduced-dimensionality of the BEC is physically meaningful in a regime where spatial correlations are negligible. We handle the problem analytically within the mean-field approximation for general quasi-one-dimensional and -two-dimensional geometries, and obtain the optimal reduced-dimension, pure-state description of the condensate mean field. We give explicit solutions to the case of harmonic potentials, which we compare against exact numerical integration of the three-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation.

id: 1310.6629
title: Entropy, subentropy and the elementary symmetric functions
authors: Richard Jozsa, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6629
abstract: We use complex contour integral techniques to study the entropy H and subentropy Q as functions of the elementary symmetric polynomials, revealing a series of striking properties. In particular for these variables, derivatives of -Q are equal to derivatives of H of one higher order and the first derivatives of H and Q are seen to be completely monotone functions. It then follows that exp (-H) and exp(-Q) are Laplace transforms of infinitely divisible probability distributions.

id: 1310.6638
title: Community Detection in Quantum Complex Networks
authors: Mauro Faccin, Piotr Migda?, Tomi H. Johnson, Ville Bergholm, Jacob D. Biamonte
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6638
abstract: Determining community structure is a central topic in the study of complex networks, be it technological, social, biological or chemical, in static or interacting systems. In this paper, we extend the concept of community detection from classical to quantum systems---a crucial missing component of a theory of complex networks based on quantum mechanics. We demonstrate that certain quantum mechanical effects cannot be captured using current classical complex network tools and provide new methods that overcome these problems. Our approaches are based on defining closeness measures between nodes, and then maximizing modularity with hierarchical clustering. Our closeness functions are based on quantum transport probability and state fidelity, two important quantities in quantum information theory. To illustrate the effectiveness of our approach in detecting community structure in quantum systems, we provide several examples, including a naturally occurring light-harvesting complex, LHCII. The prediction of our simplest algorithm, semiclassical in nature, mostly agrees with a proposed partitioning for the LHCII found in quantum chemistry literature, whereas our fully quantum treatment of the problem uncovers a new, consistent, and appropriately quantum community structure.

id: 1310.6662
title: A proposal for measuring photon temporal coherence in continuum radiation
authors: Richard Fong
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Optics (physics.optics); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6662
abstract: The proposal is for a technique complementary to spectral line analysis. It would be especially useful in astronomy, where observational tools are few. As continuum radiation can be viewed as a mixture of pure states, it should be possible to measure the temporal coherence of the photons as a function of energy. Young's Double-Slit Experiment is used to elucidate the basic physics. A small change from the standard setup is proposed, which is simply to use a screen of small energy measuring photon detectors. The quantum theoretic exposition is also similarly standard. By restricting the photon detections to just those of a particular energy, the detection screen is then effectively one of two-level atoms. Conservation of energy then implies that the interference pattern and, thus, the measured temporal coherence that is obtained in this particular way are the same as for a normal setup with a broadband detection screen, but with just this energy subset of states as the incident radiation. This would seem to constitute a counter-example to the conventional wisdom that, with continuum radiation incident, only the temporal coherence of the filter's passband would be measured. We explain how this conundrum is resolved, introducing the notion of a detections filter as opposed to a normal light filter. Although we briefly discuss its potential for astronomy, it will, of course, have much wider application.

id: 1310.6664
title: Loss tolerant device-independent quantum key distribution: a proof of principle
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Alberto Dall'Arche, Marco Tomasin, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figure + appendix
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 063064 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6664
abstract: We here present the rate analysis and a proof of principle realization of a device-independent quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol requiring the lowest detection efficiency necessary to achieve a secure key compared to device-independent protocols known so far. The protocol is based on non-maximally entangled state and its experimental realization has been performed by two-photon bipartite entangled states. The improvement with respect to protocols involving maximally entangled states has been estimated.

id: 1310.6671
title: Probing eigenfunction nonorthogonality by parametric shifts of resonance widths
authors: D. V. Savin, J.-B. De Vaulx
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (references updated and typos fixed, published version)
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 124, 1074 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6671
abstract: Recently, it has been shown that the change of resonance widths in an open system under a perturbation of its interior is a sensitive indicator of the nonorthogonality of resonance states. We apply this measure to quantify parametric motion of the resonances. In particular, a strong redistribution of the widths is linked with the maximal degree of nonorthogonality. Then for weakly open chaotic systems we discuss the effect of spectral rigidity on the statistical properties of the parametric width shifts, and derive the distribution of the latter in a picket-fence model with equidistant spectrum.

id: 1310.6676
title: Comment on "Adiabatic Quantum Algorithm for Search Engine Ranking"
authors: Jonathan E. Moussa
comments: 1 page. Comment on [arXiv:1109.6546]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6676
abstract: In their Letter, Garnerone et al. claim that an adiabatic quantum algorithm can extract information about a PageRank vector with either a polynomial or exponential reduction in time resources over the classical algorithm with comparable space resources. Here we argue that the quantum algorithm offers no obvious advantage over the classical algorithm and fails to preserve the fundamental stability property of the classical PageRank algorithm.

id: 1310.6718
title: Generation of Universal Linear Optics by Any Beamsplitter
authors: Adam Bouland, Scott Aaronson
comments: 14 pages; edited Lemma 3.3 and updated references. Results are unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6718
abstract: In 1994, Reck et al. showed how to realize any unitary transformation on a single photon using a product of beamsplitters and phaseshifters. Here we show that any single beamsplitter that nontrivially mixes two modes, also densely generates the set of unitary transformations (or orthogonal transformations, in the real case) on the single-photon subspace with m>=3 modes. (We prove the same result for any two-mode real optical gate, and for any two-mode optical gate combined with a generic phaseshifter.) Experimentally, this means that one does not need tunable beamsplitters or phaseshifters for universality: any nontrivial beamsplitter is universal for linear optics. Theoretically, it means that one cannot produce "intermediate" models of linear optical computation (analogous to the Clifford group for qubits) by restricting the allowed beamsplitters and phaseshifters: there is a dichotomy; one either gets a trivial set or else a universal set. No similar classification theorem for gates acting on qubits is currently known. We leave open the problem of classifying optical gates that act on three or more modes.

id: 1310.6731
title: Zermelo Navigation and a Speed Limit to Quantum Information Processing
authors: Benjamin Russell, Susan Stepney
comments: 7 pages, accepted by Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6731
abstract: We use a specific geometric method to determine speed limits to the implementation of quantum gates in controlled quantum systems that have a specific class of constrained control functions. We achieve this by applying a recent theorem of Shen, which provides a connection between time optimal navigation on Riemannian manifolds and the geodesics of a certain Finsler metric of Randers type. We use the lengths of these geodesics to derive the optimal implementation times (under the assumption of constant control fields) for an arbitrary quantum operation (on a finite dimensional Hilbert space), and explicitly calculate the result for the case of a controlled single spin system in a magnetic field, and a swap gate in a Heisenberg spin chain.

id: 1310.6749
title: Simulating Quantum Circuits with Sparse Output Distributions
authors: Martin Schwarz, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6749
abstract: We show that several quantum circuit families can be simulated efficiently classically if it is promised that their output distribution is approximately sparse i.e. the distribution is close to one where only a polynomially small, a priori unknown subset of the measurement probabilities are nonzero. Classical simulations are thereby obtained for quantum circuits which---without the additional sparsity promise---are considered hard to simulate. Our results apply in particular to a family of Fourier sampling circuits (which have structural similarities to Shor's factoring algorithm) but also to several other circuit families, such as IQP circuits. Our results provide examples of quantum circuits that cannot achieve exponential speed-ups due to the presence of too much destructive interference i.e. too many cancelations of amplitudes. The crux of our classical simulation is an efficient algorithm for approximating the significant Fourier coefficients of a class of states called computationally tractable states. The latter result may have applications beyond the scope of this work. In the proof we employ and extend sparse approximation techniques, in particular the Kushilevitz-Mansour algorithm, in combination with probabilistic simulation methods for quantum circuits.

id: 1310.6755
title: Infinite Randomness Expansion and Amplification with a Constant Number of Devices
authors: Matthew Coudron, Henry Yuen
comments: 36 pages; updated references, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6755
abstract: We present a device-independent randomness expansion protocol, involving only a constant number of non-signaling quantum devices, that achieves \emph{infinite expansion}: starting with $m$ bits of uniform private randomness, the protocol can produce an unbounded amount of certified randomness that is $\exp(-\Omega(m^{1/3}))$-close to uniform and secure against a quantum adversary. The only parameters which depend on the size of the input are the soundness of the protocol and the security of the output (both are inverse exponential in $m$). This settles a long-standing open problem in the area of randomness expansion and device-independence. The analysis of our protocols involves overcoming fundamental challenges in the study of \emph{adaptive} device-independent protocols. Our primary technical contribution is the design and analysis of device-independent protocols which are \emph{Input Secure}; that is, their output is guaranteed to be secure against a quantum eavesdropper, \emph{even if the input randomness was generated by that same eavesdropper}! The notion of Input Security may be of independent interest to other areas such as device-independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1310.6760
title: Doubly-Special Relativity from Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: A. Bibeau-Delisle, A. Bisio, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, A. Tosini
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6760
abstract: It is shown how a Doubly-Special Relativity model can emerge from a quantum cellular automaton description of the evolution of countably many interacting quantum systems. We consider a one-dimensional automaton that spawns the Dirac evolution in the relativistic limit of small wave-vectors and masses (in Planck units). The assumption of invariance of dispersion relations for boosted observers leads to a non-linear representation of the Lorentz group on the $(\omega,k)$ space, with an additional invariant given by the wave-vector $k=\pi /2$. The space-time reconstructed from the $(\omega,k)$ space is intrinsically quantum, and exhibits the phenomenon of relative locality.

id: 1310.6796
title: Experimental Verification of Quantum Discord in Continuous-Variable States
authors: S. Hosseini, S. Rahimi-Keshari, J. Y. Haw, S. M. Assad, H. M. Chrzanowski, J. Janousek, T. Symul, T. C. Ralph, P. K. Lam
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47(2014)025503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6796
abstract: We introduce a simple and efficient technique to verify quantum discord in unknown Gaussian states and a certain class of non-Gaussian states. We show that any separation in the peaks of the marginal distributions of one subsystem conditioned on two different outcomes of homodyne measurements performed on the other subsystem indicates correlation between the corresponding quadratures, and hence nonzero discord. We also apply this method to non-Gaussian states that are prepared by overlapping a statistical mixture of coherent and vacuum states on a beam splitter. We experimentally demonstrate this technique by verifying nonzero quantum discord in a bipartite Gaussian and certain class of non-Gaussian states.

id: 1310.6813
title: Generators and relations for n-qubit Clifford operators
authors: Peter Selinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6813
abstract: We define a normal form for Clifford circuits, and we prove that every Clifford operator has a unique normal form. Moreover, we present a rewrite system by which any Clifford circuit can be reduced to normal form. This yields a presentation of Clifford operators in terms of generators and relations.

id: 1310.6834
title: Obtaining imaginary weak values with a classical apparatus: applications for the time and frequency domains
authors: Yaron Kedem
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, close to published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 2096--2099
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6834
abstract: Weak measurements with imaginary weak values are reexamined in light of recent experimental results. The shift of the meter, due to the imaginary part of the weak value, is derived via the probability of postselection, which allows considering the meter as a distribution of a classical variable. The derivation results in a simple relation between the change in the distribution and its variance. By applying this relation to several experimental results, in which the meter involved the time and frequency domains, it is shown to be especially suitable for scenarios of that kind. The practical and conceptual implications of a measurement method, which is based on this relation, are discussed.

id: 1310.6843
title: Quenched decoherence in qubit dynamics due to strong amplitude-damping noise
authors: Shin-Tza Wu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 034301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6843
abstract: We study non-perturbatively the time evolution of a qubit subject to amplitude-damping noise. We show that at strong coupling the qubit decoherence can be quenched owing to large environment feedbacks, such that the qubit can evolve coherently even in the long-time limit. As an application, we show that for a quantum channel that consists of two independent qubits subject to uncorrelated local amplitude-damping noises, it can maintain at strong coupling finite entanglement and better than classical teleportation fidelity at long times.

id: 1310.6861
title: Geometric measure for two-qubit CS-states: an exactly solvable model
authors: Abolfathiyar Masoud, Faizi Esfandyar, Entekhabi Sina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6861
abstract: Newly, during an analytical calculation M. A. Yurischev [arXiv: 1302.5239 (2013)] prove that quantum discord (or entanglement) remains unchangeable for any centrosymmetric (CS) states that are converted to their corresponding mode X. In this paper, in addition to the above calculations, the conditions which geometric measure remains constant are presented. This work will be completed with discussion about two physical examples.

id: 1310.6922
title: Laboratory Transferability of Optimally Shaped Laser Pulses for Quantum Control
authors: Katharine Moore Tibbetts, Xi Xing, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6922
abstract: Optimal control experiments can readily identify effective shaped laser pulses, or "photonic reagents", that achieve a wide variety of objectives. For many practical applications, an important criterion is that a particular photonic reagent prescription still produce a good, if not optimal, target objective yield when transferred to a different system or laboratory, {even if the same shaped pulse profile cannot be reproduced exactly. As a specific example, we assess the potential for transferring optimal photonic reagents for the objective of optimizing a ratio of photoproduct ions from a family of halomethanes through three related experiments.} First, applying the same set of photonic reagents with systematically varying second- and third-order chirp on both laser systems generated similar shapes of the associated control landscape (i.e., relation between the objective yield and the variables describing the photonic reagents). Second, optimal photonic reagents obtained from the first laser system were found to still produce near optimal yields on the second laser system. Third, transferring a collection of photonic reagents optimized on the first laser system to the second laser system reproduced systematic trends in photoproduct yields upon interaction with the homologous chemical family. Despite inherent differences between the two systems, successful and robust transfer of photonic reagents is demonstrated in the above three circumstances. The ability to transfer photonic reagents from one laser system to another is analogous to well-established utilitarian operating procedures with traditional chemical reagents. The practical implications of the present results for experimental quantum control are discussed.

id: 1310.6947
title: Avoiding Loopholes with Hybrid Bell-Leggett-Garg Inequalities
authors: Justin Dressel, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6947
abstract: By combining the postulates of macrorealism with Bell locality, we derive a qualitatively different hybrid inequality that avoids two loopholes that commonly appear in Leggett-Garg and Bell inequalities. First, locally invasive measurements can be used, which avoids the "clumsiness" Leggett-Garg inequality loophole. Second, a single experimental ensemble with fixed analyzer settings is sampled, which avoids the "disjoint sampling" Bell inequality loophole. The derived hybrid inequality has the same form as the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality; however, its quantum violation intriguingly requires weak measurements. A realistic explanation of an observed violation requires either the failure of Bell locality, or a preparation-conspiracy of finely tuned and nonlocally correlated noise. Modern superconducting and optical systems are poised to implement this test.

id: 1310.6962
title: A quantitative theory of coherent delocalization
authors: Federico Levi, Florian Mintert
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 033007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6962
abstract: We define a quantitative measure of coherent delocalization; similarly to the concept of entanglement measures, we require that a measure of coherent delocalization may never increase under processes that do not create coherent superpositions. After a complete characterization of such processes, we prove that a set of recently introduced functions that characterize coherent delocalization never grow under such processes and thus are indeed valid measures.

id: 1310.7028
title: Multiplicativity of completely bounded $p$-norms implies a strong converse for entanglement-assisted capacity
authors: Manish K. Gupta, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 21 pages, final version accepted for publication in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, vol. 334, no. 2, pages 867-887 (March 2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7028
abstract: The fully quantum reverse Shannon theorem establishes the optimal rate of noiseless classical communication required for simulating the action of many instances of a noisy quantum channel on an arbitrary input state, while also allowing for an arbitrary amount of shared entanglement of an arbitrary form. Turning this theorem around establishes a strong converse for the entanglement-assisted classical capacity of any quantum channel. This paper proves the strong converse for entanglement-assisted capacity by a completely different approach and identifies a bound on the strong converse exponent for this task. Namely, we exploit the recent entanglement-assisted "meta-converse" theorem of Matthews and Wehner, several properties of the recently established sandwiched Renyi relative entropy (also referred to as the quantum Renyi divergence), and the multiplicativity of completely bounded $p$-norms due to Devetak et al. The proof here demonstrates the extent to which the Arimoto approach can be helpful in proving strong converse theorems, it provides an operational relevance for the multiplicativity result of Devetak et al., and it adds to the growing body of evidence that the sandwiched Renyi relative entropy is the correct quantum generalization of the classical concept for all $\alpha>1$.

id: 1310.7038
title: Evidence that All States Are Unitarily Equivalent to X States of the Same Entanglement
authors: Samuel R. Hedemann
comments: 21 pages 9 figures. v2: Term "local-unitary" replaced by "entanglement-preserving unitary" (EPU) since product-form not nec. to preserve X-state entanglement. v3: Formally defined EPU, added proof for rank-2 family and Appendix proving EPUs can be nonloc. for X states, and EPU-rotated X states have enough DOF for gen. mixed states. v4: Success on 10,000 consecutive states. Basic results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7038
abstract: Strong numerical evidence is presented suggesting that all two-qubit mixed states are equivalent to X states by a single entanglement-preserving unitary (EPU) transformation, so that the concurrence of such an X state equals that of the original general state. An X-state parameterization of a general two-qubit state is given, allowing all states to have their concurrence parametrically specified. A new kind of entanglement measure is proposed, relating a general state's entanglement to that of a pure state in the same system. New states called "H States" are presented, having fully parametric concurrence and purity, with the intention of using them to construct entanglement-preserving depolarization channels, which may aid development of the new entanglement measure. A theory of "true-generalized" X states (TGX states) is proposed for the general case of $N$-partite systems. While such states do not generally have the literal "X" shape, evidence is shown that they are the true generalizations of X states in larger systems, since they appear to always be EPU-equivalent to general states of all ranks, whereas literal X states generally are not. An example of this is given for $2\times 3$, including the proposition of the $2\times 3$ maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS). If the claim that TGX states are universal is valid, then any entanglement measure may be computable in a simpler form by using the EPU-equivalence between general states and TGX states.

id: 1310.7120
title: Bounds on entanglement assisted source-channel coding via the Lovasz theta number and its variants
authors: Toby Cubitt, Laura Mancinska, David Roberson, Simone Severini, Dan Stahlke, Andreas Winter
comments: Fixed proof of multiplicativity; more connections to prior work in conclusion; many changes in exposition
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 60(11):7330-7344 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7120
abstract: We study zero-error entanglement assisted source-channel coding (communication in the presence of side information). Adapting a technique of Beigi, we show that such coding requires existence of a set of vectors satisfying orthogonality conditions related to suitably defined graphs $G$ and $H$. Such vectors exist if and only if $\vartheta(\overline{G}) \le \vartheta(\overline{H})$ where $\vartheta$ represents the Lov\'asz number. We also obtain similar inequalities for the related Schrijver $\vartheta^-$ and Szegedy $\vartheta^+$ numbers. These inequalities reproduce several known bounds and also lead to new results. We provide a lower bound on the entanglement assisted cost rate. We show that the entanglement assisted independence number is bounded by the Schrijver number: $\alpha^*(G) \le \vartheta^-(G)$. Therefore, we are able to disprove the conjecture that the one-shot entanglement-assisted zero-error capacity is equal to the integer part of the Lov\'asz number. Beigi introduced a quantity $\beta$ as an upper bound on $\alpha^*$ and posed the question of whether $\beta(G) = \lfloor \vartheta(G) \rfloor$. We answer this in the affirmative and show that a related quantity is equal to $\lceil \vartheta(G) \rceil$. We show that a quantity $\chi_{\textrm{vect}}(G)$ recently introduced in the context of Tsirelson's conjecture is equal to $\lceil \vartheta^+(\overline{G}) \rceil$. In an appendix we investigate multiplicativity properties of Schrijver's and Szegedy's numbers, as well as projective rank.

id: 1310.7145
title: Arbitrarily accurate passband composite pulses for dynamical suppression of amplitude noise
authors: Elica Kyoseva, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063410 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7145
abstract: We introduce flexible high-fidelity passband (PB) composite pulse sequences constructed by concatenation of recently derived arbitrarily large and arbitrarily accurate broadband $\mathcal{B}$ and narrowband $\mathcal{N}$ composite sequences. Our PB sequences allow to produce flexible and tunable nearly rectangular two-state inversion profiles as a function of the individual pulse area because the width and the rectangularity of these profiles can be adjusted at will. Moreover, these PB sequences suppress excitation around pulse area $0$ and $2\pi$, and suppress deviations from complete population inversion around pulse area $\pi$ to arbitrarily high orders. These features makes them a valuable tool for high-fidelity qubit operations in the presence of relatively strong amplitude noise. We construct two types of PB pulses: $\mathcal{N}(\mathcal{B})$ in which a broadband pulse is nested into a narrowband pulse, and $\mathcal{B}(\mathcal{N})$ in which a narrowband pulse is nested into a broadband pulse; the latter sequences deliver narrower profiles. We derive exact analytic formulas for the composite phases of the PB pulses and exact analytic formulas for the inversion profiles. These formulas allow an easy estimation of the experimental resources needed for any desired qubit inversion profile.

id: 1310.7178
title: ¦Á-z-relative Renyi entropies
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures; Notation simplified, some minor typos corrected and 2 new results added (see eq.(28) and Section 5)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7178
abstract: We consider a two-parameter family of relative R\'enyi entropies that unifies the study of {\em{all}} known relative entropies (or divergences). These include the quantum relative entropy, the recently defined quantum R\'enyi divergences, as well as the original quantum relative Renyi entropies. Consequently, the data-processing inequality for all these quantities follows directly from the data-processing inequality for these new relative entropies, the proof of which is one of the main technical contributions of this paper. These new relative Renyi entropies stem from the quantum entropic functionals defined by Jaksic et al. in the context of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics, and they satisfy the quantum generalizations of Renyi's axioms for a divergence. We investigate a variety of limiting cases for the two parameters, obtaining explicit formulas for each one of them.

id: 1310.7229
title: Loss of non-Gaussianity for damped photon-subtracted thermal states
authors: Iulia Ghiu, Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta as a contribution to CEWQO Stockholm, 2013
journal: Physica Scripta T160, 014014 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7229
abstract: We investigate non-Gaussianity properties for a set of classical one-mode states obtained by subtracting photons from a thermal state. Three distance-type degrees of non-Gaussianity used for these states are shown to have a monotonic behaviour with respect to their mean photon number. Decaying of their non-Gaussianity under damping is found to be consistently described by the distance-type measures considered here. We also compare the dissipative evolution of non-Gaussianity when starting from $M$-photon-subtracted and $M$-photon-added thermal states

id: 1310.7239
title: Quantum simulation of decoherence in optical waveguide lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (to appear in Optics Letters)
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 4884 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7239
abstract: We suggest that propagation of nonclassical light in lattices of optical waveguides can provide a laboratory tool to simulate quantum decoherence phenomena with high non-Markovian features. As examples, we study decoherence of optical Schr\"{o}dinger cats in a lattice that mimics a dissipative quantum harmonic oscillator coupled to a quantum bath, showing fractional decoherence in the strong coupling regime, and Bloch oscillations of optical Schr\"{o}dinger cats, where damped revivals of the coherence can be observed.

id: 1310.7245
title: Exact transition probabilities in the three-state Landau-Zener-Coulomb model
authors: Jeffmin Lin, N A Sinitsyn
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2014 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 015301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7245
abstract: We obtain the exact expression for the matrix of nonadiabatic transition probabilities in the model of three interacting states with a time-dependent Hamiltonian. Unlike other known solvable Landau-Zener-like problems, our solution is generally expressed in terms of hypergeometric functions that have relatively complex behavior, e.g. the obtained transition probabilities may show multiple oscillations as functions of parameters of the model Hamiltonian.

id: 1310.7286
title: Single-photon router: Coherent Control of multi-channel scattering for single-photons with quantum interferences
authors: Jing Lu, Lan Zhou, Le-man Kuang, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013805 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7286
abstract: We propose a single-photon router using a single atom with an inversion center coupled to quantum multichannels made of coupled-resonator waveguides. We show that the spontaneous emission of the atom can direct single photons from one quantum channel into another. The on-demand classical field perfectly switches-off the single-photon routing due to the quantum interference in the atomic amplitudes of optical transitions. Total reflections in the incident channel are due to the photonic bound state in the continuum. Two virtual channels, named as scatter-free and controllable channels, are found, which are coherent superpositions of quantum channels. Any incident photon in the scatter-free channel is totally transmitted. The propagating states of the controllable channel are orthogonal to those of the scatter-free channel. Single photons in the controllable channel can be perfectly reflected or transmitted by the atom.

id: 1310.7290
title: Logic Synthesis for Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computers
authors: N. Cody Jones
comments: PhD Thesis. 201 pages, 10 chapters, 62 figures. Original version on Stanford archives at [this http URL]. Incorporates material from arXiv:1010.5022, arXiv:1204.0567, arXiv:1205.2402, arXiv:1210.3388, arXiv:1212.5069, and arXiv:1303.3066
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7290
abstract: Efficient constructions for quantum logic are essential since quantum computation is experimentally challenging. This thesis develops quantum logic synthesis as a paradigm for reducing the resource overhead in fault-tolerant quantum computing. The model for error correction considered here is the surface code. After developing the theory behind general logic synthesis, the resource costs of magic-state distillation for the $T = \exp(i \pi (I-Z)/8)$ gate are quantitatively analyzed. The resource costs for a relatively new protocol distilling multi-qubit Fourier states are calculated for the first time. Four different constructions of the fault-tolerant Toffoli gate, including two which incorporate error detection, are analyzed and compared. The techniques of logic synthesis reduce the cost of fault-tolerant quantum computation by one to two orders of magnitude, depending on which benchmark is used. Using resource analysis for $T$ gates and Toffoli gates, several proposals for constructing arbitrary quantum gates are compared, including "Clifford+$T$" sequences, $V$-basis sequences, phase kickback, and programmable ancilla rotations. The application of arbitrary gates to quantum algorithms for simulating chemistry is discussed as well. Finally, the thesis examines the techniques which lead to efficient constructions of quantum logic, and these observations point to even broader applications of logic synthesis.

id: 1310.7296
title: Towards an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox between two macroscopic atomic ensembles at room temperature
authors: Q Y He, M D Reid
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 063027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7296
abstract: Experiments have reported the entanglement of two spatially separated macroscopic atomic ensembles at room temperature (Krauter et al 2011 Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 080503; Julsgaard et al 2001 Nature 413 400). We show how an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox is realizable with this experiment. Our proposed test involves violation of an inferred Heisenberg uncertainty principle, which is a sufficient condition for an EPR paradox. This is a stronger test of nonlocality than entanglement. Our proposal would enable the first definitive confirmation of quantum EPR paradox correlations between two macroscopic objects at room temperature. This is a necessary intermediate step towards a nonlocal experiment with causal measurement separations. As well as having fundamental significance, the realization of an atomic EPR paradox could provide a resource for novel applications in quantum technology.

id: 1310.7301
title: Quantum Search with General Nonlinearities
authors: David A. Meyer, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7301
abstract: Evolution by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, which describes Bose-Einstein condensates under certain conditions, solves the unstructured search problem more efficiently than does the Schr\"odinger equation, because it includes a cubic nonlinearity, proportional to $|\psi|^2\psi$. This is not the only nonlinearity of the form $f(|\psi|^2)\psi$ that arises in effective equations for the evolution of real quantum physical systems, however: The cubic-quintic nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation describes light propagation in nonlinear Kerr media with defocusing corrections, and the logarithmic nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation describes Bose liquids under certain conditions. Analysis of computation with such systems yields some surprising results; for example, when time-measurement precision is included in the resource accounting, searching a "database" when there is a single correct answer may be easier than searching when there are multiple correct answers. In each of these cases the nonlinear equation is an effective approximation to a multi-particle Schr\"odinger equation, for search by which Grover's algorithm is optimal. Thus our results lead to quantum information-theoretic bounds on the physical resources required for these effective nonlinear theories to hold, asymptotically.

id: 1310.7323
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and Autler-Townes splitting in superconducting flux quantum circuits
authors: Hui-Chen Sun, Yu-xi Liu, J. Q. You, E. Il'ichev, Franco Nori
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063822 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7323
abstract: We study the microwave absorption of a driven three-level quantum system, which is realized by a superconducting flux quantum circuit (SFQC), with a magnetic driving field applied to the two upper levels. The interaction between the three-level system and its environment is studied within the Born-Markov approximation, and we take into account the effects of the driving field on the damping rates of the three-level system. We study the linear response of the driven three-level SFQC to a weak probe field. The linear magnetic susceptibility of the SFQC can be changed by both the driving field and the bias magnetic flux. When the bias magnetic flux is at the optimal point, the transition from the ground state to the second excited state is forbidden and the three-level SFQC has a ladder-type transition. Thus, the SFQC responds to the probe field like natural atoms with ladder-type transitions. However, when the bias magnetic flux deviates from the optimal point, the three-level SFQC has a cyclic transition, thus it responds to the probe field like a combination of natural atoms with ladder-type transitions and natural atoms with $\Lambda$-type transitions. In particular, we provide detailed discussions on the conditions for realizing electromagnetically induced transparency and Autler-Townes splitting in three-level SFQCs.

id: 1310.7336
title: Robustness of multiparticle entanglement: specific entanglement classes and random states
authors: Mazhar Ali, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, v2: small changes
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 055503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7336
abstract: We investigate the robustness of genuine multiparticle entanglement under decoherence. We consider different kinds of entangled three- and four-qubit states as well as random pure states. For amplitude damping noise, we find that the W-type states are most robust, while other states are not more robust than generic states. For phase damping noise the GHZ state is the most robust state, and for depolarizing noise several states are significantly more robust than random states.

id: 1310.7338
title: Temperature dependent weak value of dwell time for a two state particle tunneling through a thermal magnetic barrier
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7338
abstract: Dwell time for a two state particle tunneling through a noisy thermal magnetic barrier has been calculated by studying the time evolution of the system. The effect of temperature has been included by averaging over the environmental magnetic modes. The time scale has been calculated in the framework of weak measurement. The dwell time initially increases with the rise of temperature and finally saturates. The increment of dwell time can be explained by the phenomena of quantum memory loss caused by efficient energy exchange with the environmental modes. The saturation region at higher temperature corresponds to the process of thermal hopping of the barrier.

id: 1310.7421
title: Repeatable two-mode phase measurement
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: In "Quantum Interferometry", ed. by F. De Martini, G. Denardo, Y. Shih, (VCH Publishers, Weinheim, Germany, 1996), p. 307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7421
abstract: A measurement scheme to perform a repeatable phase detection on a two-mode field is presented. The interaction with the probe state (the output state of a phase-insensitive high-gain amplifier) is described by a Hamiltonian which is physically realizable in the rotating wave approximation. Information on the system is obtained through unconventional heterodyne measurements performed on the probe field after the interaction with the system. The expressions for the probability distribution and the state reduction are given.

id: 1310.7422
title: Upconversion single photon detection near 2 um
authors: Guo-Liang Shentu, Xiu-Xiu Xia, Qi-Chao Sun, Jason S. Pelc, M. M. Fejer, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters 38, 4985 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7422
abstract: We have demonstrated upconversion detection at the single photon level in the 2 um spectral window using a pump wavelength near 1550nm, a periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide, and a volume Bragg grating (VBG) to reduce noise. We achieve a system photon detection efficiency of 10%, with a noise count rate of 24,500 counts per second, competitive with other 2 um single photon detection technologies. This detector has potential applications in environmental gas monitoring, life science, and classical and quantum communication.

id: 1310.7486
title: Quantum walk with a general coin: Exact solution and asymptotic properties
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures; revised and enlarged version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1306.1807
journal: Quantum Information Processing, March 2015, Volume 14, Issue 3, pp 839-866
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7486
abstract: In this paper we present closed-form expressions for the wave function that governs the evolution of the discrete-time quantum walk on a line when the coin operator is arbitrary. The formulas were derived assuming that the walker can either remain put in the place or proceed in a fixed direction but never move backward, although they can be easily modified to describe the case in which the particle can travel in both directions. We use these expressions to explore the properties of magnitudes associated to the process, as the probability mass function or the probability current, even though we also consider the asymptotic behavior of the exact solution. Within this approximation, we will estimate upper and lower bounds, consider the origins of an emerging approximate symmetry, and deduce the general form of the stationary probability density of the relative location of the walker.

id: 1310.7511
title: A Criterion for the Bipartite Separability of Bell Diagonal States
authors: Ming-Chung Tsai, Po-Chung Chen, Wei-Chi Su, Zheng-Yao Su
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7511
abstract: A decomposition form is introduced in this report to establish a criterion for the bi-partite separability of Bell diagonal states. A such criterion takes a quadratic form of the coefficients of a given Bell diagonal states and can be derived via a simple algorithmic calculation of its invariants. In addition, the criterion can be extended to a quantum system of higher dimension.

id: 1310.7512
title: A Decomposition Form of the Werner State
authors: Ming-Chung Tsai, Po-Chung Chen, Wei-Chi Su, Zheng-Yao Su
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7512
abstract: In this report, a scheme different from the PT and Wootters concurrence is developed to acquire a criterion to investigate the bipartite separability of the Werner state.

id: 1310.7514
title: Algebraic Quantum Error-Correction Codes
authors: Ming-Chung Tsai, Po-Chung Chen, Kuan-Peng Chen, Zheng-Yao Su
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7514
abstract: Based on the group structure of a unitary Lie algebra, a scheme is provided to systematically and exhaustively generate quantum error correction codes, including the additive and nonadditive codes. The syndromes in the process of error-correction distinguished by different orthogonal vector subspaces, the coset subspaces. Moreover, the generated codes can be classified into four types with respect to the spinors in the unitary Lie algebra and a chosen initial quantum state.

id: 1310.7525
title: Inequalities for the quantum Renyi divergences with applications to compound coding problems
authors: Milan Mosonyi
comments: 29 pages. v3: Title changed. Results extended to infinite compound channels and Stein's lemma with infinite composite null-hypothesis. Added section on universal state compression
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7525
abstract: We show two-sided bounds between the conventional quantum R\'enyi divergences and the new notion of R\'enyi divergences introduced recently in M\"uller-Lennert, Dupuis, Szehr, Fehr and Tomamichel, J. Math. Phys. 54, 122203, (2013), and Wilde, Winter, Yang, arXiv:1306.1586. The bounds imply that the two versions can be used interchangeably near alpha=1, and hence one can benefit from the best properties of both when proving coding theorems in the case of asymptotically vanishing error. We illustrate this by giving short and simple proofs of the quantum Stein's lemma with composite null-hypothesis, universal source compression, and the achievability part of the classical capacity of compound quantum channels. Apart from the above interchangeability, we benefit from a weak quasi-concavity property of the new Renyi divergences that we also establish here.

id: 1310.7561
title: Atomic Fock State Preparation Using Rydberg Blockade
authors: Matthew Ebert, Alexander Gill, Michael Gibbons, Xianli Zhang, Mark Saffman, Thad G. Walker
comments: Supplementary material available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7561
abstract: We use coherent excitation of 3-16 atom ensembles to demonstrate collective Rabi flopping mediated by Rydberg blockade. Using calibrated atom number measurements, we quantitatively confirm the expected $\sqrt{N}$ Rabi frequency enhancement to within 4%. The resulting atom number distributions are consistent with essentially perfect blockade. We then use collective Rabi $\pi$ pulses to produce ${\cal N}=1,2$ atom number Fock states with fidelities of 62% and 48% respectively. The ${\cal N}=2$ Fock state shows the collective Rabi frequency enhancement without corruption from atom number fluctuations.

id: 1310.7567
title: Derivation of a four-spinor Dirac-like equation for the helium atom and an approximate ground state solution
authors: Daniel L. Nascimento, Antonio L. A. Fonseca
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7567
abstract: We present a new analysis of the connection between the classical conservation theorems and the role played by the Dirac matrices in order to obtain a four spinor version of the Dirac equation for the two electrons bound problem. The separation of the set of equations in its angular and radial parts is done and an asymptotic solution for the radial system of equations is discussed for the ground state of the atom.

id: 1310.7596
title: Fault-Tolerant Measurement-Based Quantum Computing with Continuous-Variable Cluster States
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: (v3) consistent with published version, more accessible for general audience; (v2) condensed presentation, added references on GKP state generation and a comparison of currently achievable squeezing to the threshold; (v1) 13 pages, a few figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7596
abstract: A long-standing open question about Gaussian continuous-variable cluster states is whether they enable fault-tolerant measurement-based quantum computation. The answer is yes. Initial squeezing in the cluster above a threshold value of 20.5 dB ensures that errors from finite squeezing acting on encoded qubits are below the fault-tolerance threshold of known qubit-based error-correcting codes. By concatenating with one of these codes and using ancilla-based error correction, fault-tolerant measurement-based quantum computation of theoretically indefinite length is possible with finitely squeezed cluster states.

id: 1310.7598
title: Multipartite Nonlocality as a Resource and Quantum Correlations Having Indefinite Causal Order
authors: Florian Curchod, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 9 pages, 2 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424014 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7598
abstract: The characterization of quantum correlations in terms of information-theoretic resource has been a fruitful approach to understand the power of quantum correlations as a resource. While bipartite entanglement and Bell inequality violation in this setting have been extensively studied, relatively little is known about their multipartite counterpart. In this paper, we apply and adapt the recently proposed definitions of multipartite nonlocality [Phys. Rev. A 88, 014102] to the three- and four-partite scenario to gain new insight on the resource aspect of multipartite nonlocal quantum correlations. Specifically, we show that reproducing certain tripartite quantum correlations requires mixtures of classical resources --- be it the ability to change the groupings or the time orderings of measurements. Thus, when seen from the perspective of biseparable one-way classical signaling resources, certain tripartite quantum correlations do not admit a definite causal order. In the four- partite scenario, we obtain a superset description of the set of biseparable correlations which can be produced by allowing two groups of bipartite non-signaling resources. Quantum violation of the resulting Bell-like inequalities are investigated. As a byproduct, we obtain some new examples of device-independent witnesses for genuine four-partite entanglement, and also device-independent witnesses that allows one to infer the structure of the underlying multipartite entanglement.

id: 1310.7605
title: Fourier transform of fermionic systems and the spectral tensor network
authors: Andrew J. Ferris
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett. 9 pages, 13 figures. This version is reorganized to be more pedagogical and includes a new derivation of the FFT decomposition, as well as extra details on the contraction scheme in the Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 010401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7605
abstract: Leveraging the decomposability of the fast Fourier transform, I propose a new class of tensor network that is efficiently contractible and able to represent many-body systems with local entanglement that is greater than the area law. Translationally invariant systems of free fermions in arbitrary dimensions as well as 1D systems solved by the Jordan-Wigner transformation are shown to be exactly represented in this class. Further, it is proposed that these tensor networks be used as generic structures to variationally describe more complicated systems, such as interacting fermions. This class shares some similarities with Evenbly & Vidal's branching MERA, but with some important differences and greatly reduced computational demands.

id: 1310.7646
title: Generation of distributed entangled coherent states over a lossy environment with inefficient detectors
authors: A. P. Lund, T. C. Ralph, H. Jeong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7646
abstract: Entangled coherent states are useful for various applications in quantum information processing but they are are sensitive to loss. We propose a scheme to generate distributed entangled coherent states over a lossy environment in such a way that the fidelity is independent of the losses at detectors heralding the generation of the entanglement. We compare our scheme with a previous one for the same purpose [Ourjoumtsev {\em et al.}, Nat. Phys. {\bf 5} 189 (2009)] and find parameters for which our new scheme results in superior performance.

id: 1310.7668
title: Effect of imperfect Faraday mirrors on security of a Faraday-Michelson quantum cryptography system
authors: Wang Weilong, Gao Ming, Ma Zhi
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 455301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7668
abstract: The one-way Faraday-Michelson system is a very useful practical quantum cryptography system where Faraday mirrors(FMs) play an important role. In this paper we analyze the security of this system against imperfect FMs. We consider the security loophole caused by the imperfect FMs in Alice's and Bob's security zones. Then we implement a passive Faraday mirror attack in this system. By changing the values of the imperfection parameters of Alice's FMs, we calculate the quantum bit error rate between Alice and Bob induced by Eve and the probability that Eve obtains outcomes successfully. It is shown that the imperfection of one of Alice's two FMs makes the system sensitive to the attack. At last we give a modified key rate as a function of the Faraday mirror imperfections. The security analysis indicates that both Alice's and Bob's imperfect FMs can compromise the secure key.

id: 1310.7675
title: Measurement-induced nonlocality in the anisotropic Heisenberg chain
authors: Wen-Xue Chen, Yu-Xia Xie, Xiao-Qiang Xi
comments: Four pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7675
abstract: Quantum correlations are essential for quantum information processing. Measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) which is defined based on the projective measurement is a good measure of quantum correlation, and is favored for its potential applications. We investigate here behaviors of the geometric and entropic MIN in the two-qubit Heisenberg XY chain, and reveal effects of the anisotropic parameter $\gamma$ as well as the external magnetic field $B$ on strength of them. Our results show that both $\gamma$ and $B$ can serve as efficient controlling parameters for tuning the MIN in the XY chain.

id: 1310.7681
title: Analysis of strong-field enhanced ionization of molecules using Bohmian trajectories
authors: Ryohto Sawada, Takeshi Sato, Kenichi L. Ishikawa
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7681
abstract: We theoretically investigate the mechanism of enhanced ionization in two-electron molecules by analyzing Bohmian trajectories for a one-dimensional H2 in an intense laser field. We identify both types of ionizing trajectories corresponding to the ejection from the up-field and down-field cores. The trajectories of the two electrons are correlated with each other in the former while correlation is negligible in the latter. The contributions from the two ionization types, though depending on laser intensity and internuclear distance, are comparable to each other.

id: 1310.7706
title: Entanglement swapping and testing quantum steering into the past via collective decay
authors: Yueh-Nan Chen, Shin-Liang Chen, Neill Lambert, Che-Ming Li, Guang-Yin Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures; accepted in Phys. Rev. A (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7706
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize entanglement swapping via superradiance, entangling two distant cavities without a direct interaction. The successful Bell-state-measurement outcomes are performed naturally by the electromagnetic reservoir, and we show how, using a quantum trajectory method, the non-local properties of the state obtained after the swapping procedure can be verified by the steering inequality. Furthermore, we discuss how the unsuccessful measurement outcomes can be used in an experiment of delayed-choice entanglement swapping. An extension of testing the quantum steering inequality with the observers at three different times is also considered

id: 1310.7722
title: Nonlocal quantum memory effects in a correlated multimode field
authors: Steffen Wi?mann, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7722
abstract: We review the model of two qubits coupled locally to an environment which consists of nonlocally correlated field modes [Phys. Rev.Lett. 108, 210402 (2012)]. We derive the correct expressions for the reduced dynamics of the two-qubit system and demonstrate that strong nonlocal memory effects are indeed present for suitable initial EPR-type Gaussian environmental states.

id: 1310.7752
title: Various Scattering Properties of a New PT-symmetric non-Hermitian potential
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Raka Dona Ray Mandal, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 336, 540 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7752
abstract: We complexify a 1-d potential which exhibits bound, reflecting and free states to study various properties of a non-Hermitian system. This potential turns out a PT-symmetric non-Hermitian potential when one of the parameters becomes imaginary. For one PT-symmetric case we have entire real bound state spectrum. Explicit scattering states are constructed to show reciprocity at certain discrete values of energy even though the potential is not parity symmetric. Coexistence of deep energy minima of transmissivity with the multiple spectral singularities (MSS) is observed. We further show that this potential becomes invisible from left (or right) at certain discrete energies. The penetrating states in the other PT-symmetric configuration are always reciprocal even though it is PT-invariant and no spectral singularity (SS) is present in this case. Presence of MSS and reflectionlessness are also discussed for the free states in the later case.

id: 1310.7761
title: Natural Light Harvesting Systems: Unraveling the quantum puzzles
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 20 pages, 6 figs, review, 8th BChl included, J. Math. Chem (to appear)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7761
abstract: In natural light harvesting systems, the sequential quantum events of photon absorption by specialized biological antenna complexes, charge separation, exciton formation and energy transfer to localized reaction centers culminates in the conversion of solar to chemical energy. A notable feature in these processes is the exceptionally high efficiencies ($>$ 95\%) at which excitation is transferred from the illuminated protein complex site to the reaction centers. The high speeds of excitation propagation within a system of interwoven biomolecular network structures, is yet to be replicated in artificial light harvesting complexes. A clue to unraveling the quantum puzzles of nature may lie in the observations of long lived coherences lasting several picoseconds in the electronic spectra of photosynthetic complexes which occurs even in noisy environmental baths. The exact nature of the association between the high energy propagation rates and strength of quantum coherences remains largely unsolved. This review presents recent developments in quantum theories, and links information-theoretic aspects with photosynthetic light-harvesting processes in biomolecular systems. There is examination of various attempts to pinpoint the processes that underpin coherence features arising from the light harvesting activities of biomolecular systems, with particular emphasis on the effects that factors such non-Markovianity, zeno mechanisms, teleportation, quantum predictability and the role of multipartite states have on the quantum dynamics of biomolecular systems. A discussion of how quantum thermodynamical principles and agent-based modeling and simulation approaches can improve our understanding of natural photosynthetic systems is included.

id: 1310.7766
title: A Constructive Quantum Lov¨¢sz Local Lemma for Commuting Projectors
authors: Itai Arad, Or Sattath
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7766
abstract: The Quantum Satisfiability problem generalizes the Boolean satisfiability problem to the quantum setting by replacing classical clauses with local projectors. The Quantum Lov\'asz Local Lemma gives a sufficient condition for a Quantum Satisfiability problem to be satisfiable [AKS12], by generalizing the classical Lov\'asz Local Lemma. The next natural question that arises is: can a satisfying quantum state be efficiently found, when these conditions hold? In this work we present such an algorithm, with the additional requirement that all the projectors commute. The proof follows the information theoretic proof given by Moser's breakthrough result in the classical setting [Mos09]. Similar results were independently published in [CS11,CSV13].

id: 1310.7768
title: Multipartite quantum correlations in even and odd spin coherent states
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara, W. Kaydi
comments: 26 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 395302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7768
abstract: The key ingredient of the approach, presented in this paper, is the factorization property of $SU(2)$ coherent states upon splitting or decay of a quantum spin system. In this picture, the even and odd spin coherent states are viewed as comprising two, three or more spin subsystems. From this perspective, we investigate the multipartite quantum correlations defined as the sum of the correlations of all possible bi-partitions. The pairwise quantum correlations are quantified by entanglement of formation and quantum discord. A special attention is devoted to tripartite splitting schemes. We explicitly derive the sum of entanglement of formation for all possible bi-partitions. It coincides with the sum of all possible pairwise quantum discord. The conservation relation between the distribution of entanglement of formation and quantum discord, in the tripartite splitting scheme, is discussed. We show that the entanglement of formation and quantum discord possess the monogamy property for even spin coherent states, contrarily to odd ones which violate the monogamy relation when the the overlap of the coherent states approaches the unity.

id: 1310.7776
title: Quantum correlations dynamics of quasi-Bell cat states
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara, R. Essaber
comments: 21 pages, To appear in Inter. J. Quantum information
journal: International J. Quantum information Vol.11, No. 6 (2013) 1350057
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7776
abstract: A model of dynamics of quantum correlations of two modes quasi-Bell cat states, based on Glauber coherent states, is considered. The analytic expressions of pairwise entanglement of formation, quantum discord and its geometrized variant are explicitly derived. We analyze the distribution of quantum correlations between the two modes and the environment. We show that, in contrast with squared concurrence, entanglement of formation, quantum discord and geometric quantum discord do not follow the property of monogamy except in some particular situations that we discuss.

id: 1310.7787
title: Parallel Repetition of Entangled Games with Exponential Decay via the Superposed Information Cost
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Giannicola Scarpa
comments: In the first version of this paper we presented a different, stronger Corollary 1 but due to an error in the proof we had to modify it in the second version. This third version is a minor update. We correct some typos and re-introduce a proof accidentally commented out in the second version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7787
abstract: In a two-player game, two cooperating but non communicating players, Alice and Bob, receive inputs taken from a probability distribution. Each of them produces an output and they win the game if they satisfy some predicate on their inputs/outputs. The entangled value $\omega^*(G)$ of a game $G$ is the maximum probability that Alice and Bob can win the game if they are allowed to share an entangled state prior to receiving their inputs. The $n$-fold parallel repetition $G^n$ of $G$ consists of $n$ instances of $G$ where the players receive all the inputs at the same time and produce all the outputs at the same time. They win $G^n$ if they win each instance of $G$. In this paper we show that for any game $G$ such that $\omega^*(G) = 1 - \varepsilon < 1$, $\omega^*(G^n)$ decreases exponentially in $n$. First, for any game $G$ on the uniform distribution, we show that $\omega^*(G^n) = (1 - \varepsilon^2)^{\Omega\left(\frac{n}{\log(|I||O|)} - |\log(\varepsilon)|\right)}$, where $|I|$ and $|O|$ are the sizes of the input and output sets. From this result, we show that for any entangled game $G$, $\omega^*(G^n) \le (1 - \varepsilon^2)^{\Omega(\frac{n}{Q\log(|I||O|)} - \frac{|\log(\varepsilon)|}{Q})}$ where $p$ is the input distribution of $G$ and $Q= \frac{|I|^2 \max_{xy} p_{xy}^2 }{\min_{xy} p_{xy} }$. This implies parallel repetition with exponential decay as long as $\min_{xy} \{p_{xy}\} \neq 0$ for general games. To prove this parallel repetition, we introduce the concept of \emph{Superposed Information Cost} for entangled games which is inspired from the information cost used in communication complexity.

id: 1310.7821
title: Beyond Landauer erasure
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Joan A. Vaccaro
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Entropy 15, 4956-4968 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7821
abstract: In thermodynamics one considers thermal systems and the maximization of entropy subject to the conservation of energy. A consequence is Landauer's erasure principle, which states that the erasure of 1 bit of information requires a minimum energy cost equal to $kT\ln(2)$ where $T$ is the temperature of a thermal reservoir used in the process and $k$ is Boltzmann's constant. Jaynes, however, argued that the maximum entropy principle could be applied to any number of conserved quantities which would suggest that information erasure may have alternative costs. Indeed we showed recently that by using a reservoir comprising energy degenerate spins and subject to conservation of angular momentum, the cost of information erasure is in terms of angular momentum rather than energy. Here we extend this analysis and derive the minimum cost of information erasure for systems where different conservation laws operate. We find that, for each conserved quantity, the minimum resource needed to erase 1 bit of memory is $\lambda^{-1}\ln(2)$ where $\lambda$ is related to the average value of the conserved quantity. The costs of erasure depend, fundamentally, on both the nature of the physical memory element and the reservoir with which it is coupled.

id: 1310.7867
title: Multiple-time-scale Landau-Zener transitions in many-body systems
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013618 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7867
abstract: Motivated by recent cold atom experiments in optical lattices, we consider a lattice version of the Landau-Zener problem. Every single site is described by a Landau-Zener problem, but due to particle tunnelling between neighboring lattice sites this onsite single particle Landau-Zener dynamics couples to the particle motion within the lattice. The lattice, apart from having a dephasing effect on single site Landau-Zener transitions, also implies, in the presence of a confining trap, an inter-site particle flow induced by the Landau-Zener sweeping. This gives rise to an interplay between intra- and inter-site dynamics. The adiabaticity constrain is therefor not simply given by the standard one; the Hamiltonian rate of change relative to the gap of the onsite problem. In experimentally realistic situations, the full system evolution is well described by Franck-Condon physics, e.g. non-adiabatic excitations are predominantly external ones characterized by large phononic vibrations in the atomic cloud, while internal excitations are very weak as close to perfect onsite transitions take place.

id: 1310.7885
title: Quantum Indeterminacy, Polar Duality, and Symplectic Capacities
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Revised improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7885
abstract: The notion of polarity between sets, well-known from convex geometry, is a geometric version of the Fourier transform. We exploit this analogy to propose a new simple definition of quantum indeterminacy, using what we call "hbar-polar quantum pairs", which can be viewed as pairs of position-momentum indeterminacy with minimum spread. The existence of such pairs is guaranteed by the usual uncertainty principle, but is at the same time more general. We use recent advances in symplectic topology to show that this quantum indeterminacy can be measured using a particular symplectic capacity related to action and which reduces to area in the case of one degree of freedom. We show in addition that polar quantum pairs are closely related to Hardy's uncertainty principle about the localization of a function and its Fourier transform.

id: 1310.7914
title: The capacity of black holes to transmit quantum information
authors: Kamil Bradler, Christoph Adami
comments: v4: to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 1405 (2014) 095
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7914
abstract: We study the properties of the quantum information transmission channel that emerges from the quantum dynamics of particles interacting with a black hole horizon. We calculate the quantum channel capacity in two limiting cases where a single-letter capacity is known to exist: the limit of perfectly reflecting and perfectly absorbing black holes. We find that the perfectly reflecting black hole channel is closely related to the Unruh channel and that its capacity is non-vanishing, allowing for the perfect reconstruction of quantum information outside of the black hole horizon. We also find that the complementary channel (transmitting entanglement behind the horizon) is entanglement-breaking in this case, with vanishing capacity. We then calculate the quantum capacity of the black hole channel in the limit of a perfectly absorbing black hole and find that this capacity vanishes, while the capacity of the complementary channel is non-vanishing instead. Rather than inviting a new crisis for quantum physics, this finding instead is in accordance with the quantum no-cloning theorem, because it guarantees that there are no space-like surfaces that contain both the sender's quantum state and the receiver's reconstructed quantum state.

id: 1310.7932
title: Complete set of circuit equations for Stabilizer Quantum Mechanics
authors: Andr¨¦ Ranchin, Bob Coecke
comments: 9+4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7932
abstract: We find a sufficient set of equations between quantum circuits from which we can derive any other equation between stabilizer quantum circuits. To establish this result, we rely upon existing work on the completeness of the graphical ZX language for quantum processes. The complexity of the circuit equations, as opposed to the very intuitive reading of the much smaller number of ZX-equations, advocates the latter for performing computations with quantum circuits.

id: 1310.7954
title: Quantum hedging in two-round prover-verifier interactions
authors: Srinivasan Arunachalam, Abel Molina, Vincent Russo
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7954
abstract: We are interested in the problem of quantum correlations that arise when considering hypothetical two-party interactions between Alice and Bob. In a recent work, (arXiv:1104.1140), the framework for these interactions was used in the context of a game where one of the players, Bob, could use correlations which exhibit strictly non-classical behavior to his advantage. This manifested in an ability of the player to make use of a form of hedging, where the risk of losing a first game was eliminated by offsetting that risk in a second game. In this paper we look at some follow-up questions to that result. We consider whether quantum hedging is possible in a variant of the interaction model motivated by experimental concerns. In particular, we ask whether the hedging behavior still occurs in the case when Bob is allowed to sometimes return no answer to a question, in which case the whole experiment starts again. Additionally, we present some results concerning the existence and amount of hedging in a game that generalizes several of the parameters of the main game studied in (arXiv:1104.1140).

id: 1310.8012
title: Analysis of a controlled phase gate using circular Rydberg states
authors: T. Xia, X. L. Zhang, M. Saffman
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8012
abstract: We propose and analyze the implementation of a two qubit quantum gate using circular Rydberg states with maximum orbital angular momentum. The intrinsic quantum gate error is limited by the finite Rydberg lifetime and finite Rydberg blockade shift. Circular states have much longer radiative lifetimes than low orbital angular momentum states and are therefore candidates for high fidelity gate operations. We analyze the dipole-dipole interaction of two circular state Rydberg atoms and present numerical simulations of quantum process tomography to find the intrinsic fidelity of a Rydberg blockade controlled phase gate. Our analysis shows that the intrinsic gate error can be less than $9 \times10^{-6}$ for circular Cs atoms in a cryogenic environment.

id: 1310.8020
title: Path integral approach on Schrodinger's cat
authors: Zinkoo Yun
comments: The argument is based on only two assumptions: 1. The condition of Schrodinger's cat experiment 2. Feynman path integral No other assumption is required to explain the cat paradox
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8020
abstract: From the following thought experiments, it is demonstrated that the collapse of wave function of an isolated system is possible without external observer. It will be shown that the analysis by Feynman path integral method supports this conclusion. The argument is based on two assumptions: 1. The condition of Schrodinger's cat experiment 2. Feynman path integral; This could explain Schrodinger's cat paradox and its implication on the black hole information paradox will be discussed.

id: 1310.8053
title: Loss-Tolerant Tests Of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Steering
authors: David A. Evans, Eric G. Cavalcanti, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8053
abstract: We analyse two classes of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR)-steering inequalities, the violation of which can be used to demonstrate EPR-steering with an entangled two-qubit Werner state: linear inequalities and quadratic inequalities. We discuss how post-selection of results (by appeal to the fair sampling assumption) can compromise the rigour of these inequalities in experimental tests of EPR-steering. By considering the worst-case scenarios in which detector inefficiency or other loss could be exploited within a local hidden-state model, we derive inequalities that enable rigorous but loss-tolerant demonstrations of EPR-steering. The linear inequalities, and special cases of the quadratic inequalities, have been used in recent experiments. Our results indicate that regardless of the number of settings used, quadratic inequalities are never better, and often worse, than linear inequalities.

id: 1310.8077
title: Objective Reality of de Broglie's Waves
authors: Adriano Orefice, Raffaele Giovanelli, Domenico Ditto
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Text changes. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1302.4247
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8077
abstract: An exact, ray-based general treatment is shown to hold for any kind of monochromatic wave feature - including diffraction and interference - described by Helmholtz-like equations, under the coupling action of a dispersive function (which we call "Wave Potential") encoded in the structure itself of the Helmholtz equation. Since the time-independent Schroedinger and Klein-Gordon equations (associating particles of assigned total energy with stationary de Broglie waves) are themselves Helmholtz-like equations, the same general approach is extended to the ray-based dynamics of point-like particles, whose exact trajectories and dynamical laws may be obtained without resorting to statistical concepts of any kind, thus suggesting a non-probabilistic nature of de Broglie's waves and of physical reality.

id: 1310.8081
title: Creation and protection of entanglement in systems out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Mauro Antezza
comments: 33 pages, 12 figures, some typos corrected with respect to both the previous arXiv and published versions
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113052 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8081
abstract: We investigate the creation of entanglement between two quantum emitters interacting with a realistic common stationary electromagnetic field out of thermal equilibrium. In the case of two qubits we show that the absence of equilibrium allows the generation of steady entangled states, which is inaccessible at thermal equilibrium and is realized without any further external action on the two qubits. We first give a simple physical interpretation of the phenomenon in a specific case and then we report a detailed investigation on the dependence of the entanglement dynamics on the various physical parameters involved. Sub- and super-radiant effects are discussed, and qualitative differences in the dynamics concerning both creation and protection of entanglement according to the initial two-qubit state are pointed out.

id: 1310.8161
title: Quantum random walks on congested lattices
authors: Keith R. Motes, Alexei Gilchrist, Peter P. Rohde
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8161
abstract: We consider quantum random walks on congested lattices and contrast them to classical random walks. Congestion is modelled with lattices that contain static defects which reverse the walker's direction. We implement a dephasing process after each step which allows us to smoothly interpolate between classical and quantum random walkers as well as study the effect of dephasing on the quantum walk. Our key results show that a quantum walker escapes a finite boundary dramatically faster than a classical walker and that this advantage remains in the presence of heavily congested lattices. Also, we observe that a quantum walker is extremely sensitive to our model of dephasing.

id: 1310.8173
title: Hybrid quantum magnetism in circuit-QED: from spin-photon waves to many-body spectroscopy
authors: Andreas Kurcz, Alejandro Bermudez, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: closer to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 180405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8173
abstract: We introduce a model of quantum magnetism induced by the non-perturbative exchange of microwave photons between distant superconducting qubits. By interconnecting qubits and cavities, we obtain a spin-boson lattice model that exhibits a quantum phase transition where both qubits and cavities spontaneously polarise. We present a many-body ansatz that captures this phenomenon all the way, from a the perturbative dispersive regime where photons can be traced out, to the non-perturbative ultra-strong coupling regime where photons must be treated on the same footing as qubits. Our ansatz also reproduces the low-energy excitations, which are described by hybridised spin-photon quasiparticles, and can be probed spectroscopically from transmission experiments in circuit-QED, as shown by simulating a possible experiment by Matrix-Product-State methods.

id: 1310.8180
title: Detection, spectroscopy and state preparation of a single praseodymium ion in a crystal
authors: Tobias Utikal, Emanuel Eichhammer, Lutz Petersen, Alois Renn, Stephan G?tzinger, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3627 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8180
abstract: Solid-state emitters with atom-like optical and magnetic transitions are highly desirable for efficient and scalable quantum state engineering and information processing. Quantum dots, color centers and impurities embedded in inorganic hosts have attracted a great deal of attention in this context, but influences from the matrix continue to pose challenges on the degree of attainable coherence in each system. We report on a new solid-state platform based on the optical detection of single praseodymium ions via 4f intrashell transitions, which are well shielded from their surroundings. By combining cryogenic high-resolution laser spectroscopy with fluorescence microscopy, we were able to spectrally select and spatially resolve individual ions. In addition to elaborating on the essential experimental steps for achieving this long-sought goal, we demonstrate state preparation and read out of the three ground-state hyperfine levels, which are known to have lifetimes of the order of hundred seconds.

id: 1310.8208
title: Probing the effects of interaction in Anderson localization using linear photonic lattices
authors: Changhyoup Lee, Amit Rai, Changsuk Noh, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 023823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8208
abstract: We show how two-dimensional waveguide arrays can be used to probe the effect of on-site interaction on Anderson localization of two interacting bosons in one dimension. It is shown that classical light and linear elements are sufficient to experimentally probe the interplay between interaction and disorder in this setting. For experimental relevance, we evaluate the participation ratio and the intensity correlation function as measures of localization for two types of disorder (diagonal and off-diagonal), for two types of interaction (repulsive and attractive), and for a variety of initial input states. Employing a commonly used set of initial states, we show that the effect of interaction on Anderson localization is strongly dependent on the type of disorder and initial conditions, but is independent of whether the interaction is repulsive or attractive. We then analyze a certain type of entangled input state where the type of interaction is relevant and discuss how it can be naturally implemented in waveguide arrays. We conclude by laying out the details of the two-dimensional photonic lattice implementation including the required parameter regime.

id: 1310.8221
title: Quantum mechanics over sets
authors: David Ellerman
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1210.7659
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8221
abstract: In the tradition of toy models of quantum mechanics in vector spaces over finite fields (e.g., Schumacher and Westmoreland's "modal quantum theory"), one finite field stands out, 2, since vectors over 2 have an interpretation as natural mathematical objects, i.e., sets. This engages a sets-to-vector-spaces bridge that is part of the mathematical folklore to translate both ways between set concepts and vector space concepts. Using that bridge, the mathematical framework of (finite-dimensional) quantum mechanics can be transported down to sets resulting in quantum mechanics over sets or QM/sets. This approach leads to a different treatment of Dirac's brackets than in "modal quantum theory" (MQT), and that gives a full probability calculus (unlike MQT that only has zero-one modalities of impossible and possible). That, in turn, leads to a rather fulsome theory of QM over sets that includes "logical" models of the double-slit experiment, Bell's Theorem, quantum information theory, quantum computing, and much else. Indeed, QM/sets is proposed as the "logic" of QM in the old-fashioned sense of "logic" as giving the simplified essentials of a theory. QM/sets is also a key part of a broader research program to provide an interpretation of QM based on the notion of "objective indefiniteness," a program that grew out the recent development of the logic of partitions mathematically dual to the usual Boolean logic of subsets.

id: 1310.8233
title: Noise robustness in the detection of non separable random unitary maps
authors: C. Macchiavello, M. Rossi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Script. T153, 014044 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8233
abstract: We briefly review a recently proposed method to detect properties of quantum noise processes and quantum channels. We illustrate in detail the method for detecting non separable random unitary channels and consider in particular the explicit examples of the CNOT and CZ gates. We analyse their robustness in the presence of noise for several quantum noise models.

id: 1310.8234
title: Exact Solution for One Dimensional Multibarrier Tunneling
authors: Siddhant Das
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8234
abstract: Quantum tunneling across multiple barriers as yet is an unsolved problem for barrier numbers greater than five. The complexity of the mathematical analysis even for small number of barriers pushed it into the realms of Numerical Analysis. This work is aimed at providing a rigorously correct solution to the general N barrier problem, where N can be any positive integer. An exact algebraic solution has been presented, which overcomes the complexity of the WKB integrals that are traditionally employed, and matches the earlier results reported for small number of barriers. The solution has been explored to considerable depth and many startling consequences have been pointed out for 500 and 1000 barriers. These are quite revealing and open up many avenues for engineering applications and further research.

id: 1310.8261
title: Quantum Storage of Heralded Single Photons in a Praseodymium Doped Crystal
authors: Daniel Riel?nder, Kutlu Kutluer, Patrick Ledingham, Mustafa G¨¹ndo?an, Julia Fekete, Margherita Mazzera, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 5 pages plus supplemental material, 10 figures, 3 tables, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8261
abstract: We report on experiments demonstrating the reversible mapping of heralded single photons to long lived collective optical atomic excitations stored in a Pr$^{3+}$:Y$_2$SiO$_5$ crystal. A cavity-enhanced spontaneous down-conversion source is employed to produce widely non-degenerate narrow-band ($\approx 2\,\mathrm{MHz}$) photon-pairs. The idler photons, whose frequency is compatible with telecommunication optical fibers, are used to herald the creation of the signal photons, compatible with the Pr$^{3+}$ transition. The signal photons are stored and retrieved using the atomic frequency comb protocol. We demonstrate storage times up to $4.5\,\mathrm{\mu s}$ while preserving non-classical correlations between the heralding and the retrieved photon. This is more than 20 times longer than in previous realizations in solid state devices, and implemented in a system ideally suited for the extension to spin-wave storage.

id: 1310.8291
title: Symmetry-protected many-body Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Luiz H. Santos, Juven Wang
comments: 5 pages main text + 8 pages appendix, 3 figures. v2: nearly PRB version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8291
abstract: It is known as a purely quantum effect that a magnetic flux affects the real physics of a particle, such as the energy spectrum, even if the flux does not interfere with the particle's path - the Aharonov-Bohm effect. Here we examine an Aharonov-Bohm effect on a many-body wavefunction. Specifically, we study this many-body effect on the gapless edge states of a bulk gapped phase protected by a global symmetry (such as $\mathbb{Z}_{N}$) - the symmetry-protected topological (SPT) states. The many-body analogue of spectral shifts, the twisted wavefunction and the twisted boundary realization are identified in this SPT state. An explicit lattice construction of SPT edge states is derived, and a challenge of gauging its non-onsite symmetry is overcome. Agreement is found in the twisted spectrum between a numerical lattice calculation and a conformal field theory prediction.

id: 1310.8302
title: No $¦×$-epistemic model can fully explain the indistinguishability of quantum states
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Eric G. Cavalcanti, Raymond Lal, Owen J. E. Maroney
comments: 5+5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 250403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8302
abstract: According to a recent no-go theorem (M. Pusey, J. Barrett and T. Rudolph, Nature Physics 8, 475 (2012)), models in which quantum states correspond to probability distributions over the values of some underlying physical variables must have the following feature: the distributions corresponding to distinct quantum states do not overlap. This is significant because if the distributions do not overlap, then the quantum state itself is encoded by the physical variables. In such a model, it cannot coherently be maintained that the quantum state merely encodes information about underlying physical variables. The theorem, however, considers only models in which the physical variables corresponding to independently prepared systems are independent. This work considers models that are defined for a single quantum system of dimension $d$, such that the independence condition does not arise. We prove a result in a similar spirit to the original no-go theorem, in the form of an upper bound on the extent to which the probability distributions can overlap, consistently with reproducing quantum predictions. In particular, models in which the quantum overlap between pure states is equal to the classical overlap between the corresponding probability distributions cannot reproduce the quantum predictions in any dimension $d \geq 3$. The result is noise tolerant, and an experiment is motivated to distinguish the class of models ruled out from quantum theory.

id: 1310.8311
title: Practical method to obtain a lower bound to the three-tangle
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, typo in important Eq (14) corrected, section on tomography added
journal: Physical Review A 89, 022312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8311
abstract: The quantitative assessment of the entanglement in multipartite quantum states is, apart from its fundamental importance, a practical problem. Recently there has been significant progress in developing new methods to determine certain entanglement measures. In particular, there is a method---in principle, analytical---to compute a certified lower bound for the three-tangle. The purpose of this work is to provide a manual for the implementation of this approach and to explicitly discuss several analytically solvable cases in order to gauge the numerical tools. Moreover, we derive a simple analytical bound for the mixed state three-tangle.

id: 1310.8330
title: Simple Hardy-like proof of quantum contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello, Piotr Badziag, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111 (2013) 180404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8330
abstract: Contextuality and nonlocality are two fundamental properties of nature. Hardy's proof is considered the simplest proof of nonlocality and can also be seen as a particular violation of the simplest Bell inequality. A fundamental question is: Which is the simplest proof of contextuality? We show that there is a Hardy-like proof of contextuality that can also be seen as a particular violation of the simplest noncontextuality inequality. Interestingly, this new proof connects this inequality with the proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem, providing the missing link between these two fundamental results, and can be extended to an arbitrary odd number $n$ of settings, an extension that can be seen as a particular violation of the $n$-cycle inequality.

id: 1310.8343
title: Matter-wave interference with particles selected from a molecular library with masses exceeding 10000 amu
authors: Sandra Eibenberger, Stefan Gerlich, Markus Arndt, Marcel Mayor, Jens T¨¹xen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013,15, 14696-14700
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8343
abstract: The quantum superposition principle, a key distinction between quantum physics and classical mechanics, is often perceived as a philosophical challenge to our concepts of reality, locality or space-time since it contrasts our intuitive expectations with experimental observations on isolated quantum systems. While we are used to associating the notion of localization with massive bodies, quantum physics teaches us that every individual object is associated with a wave function that may eventually delocalize by far more than the body's own extension. Numerous experiments have verified this concept at the microscopic scale but intuition wavers when it comes to delocalization experiments with complex objects. While quantum science is the uncontested ideal of a physics theory, one may ask if the superposition principle can persist on all complexity scales. This motivates matter-wave diffraction and interference studies with large compounds in a three-grating interferometer configuration which also necessitates the preparation of high-mass nanoparticle beams at low velocities. Here we demonstrate how synthetic chemistry allows us to prepare libraries of fluorous porphyrins which can be tailored to exhibit high mass, good thermal stability and relatively low polarizability, which allows us to form slow thermal beams of these high-mass compounds, which can be detected in electron ionization mass spectrometry. We present successful superposition experiments with selected species from these molecular libraries in a quantum interferometer, which utilizes the diffraction of matter waves at an optical phase grating. We observe high-contrast quantum fringe patterns with molecules exceeding a mass of 10 000 amu and 810 atoms in a single particle.

id: 1310.8347
title: Quantum Imaging of High-Dimensional Hilbert Spaces with Radon Transform
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, v2: minor notation change in Sec. 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8347
abstract: High-dimensional Hilbert spaces possess large information encoding and transmission capabilities. Characterizing exactly the real potential of high-dimensional entangled systems is a cornerstone of tomography and quantum imaging. The accuracy of the measurement apparatus and devices used in quantum imaging is physically limited, which allows no further improvements to be made. To extend the possibilities, we introduce a post-processing method for quantum imaging that is based on the Radon transform and the projection-slice theorem. The proposed solution leads to an enhanced precision and a deeper parameterization of the information conveying capabilities of high-dimensional Hilbert spaces. We demonstrate the method for the analysis of high-dimensional position-momentum photonic entanglement. We show that the entropic separability bound in terms of standard deviations is violated considerably more strongly in comparison to the standard setting and current data processing. The results indicate that the possibilities of the quantum imaging of high-dimensional Hilbert spaces can be extended by applying appropriate calculations in the post-processing phase.

id: 1310.8349
title: Thermal machines beyond the weak coupling regime
authors: R. Gallego, A. Riera, J. Eisert
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 125009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8349
abstract: How much work can be extracted from a heat bath using a thermal machine? The study of this question has a very long tradition in statistical physics in the weak-coupling limit, applied to macroscopic systems. However, the assumption that thermal heat baths remain uncorrelated with physical systems at hand is less reasonable on the nano-scale and in the quantum setting. In this work, we establish a framework of work extraction in the presence of quantum correlations. We show in a mathematically rigorous and quantitative fashion that quantum correlations and entanglement emerge as a limitation to work extraction compared to what would be allowed by the second law of thermodynamics. At the heart of the approach are operations that capture naturally non-equilibrium dynamics encountered when putting physical systems into contact with each other. We discuss various limits that relate to known results and put our work into context of approaches to finite-time quantum thermodynamics.

id: 1310.8363
title: Improving frequency selection of driven pulses using derivative-based transition suppression
authors: Felix Motzoi, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8363
abstract: Many techniques in quantum control rely on frequency separation as a means for suppressing unwanted couplings. In its simplest form, the mechanism relies on the low bandwidth of control pulses of long duration. Here we perform a higher-order quantum-mechanical treatment that allows for higher precision and shorter times. In particular, we identify three kinds of off-resonant effects: i) simultaneous unwanted driven couplings (e.g. due to drive crosstalk), ii) additional (initially undriven) transitions such as those in an infinite ladder system, and iii) sideband frequencies of the driving waveform such as we find in corrections to the rotating wave approximation. With a framework that is applicable to all three cases, in addition to the known adiabatic error responsible for a shift of the energy levels we typically see in the spectroscopy of such systems, we derive error terms in a controlled expansion corresponding to higher order adiabatic effects and diabatic excitations. We show, by also expanding the driving waveform in a basis of different order derivatives of a trial function (typically a Gaussian) these different error terms can be corrected for in a systematic way hence strongly improving quantum control of systems with dense spectra.

id: 1310.8372
title: Scaling of entanglement entropy in the (branching) multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 235113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8372
abstract: We investigate the scaling of entanglement entropy in both the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA) and in its generalization, the branching MERA. We provide analytical upper bounds for this scaling, which take the general form of a boundary law with various types of multiplicative corrections, including power-law corrections all the way to a bulk law. For several cases of interest, we also provide numerical results that indicate that these upper bounds are saturated to leading order. In particular we establish that, by a suitable choice of holographic tree, the branching MERA can reproduce the logarithmic multiplicative correction of the boundary law observed in Fermi liquids and spin-Bose metals in $D\geq 2$ dimensions.

id: 1310.8384
title: Laser damage helps the eavesdropper in quantum cryptography
authors: Audun N. Bugge, Sebastien Sauge, Aina M. M. Ghazali, Johannes Skaar, Lars Lydersen, Vadim Makarov
comments: Extended and improved discussions. This version is published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8384
abstract: We propose a class of attacks on quantum key distribution (QKD) systems where an eavesdropper actively engineers new loopholes by using damaging laser illumination to permanently change properties of system components. This can turn a perfect QKD system into a completely insecure system. A proof-of-principle experiment performed on an avalanche photodiode-based detector shows that laser damage can be used to create loopholes. After about 1 W illumination, the detectors' dark count rate reduces 2 to 5 times, permanently improving single-photon counting performance. After about 1.5 W, the detectors switch permanently into the linear photodetection mode and become completely insecure for QKD applications.

id: 1310.8409
title: Enhanced resonant force between two entangled identical atoms in a photonic crystal
authors: Roberta Incardone, Taku Fukuta, Satoshi Tanaka, Tomio Petrosky, Lucia Rizzuto, Roberto Passante
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8409
abstract: We consider the resonant interaction energy and force between two identical atoms, one in an excited state and the other in the ground state, placed inside a photonic crystal. The atoms, having the same orientation of their dipole moment, are supposed prepared in their symmetrical state and interact with the quantum electromagnetic field. We consider two specific models of photonic crystals: a one-dimensional model and an isotropic model. We show that in both cases the resonant interatomic force can be strongly enhanced by the presence of the photonic crystal, as a consequence of the modified dispersion relation and density of states, in particular if the transition frequency of the atoms is close to the edge of a photonic gap. Differences between the two models considered of photonic crystal are discussed in detail, as well as comparison with the analogous system of two impurity atoms in a quantum semiconductor wire. A numerical estimate of the effect in a realistic situation is also discussed.

id: 1310.8457
title: Critique of Fault-Tolerant Quantum Information Processing
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 11 pages, no figures, published in "Quantum Error Correction", ed. D. A. Lidar and T. A. Brun, Cambridge University Press (2013)(this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8457
abstract: This is a chapter in a book \emph{Quantum Error Correction} edited by D. A. Lidar and T. A. Brun, and published by Cambridge University Press (2013)\\ (this http URL)\\ presenting the author's view on feasibility of fault-tolerant quantum information processing.

id: 1310.8465
title: Systematic errors in current quantum state tomography tools
authors: Christian Schwemmer, Lukas Knips, Daniel Richart, Tobias Moroder, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 080403 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8465
abstract: Common tools for obtaining physical density matrices in experimental quantum state tomography are shown here to cause systematic errors. For example, using maximum likelihood or least squares optimization for state reconstruction, we observe a systematic underestimation of the fidelity and an overestimation of entanglement. A solution for this problem can be achieved by a linear evaluation of the data yielding reliable and computational simple bounds including error bars.

id: 1310.8485
title: SU(2)-invariant depolarization of quantum states of light
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8485
abstract: We develop an SU(2)-invariant approach to the depolarization of quantum systems as the effect of random unitary SU(2) transformations. From it we derive an SU(2)-invariant Markovian master equation. This is applied to several quantum states examining whether nonclassical states are more sensible to depolarization than the classical ones. Furthermore, we show that this depolarization model provides a nontrivial generalization of depolarization channels to states of arbitrary dimension.

id: 1310.8488
title: How bosonic is a pair of fermions?
authors: Malte C. Tichy, P. Alexander Bouvrie, Klaus M?lmer
comments: minor changes, accepted by Applied Physics B, 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 117, 785 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8488
abstract: Composite particles made of two fermions can be treated as ideal elementary bosons as long as the constituent fermions are sufficiently entangled. In that case, the Pauli principle acting on the parts does not jeopardise the bosonic behaviour of the whole. An indicator for bosonic quality is the composite boson normalisation ratio $\chi_{N+1}/\chi_{N}$ of a state of $N$ composites. This quantity is prohibitively complicated to compute exactly for realistic two-fermion wavefunctions and large composite numbers $N$. Here, we provide an efficient characterisation in terms of the purity $P$ and the largest eigenvalue $\lambda_1$ of the reduced single-fermion state. We find the states that extremise $\chi_N$ for given $P$ and $\lambda_1$, and we provide easily evaluable, saturable upper and lower bounds for the normalisation ratio. Our results strengthen the relationship between the bosonic quality of a composite particle and the entanglement of its constituents.

id: 1310.8513
title: Correspondence between classical and Dirac-Pauli spinors in view of the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation
authors: Tsung-Wei Chen, Dah-Wei Chiou
comments: 14 pages, 1 table; one subsection added; version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8513
abstract: The classical dynamics for a charged spin particle is governed by the Lorentz force equation for orbital motion and by the Thomas-Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi (T-BMT) equation for spin precession. In static and homogeneous electromagnetic fields, it has been shown that the Foldy-Wouthuysen (FW) transform of the Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian, which describes the relativistic quantum theory for a spin-1/2 particle, is consistent with the classical Hamiltonian (with both the orbital and spin parts) up to the order of $1/m^{14}$ ($m$ is the particle's mass) in the low-energy/weak-field limit. In this paper, we extend this correspondence to the case of inhomogeneous fields. Regardless of the field gradient (e.g., Stern-Gerlach) force, the T-BMT equation is unaltered and thus the classical Hamiltonian remains the same, but subtleties arise and need to be clarified. For the relativistic quantum theory, we apply Eriksen's method to obtain the exact FW transformations for the two special cases, which in conjunction strongly suggest that, in the weak-field limit, the FW transformed Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian (except for the Darwin term) is in agreement with the classical Hamiltonian in a manner that classical variables correspond to quantum operators via a specific Weyl ordering. Meanwhile, the Darwin term is shown to have no classical correspondence.

id: 1310.8570
title: Local deterministic simulation of equatorial Von Neumann measurements on tripartite GHZ state
authors: Arup Roy, Amit Mukherjee, Some Sankar Bhattacharya, Manik Banik, Subhadipa Das
comments: Accepted in Quantum Inf Process (close to accepted version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8570
abstract: Experimental free-will or measurement independence is one of the crucial assumptions in derivation of any nonlocal theorem. Any nonlocal correlation obtained in quantum world can have a local deterministic explanation if there is no experimental free-will in choosing the measurement settings. Recently, in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf105}, 250404 (2010)] it has been shown that to obtain a local deterministic description for singlet state correlation one does not need to give up measurement independence completely, but a partial measurement dependence suffices. In three party scenario considering GHZ correlation one can exhibit absolute contradiction between quantum theory and local realism. In this paper we show that such correlation also has local deterministic description if measurement independence is given up, even if not completely. We provide a local deterministic model for equatorial Von Neumann measurements on tripartite GHZ state by sacrificing measurement independence partially.

id: 1310.8600
title: Information and the foundations of quantum theory
authors: Angelo Bassi, Saikat Ghosh, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, second prize in the FQXi 2013 Essay Contest
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8600
abstract: We believe that the hypothesis `it from bit' originates from the assumption that probabilities have a fundamental, irremovable status in quantum theory. We argue against this assumption and highlight four well-known reformulations / modifications of the theory in which probabilities and the measuring apparatus do not play a fundamental role. These are: Bohmian Mechanics, Dynamical Collapse Models, Trace Dynamics, and Quantum Theory without Classical Time. Here the `it' is primary and the `bit' is derived from the `it'.

id: 1310.8640
title: Quantum Darwinism is Generic
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Marco Piani, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8640
abstract: The transition from quantum to classical is a fascinating aspect of nature. How do we observe a classical reality, considering that the fundamental laws of physics are quantum mechanical? Here we show that under very general conditions, observers who access a quantum system indirectly, by measuring part of its environment, have access only to classical information about the system. Moreover the information is objective, with different observers having access only to information about the measurement of a common observable on the quantum system. We demonstrate that this emergence of classicality by observing parts of the environment, known as quantum Darwinism and studied before in a variety of particular situations, is a general feature of quantum dynamics. An immediate consequence of the result is that, when information is distributed to many parties, the minimal average loss in correlations is equal to the quantum discord. We obtain the results by further developing recent information-theoretic tools for analysing the distribution of quantum information and entanglement monogamy. The findings show the usefulness of quantum information theory to address problems in other areas of physics.

id: 1310.0003
title: Quantum criticality of geometric phase in coupled optical cavity arrays under linear quench
authors: Sujit Sarkar
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1309.7777, arXiv:1108.3406
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0003
abstract: The atoms trapped in microcavities and interacting through the exchange of virtual photons can be modeled as an anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 lattice. We study the dynamics of the geometric phase of this system under the linear quenching process of laser field detuning which shows the XX criticality of the geometric phase in presence of single Rabi frequency oscillation. We also study the quantum criticality for different quenching rate in the presence of single or two Rabi frequencies oscillation in the system.

id: 1310.0010
title: Macroscopic coherence between quantum condensates formed at different times
authors: Alex Hayat, Christoph Lange, Lee A. Rozema, Rockson Chang, Shreyas Potnis, Henry M. van Driel, Aephraim M. Steinberg, Mark Steger, David W. Snoke, Loren N. Pfeiffer, Kenneth W. West
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0010
abstract: We demonstrate macroscopic coherence between quantum condensates generated at different times, separated by more than the particle dephasing time. This is possible due to the dressed light-matter nature of exciton-polaritons, which can be injected resonantly by optical excitation at well-defined momenta. We show that the build-up of coherence between condensates depends on the interaction between the particles, particle density, as well as temperature despite the non-equilibrium nature of the condensate, whereas the mass of the particles plays no role in the condensation of resonantly injected polaritons. This experiment also makes it possible for us to measure directly the large nonlinear phase shift resulting from the polariton-polariton interaction energy. Our results provide direct evidence for coherence between different condensates and demonstrate a new approach for probing their ultrafast dynamics, opening new directions in the study of matter coherence as well as in practical applications such as quantum information and ultrafast logic.

id: 1310.0028
title: Ion-Photon Entanglement and Bell Inequality Violation with 138Ba+
authors: Carolyn Auchter, Chen-Kuan Chou, Thomas W. Noel, Boris B. Blinov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0028
abstract: We report on the demonstration of ion-photon entanglement and Bell inequality violation in a system of trapped 138Ba+ ions. Entanglement between the Zeeman sublevels of the ground state of a single 138Ba+ ion and the polarization state of a single 493 nm photon emitted by the ion with a fidelity of $0.84\pm0.01$ was achieved, along with a Bell signal of 2.3, exceeding the classical limit of 2 by over eight standard deviations. This system is a promising candidate for a loophole-free Bell inequality violation test as the wavelengths of the transitions of 138Ba+ are in the visible region and thus suitable for long range transmission over fiber optic cable.

id: 1310.0331
title: Statistics of Two Kinds of Entangled Quantum Many-body Systems
authors: Hua Bi Zeng
comments: 4 pages, 0 figures, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0331
abstract: In this paper, we show two kinds of entangled many body systems with special statistic properties. Firstly, an entangled fermions system with a pairwise entanglement between every two particles in the lowest energy energy level obeys the fractional statistics. As a check, for particle number N=2, N=3 and N=4, considering that any two fermions in the lowest Landau level are entangled in a proper way, the Laughlin wave function can be derived. The results reveals the explicit entanglement pattern of the Laughlin states. Secondly, we noticed that both Bose-Einstein statistics and Fermi-Dirac distributions are derived from computing the partial function of a free quantum many body system in a certain ensemble without considering entanglement. We extend the computation of the partial function to an entangled quantum many body system without interaction, in this system we assume that every particle in energy level $\epsilon_i$ is entangled with a particle in the energy level $\epsilon_{i+1}$ ($i=1,3,5,...$) and also every particle in energy level $\epsilon_i+1$ is entangled with a particle in the energy level $\epsilon_{i}$ ($i=1,3,5,...$), which indicates that the two energy level have the same number of particles. In the entangled system, we find that the partial function will be changed. As a results, both the Bose-Einstein Statics and the Fermi-Dirac distributions will be modified at finite temperature.

id: 1310.0359
title: $\cal D$ pseudo-bosons in quantum models
authors: F. Bagarello, M. Lattuca
comments: In press in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0359
abstract: We show how some recent models of PT-quantum mechanics perfectly fit into the settings of $\cal D$ pseudo-bosons, as introduced by one of us. Among the others, we also consider a model of non-commutative quantum mechanics, and we show that this model too can be described in terms of $\cal D$ pseudo-bosons.

id: 1310.0445
title: Ehrenfest Dynamics and Frictionless Cooling Methods
authors: S. Choi, R. Onofrio, B. Sundaram
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, v2: To appear in Physical Review A. (some minor typos corrected and some references added)
journal: Physical Review A Vol 88, 053401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0445
abstract: Recently introduced methods which result in shortcuts to adiabaticity, particularly in the context of frictionless cooling, are rederived and discussed in the framework of an approach based on Ehrenfest dynamics. This construction provides physical insights into the emergence of the Ermakov equation, the choice of its boundary conditions, and the use of minimum uncertainty states as indicators of the efficiency of the procedure. Additionally, it facilitates the extension of frictionless cooling to more general situations of physical relevance, such as optical dipole trapping schemes. In this context, we discuss frictionless cooling in the short-time limit, a complementary case to the one considered in the literature, making explicit the limitations intrinsic to the technique when the full three-dimensional case is analyzed.

id: 1310.0558
title: A Quantum Model of Exaptation: Incorporating Potentiality into Evolutionary Theory
authors: Liane Gabora, Eric O. Scott, Stuart Kauffman
comments: 27 pages
journal: Progress in Biophysics & Molecular Biology, 113(1), 108-116
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0558
abstract: The phenomenon of preadaptation, or exaptation (wherein a trait that originally evolved to solve one problem is co-opted to solve a new problem) presents a formidable challenge to efforts to describe biological phenomena using a classical (Kolmogorovian) mathematical framework. We develop a quantum framework for exaptation with examples from both biological and cultural evolution. The state of a trait is written as a linear superposition of a set of basis states, or possible forms the trait could evolve into, in a complex Hilbert space. These basis states are represented by mutually orthogonal unit vectors, each weighted by an amplitude term. The choice of possible forms (basis states) depends on the adaptive function of interest (e.g., ability to metabolize lactose or thermoregulate), which plays the role of the observable. Observables are represented by self-adjoint operators on the Hilbert space. The possible forms (basis states) corresponding to this adaptive function (observable) are called eigenstates. The framework incorporates key features of exaptation: potentiality, contextuality, nonseparability, and emergence of new features. However, since it requires that one enumerate all possible contexts, its predictive value is limited, consistent with the assertion that there exists no biological equivalent to "laws of motion" by which we can predict the evolution of the biosphere.

id: 1310.0559
title: Stochastic Bloch-Redfield theory: quantum jumps in a solid-state environment
authors: Nicolas Vogt, Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 174514 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0559
abstract: We discuss mapping the Bloch-Redfield master-equation to Lindblad form and then unravelling the resulting evolution into a stochastic Schr\"odinger equation according to the quantum-jump method. We give two approximations under which this mapping is valid. This approach enables us to study solid-state-systems of much larger sizes than is possible with the standard Bloch-Redfield master-equation, while still providing a systematic method for obtaining the jump operators and corresponding rates. We also show how the stochastic unravelling of the Bloch-Redfield equations becomes the kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) algorithm in the secular approximation when the system-bath-coupling operators are given by tunnelling-operators between system-eigenstates. The stochastic unravelling is compared to the conventional Bloch-Redfield approach with the superconducting single electron transistor (SSET) as an example.

id: 1310.0845
title: The New Resonating Valence Bond Method for Ab-Initio Electronic Simulations
authors: Sandro Sorella, Andrea Zen
comments: 
journal: book chapter in "Many-Electron Approaches in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics", V. Bach and L. Delle Site (eds.), Part VI, pp 377-392 (2014). Springer International Publishing
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0845
abstract: The Resonating Valence Bond theory of the chemical bond was introduced soon after the discovery of quantum mechanics and has contributed to explain the role of electron correlation within a particularly simple and intuitive approach where the chemical bond between two nearby atoms is described by one or more singlet electron pairs. In this chapter Pauling's resonating valence bond theory of the chemical bond is revisited within a new formulation, introduced by P.W. Anderson after the discovery of High-Tc superconductivity. It is shown that this intuitive picture of electron correlation becomes now practical and efficient, since it allows us to faithfully exploit the locality of the electron correlation, and to describe several new phases of matter, such as Mott insulators, High-Tc superconductors, and spin liquid phases.

id: 1310.0846
title: Stationary entanglement entropies following an interaction quench in 1D Bose gas
authors: Mario Collura, M¨¢rton Kormos, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, minor corrections added
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P01009
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0846
abstract: We analyze the entanglement properties of the asymptotic steady state after a quench from free to hard-core bosons in one dimension. The R\'enyi and von Neumann entanglement entropies are found to be extensive, and the latter coincides with the thermodynamic entropy of the Generalized Gibbs Ensemble (GGE). Computing the spectrum of the two-point function, we provide exact analytical results both for the leading extensive parts and the subleading terms for the entropies as well as for the cumulants of the particle number fluctuations. We also compare the extensive part of the entanglement entropy with the thermodynamic ones, showing that the GGE entropy equal the entanglement one and it is the double of the diagonal entropy.

id: 1310.0929
title: Quantifying entanglement with scattering experiments
authors: O. Marty, M. Epping, H. Kampermann, D. Bru?, M.B. Plenio, M. Cramer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 125117 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0929
abstract: We show how the entanglement contained in states of spins arranged on a lattice may be quantified with observables arising in scattering experiments. We focus on the partial differential cross-section obtained in neutron scattering from magnetic materials but our results are sufficiently general such that they may also be applied to, e.g., optical Bragg scattering from ultracold atoms in optical lattices or from ion chains. We discuss resonating valence bond states and ground and thermal states of experimentally relevant models--such as Heisenberg, Majumdar-Ghosh, and XY model--in different geometries and with different spin numbers. As a by-product, we find that for the one-dimensional XY model in a transverse field such measurements reveal factorization and the quantum phase transition at zero temperature.

id: 1310.0938
title: On the Significance of the Gottesman-Knill Theorem
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro
comments: Forthcoming in the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science (this is the submitted version). Note that this article supersedes arXiv:1207.5236
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.0938
abstract: According to the Gottesman-Knill theorem, quantum algorithms which utilise only the operations belonging to a certain restricted set are efficiently simulable classically. Since some of the operations in this set generate entangled states, it is commonly concluded that entanglement is insufficient to enable quantum computers to outperform classical computers. I argue in this paper that this conclusion is misleading. First, the statement of the theorem (that the particular set of quantum operations in question can be simulated using a classical computer) is, on reflection, already evident when we consider Bell's and related inequalities in the context of a discussion of computational machines. This, in turn, helps us to understand that the appropriate conclusion to draw from the Gottesman-Knill theorem is not that entanglement is insufficient to enable a quantum performance advantage, but rather that if we limit ourselves to the operations referred to in the Gottesman-Knill theorem, we will not have used the resources provided by an entangled quantum system to their full potential.

id: 1310.1095
title: On the Relation between the Psychological and Thermodynamic Arrows of Time
authors: Leonard Mlodinow, Todd A. Brun
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1095
abstract: In this paper we lay out an argument that generically the psychological arrow of time should align with the thermodynamic arrow of time where that arrow is well-defined. This argument applies to any physical system that can act as a memory, in the sense of preserving a record of the state of some other system. This result follows from two principles: the robustness of the thermodynamic arrow of time to small perturbations in the state, and the principle that a memory should not have to be fine-tuned to match the state of the system being recorded. This argument applies even if the memory system itself is completely reversible and non-dissipative. We make the argument with a paradigmatic system, then formulate it more broadly for any system that can be considered a memory. We illustrate these principles for a few other example systems, and compare our criteria to earlier treatments of this problem.

id: 1310.1111
title: Observation of Coherence in the Photosystem II Reaction Center
authors: Franklin D. Fuller, Jie Pan, S. Seckin Senlik, Daniel E. Wilcox, Jennifer P. Ogilvie
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures and supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1111
abstract: Photosynthesis powers life on our planet. The basic photosynthetic architecture comprises antenna complexes to harvest solar energy and reaction centers to convert the energy into a stable charge separated state. In oxygenic photosynthesis, the initial charge separation event occurs in the photosystem II reaction center; the only known natural enzyme that uses solar energy to split water. Energy transfer and charge separation in photosynthesis are rapid and have high quantum efficiencies. Recently, nonlinear spectroscopic experiments have suggested that electronic coherence may play a role in energy transfer efficiency in antenna complexes. Here we report the observation of coherence in the photosystem II reaction center by two dimensional electronic spectroscopy. The frequencies of the observed coherences match exciton difference frequencies and/or known vibrational modes of the photosystem II reaction center. These observations raise questions about the possible role of electronic and/or vibrational coherence in the fundamental charge separation process in oxygenic photosynthesis.

id: 1310.1133
title: Observing bulk diamond spin coherence in high-purity nanodiamonds
authors: Helena S. Knowles, Dhiren M. Kara, Mete Atature
comments: Additional data and analysis in PDF format is available for download at the publications section of this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1133
abstract: Nitrogen-vacancy centres (NVs) in diamond are attractive for research straddling quantum information science and nanoscale magnetometry and thermometry. While ultrapure bulk diamond NVs sustain the longest spin coherence times among optically accessible spins, nanodiamond NVs display persistently poor spin coherence. Here we introduce high-purity nanodiamonds accommodating record-long NV coherence times, >60 us, observed via universal dynamical decoupling. We show that the main contribution to decoherence comes from nearby nitrogen impurities rather than surface states. We protect the NV spin free precession, essential to DC magnetometry, by driving solely these impurities into the motional narrowing regime. This extends the NV free induction decay time from 440 ns, longer than that in type Ib bulk diamond, to 1.27 us, which is comparable to that in type IIa (impurity-free) diamond. These properties allow the simultaneous exploitation of both high sensitivity and nanometre resolution in diamond-based emergent quantum technologies.

id: 1310.1236
title: Bath dynamics in an exactly solvable qubit model with initial qubit-environment correlations
authors: V.V. Ignatyuk, V.G. Morozov
comments: 6 pages
journal: Condens. Matter Phys., 2013, vol. 16, No. 3, 34001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1236
abstract: We study the bath dynamics in the dephasing model of a two-state quantum system (qubit) coupled to an environment of harmonic oscillators. This model was shown [Morozov et al., Phys. Rev. A, 2012, 85, 022101] to admit the analytic solution for the qubit and environment dynamics. Using this solution, we derive the exact expression for the bath reduced density matrix in the presence of initial qubit-environment correlations. We obtain the non-equilibrium phonon distribution function and discuss in detail the time behavior of the bath energy. It is shown that only the inclusion of dynamic correlations between the qubit and the bath ensures the proper time behavior of the quantity which may be interpreted as the "environment energy".

id: 1310.1246
title: Fermion $N$-representability for prescribed density and paramagnetic current density
authors: Erik Tellgren, Simen Kvaal, Trygve Helgaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1246
abstract: The $N$-representability problem is the problem of determining whether or not there exists $N$-particle states with some prescribed property. Here we report an affirmative solution to the fermion $N$-representability problem when both the density and paramagnetic current density are prescribed. This problem arises in current-density functional theory and is a generalization of the well-studied corresponding problem (only the density prescribed) in density functional theory. Given any density and paramagnetic current density satisfying a minimal regularity condition (essentially that a von Weiz\"acker-like the canonical kinetic energy density is locally integrable), we prove that there exist a corresponding $N$-particle state. We prove this by constructing an explicit one-particle reduced density matrix in the form of a position-space kernel, i.e.\ a function of two continuous position variables. In order to make minimal assumptions, we also address mathematical subtleties regarding the diagonal of, and how to rigorously extract paramagnetic current densities from, one-particle reduced density matrices in kernel form.

id: 1310.1315
title: Driven isotropic Heisenberg spin chain with arbitrary boundary twisting angle: exact results
authors: V. Popkov, D. Karevski, G.M. Sch¨¹tz
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures close to published version; misprints corrected, one Figure revised
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 062118 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1315
abstract: We consider an open isotropic Heisenberg quantum spin chain, coupled at the ends to boundary reservoirs polarized in different directions, which sets up a twisting gradient across the chain. Using a matrix product ansatz, we calculate the exact magnetization profiles and magnetization currents in the nonequilibrium steady steady state of a chain with N sites. The magnetization profiles are harmonic functions with a frequency proportional to the twisting angle {\theta}. The currents of the magnetization components lying in the twisting plane and in the orthogonal direction behave qualitatively differently: In-plane steady state currents scale as 1/N^2 for fixed and sufficiently large boundary coupling, and vanish as the coupling increases, while the transversal current increases with the coupling and saturates to 2{\theta}/N.

id: 1310.1339
title: Quantum Annealing and Computation: A Brief Documentary Note
authors: Asim Ghosh, Sudip Mukherjee
comments: To be published in SCIENCE AND CULTURE (Indian Science News Association), 2013
journal: SCIENCE AND CULTURE (Indian Science News Association), vol. 79, pp. 485-500 (2013)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1339
abstract: Major breakthrough in quantum computation has recently been achieved using quantum annealing to develop analog quantum computers instead of gate based computers. After a short introduction to quantum computation, we retrace very briefly the history of these developments and discuss the Indian researches in this connection and provide some interesting documents (in the Figs.) obtained from a chosen set of high impact papers (and also some recent news etc. blogs appearing in the Internet). This note is also designed to supplement an earlier note by Bose (Science and Culture, 79, pp. 337-378, 2013).

id: 1310.1400
title: Optical simulation of Majorana physics
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 015803 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1400
abstract: We show a procedure to classically simulate the Majorana equation in 1+1 dimensions via two one-dimensional photonic crystals. We use a decomposition of the Majorana equation into two Dirac equations and propose a novel approach that uses a bi-chromatic refractive index distribution and nearest neighbor couplings of the type found in Glauber-Fock lattices. This allows us to escape the restriction of staying near the Brillouin zone imposed by the classical simulation of Dirac dynamics with bi-chromatic lattices. Furthermore, it is possible to simulate the evolution of Gaussian wavepackets under the Majorana/Dirac equation with light impinging only into the first waveguide of our bi-chromatic-Glauber-Fock lattice.

id: 1310.1548
title: Sub-Ohmic spin-boson model with off-diagonal coupling: Ground state properties
authors: Zhiguo Lu, Liwei Duan, Xin Li, Prathamesh M. Shenai, Yang Zhao
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, 139, 164103 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1548
abstract: We have carried out analytical and numerical studies of the spin-boson model in the sub-ohmic regime with the influence of both the diagonal and off-diagonal coupling accounted for via the Davydov D1 variational ansatz. While a second-order phase transition is known to be exhibited by this model in the presence of diagonal coupling only, we demonstrate the emergence of a discontinuous first order phase transition upon incorporation of the off-diagonal coupling. A plot of the ground state energy versus magnetization highlights the discontinuous nature of the transition between the isotropic (zero magnetization) state and nematic (finite magnetization) phases. We have also calculated the entanglement entropy and a discontinuity found at a critical coupling strength further supports the discontinuous crossover in the spin-boson model in the presence of off-diagonal coupling. It is further revealed via a canonical transformation approach that for the special case of identical exponents for the spectral densities of the diagonal and the off-diagonal coupling, there exists a continuous crossover from a single localized phase to doubly degenerate localized phase with differing magnetizations.

id: 1310.1600
title: Universality of Phase Transition Dynamics: Topological Defects from Symmetry Breaking
authors: Adolfo del Campo, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 57 pages, 16 figures. Minor changes, typos corrected
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 29, 1430018 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1600
abstract: In the course of a non-equilibrium continuous phase transition, the dynamics ceases to be adiabatic in the vicinity of the critical point as a result of the critical slowing down (the divergence of the relaxation time in the neighborhood of the critical point). This enforces a local choice of the broken symmetry and can lead to the formation of topological defects. The Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM) was developed to describe the associated nonequilibrium dynamics and to estimate the density of defects as a function of the quench rate through the transition. During recent years, several new experiments investigating formation of defects in phase transitions induced by a quench both in classical and quantum mechanical systems were carried out. At the same time, some established results were called into question. We review and analyze the Kibble-Zurek mechanism focusing in particular on this surge of activity, and suggest possible directions for further progress.

id: 1310.1778
title: Time Evolution in the external field problem of Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Dustin Lazarovici
comments: Diploma-Thesis, 155 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1778
abstract: A general problem of quantum field theories is the fact that the free vacuum and the vacuum for an interacting theory belong to different, non-equivalent representations of the canonical (anti-)commutation relations. In the external field problem of QED, we encounter this problem in the form that the Dirac time evolution for an external field with non-vanishing magnetic components will not satisfy the Shale-Stinespring condition, known to be necessary and sufficient for the existence of an implementation on the fermionic Fock space. Therefore, a second quantization of the time evolution in the usual way is impossible. In this thesis, we present several rigorous approaches to QED with time-dependent, external fields and analyze in what sense a time evolution can exist in the second quantized theory. We study different constructions of the fermionic Fock space and prove their equivalence. We study and compare the results of Deckert et. al. (2010), where the time evolution is realized as unitary transformations between time-varying Fock spaces, with those of Langmann and Mickelsson (1996), who construct a "renormalization" for the time evolution and present a method to fix the phase of the second quantized scattering operator by parallel transport in a principle fibre bundle over the restricted, general linear group acting on the fermionic Fock space. We provide rigorous proof for the fact that the second quantization by parallel transport preserves causality. These findings seem to refute claims made in Scharf (1995) that the phase of the second quantized S-matrix is essentially determined by the requirement of causality. We propose a simple solution to the problem of gauge anomalies in the procedure of Langmann and Mickelsson, showing that the second quantization of the scattering operator can be made gauge-invariant by using a suitable class of renormalizations.

id: 1310.1817
title: Topological phases in small quantum Hall samples
authors: Tobias Gra?, Bruno Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013623 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1817
abstract: Topological order has proven a useful concept to describe quantum phase transitions which are not captured by the Ginzburg-Landau type of symmetry-breaking order. However, lacking a local order parameter, topological order is hard to detect. One way to detect is via direct observation of anyonic properties of excitations which are usually discussed in the thermodynamic limit, but so far has not been realized in macroscopic quantum Hall samples. Here we consider a system of few interacting bosons subjected to the lowest Landau level by a gauge potential, and theoretically investigate vortex excitations in order to identify topological properties of different ground states. Our investigation demonstrates that even in surprisingly small systems anyonic properties are able to characterize the topological order. In addition, focusing on a system in the Laughlin state, we study the robustness of its anyonic behavior in the presence of tunable finite-range interactions acting as a perturbation. A clear signal of a transition to a different state is reflected by the system's anyonic properties.

id: 1310.1938
title: Quantum spindown of highly magnetized neutron stars
authors: Brahim Lamine, Cl¨¦ment Berthi¨¨re, Arnaud Dupays
comments: submitted to proceeding of Rencontres du Vietnam (Quy Nhon, august 2013)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.1938
abstract: Pulsars are highly magnetized and rapidly rotating neutron stars. The magnetic field can reach the critical magnetic field from which quantum effects of the vacuum becomes relevant, giving rise to magnetooptic properties of vacuum characterized as an effective non linear medium. One spectacular consequence of this prediction is a macroscopic friction that leads to an additional contribution in the spindown of pulsars. In this paper, we highlight some observational consequences and in particular derive new constraints on the parameters of the Crab pulsar and J0540-6919.

id: 1310.2200
title: Remarks on the quantum de Finetti theorem for bosonic systems
authors: Mathieu Lewin, Phan Th¨¤nh Nam, Nicolas Rougerie
comments: Remarks 2.1 and 2.2 added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2200
abstract: The quantum de Finetti theorem asserts that the k-body density matrices of a N-body bosonic state approach a convex combination of Hartree states (pure tensor powers) when N is large and k fixed. In this note we review a construction due to Christandl, Mitchison, K\"onig and Renner valid for finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, which gives a quantitative version of the theorem. We first propose a variant of their proof that leads to a slightly improved estimate. Next we provide an alternative proof of an explicit formula due to Chiribella, which gives the density matrices of the constructed state as a function of those of the original state.

id: 1310.2222
title: Photonic Crystal Cavities in Cubic (3C) Polytype Silicon Carbide Films
authors: Marina Radulaski, Thomas M. Babinec, Sonia Buckley, Armand Rundquist, J Provine, Kassem Alassaad, Gabriel Ferro, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 26, pp. 32623-32629 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2222
abstract: We present the design, fabrication, and characterization of high quality factor and small mode volume planar photonic crystal cavities from cubic (3C) thin films (thickness ~ 200 nm) of silicon carbide (SiC) grown epitaxially on a silicon substrate. We demonstrate cavity resonances across the telecommunications band, with wavelengths from 1,250 - 1,600 nm. Finally, we discuss possible applications in nonlinear optics, optical interconnects, and quantum information science.

id: 1310.2267
title: A Partial Derandomization of PhaseLift using Spherical Designs
authors: D. Gross, F. Krahmer, R. Kueng
comments: 32 pages, 1 figure. V2: added numerics, improved presentation. To appear in Journal of Fourier Analysis and Applications
journal: Journal of Fourier Analysis and Applications 21, 229 - 266 (2015)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2267
abstract: The problem of retrieving phase information from amplitude measurements alone has appeared in many scientific disciplines over the last century. PhaseLift is a recently introduced algorithm for phase recovery that is computationally efficient, numerically stable, and comes with rigorous performance guarantees. PhaseLift is optimal in the sense that the number of amplitude measurements required for phase reconstruction scales linearly with the dimension of the signal. However, it specifically demands Gaussian random measurement vectors - a limitation that restricts practical utility and obscures the specific properties of measurement ensembles that enable phase retrieval. Here we present a partial derandomization of PhaseLift that only requires sampling from certain polynomial size vector configurations, called t-designs. Such configurations have been studied in algebraic combinatorics, coding theory, and quantum information. We prove reconstruction guarantees for a number of measurements that depends on the degree t of the design. If the degree is allowed to to grow logarithmically with the dimension, the bounds become tight up to polylog-factors. Beyond the specific case of PhaseLift, this work highlights the utility of spherical designs for the derandomization of data recovery schemes.

id: 1310.2292
title: Information driven current in a quantum Maxwell demon
authors: Sebastian Deffner
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures; accepted for publication in Physical Review E
journal: Physical Review E 88 (2013) 062128
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2292
abstract: We describe a minimal model of a quantum Maxwell demon obeying Hamiltonian dynamics. The model is solved exactly, and we analyze its steady-state behavior. We find that writing information to a quantum memory induces a probability current through the demon, which is the quantum analog of the classical Maxwell demon's action. Our model offers a simple and pedagogical paradigm for investigating the thermodynamics of quantum information processing.

id: 1310.2308
title: Two charges on plane in a magnetic field I. "Quasi-equal" charges and neutral quantum system at rest cases
authors: M.A. Escobar-Ruiz, A.V. Turbiner
comments: 38 pages, 8 figures, 11 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2308
abstract: Low-lying bound states for the problem of two Coulomb charges of finite masses on a plane subject to a constant magnetic field $B$ perpendicular to the plane are considered. Major emphasis is given to two systems: two charges with the equal charge-to-mass ratio (quasi-equal charges) and neutral systems with concrete results for the Hydrogen atom and two electrons (quantum dot). It is shown that for these two cases, but when a neutral system is at rest (the center-of-mass momentum is zero), some outstanding properties occur: in double polar coordinates in CMS $(R, \phi)$ and relative $(\rho, \varphi)$ coordinate systems (i) the eigenfunctions are factorizable, all factors except for $\rho$-dependent are found analytically, they have definite relative angular momentum, (ii) dynamics in $\rho$-direction is the same for both systems being described by a funnel-type potential; (iii) at some discrete values of dimensionless magnetic fields $b \leq 1$ the system becomes {\it quasi-exactly-solvable} and a finite number of eigenfunctions in $\rho$ are polynomials. The variational method is employed. Trial functions are based on combining for the phase of a wavefunction (a) the WKB expansion at large distances, (b) the perturbation theory at small distances (c) with a form of the known analytically (quasi-exactly-solvable) eigenfunctions. For the lowest states with relative magnetic quantum numbers $s=0,1,2$ this approximation gives not less than 7 s.d., 8 s.d., 9 s.d., respectively, for the total energy $E(B)$ for magnetic fields $0.049\, \text{a.u.} < B < 2000\, \text{a.u.} $ (Hydrogen atom) and $0.025\, \text{a.u.}\eqslantless B \eqslantless 1000\, \text{a.u.} $ (two electrons).

id: 1310.2392
title: Thermoelectric efficiency of critical quantum junctions
authors: Mihail Mintchev, Luca Santoni, Paul Sorba
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures, 2 references and some clarifying remarks added
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2392
abstract: We derive the efficiency at maximal power of a scale-invariant (critical) quantum junction in exact form. Both Fermi and Bose statistics are considered. We show that time-reversal invariance is spontaneously broken. For fermions we implement a new mechanism for efficiency enhancement above the Curzon-Ahlborn bound, based on a shift of the particle energy in each heat reservoir, proportional to its temperature. In this setting fermionic junctions can even reach at maximal power the Carnot efficiency. The bosonic junctions at maximal power turn out to be less efficient then the fermionic ones.

id: 1310.2421
title: Coupling of single quantum emitters to plasmons propagating on mechanically etched wires
authors: Shailesh Kumar, Alexander Huck, Ying-Wei Lu, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 19, pp. 3838-3841 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2421
abstract: We demonstrate the coupling of a single nitrogen vacancy center in a nanodiamond to propagating plasmonic modes of mechanically etched silver nanowires. The mechanical etch is performed on single crystalline silver nanoplates by the tip of an atomic force microscope cantilever to produce wires with pre-designed lengths. We show that single plasmon propgation can be obtained in these wires, thus making these structures a platform for quantum information processing.

id: 1310.2470
title: Repulsive Casimir Effect with Chern insulators
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez, Adolfo G. Grushin
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, updated discussion and references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 056804 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2470
abstract: We theoretically predict that the Casimir force in vacuum between two Chern insulator plates can be repulsive (attractive) at long distances whenever the sign of the Chern numbers characterizing the two plates are opposite (equal). A unique feature of this system is that the sign of the force can be tuned simply by turning over one of the plates or alternatively by electrostatic doping. We calculate and take into account the full optical response of the plates and argue that such repulsion is a general phenomena for these systems as it relies on the quantized zero frequency Hall conductivity. We show that achieving repulsion is possible with thin films of Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)$_2$Te$_3$, that were recently discovered to be Chern insulators with quantized Hall conductivity.

id: 1310.2644
title: Measuring Berry curvature with quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Michael Kolodrubetz
comments: 4 pages + 2 page appendix, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 045107 (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2644
abstract: The Berry curvature and its descendant, the Berry phase, play an important role in quantum mechanics. They can be used to understand the Aharonov-Bohm effect, define topological Chern numbers, and generally to investigate the geometric properties of a quantum ground state manifold. While Berry curvature has been well-studied in the regimes of few-body physics and non-interacting particles, its use in the regime of strong interactions is hindered by the lack of numerical methods to solve it. In this paper we fill this gap by implementing a quantum Monte Carlo method to solve for the Berry curvature, based on interpreting Berry curvature as a leading correction to imaginary time ramps. We demonstrate our algorithm using the transverse-field Ising model in one and two dimensions, the latter of which is non-integrable. Despite the fact that the Berry curvature gives information about the phase of the wave function, we show that our algorithm has no sign or phase problem for standard sign-problem-free Hamiltonians. Our algorithm scales similarly to conventional methods as a function of system size and energy gap, and therefore should prove a valuable tool in investigating the quantum geometry of many-body systems.

id: 1310.2767
title: Enhanced effects of temporal variation of the fundamental constants in ^{2}¦°_{1/2} term diatomic molecules: ^{207}Pb^{19}F
authors: V. V. Flambaum, Y. V. Stadnik, M. G. Kozlov, A. N. Petrov
comments: 6 pages. Includes significant improvement in accuracy of calculations compared with previous versions. Accepted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 88, 052124 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2767
abstract: The ^{207}Pb^{19}F molecule possesses a pair of closely spaced levels of opposite parity due to near cancelation of the omega-type doubling and magnetic hyperfine interaction energy shifts [Alphei et al., Phys. Rev. A, 83, 040501 (2011)]. We calculate the dependence of the transition frequency between these levels on the fine-structure constant (\alpha) and the ratio of the light quark masses to the quantum chromodynamics scale (m_q/\Lambda_{QCD}), and find large enhancement of the relative effects of the variation of these parameters. Note that the effect of \alpha-variation appears mainly due to the significant difference in the relativistic correction factors for the fine and hyperfine structure. We hence suggest the ^{207}Pb^{19}F molecule as a candidate system for investigating the possible temporal variation of the fundamental constants.

id: 1310.2776
title: Calculating field emission currents in nanodiodes - a multi-group formalism with space charge and exchange-correlation effects
authors: Debabrata Biswas, Raghwendra Kumar
comments: This article has been accepted by Journal of Applied Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: Journal of Applied Physics 115, 114302 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2776
abstract: Inclusion of electron-electron interaction is essential in nano-diodes to understand the underlying physical phenomenon and tailor devices accordingly. However, both space charge and exchange-correlation interactions involve electrons at different energies and hence a self-consistent multi-energy-group solution of the Schr\{o}dinger-Poisson system is required. It is shown here that the existence of a limiting density-dependent potential at low applied voltages allows calculation of the field emission current. Despite additional interactions, a Fowler-Nordheim behaviour is observed. It is also found that the exchange-correlation potential dominates at these voltages in nanogaps and possibly leads to a higher turn-on voltage.

id: 1310.2857
title: Intrinsically stable light source at telecom wavelengths
authors: Fernando Monteiro, Thiago Guerreiro, Bruno Sanguinetti, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 051109 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2857
abstract: We present a highly stable light source at telecom wavelengths, based on a short erbium doped fiber. The high stability arises from the high inversion of the Er3+ion population. This source is developed to work as a stable reference in radiometric applications and is useful in any application where high stability and/or a large bandwidth are necessary. The achieved long-term stability is 10 ppm.

id: 1310.2885
title: A quantum lower bound for distinguishing random functions from random permutations
authors: Henry Yuen
comments: 9 pages. Comments welcome. Fixed minor errors and typos in v2
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2885
abstract: The problem of distinguishing between a random function and a random permutation on a domain of size $N$ is important in theoretical cryptography, where the security of many primitives depend on the problem's hardness. We study the quantum query complexity of this problem, and show that any quantum algorithm that solves this problem with bounded error must make $\Omega(N^{1/5}/\log N)$ queries to the input function. Our lower bound proof uses a combination of the Collision Problem lower bound and Ambainis's adversary theorem.

id: 1310.2900
title: Noncommutative Ricci flow in a matrix geometry
authors: Rocco Duvenhage
comments: v1: 16 pages. v2: Some remarks added as suggested by the referees, 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 045203
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2900
abstract: We study noncommutative Ricci flow in a finite dimensional representation of a noncommutative torus. It is shown that the flow exists and converges to the flat metric. We also consider the evolution of entropy and a definition of scalar curvature in terms of the Ricci flow.

id: 1310.2914
title: Effect of gate-driven spin resonance on the conductance of a one-dimensional quantum wire
authors: Almas F. Sadreev, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 115302 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2914
abstract: We consider quasiballistic electron transmission in a one-dimensional quantum wire subject to both time-independent and periodic potentials of a finger gate that results in a coordinate- and time-dependent Rashba-type spin-orbit coupling. A spin-dependent conductance is calculated as a function of external constant magnetic field, the electric field frequency, and the potential strength. The results demonstrate the effect of the gate-driven electric dipole spin resonance in a transport phenomenon such as spin-flip electron transmission.

id: 1310.3001
title: A Quantum Information Retrieval Approach to Memory
authors: Kirsty Kitto, Peter Bruza, Liane Gabora
comments: 8 pages; 2 figures
journal: (2012). Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, (pp. 932-939). June 10-15, Brisbane, Australia, IEEE Computational Intelligence Society
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3001
abstract: As computers approach the physical limits of information storable in memory, new methods will be needed to further improve information storage and retrieval. We propose a quantum inspired vector based approach, which offers a contextually dependent mapping from the subsymbolic to the symbolic representations of information. If implemented computationally, this approach would provide exceptionally high density of information storage, without the traditionally required physical increase in storage capacity. The approach is inspired by the structure of human memory and incorporates elements of Gardenfors' Conceptual Space approach and Humphreys et al.'s matrix model of memory.

id: 1310.3071
title: Effects of inner electrons on atomic strong-field ionization dynamics
authors: J. Rapp, D. Bauer
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, REVTeX 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033401 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3071
abstract: The influence of inner electrons on the ionization dynamics in strong laser fields is investigated in a wavelength regime where the inner electron dynamics is usually assumed to be negligible. The role of inner electrons is of particular interest for the application of frozen-core approximations and pseudopotentials in time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) and the single-active-electron (SAE) approximation in strong-field laser physics. Results of TDDFT and SAE calculations are compared with exact ones obtained by the numerical ab initio solution of the three-electron time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for a lithium model atom. It is found that dynamical anti-screening, i.e., a particular form of dynamical core polarization, may substantially alter the ionization rate in the single-photon regime. Requirements for the validity of the approximations in the single and multiphoton ionization domain are identified.

id: 1310.3081
title: Dynamics on the cone: closed orbits and superintegrability
authors: Y. Brihaye, P. Kosi¨½ski, P. Ma?lanka
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures; some references added, few misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3081
abstract: The generalization of Bertrand's theorem to the case of the motion of point particle on the surface of a cone is presented. The superintegrability of such models is discussed. The additional integrals of motion are analyzed for the case of Kepler and harmonic oscillator potentials.

id: 1310.3095
title: Bogoliubov theory for atom scattering into separate regions
authors: T. Wasak, P. Szankowski, R. B¨¹cker, J. Chwedenczuk, M. Trippenbach
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3095
abstract: We review the Bogoliubov theory in the context of recent experiments, where atoms are scattered from a Bose-Einstein Condensate into two well-separated regions. We find the full dynamics of the pair-production process, calculate the first and second order correlation functions and show that the system is ideally number-squeezed. We calculate the Fisher information to show how the entanglement between the atoms from the two regions changes in time. We also provide a simple expression for the lower bound of the useful entanglement in the system in terms of the average number of scattered atoms and the number of modes they occupy. We then apply our theory to a recent "twin-beam" experiment [R. B\"ucker {\it et al.}, Nat. Phys. {\bf 7}, 608 (2011)]. The only numerical step of our semi-analytical description can be easily solved and does not require implementation of any stochastic methods.

id: 1310.3340
title: Application of matrix product states to the Hubbard model in one spatial dimension
authors: Yukihiro Shimizu, Koji Matsuura, Hikaru Yahagi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3340
abstract: We investigate the application of matrix product states to the Hubbard model in one spatial dimension with both of open and periodic boundary conditions. We develop the variatinal method that the optimization of the variational parameters is carried out locally and sequentially in the framework of matrix product operators (MPO) by including the sign, due to the anti-commutation relation of fermion operators, in the matrix element of MPO. The numerical accuracy of the ground state energy is examined.

id: 1310.3387
title: The "Tunneling Two-Level Systems" Model of the Low-Temperature Properties of Glasses: Are "Smoking-Gun" Tests Possible?
authors: Anthony James Leggett, Dervis Can Vural
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3387
abstract: Following a brief review of the "two-level (tunneling) systems" model of the low-temperature properties of amorphous solids ("glasses"), we ask whether it is in fact the unique explanation of these properties as is usually assumed, concluding that this is not necessarily the case. We point out that (a) one specific form of the model is already experimentally refuted, and (b) that a definitive test of the model in its most general form, while not yet carried out, would appear to be now experimentally feasible.

id: 1310.3541
title: The ultraviolet and infrared perturbative finiteness of massless QED$_3$
authors: O.M. Del Cima, D.H.T. Franco, O. Piguet
comments: 4 pages, minor changes, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3541
abstract: The massless QED$_3$ is ultraviolet and infrared perturbatively finite, parity and infrared anomaly free to all orders in perturbation theory.

id: 1310.3640
title: Anisotropic and long-range vortex interactions in two-dimensional dipolar Bose gases
authors: B. C. Mulkerin, R. M. W. van Bijnen, D. H. J. O'Dell, A. M. Martin, N. G. Parker
comments: PRL accepted, 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3640
abstract: We perform a theoretical study into how dipole-dipole interactions modify the properties of superfluid vortices within the context of a two-dimensional atomic Bose gas of co-oriented dipoles. The reduced density at a vortex acts like a giant anti-dipole, changing the density profile and generating an effective dipolar potential centred at the vortex core whose most slowly decaying terms go as $1/\rho^2$ and $\ln(\rho)/\rho^3$. These effects modify the vortex-vortex interaction which, in particular, becomes anisotropic for dipoles polarized in the plane. Striking modifications to vortex-vortex dynamics are demonstrated, i.e. anisotropic co-rotation dynamics and the suppression of vortex annihilation.

id: 1310.3641
title: Quantum theory of multimode polariton condensation
authors: David Racine, P. R. Eastham
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. v2 includes extended discussion, corrections to typos
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 085308 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3641
abstract: We develop a theory for the dynamics of the density matrix describing a multimode polariton condensate. In such a condensate several single-particle orbitals become highly occupied, due to stimulated scattering from reservoirs of high-energy excitons. A generic few-parameter model for the system leads to a Lindblad equation which includes saturable pumping, decay, and condensate interactions. We show how this theory can be used to obtain the population distributions, and the time-dependent first- and second-order coherence functions, in such a multimode condensate. As a specific application, we consider a polaritonic Josephson junction, formed from a double-well potential. We obtain the population distributions, emission line shapes, and widths (first-order coherence functions), and predict the dephasing time of the Josephson oscillations.

id: 1310.3670
title: Exact large-deviation statistics for a nonequilibrium quantum spin chain
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 112, 040602 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3670
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional XX spin chain in a nonequilibrium setting with a Lindblad-type boundary driving. By calculating large deviation rate function in the thermodynamic limit, being a generalization of free energy to a nonequilibrium setting, we obtain a complete distribution of current, including closed expressions for lower-order cumulants. We also identify two phase-transition-like behaviors in either the thermodynamic limit, at which the current probability distribution becomes discontinuous, or, at maximal driving, when the range of possible current values changes discontinuously. In the thermodynamic limit the current has a finite upper and lower bound. We also explicitly confirm nonequilibrium fluctuation relation and show that the current distribution is the same under mapping of the coupling strength Gamma -> 1/Gamma.

id: 1310.3681
title: Klein-Dirac Quadric and Multidimensional Toda Lattice via Pseudo-positive Moment Problem
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Ognyan Kounchev
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Complex Variables (math.CV); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3681
abstract: In 1974 J\"urgen Moser has shown that the classical Moment Problem plays a fundamental role for the theory of completely integrable systems, by proving that the simplest case of the finite Toda lattice is described exhaustively in its terms. In particular, the Jacobi matrix defined by the Flaschka variables corresponds to the Schr\"odinger operator related to the Korteweg-de Vries operator. In the present paper we use a recent breakthrough in the area of the multidimensional Moment Problem in order to develop a multidimensional generalization of the finite Toda lattice. Our construction is based on the notion of pseudo-positive measure and the notion of multidimensional Markov-Stieltjes transform naturally defined on the Klein-Dirac quadric. An important consequence of the properties of the Markov-Stieltjes transform is a new method for summation of multidimensional divergent series on the Klein-Dirac quadric.

id: 1310.3773
title: Quantum Zeno effect as a topological phase transition in full counting statistics and spin noise spectroscopy
authors: Fuxiang Li, Jie Ren, Nikolai A. Sinitsyn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 2014 EPL 105 27001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3773
abstract: When the interaction of a quantum system with a detector is changing from weak to strong coupling limits, the system experiences a transition from the regime with quantum mechanical coherent oscillations to the regime with a frozen dynamics. In addition to this quantum Zeno transition, we show that the full counting statistics of detector signal events experiences a topological phase transition at the boundary between two phases at intermediate coupling of a quantum system to the detector. We demonstrate that this transition belongs to the class of topological phase transitions that can be classified by elements of the braid group. We predict that this transition can be explored experimentally by means of the optical spin noise spectroscopy.

id: 1310.3793
title: Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements
authors: Hye Won Chung, Saikat Guha, Lizhong Zheng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3793
abstract: We investigate superadditivity in the maximum achievable rate of reliable classical communication over a quantum channel with a general pure-state alphabet. We define superadditivity as the phenomenon that the maximum accessible information per channel use strictly increases as the number of channel outputs jointly measured at the receiver increases. We analyze this trade-off between information rate and receiver complexity by considering the capacity of the classical discrete memoryless superchannel induced under a concatenated coding scheme, where the quantum joint detection measurement acts exclusively on the length-$N$ inner codewords, but unfettered from any assumption on the complexity of the classical outer code. We give a general lower bound on the maximum accessible information per channel use for a finite-length joint measurement, and we further refine the bound purely in terms of $V$, the quantum version of channel dispersion, and $C$, the capacity of the classical-quantum channel. We also observe a similar phenomenon of superadditivity even in the channel capacity of a classical discrete memoryless channel (DMC) in a concatenated coding scheme, due to a loss of information from hard-decisions by the inner decoder over a finite blocklength, $N$. Finally, we develop a unifying framework, within which the superadditivity in capacity of the classical DMC and that of a pure-state classical-quantum channel can both be expressed with a parameter $V/C^2$, a quantity that we show is proportional to the inner-code measurement length $N$ that is sufficient to achieve a given fraction $0 < \alpha \le 1$ of the capacity $C$.

id: 1310.4118
title: Matrix Product States for Lattice Field Theories
authors: Mari Carmen Ba?uls, Krzysztof Cichy, J. Ignacio Cirac, Karl Jansen, Hana Saito
comments: presented at the 31st International Symposium on Lattice Field Theory (Lattice 2013), 29 July - 3 August 2013, Mainz, Germany
journal: PoS(LATTICE 2013)332
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4118
abstract: The term Tensor Network States (TNS) refers to a number of families of states that represent different ans\"atze for the efficient description of the state of a quantum many-body system. Matrix Product States (MPS) are one particular case of TNS, and have become the most precise tool for the numerical study of one dimensional quantum many-body systems, as the basis of the Density Matrix Renormalization Group method. Lattice Gauge Theories (LGT), in their Hamiltonian version, offer a challenging scenario for these techniques. While the dimensions and sizes of the systems amenable to TNS studies are still far from those achievable by 4-dimensional LGT tools, Tensor Networks can be readily used for problems which more standard techniques, such as Markov chain Monte Carlo simulations, cannot easily tackle. Examples of such problems are the presence of a chemical potential or out-of-equilibrium dynamics. We have explored the performance of Matrix Product States in the case of the Schwinger model, as a widely used testbench for lattice techniques. Using finite-size, open boundary MPS, we are able to determine the low energy states of the model in a fully non-perturbative manner and to accurately extract the mass spectrum. In this work we extend the analysis to the determination of the chiral condensate, both for massless and massive fermions. The method allows for accurate finite size and continuum limit extrapolations and produces remarkably precise results, thus showing the feasibility of these techniques for gauge theory problems.

id: 1310.4142
title: Quantum harmonic oscillator in option pricing
authors: Liviu-Adrian Cotfas, Nicolae Cotfas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Finance (q-fin.CP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4142
abstract: The Black-Scholes model anticipates rather well the observed prices for options in the case of a strike price that is not too far from the current price of the underlying asset. Some useful extensions can be obtained by an adequate modification of the coefficients in the Black-Scholes equation. We investigate from a mathematical point of view an extension directly related to the quantum harmonic oscillator. In the considered case, the solution is the sum of a series involving the Hermite-Gauss functions. A finite-dimensional version is obtained by using a finite oscillator and the Harper functions. This simplified model keeps the essential characteristics of the continuous one and uses finite sums instead of series and integrals.

id: 1310.4152
title: Optical lattices with large scattering length: Using few-body physics to simulate an electron-phonon system
authors: Zhihao Lan, Carlos Lobo
comments: published version; title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033627 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4152
abstract: We propose to go beyond the usual Hubbard model description of atoms in optical lattices and show how few-body physics can be used to simulate many-body phenomena, e.g., an electron-phonon system. We take one atomic species to be trapped in a deep optical lattice at full filling and another to be untrapped spin-polarized fermions (which do not see the optical lattice) but has an s-wave contact interaction with the first species. For large positive scattering length on the order of lattice spacing, the usual two-body bound (dimer) states overlap forming giant orbitals extending over the entire lattice, which can be viewed as an "electronic" band for the untrapped species while the trapped atoms become the "ions" with their own on-site dynamics, thereby simulating an electron-phonon system with renormalization of the phonon frequencies and Peierls transitions. This setup requires large scattering lengths but minimises losses, does not need higher bands and adds new degrees of freedom which cannot easily be described in terms of lattice variables, thus opening up intriguing possibilities to explore interesting physics at the interface between few-body and many-body systems.

id: 1310.4222
title: Nanoscale Spin Seebeck Rectifier: Controlling Thermal Spin Transport across Insulating Magnetic Junctions with Localized Spin
authors: Jie Ren, Jonas Fransson, Jian-Xin Zhu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; Published as Phys. Rev. B 89, 214407 (2014). See also this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 214407 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4222
abstract: The spin Seebeck effect is studied across a charge insulating magnetic junction, in which thermal-spin conjugate transport is assisted by the exchange interactions between the localized spin in the center and electrons in metallic leads. We show that, in contrast with bulk spin Seebeck effect, the figure of merit of such nanoscale thermal-spin conversion can be infinite, leading to the ideal Carnot efficiency in the linear response regime. We also find that in the nonlinear spin Seebeck transport regime, the device possesses the asymmetric and negative differential spin Seebeck effects. In the last, the situations with leaking electron tunneling are also discussed. This nanoscale thermal spin rectifier, by tuning the junction parameters, can act as a spin Seebeck diode, spin Seebeck transistor and spin Seebeck switch, which could have substantial implications for flexible thermal and information control in molecular spin caloritronics.

id: 1310.4240
title: Detection of a single fundamental charge with nanoscale resolution in ambient conditions using the NV$^-$ center in diamond
authors: Florian Dolde, Marcus W. Doherty, Julia Michl, Ingmar Jakobi, Boris Naydenov, Sebastien Pezzagna, Jan Meijer, Philipp Neumann, Fedor Jelezko, Neil B. Manson, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4240
abstract: Single charge detection with nanoscale spatial resolution in ambient conditions is a current frontier in metrology that has diverse interdisciplinary applications. Here, such single charge detection is demonstrated using two nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. One NV center is employed as a sensitive electrometer to detect the change in electric field created by the displacement of a single electron resulting from the optical switching of the other NV center between its neutral (NV$^0$) and negative (NV$^-$) charge states. As a consequence, our measurements also provide direct insight into the charge dynamics inside the material.

id: 1310.4262
title: Dynamics of an elementary quantum system outside a radiating Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Jiawei Hu, Wenting Zhou, Hongwei Yu
comments: a few typos corrected, a couple of references added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 085035 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4262
abstract: We study, in the framework of open quantum systems, the dynamics of a radially polarizable two-level atom in multi-polar coupling to fluctuating vacuum electromagnetic fields which is placed at a fixed radial distance outside a radiating Schwarzschild black hole, and analyze the transition rates between atomic energy levels and the steady state the atom is driven to. We find that the atom always thermalizes toward a steady state at an effective temperature between zero and the Hawking temperature of the black hole. Remarkably, the thermalization temperature depends on the transition frequency of the atom, so that atoms with different transition frequencies essentially thermalize to different temperatures. This counter-intuitive behavior is however in close analogy to what happens for a two-level atom in a stationary environment out of thermal equilibrium near a dielectric body of certain geometry and dielectric permittivity. Our results thereby suggest in principle a possible analogue system using engineered materials with certain desired dielectric properties to verify features of Hawking radiation in lab-top experiments.

id: 1310.4318
title: Operators versus functions: from quantum dynamical semigroups to tomographic semigroups
authors: Paolo Aniello
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4318
abstract: Quantum mechanics can be formulated in terms of phase-space functions, according to Wigner's approach. A generalization of this approach consists in replacing the density operators of the standard formulation with suitable functions, the so-called generalized Wigner functions or (group-covariant) tomograms, obtained by means of group-theoretical methods. A typical problem arising in this context is to express the evolution of a quantum system in terms of tomograms. In the case of a (suitable) open quantum system, the dynamics can be described by means of a quantum dynamical semigroup 'in disguise', namely, by a semigroup of operators acting on tomograms rather than on density operators. We focus on a special class of quantum dynamical semigroups, the twirling semigroups, that have interesting applications, e.g., in quantum information science. The 'disguised counterparts' of the twirling semigroups, i.e., the corresponding semigroups acting on tomograms, form a class of semigroups of operators that we call tomographic semigroups. We show that the twirling semigroups and the tomographic semigroups can be encompassed in a unique theoretical framework, a class of semigroups of operators including also the probability semigroups of classical probability theory, so achieving a deeper insight into both the mathematical and the physical aspects of the problem.

id: 1310.4363
title: Out of equilibrium charge dynamics in a hybrid cQED architecture
authors: J.J. Viennot, M.R. Delbecq, M.C. Dartiailh, A. Cottet, T. Kontos
comments: added new data on two tone microwave spectroscopy of the double dot
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165404 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4363
abstract: The recent development of hybrid cQED allows one to study how cavity photons interact with a system driven out of equilibrium by fermionic reservoirs. We study here one of the simplest combination : a double quantum dot coupled to a single mode of the electromagnetic field. We are able to couple resonantly the charge levels of a carbon nanotube based double dot to cavity photons. We perform a microwave read out of the charge states of this system which allows us to unveil features of the out of equilibrium charge dynamics, otherwise invisible in the DC current. We extract relaxation rate, dephasing rate and photon number of the hybrid system using a theory based on a master equation technique. These findings open the path for manipulating other degrees of freedom e.g. the spin and/or the valley in nanotube based double dots using microwave light.

id: 1310.4507
title: Bifurcation in entanglement renormalization group flow of a gapped spin model
authors: Jeongwan Haah
comments: 13 pages + supplementary Mathematica file containing calculation. (v2) Added a section on an algebro-geometric criterion for bifurcation
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075119 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4507
abstract: We study entanglement renormalization group transformations for the ground states of a spin model, called cubic code model $H_A$ in three dimensions, in order to understand long-range entanglement structure. The cubic code model has degenerate and locally indistinguishable ground states under periodic boundary conditions. In the entanglement renormalization, one applies local unitary transformations on a state, called disentangling transformations, after which some of the spins are completely disentangled from the rest and then discarded. We find a disentangling unitary to establish equivalence of the ground state of $H_A$ on a lattice of lattice spacing $a$ to the tensor product of ground spaces of two independent Hamiltonians $H_A$ and $H_B$ on lattices of lattice spacing $2a$. We further find a disentangling unitary for the ground space of $H_B$ with the lattice spacing $a$ to show that it decomposes into two copies of itself on the lattice of the lattice spacing $2a$. The disentangling transformations yield a tensor network description for the ground state of the cubic code model. Using exact formulas for the degeneracy as a function of system size, we show that the two Hamiltonians $H_A$ and $H_B$ represent distinct phases of matter.

id: 1310.4548
title: Supersolid phases of light in extended Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard systems
authors: Bogusz Bujnowski, Justine K. Corso, Andrew L.C. Hayward, Jared H. Cole, Andy M. Martin
comments: 9 pages with 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043801 (2014)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4548
abstract: Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard lattices provide unique properties for the study of correlated phases as they exhibit convenient state preparation and measurement, as well as "in situ" tuning of parameters. We show how to realize charge density and supersolid phases in Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard lattices in the presence of long-range interactions. The long-range interactions are realized by the consideration of Rydberg states in coupled atom-cavity systems and the introduction of additional capacitive couplings in quantum-electrodynamics circuits. We demonstrate the emergence of supersolid and checkerboard solid phases, for calculations which take into account nearest neighbour couplings, through a mean-field decoupling.

id: 1310.4551
title: Topological nature of magnetization plateaus in periodically modulated quantum spin chains
authors: Haiping Hu, Chen Cheng, Zhihao Xu, Hong-Gang Luo, Shu Chen
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 035150 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4551
abstract: We unveil nontrivial topological properties of zero-temperature magnetization plateau states in periodically modulated quantum spin chains under a uniform magnetic field. As positions of plateaus are uniquely determined by the modulation period of exchange couplings, we find that the topologically nontrivial plateau state can be characterized by a nonzero integer Chern number and has nontrivial edge excitations. Our study clarifies the topological origin of the well-known phenomena of quantized magnetization plateaus in one-dimensional quantum spin systems and relates the plateau state to the correlated topological insulator.

id: 1310.4687
title: Effect of atomic distribution on cooperative spontaneous emission
authors: Wei Feng, Yong Li, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013816 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4687
abstract: We study cooperative single-photon spontaneous emission from N multilevel atoms for different atomic distributions in optical vector theory. Instead of the average approximation for interatomic distance or the continuum approximation (sums over atoms replaced by integrals) for atomic distribution, the positions of every atom are taken into account by numerical calculation. It is shown that the regularity of atomic distribution has considerable influence on cooperative spontaneous emission. For a small atomic sample (compared with radiation wavelength), to obtain strong superradiance not only needs the uniform excitation (the Dicke state) but also requires the uniform atomic distribution. For a large sample, the uniform atomic distribution is beneficial to subradiance of the Dicke state, while the influence of atomic distribution on the timed Dicke state is weak and its time evolution obeys exponential decay approximately. In addition, we also investigate the corresponding emission spectrum and verify the directed emission for the timed Dicke state for a large atomic sample.

id: 1310.4757
title: Quantum quenches, linear response and superfluidity out of equilibrium
authors: Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti, Alessandro Silva
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures. Improved version; several changes in the manuscript
journal: Europhys. Lett. 107, 30002 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4757
abstract: By analysing the sensitivity to a twist in the boundary conditions of the stationary state attained by a many-body system long after a quantum quench, we extend the concepts of the helicity modulus and the stiffness to non-equilibrium situations. Using these generalised quantities, we characterise the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of hard-core bosons quenched to/from superfluid/insulating phases and show that qualitative new features emerge as compared to the equilibrium case. Our predictions can be tested in experiments with cold bosonic atoms confined in toroidal traps and subject to artificial gauge fields.

id: 1310.4815
title: Propagation of a squeezed optical field in a medium with superluminal group velocity
authors: Gleb Romanov, Travis Horrom, Irina Novikova, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 4 pages
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 4, pp. 1093-1096 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4815
abstract: We investigated the propagation of a squeezed optical field, generated via the polarization self-rotation (PSR) effect, with a sinusoidally-modulated degree of squeezing through an atomic medium with anomalous dispersion. We observed the advancement of the signal propagating through a resonant Rb vapor compared to the reference signal, propagating in air. The measured advancement time grew linearly with atomic density, reaching a maximum of $11 \pm 1~\mu$s, which corresponded to a negative group velocity of $v_g\approx - 7,000~$m/s. We also confirmed that the increasing advancement was accompanied by a reduction of output squeezing levels due to optical losses, in good agreement with theoretical predictions.

id: 1310.4844
title: Electrically driven spin resonance in silicon carbide color centers
authors: P. V. Klimov, A. L. Falk, B. B. Buckley, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 087601 ( 2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4844
abstract: We demonstrate that the spin of optically addressable point defects can be coherently driven with AC electric fields. Based on magnetic-dipole forbidden spin transitions, this scheme enables spatially confined spin control, the imaging of high-frequency electric fields, and the characterization of defect spin multiplicity. While we control defects in SiC, these methods apply to spin systems in many semiconductors, including the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. Electrically driven spin resonance offers a viable route towards scalable quantum control of electron spins in a dense array.

id: 1310.4992
title: Three `species' of Schr?dinger cat states in an infinite-range spin model
authors: Bo Zhao, Merritt C. Kerridge, David A. Huse
comments: 7 pages, added numerical results
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022104 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4992
abstract: We explore a transverse-field Ising model that exhibits both spontaneous symmetry-breaking and eigenstate thermalization. Within its ferromagnetic phase, the exact eigenstates of the Hamiltonian of any large but finite-sized system are all Schr\"odinger cat states: superpositions of states with `up' and `down' spontaneous magnetization. This model exhibits two dynamical phase transitions {\it within} its ferromagnetic phase: In the lowest-temperature phase the magnetization can macroscopically oscillate between up and down. The relaxation of the magnetization is always overdamped in the remainder of the ferromagnetic phase, which is divided in to phases where the system thermally activates itself {\it over} the barrier between the up and down states, and where it quantum tunnels.

id: 1310.4998
title: Zak phase of photons in optical waveguide lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 3716 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.4998
abstract: Zak phase, i.e. the Berry phase acquired during an adiabatic motion of a Bloch particle across the Brillouin zone, provides a measure of the topological invariant of Bloch bands in one-dimensional crystalline potentials. Here a photonic structure, based on engineered lattices of evanescently-coupled optical waveguides, is proposed to detect Zak phase difference of photons undergoing Bloch oscillations in topologically distinct Bloch bands of dimerized superlattices.

id: 1310.5015
title: Two stream instabilities in degenerate quantum plasmas
authors: S. Son
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5015
abstract: The quantum mechanical effect on the plasma two-stream instability is studied based on the dielectric function approach. The analysis suggests that the degenerate plasma relevant to the inertial confinement fusion behaves differently from classical plasmas when the electron drift velocity is comparable to the Fermi velocity. For high wave vector comparable to the Fermi wave vector, the degenerate quantum plasma has larger regime of the two-stream instabilities than the classical plasma. A regime, where the plasma waves with the frequency larger than 1.5 times of the Langmuir wave frequency become unstable to the two-stream instabilities, is identified.

id: 1310.5153
title: Quench Dynamics of Isolated Many-Body Quantum Systems
authors: E. J. Torres-Herrera, Lea F. Santos
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043620 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5153
abstract: We study isolated quantum systems with two-body interactions after a quench. In these systems, the energy shell is a Gaussian of width $\sigma$, and it gives the maximum possible spreading of the energy distribution of the initial states. When the distribution achieves this shape, the fidelity decay can be Gaussian until saturation. This establishes a lower bound for the fidelity decay in realistic systems. An ultimate bound for systems with many-body interactions is also derived based on the analysis of full random matrices. We find excellent agreement between numerical and analytical results. We also provide the conditions under which the short-time dynamics of few-body observables is controlled by $\sigma$. The analyses are developed for systems, initial states, and observables accessible to experiments.

id: 1310.5176
title: Jacobi photonic lattices and their SUSY partners
authors: A. Z¨²?iga-Segundo, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, David J. Fern¨¢ndez C., H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Express 22, 987-994 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5176
abstract: We present a classical analog of quantum optical deformed oscillators in arrays of waveguides. The normal modes of these one-dimensional photonic crystals are given in terms of Jacobi polynomials. We show that it is possible to attack the problem via factorization by exploiting the quantum optical analogy. This allows us to provide an unbroken supersymmetric partner of the proposed Jacobi lattices. Thanks to the underlying SU(1,1) group symmetry of the lattices, we present the analytic propagators and impulse functions for these one-dimensional photonic crystals.

id: 1310.5231
title: Fault Tolerant Synthesis of Reversible Circuits
authors: Anugrah Jain
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. Because of having some serious errors this paper may mislead the readers
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5231
abstract: Reversible computing has emerged as a possible low cost alternative to conventional computing in terms of speed, power consumption and computing capability. In order to achieve reliable circuits in reversible computing, provision for fault tolerance is necessary. A number of fault models, fault tolerant techniques (such as parity-preserving) and testing approaches have proposed in literature. This dissertation exploits parity-preserving characteristics of two reversible gates which provide low cost parity-preserving based fault tolerance. In order to extend online testability of reversible circuits, the substitution of Peres gate has been presented. The online testing capabilities of MCF including Swap and Fredkin gates were also identifies. Finally a tool was developed to implement all above substitutions and converting any reversible circuit to parity-preserving based fault tolerant circuit.

id: 1310.5248
title: Probing many-body interactions in an optical lattice clock
authors: A. M. Rey, A.V. Gorshkov, C.V. Kraus, M. J. Martin, M. Bishof, M. D. Swallows, X. Zhang, C. Benko, J. Ye, N.D. Lemke, A.D. Ludlow
comments: 36 pages, 19 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 340, 311 - 351 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5248
abstract: We present a unifying theoretical framework that describes recently observed many-body effects during the interrogation of an optical lattice clock operated with thousands of fermionic alkaline earth atoms. The framework is based on a many-body master equation that accounts for the interplay between elastic and inelastic p-wave and s-wave interactions, finite temperature effects and excitation inhomogeneity during the quantum dynamics of the interrogated atoms. Solutions of the master equation in different parameter regimes are presented and compared. It is shown that a general solution can be obtained by using the so called Truncated Wigner Approximation which is applied in our case in the context of an open quantum system. We use the developed framework to model the density shift and decay of the fringes observed during Ramsey spectroscopy in the JILA 87Sr and NIST 171Yb optical lattice clocks. The developed framework opens a suitable path for dealing with a variety of strongly-correlated and driven open-quantum spin systems.

id: 1310.5276
title: Bidirectional and efficient conversion between microwave and optical light
authors: R. W. Andrews, R. W. Peterson, T. P. Purdy, K. Cicak, R. W. Simmonds, C. A. Regal, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 17 pages and 9 figures; includes supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5276
abstract: Converting low-frequency electrical signals into much higher frequency optical signals has enabled modern communications networks to leverage both the strengths of microfabricated electrical circuits and optical fiber transmission, allowing information networks to grow in size and complexity. A microwave-to-optical converter in a quantum information network could provide similar gains by linking quantum processors via low-loss optical fibers and enabling a large-scale quantum network. However, no current technology can convert low-frequency microwave signals into high-frequency optical signals while preserving their fragile quantum state. For this demanding application, a converter must provide a near-unitary transformation between different frequencies; that is, the ideal transformation is reversible, coherent, and lossless. Here we demonstrate a converter that reversibly, coherently, and efficiently links the microwave and optical portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. We use our converter to transfer classical signals between microwave and optical light with conversion efficiencies of ~10%, and achieve performance sufficient to transfer quantum states if the device were further precooled from its current 4 kelvin operating temperature to below 40 millikelvin. The converter uses a mechanically compliant membrane to interface optical light with superconducting microwave circuitry, and this unique combination of technologies may provide a way to link distant nodes of a quantum information network.

id: 1310.5376
title: Hypermap-Homology Quantum Codes (Ph.D. thesis)
authors: Martin Leslie
comments: Author's Ph.D. thesis (University of Arizona, May 2013). Adviser: Marek Rychlik
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5376
abstract: We introduce a new type of sparse CSS quantum error correcting code based on the homology of hypermaps. Sparse quantum error correcting codes are of interest in the building of quantum computers due to their ease of implementation and the possibility of developing fast decoders for them. Codes based on the homology of embeddings of graphs, such as Kitaev's toric code, have been discussed widely in the literature and our class of codes generalize these. We use embedded hypergraphs, which are a generalization of graphs that can have edges connected to more than two vertices. We develop theorems and examples of our hypermap-homology codes, especially in the case that we choose a special type of basis in our homology chain complex. In particular the most straightforward generalization of the $m \times m$ toric code to hypermap-homology codes gives us a $[(3/2)m^2,2,m]$ code as compared to the toric code which is a $[2m^2,2,m]$ code. Thus we can protect the same amount of quantum information, with the same error-correcting capability, using less physical qubits.

id: 1310.5404
title: Pseudospin symmetry: Recent progress with supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Haozhao Liang, Jie Meng, Shihang Shen, Nguyen Van Giai, Shuangquan Zhang, Ying Zhang, Pengwei Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Proceedings of the XX International School on Nuclear Physics, Neutron Physics and Applications, Varna, Bulgaria, 16-22 September, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5404
abstract: It is an interesting and open problem to trace the origin of the pseudospin symmetry in nuclear single-particle spectra and its symmetry breaking mechanism in actual nuclei. In this report, we mainly focus on our recent progress on this topic by combining the similarity renormalization group technique, supersymmetric quantum mechanics, and perturbation theory. We found that it is a promising direction to understand the pseudospin symmetry in a quantitative way.

id: 1310.5452
title: What is the Schwarzschild radius of a quantum mechanical particle?
authors: R. Casadio
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Prepared for the Proceedings of the Karl Schwarzschild meeting 2013
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5452
abstract: A localised particle in Quantum Mechanics is described by a wave packet in position space, regardless of its energy. However, from the point of view of General Relativity, if the particle's energy density exceeds a certain threshold, it should be a black hole. In order to combine these two pictures, we introduce a horizon wave-function determined by the position wave-function, which yields the probability that the particle is a black hole. The existence of a (fuzzy) minimum mass for black holes naturally follows, and we also show that our construction entails an effective Generalised Uncertainty Principle simply obtained by adding the uncertainties coming from the two wave-functions.

id: 1310.5491
title: Resonant effects in a SQUID qubit subjected to non adiabatic changes
authors: F. Chiarello, S. Spilla, M. G. Castellano, C. Cosmelli, A. Messina, R. Migliore, A. Napoli, G. Torrioli
comments: 6 pages and 6 figures. The paper, as it is, has been accepted for publication on PRB on March 2014
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5491
abstract: By quickly modifying the shape of the effective potential of a double SQUID flux qubit from a single-well to a double-well condition, we experimentally observe an anomalous behavior, namely an alternance of resonance peaks, in the probability to find the qubit in a given flux state. The occurrence of Landau-Zener transitions as well as resonant tunneling between degenerate levels in the two wells may be invoked to partially justify the experimental results. A quantum simulation of the time evolution of the system indeed suggests that the observed anomalous behavior can be imputable to quantum coherence effects. The interplay among all these mechanisms has a practical implication for quantum computing purposes, giving a direct measurement of the limits on the sweeping rates possible for a correct manipulation of the qubit state by means of fast flux pulses, avoiding transitions to non-computational states.

id: 1310.5501
title: Topological Phase Transition in the Extended Cluster Compass Ladder
authors: R. Jafari, S. Mahdavifar
comments: 
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. 2014, 043I02 (18 pages)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5501
abstract: We have studied the exact solution of the extended cluster compass ladder, which is equivalent to extended quantum compass model with cluster interaction between next-nearest-neighbor spins, by using the Jordan-Wigner transformation. We show that this model is always gapfull except at the critical surfaces where the energy gap disappears. We obtain the analytic expressions of all critical couplings which drive quantum phase transitions. This model shows a rich phase diagram which includes spin-flop, strip antiferromagnetic and topological ordered on the legs, in addition to the phase with antiparallel ordering of spin y component on the rungs. We study also the universality and scaling properties of the three point correlation functions derivatives in di?erent regions to con?rm the results obtained using the energy gap analysis. On the other hand, we have replaced the cluster interaction with usual form and using the Lanczos method a numerical experiment is done. Analyzing the numerical results, we show that the e?ect of the cluster interaction between next-nearest-neighbor spins is completely di?erent from the usual form.

id: 1310.5628
title: Supersymmetric partners of the harmonic oscillator with an infinite potential barrier
authors: David J. Fern¨¢ndez C, VS Morales-Salgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5628
abstract: Supersymmetry transformations of first and second order are used to generate Hamiltonians with known spectra departing from the harmonic oscillator with an infinite potential barrier. It is studied also the way in which the eigenfunctions of the initial Hamiltonian are transformed. The first and certain second order supersymmetric partners of the initial Hamiltonian possess third-order differential ladder operators. Since systems with this kind of operators are linked with the Painlev\'e IV equation, several solutions of this non-linear second-order differential equation will be simply found.

id: 1310.5640
title: Entanglement witnessing and quantum cryptography with non-ideal ferromagnetic detectors
authors: Waldemar K?obus, Andrzej Grudka, Andreas Baumgartner, Damian Tomaszewski, Christian Sch?nenberger, Jan Martinek
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 125404 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5640
abstract: We investigate theoretically the use of non-ideal ferromagnetic contacts as a mean to detect quantum entanglement of electron spins in transport experiments. We use a designated entanglement witness and find a minimal spin polarization of $\eta > 1/\sqrt{3} \approx 58 %$ required to demonstrate spin entanglement. This is significantly less stringent than the ubiquitous tests of Bell's inequality with $\eta > 1/\sqrt[4]{2}\approx 84%$. In addition, we discuss the impact of decoherence and noise on entanglement detection and apply the presented framework to a simple quantum cryptography protocol. Our results are directly applicable to a large variety of experiments.

id: 1310.5756
title: Picosecond all-optical switching in hydrogenated amorphous silicon microring resonators
authors: Jason S. Pelc, Kelley Rivoire, Sonny Vo, Charles Santori, David A. Fattal, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 4, pp. 3797-3810 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5756
abstract: We utilize cross-phase modulation to observe all-optical switching in microring resonators fabricated with hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H). Using 2.7-ps pulses from a mode-locked fiber laser in the telecom C-band, we observe optical switching of a cw telecom-band probe with full-width at half-maximum switching times of 14.8 ps, using approximately 720 fJ of energy deposited in the microring. In comparison with telecom-band optical switching in undoped crystalline silicon microrings, a-Si:H exhibits substantially higher switching speeds due to reduced impact of free-carrier processes.

id: 1310.5847
title: Control of Majorana Edge Modes by a g-factor Engineered Nanowire Spin Transistor
authors: Amrit De, Alexey A. Kovalev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5847
abstract: We propose the manipulation of Majorana edge states via hybridization and spin currents in a nanowire spin transistor. The spin transistor is based on a heterostructure nanowire comprising of semiconductors with large and small g-factors that form the topological and non-topological regions respectively. The hybridization of bound edge states results in spin currents and $4\pi$-periodic torques, as a function of the relative magnetic field angle -- an effect which is dual to the fractional Josephson effect. We establish relation between torques and spin-currents in the non-topological region where the magnetic field is almost zero and spin is conserved along the spin-orbit field direction. The angular momentum transfer could be detected by sensitive magnetic resonance force microscopy techniques.

id: 1310.5937
title: Non-hermitian approach to decaying ultracold bosonic systems
authors: S. Wimberger, C. A. Parra-Murillo, G. Kordas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Series 442, 012029 (2013)
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5937
abstract: A paradigm model of modern atom optics is studied, strongly interacting ultracold bosons in an optical lattice. This many-body system can be artificially opened in a controlled manner by modern experimental techniques. We present results based on a non-hermitian effective Hamiltonian whose quantum spectrum is analyzed. The direct access to the spectrum of the metastable many-body system allows us to easily identify relatively stable quantum states, corresponding to previously predicted solitonic many-body structures.

id: 1310.5947
title: Engineering transport by concatenated maps
authors: T. Schell, M. Sadgrove, K. Nakagawa, S. Wimberger
comments: 
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters 12, 1340004 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5947
abstract: We present a generalized kick rotor model in which the phase of the kick can vary from kick to kick. This additional freedom allows one to control the transport in phase space. For a specific choice of kick-to-kick phases, we predict novel forms of accelerator modes which are potentially of high relevance for future experimental studies.

id: 1310.6054
title: How does a magnetic trap work?
authors: J. P¨¦rez-R¨ªos, A. S. Sanz
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 81, 836 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6054
abstract: Magnetic trapping is a cornerstone for modern ultracold physics and its applications (e.g., quantum information processing, quantum metrology, quantum optics, or high-resolution spectroscopies). Here a comprehensive analysis and discussion of the basic physics behind the most commonly used magnetic traps in Bose-Einstein condensation is presented. This analysis includes the quadrupole trap, the time-averaged orbiting potential trap, and the Ioffe-Pritchard trap. It is shown how the trapping conditions and efficiency of these devices can be determined from simple derivations based on classical electromagnetism, even though they operate on quantum objects.

id: 1310.6127
title: A Couped-Qubit Tavis Cummings Scheme for Prolonging Quantum Coherence
authors: Amrit De
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6127
abstract: Qubit-qubit interactions can significantly boost quantum coherence times for Bell states. The coherence-time-enhancements are however not monotonic and there exists a phase where further increasing the interaction is unhelpful. A resonator in a suggested circuit QED type implementation of the Tavis-Cummings(Dicke) model, is shown to shift this transition point depending on the number of loaded photons. This allows the resonator to amplify the coherence enhancements in certain regimes. The interactions also induce unusual collapse and revival type behavior for the entanglement dynamics. A new and exact open quantum systems formalism -- the quasi-Hamiltonians for the Dicke model thus reveals how a Bell state in a resonator can be protected against $1/f$ noise from randomly fluctuating two level systems. Simple circuit level details are given for flux qubits.

id: 1310.6141
title: Mode interference in quantum joint probabilities for multimode Bose-condensed systems
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova, D. Sornette
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10 (2013) 115502
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6141
abstract: The method of defining quantum joint probabilities of two events is applied to a multimode system of trapped Bose-condensed atoms. The coherent modes are generated by modulating the trapping potential with an alternating field with a frequency in resonance with a transition frequency between two coherent modes. The system is subjected to nondestructive measurements randomly influencing the phase difference of the modes. The joint probability of observing two events, corresponding to the observation of two states, is calculated by employing the channel-state duality. The interference term in the joint probability can arise when the composite events form an entangled prospect and the system state is also entangled. This interference is due to the uncertainty induced by nondestructive measurements.

id: 1310.6149
title: Anisotropic optical trapping of ultracold erbium atoms
authors: Maxence Lepers, Jean-Fran?ois Wyart, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6149
abstract: Ultracold atoms confined in a dipole trap are submitted to a potential whose depth is proportional to the real part of their dynamic dipole polarizability. The atoms also experience photon scattering whose rate is proportional to the imaginary part of their dynamic dipole polarizability. In this article we calculate the complex dynamic dipole polarizability of ground-state erbium, a rare-earth atom that was recently Bose-condensed. The polarizability is calculated with the sum-over-state formula inherent to second-order perturbation theory. The summation is performed on transition energies and transition dipole moments from ground-state erbium, which are computed using the Racah-Slater least-square fitting procedure provided by the Cowan codes. This allows us to predict 9 unobserved odd-parity energy levels of total angular momentum J=5, 6 and 7, in the range 25000-31000 cm-1 above the ground state. Regarding the trapping potential, we find that ground-state erbium essentially behaves like a spherically-symmetric atom, in spite of its large electronic angular momentum. We also find a mostly isotropic van der Waals interaction between two ground-state erbium atoms, characterized by a coefficient C_6^{iso}=1760 a.u.. On the contrary, the photon-scattering rate shows a pronounced anisotropy, since it strongly depends on the polarization of the trapping light.

id: 1310.6235
title: Field control of single x-ray photons in nuclear forward scattering
authors: Xiangjin Kong, Wen-Te Liao, Adriana P¨¢lffy
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, v2 minor modifications in text to match the published version, results unchanged
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013049 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6235
abstract: Means to coherently control single x-ray photons in resonant scattering of light off nuclei by electric or magnetic fields are investigated theoretically. In order to derive the time response in nuclear forward scattering, we adapt the Maxwell-Bloch equations known from quantum optics to describe the resonant light pulse propagation through a nuclear medium. Two types of time-dependent perturbations of nuclear forward scattering are considered for coherent control of the resonantly scattered x-ray quanta. First, the simultaneous coherent propagation of two pulses through the nuclear sample is addressed. We find that the signal of a weak pulse can be enhanced or suppressed by a stronger pulse simultaneously propagating through the sample in counter-propagating geometry. Second, the effect of a time-dependent hyperfine splitting is investigated and we put forward a scheme that allows parts of the spectrum to be shifted forward in time. This is the inverse effect of coherent photon storage and may become a valuable technique if single x-ray photon wavepackets are to become the information carriers in future photonic circuits.

id: 1310.6307
title: Hawking radiation as irreversible tunneling through self-interaction
authors: Wen-Yu Wen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, typos fixed, comments and references added
journal: Modern Phys. Lett. A 29 (2014) 1450065
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6307
abstract: In this letter, we study the self-force in the Parikh-Wilczek tunneling model of Hawking radiation for Reissner-Nordstroem black holes. We conclude that the repulsive self-force speeds up the emission and the radiation becomes an irreversible process. We also find an upper bound of charge-mass ratio for emitted particles.

id: 1310.6334
title: The Black Hole Interior in AdS/CFT and the Information Paradox
authors: Kyriakos Papadodimas, Suvrat Raju
comments: 5 pages; v2: clarified discussion of conserved charges. minor change in notation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 051301 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6334
abstract: We show that, within the AdS/CFT correspondence, recent formulations of the information paradox can be reduced to a question about the existence of certain kinds of operators in the CFT. We describe a remarkably simple construction of these operators on a given state of the CFT. Our construction leads to a smooth horizon, addresses the strong subadditivity paradox, while preserving locality within effective field theory, and reconciles the existence of the interior with the growth of states with energy in the CFT. We also extend our construction to non-equilibrium states.

id: 1310.6335
title: State-Dependent Bulk-Boundary Maps and Black Hole Complementarity
authors: Kyriakos Papadodimas, Suvrat Raju
comments: (v1) 92 pages; mathematica file included with source. (v2) 97 pages; added discussion of non-Abelian symmetries; fixed typos
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 086010 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6335
abstract: We provide a simple and explicit construction of local bulk operators that describe the interior of a black hole in the AdS/CFT correspondence. The existence of these operators is predicated on the assumption that the mapping of CFT operators to local bulk operators depends on the state of the CFT. We show that our construction leads to an exactly local effective field theory in the bulk. Barring the fact that their charge and energy can be measured at infinity, we show that the commutator of local operators inside and outside the black hole vanishes exactly, when evaluated within correlation functions of the CFT. Our construction leads to a natural resolution of the strong subadditivity paradox of Mathur and Almheiri et al. Furthermore, we show how, using these operators, it is possible to reconcile small corrections to effective field theory correlators with the unitarity of black hole evaporation. We address and resolve all other arguments, advanced in arxiv:1304.6483 and arxiv:1307.4706, in favour of structure at the black hole horizon. We extend our construction to states that are near equilibrium, and thereby also address the "frozen vacuum" objections of arxiv:1308.3697. Finally, we explore an intriguing link between our construction of interior operators and Tomita-Takesaki theory.

id: 1310.6472
title: Radiative emission of neutrino pair from nucleus and inner core electrons in heavy atoms
authors: M. Yoshimura, N. Sasao
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 053013 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6472
abstract: Radiative emission of neutrino pair (RENP) from atomic states is a new tool to experimentally investigate undetermined neutrino parameters such as the smallest neutrino mass, the nature of neutrino masses (Majorana vs Dirac), and their CP properties. We study effects of neutrino pair emission either from nucleus or from inner core electrons in which the zero-th component of quark or electron vector current gives rise to large coupling. Both the overall rate and the spectral shape of photon energy are given for a few cases of interesting target atoms. Calculated rates exceed those of previously considered target atoms by many orders of magnitudes.

id: 1310.6554
title: A maximally superintegrable deformation of the N-dimensional quantum Kepler-Coulomb system
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Based on the contribution presented at "XXIst International Conference on Integrable Systems and Quantum symmetries (ISQS-21)", June 12-16, 2013, Prague, Czech Republic
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 474 (2013) 012008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6554
abstract: The $N$-dimensional quantum Hamiltonian $ \hat{H} = -\frac{\hbar^2 {|\mathbf{q} } | }{2(\eta +| {\mathbf{q}} |)} {\mathbf{\nabla}}^2 - \frac{k}{\eta + |{\mathbf{q}} |} $ is shown to be exactly solvable for any real positive value of the parameter $\eta$. Algebraically, this Hamiltonian system can be regarded as a new maximally superintegrable $\eta$-deformation of the $N$-dimensional Kepler-Coulomb Hamiltonian while, from a geometric viewpoint, this superintegrable Hamiltonian can be interpreted as a system on an $N$-dimensional Riemannian space with nonconstant curvature. The eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the model are explicitly obtained, and the spectrum presents a hydrogen-like shape for positive values of the deformation parameter $\eta$ and of the coupling constant $k$.

id: 1310.6570
title: Uncertainty relation for focal spots in light beams
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052103 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6570
abstract: Uncertainty relations for light pulses found in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 86}, 022118 (2012)] were derived in the three-dimensional case which emphasized the localization in a volume. Here we derive the uncertainty relation for light beams in the two-dimensional plane perpendicular to the direction of the beam propagation which is more interesting for realistic beams. This uncertainty relation connects the area of the focal spot with the spectrum of transverse photon momenta. The shape of the beam that saturates the uncertainty relation is very close to a Gaussian. The directions of the electric and magnetic field vectors are those of the circularly polarized plane wave. Our uncertainty relation for the focal spot is quite general but we were able to determine the value of the lower bound only for beams made of many photons.

id: 1310.6631
title: Bound state techniques to solve the multiparticle scattering problem
authors: J. Carbonell, A. Deltuva, A.C. Fonseca, R. Lazauskas
comments: To appear in Progress in Particle and Nuclear Physics
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6631
abstract: Solution of the scattering problem turns to be very difficult task both from the formal as well as from the computational point of view. If the last two decades have witnessed decisive progress in ab initio bound state calculations, rigorous solution of the scattering problem remains limited to A$\leq$4 case. Therefore there is a rising interest to apply bound-state-like methods to handle non-relativistic scattering problems. In this article the latest theoretical developments in this field are reviewed. Five fully rigorous methods will be discussed, which address the problem of nuclear collisions in full extent (including the break-up problem) at the same time avoiding treatment of the complicate boundary conditions or integral kernel singularities. These new developments allows to use modern bound-state techniques to advance significantly rigorous solution of the scattering problem.

id: 1310.6949
title: Plasmonic materials for energy: from physics to applications
authors: Svetlana V. Boriskina, Hadi Ghasemi, Gang Chen
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures Materials Today, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.6949
abstract: Physical mechanisms unique to plasmonic materials, which can be exploited for the existing and emerging applications of plasmonics for renewable energy technologies, are reviewed. The hybrid nature of surface plasmon (SP) modes - propagating surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) and localized surface plasmons (LSPs) - as collective photon-electron oscillations makes them attractive candidates for energy applications. High density of optical states in the vicinity of plasmonic structures enhances light absorption and emission, enables localized heating, and drives near-field heat exchange between hot and cold surfaces. SP modes channel the energy of absorbed photons directly to the free electrons, and the generated hot electrons can be utilized in thermoelectric, photovoltaic and photo-catalytic platforms. Advantages and disadvantages of using plasmonics over conventional technologies for solar energy and waste heat harvesting are discussed, and areas where plasmonics is expected to lead to performance improvements not achievable by other methods are identified.

id: 1310.7067
title: Repulsive interactions of a lipid membrane with graphene in composite materials
authors: Anh D. Phan, Trinh X. Hoang, The-Long Phan, Lilia M. Woods
comments: In production Journal of Chemical Physics 2013
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 184703 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7067
abstract: The van der Waals interaction between a lipid membrane and a substrate covered by a graphene sheet is investigated using the Lifshitz theory. The reflection coefficients are obtained for a layered planar system submerged in water. The dielectric response properties of the involved materials are also specified and discussed. Our calculations show that a graphene covered substrate can repel the biological membrane in water. This is attributed to the significant changes in the response properties of the system due to the monolayer graphene. It is also found that the van der Waals interaction is mostly dominated by the presence of graphene, while the role of the particular substrate is secondary.

id: 1310.7106
title: Evanescent Artificial Gauge Potentials for Neutral Atoms
authors: V. E. Lembessis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7106
abstract: We show that atoms interacting with evanescent light fields, generated at the interface of a dielectric with vacuum, experience artificial gauge potentials. These potentials depend crucially on the physical parameters which characterize the evanescent fields most notably the refractive index of the dielectric material and the angle of incidence of the laser beam totally internaly reflected at the interface. Gauge fields are derived for various evanescent light fields and for both two-level and three-level systems. The use of such artificial gauge potentials for the manipulation of atoms trapped at the interfaces is pointed out and discussed.

id: 1310.7140
title: Feshbach-optimized photoassociation of ultracold $^6$Li$^{87}$Rb molecules with short pulses
authors: Marko Gacesa, Subhas Ghosal, Jason Byrd, Robin C?t¨¦
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063418 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7140
abstract: Two-color photoassociation of ground state $^6$Li$^{87}$Rb molecules via the $\mathrm{B}^1\Pi$ electronic state using short pulses near a magnetic Feshbach resonance is studied theoretically. A near-resonant magnetic field is applied to mix the hyperfine singlet and triplet components of the initial wave function and enhance the photoassociation rate, before the population is transferred to the ground state by a second pulse. We show that an increase of up to three orders of magnitude in the absolute number of molecules produced is attainable for deeply bound vibrational levels. This technique can be generalized to other molecules with accessible magnetic Feshbach resonances.

id: 1310.7154
title: Statistical repulsion/attraction of electrons in graphene in a magnetic field
authors: Juan Sebastian Ardenghi, Pablo Bechthold, Estela Gonzalez, Paula Jasen, Alfredo Juan
comments: Physica B, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7154
abstract: The aim of this work is to describe the thermodynamic properties of an electron gas in graphene placed in a constant magnetic field. The electron gas is constituted by $N$ Bloch electrons in the long wavelength approximation. The partition function is analyzed in terms of a perturbation expansion of the dimensionless constant $(\sqrt{eB}L)^{-1}$. The statistical repulsion/attraction potential for electrons in graphene is obtained in the respective case in which antisymmetric/symmetric states in the coordinates are chosen. Thermodynamic functions are computed for different orders in the perturbation expansion and the different contributions are compared for symmetric and antisymmetric states, showing remarkable differences between them due to the spin exchange correlation. A detailed analysis of the statistical potential is done, showing that, although electrons satisfy Fermi statistics, attractive potential at some interparticle distances can be found.

id: 1310.7350
title: Maximal Rabi frequency of an electrically driven spin in a disordered magnetic field
authors: G¨¢bor Sz¨¦chenyi, Andr¨¢s P¨¢lyi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 115409 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7350
abstract: We present a theoretical study of the spin dynamics of a single electron confined in a quantum dot. Spin dynamics is induced by the interplay of electrical driving and the presence of a spatially disordered magnetic field, the latter being transverse to a homogeneous magnetic field. We focus on the case of strong driving, i.e., when the oscillation amplitude $A$ of the electron's wave packet is comparable to the quantum dot length $L$. We show that electrically driven spin resonance can be induced in this system by subharmonic driving, i.e., if the excitation frequency is an integer fraction (1/2, 1/3, etc) of the Larmor frequency. At strong driving we find that (i) the Rabi frequencies at the subharmonic resonances are comparable to the Rabi frequency at the fundamental resonance, and (ii) at each subharmonic resonance, the Rabi frequency can be maximized by setting the drive strength to an optimal, finite value. Our simple model is applied to describe electrical control of a spin-valley qubit in a weakly disordered carbon nanotube.

id: 1310.7370
title: Symmetry and the thermodynamics of currents in open quantum systems
authors: Daniel Manzano, Pablo I. Hurtado
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 125138 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7370
abstract: Symmetry is a powerful concept in physics, and its recent application to understand nonequilibrium behavior is providing deep insights and groundbreaking exact results. Here we show how to harness symmetry to control transport and statistics in open quantum systems. Such control is enabled by a first-order-type dynamic phase transition in current statistics and the associated coexistence of different transport channels (or nonequilibrium steady states) classified by symmetry. Microreversibility then ensues, via the Gallavotti-Cohen fluctuation theorem, a twin dynamic phase transition for rare current fluctuations. Interestingly, the symmetry present in the initial state is spontaneously broken at the fluctuating level, where the quantum system selects the symmetry sector that maximally facilitates a given fluctuation. We illustrate these results in a qubit network model motivated by the problem of coherent energy harvesting in photosynthetic complexes, and introduce the concept of a symmetry-controlled quantum thermal switch, suggesting symmetry-based design strategies for quantum devices with controllable transport properties.

id: 1310.7438
title: Action at a distance and causality in quantum theory
authors: Jerome Blackman
comments: This is a compete revision of the previous paper with corrections
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7438
abstract: The relation between quantum theory and special relativity is peculiar. On the one hand it is close and essential. Steven Weinberg [1], for example, takes the position that the standard model is an inevitable consequence of the marriage of the two theories. On the other, the action at a distance implied by the famous paper by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen [2] is certainly contrary to the implications of special relativity in spite of the fact that it does not allow transmission of information. The setting of quantum theory is a Hilbert spaceH and a path inH whose development in time is governed by a one parameter group of unitary transformations while the setting for special relativity can be thought of as Minkowski space with the time development not absolute, but dependent on the inertial system of the observer. The problem is to show how these two very different viewpoints can be reconciled in a way that includes an explanation of the "action at a distance" conundrum.

id: 1310.7455
title: The Rigorous Stochastic Matrix Multiplication Scheme for the Calculations of Reduced Equilibrium Density Matrices of Open Multilevel Quantum Systems
authors: Xin Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7455
abstract: Understanding the roles of the temporary and spatial structures of quantum functional noise in open multilevel quantum molecular systems attracts a lot of theoretical interests. I want to establish a rigorous and general framework for functional quantum noises from the constructive and computational perspectives, $\it{i.e.}$ how to generate the random trajectories to reproduce the kernel and path ordering of the influence functional with effective Monte Carlo methods for arbitrary spectral densities. This construction approach aims to unify the existing stochastic models to rigorously describe the temporary and spatial structure of Gaussian quantum noises. In this paper, I review the Euclidean imaginary time influence functional and propose the stochastic matrix multiplication scheme to calculate reduced equilibrium density matrices (REDM). In addition, I review and discuss the Feynman-Vernom influence functional according to the Gaussian quadratic integral, particularly its imaginary part which is critical to the rigorous description of the quantum detailed balance. As a result, I establish the conditions under which the influence functional can be interpreted as the average of exponential functional operator over real-valued Gaussian processes for open multilevel quantum systems. I also show the difference between the local and nonlocal phonons within this framework. With the stochastic matrix multiplication scheme, I compare the normalized REDM with the Boltzmann equilibrium distribution for open multilevel quantum systems.

id: 1310.7457
title: Measurements without Probabilities in the Final State Proposal
authors: Raphael Bousso, Douglas Stanford
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 044038 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7457
abstract: The black hole final state proposal reconciles the infalling vacuum with the unitarity of the Hawking radiation, but only for some experiments. We study experiments that first verify the exterior, then the interior purification of the same Hawking particle. (This is the same protocol that renders the firewall paradox operationally meaningful in standard quantum mechanics.) We show that the decoherence functional fails to be diagonal, even upon inclusion of external "pointer" systems. Hence, probabilities for outcomes of these measurements are not defined. We conclude that the final state proposal does not offer a consistent alternative to the firewall hypothesis.

id: 1310.7491
title: Large enhancement of Forster resonance energy transfer on graphene platforms
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 243112 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7491
abstract: In the view of the applications of Forster resonant energy transfer (FRET) in biological systems which especially require FRET in the inrared region we investigate the great advantage of graphene plasmonics in such studies. Focusing on the fundamental aspects of FRET between a donor-acceptor pair on a graphene platform showing that FRET mediated by the plasmons in graphene is broadband and enhanced by six orders of magnitude. We briefly discuss the impact of phonon-polaritonic substrates.

id: 1310.7540
title: Modeling spin magnetization transport in a spatially varying magnetic field
authors: Rico A.R. Picone, Joseph L. Garbini, John A. Sidles
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7540
abstract: We present a framework for modeling the transport of any number of globally conserved quantities in any spatial configuration and apply it to obtain a model of magnetization transport for spin-systems that is valid in new regimes (including high-polarization). The framework allows an entropy function to define a model that explicitly respects the laws of thermodynamics. Three facets of the model are explored. First, it is expressed as nonlinear partial differential equations that are valid for the new regime of high dipole-energy and polarization. Second, the nonlinear model is explored in the limit of low dipole-energy (semi-linear), from which is derived a physical parameter characterizing separative magnetization transport (SMT). It is shown that the necessary and sufficient condition for SMT to occur is that the parameter is spatially inhomogeneous. Third, the high spin-temperature (linear) limit is shown to be equivalent to the model of nuclear spin transport of Genack and Redfield. Differences among the three forms of the model are illustrated by numerical solution with parameters corresponding to a magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM) experiment. A family of analytic, steady-state solutions to the nonlinear equation is derived and shown to be the spin-temperature analog of the Langevin paramagnetic equation and Curie's law. Finally, we analyze the separative quality of magnetization transport, and a steady-state solution for the magnetization is shown to be compatible with Fenske's separative mass transport equation.

id: 1310.7650
title: Quantum entanglement generation in de Sitter spacetime
authors: Jiawei Hu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 11 pages, no figures, to be published in PRD
journal: Physical Review D 88, 104003 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7650
abstract: We study, in the framework of open quantum systems, the entanglement generation between two mutually independent static two-level atoms in de Sitter spacetime. We treat the two-atom system as an open system in interaction with a bath of fluctuating conformally coupled massless scalar fields in the de Sitter invariant vacuum and derive the master equation which governs its evolution. With the help of the partial transposition criterion, we analyze entanglement generation between the two initially separable atoms and find that static atoms in de Sitter spacetime exhibit distinct characteristics from those in a thermal bath in flat spacetime in terms of entanglement generation. So, in, principle, one can tell whether he is in a thermal bath or in de Sitter space by checking the entanglement creation between two initially separable static atoms in certain circumstances.

id: 1310.7672
title: Intrinsic Contextuality as the Crux of Consciousness
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Liane Gabora
comments: 7 pages
journal: In (K. Yasue, Ed.) Fundamental Approaches to Consciousness, Tokyo '99. John Benjamins Publishing Company
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7672
abstract: A stream of conscious experience is extremely contextual; it is impacted by sensory stimuli, drives and emotions, and the web of associations that link, directly or indirectly, the subject of experience to other elements of the individual's worldview. The contextuality of one's conscious experience both enhances and constrains the contextuality of one's behavior. Since we cannot know first-hand the conscious experience of another, it is by way of behavioral contextuality that we make judgements about whether or not, and to what extent, a system is conscious. Thus we believe that a deep understanding of contextuality is vital to the study of consciousness. Methods have been developed for handling contextuality in the microworld of quantum particles. Our goal has been to investigate the extent to which these methods can be used to analyze contextuality in conscious experience. This work is the fledgling efforts of a recently-initiated interdisciplinary collaboration.

id: 1310.7682
title: Contextualizing concepts using a mathematical generalization of the quantum formalism
authors: Liane Gabora, Diederik Aerts
comments: 31 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0205161
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, 14(4), 327-358
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7682
abstract: We outline the rationale and preliminary results of using the state context property (SCOP) formalism, originally developed as a generalization of quantum mechanics, to describe the contextual manner in which concepts are evoked, used and combined to generate meaning. The quantum formalism was developed to cope with problems arising in the description of (i) the measurement process, and (ii) the generation of new states with new properties when particles become entangled. Similar problems arising with concepts motivated the formal treatment introduced here. Concepts are viewed not as fixed representations, but entities existing in states of potentiality that require interaction with a context-a stimulus or another concept-to 'collapse' to an instantiated form (e.g. exemplar, prototype, or other possibly imaginary instance). The stimulus situation plays the role of the measurement in physics, acting as context that induces a change of the cognitive state from superposition state to collapsed state. The collapsed state is more likely to consist of a conjunction of concepts for associative than analytic thought because more stimulus or concept properties take part in the collapse. We provide two contextual measures of conceptual distance-one using collapse probabilities and the other weighted properties-and show how they can be applied to conjunctions using the pet fish problem.

id: 1310.7836
title: Effective mass signatures in multiphoton pair production
authors: Christian Kohlf¨¹rst, Holger Gies, Reinhard Alkofer
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, Revised version: Discussion extended, minor corrections, new Fig.3
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 050402 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7836
abstract: Electron-positron pair production in oscillating electric fields is investigated in the nonperturbative threshold regime. Accurate numerical solutions of quantum kinetic theory for corresponding observables are presented and analyzed in terms of a proposed model for an effective mass of electrons and positrons acquired within the given strong electric field. Although this effective mass cannot provide an exact description of the collective interaction of a charged particle with the strong field, physical observables are identified which carry direct and sensitive signatures of the effective mass.

id: 1310.7854
title: Classical and Quantum Transport in One-Dimensional Periodically Kicked Systems
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: Brief review paper (10 pages) to appear in Canadian Journal of Chemistry
journal: Canadian Journal of Chemistry 92, 77-84 (2014)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7854
abstract: This paper is a brief review of classical and quantum transport phenomena, as well as related spectral properties, exhibited by one-dimensional periodically kicked systems. Two representative and fundamentally different classes of systems will be considered, those satisfying the classical Kolmogorov-Arnol'd-Moser scenario and those which not. The experimental realization of some of these systems using atom-optics methods will be mentioned.

id: 1310.7856
title: Ultrarelativistic electron states in a general background electromagnetic field
authors: A. Di Piazza
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 040402 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7856
abstract: The feasibility of obtaining exact analytical results in the realm of QED in the presence of a background electromagnetic field is almost exclusively limited to a few tractable cases, where the Dirac equation in the corresponding background field can be solved analytically. This circumstance has restricted, in particular, the theoretical analysis of QED processes in intense laser fields to within the plane-wave approximation even at those high intensities, achievable experimentally only by tightly focusing the laser energy in space. Here, within the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) or eikonal approximation, we construct analytically single-particle electron states in the presence of a background electromagnetic field of general space-time structure in the realistic assumption that the initial energy of the electron is the largest dynamical energy scale in the problem. The relatively compact expression of these states opens, in particular, the possibility of investigating analytically strong-field QED processes in the presence of spatially focused laser beams, which is of particular relevance in view of the upcoming experimental campaigns in this field.

id: 1310.7925
title: Universal entanglement crossover of coupled quantum wires
authors: Romain Vasseur, Jesper Lykke Jacobsen, Hubert Saleur
comments: v2: to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 106601 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7925
abstract: We consider the entanglement between two one-dimensional quantum wires (Luttinger Liquids) coupled by tunneling through a quantum impurity. The physics of the system involves a crossover between weak and strong coupling regimes characterized by an energy scale $T_B$, and methods of conformal field theory therefore cannot be applied. The evolution of the entanglement in this crossover has led to many numerical studies, but has remained little understood, analytically or even qualitatively. We argue in this Letter that the correct universal scaling form of the entanglement entropy $S$ (for an arbitrary interval of length $L$ containing the impurity) is $\partial S/\partial \ln L = f(L T_B)$. In the special case where the coupling to the impurity can be refermionized, we show how the universal function $f(L T_B)$ can be obtained analytically using recent results on form factors of twist fields and a defect massless-scattering formalism. Our results are carefully checked against numerical simulations.

id: 1310.7926
title: Phase characteristics of electromagnetically induced transparency analogue in coupled resonant systems
authors: Xiaoyan Zhou, Lin Zhang, Wei Pang, Hao Zhang, Qingrui Yang, Daihua Zhang
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 103033 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7926
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and EIT-like effects have been investigated in a wide variety of coupled resonant systems. Here, a classification of the phase characteristics of the EIT-like spectral responses is presented. Newly identified phase responses reveal unexplored operation regimes of EIT-like systems. Taking advantage of the new phase regimes, one can obtain group delay, dispersion and nonlinearity properties greatly enhanced by almost one order of magnitude, compared to the traditionally constructed EIT-like devices, which breaks the fundamental limitation (e.g., delay-bandwidth product) intrinsic to atomic EIT and EIT-like effects. Optical devices and electrical circuits are analyzed as examples showing the universality of our finding. We show that cavity-QED-based quantum phase gates can be greatly improved to achieve a phase shift of {\pi}. The new phase characteristics are also believed to be useful to build novel doubly resonant devices in quantum information based on cavity QED, optomechanics, and metamaterials.

id: 1310.7938
title: Magnetic Field Response and Chiral Symmetry of Time Reversal Invariant Topological Superconductors
authors: Eugene Dumitrescu, Jay D. Sau, Sumanta Tewari
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, slightly re-written, citations added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 245438 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7938
abstract: We study the magnetic field response of the Majorana Kramers pairs of a one-dimensional time-reversal invariant (TRI) superconductors (class DIII) with or without a coexisting chirality symmetry. For unbroken TR and chirality invariance the parameter regimes for nontrivial values of the (Z_2) DIII-invariant and the (Z) chiral invariant coincide. However, broken TR may or may not be accompanied by broken chirality, and if chiral symmetry is unbroken, the pair of Majorana fermions (MFs) at a given end survives the loss of TR symmetry in an entire plane perpendicular to the spin-orbit coupling field. Conversely, we show that broken chirality may or may not be accompanied by broken TR, and if TR is unbroken, the pair of MFs survives the loss of broken chirality. In addition to explaining the anomalous magnetic field response of all the DIII class TS systems proposed in the literature, we provide a realistic route to engineer a "true" TR-invariant TS, whose pair of MFs at each end is split by an applied Zeeman field in arbitrary direction. We also prove that, quite generally, the splitting of the MFs by TR-breaking fields in TRI superconductors is highly anisotropic in spin space, even in the absence of the topological chiral symmetry.

id: 1310.7946
title: Measuring topological invariants in photonic systems
authors: Mohammad Hafezi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210405 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7946
abstract: Motivated by the recent theoretical and experimental progress in implementing topological orders with photons, we analyze photonic systems with different topologies and present a scheme to probe their topological features. Specifically, we propose a scheme to modify the boundary phases to manipulate edge state dynamics. Such a scheme allows one to measure the winding number of the edge states. Furthermore, we discuss the effect of loss and disorder on the validity of our approach.

id: 1310.7956
title: Two photon quantum interference in plasmonics - Theory and Applications
authors: S. Dutta Gupta, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Letters,39, 390 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7956
abstract: We report perfect two photon quantum interference with near-unity visibility in a resonant tunneling plasmonic structure in folded Kretschmann geometry. This is despite absorption-induced loss of unitarity in plasmonic systems. The effect is traced to perfect destructive interference between the squares of amplitude reflection and transmission coefficients. We further highlight yet another remarkable potential of coincidence measurements as a probe with better resolution as compared to standard spectroscopic techniques. The finer features show up in both angle resolved and frequency resolved studies.

id: 1310.7990
title: Comparison of classical and quantal calculations of helium three-body recombination
authors: Jes¨²s P¨¦rez-R¨ªos, Steve Ragole, Jia Wang, Chris H. Greene
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7990
abstract: A general method to study classical scattering in $n$-dimension is developed. Through classical trajectory calculations, the three-body recombination is computed as a function of the collision energy for helium atoms, as an example. Quantum calculations are also performed for the $J^{\Pi}$ = $0^{+}$ symmetry of the three-body recombination rate in order to compare with the classical results, yielding good agreement for $E\gtrsim$ 1 K. The classical threshold law is derived and numerically confirmed for the Newtonian three-body recombination rate. Finally, a relationship is found between the quantum and classical three-body hard hypersphere elastic cross sections which is analogous to the well-known shadow scattering in two-body collisions.

id: 1310.8000
title: Ground state uniqueness of the twelve site RVB spin-liquid parent Hamiltonian on the kagome lattice
authors: Zhenyu Zhou, Julia Wildeboer, Alexander Seidel
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 035123 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8000
abstract: Anderson's idea of a (short-ranged) resonating valence bond (RVB) spin liquid has been the first ever proposal of what we now call a topologically ordered phase. Since then, a wealth of exactly solvable lattice models have been constructed that have topologically ordered ground states. For a long time, however, it has been difficult to realize Anderson's original vision in such solvable models, according to which the ground state has an unbroken SU(2) spin rotational symmetry and is dominated by fluctuation of singlet bonds. The kagome lattice is the simplest lattice geometry for which parent Hamiltonians stabilizing a prototypical spin-1/2 short-ranged RVB wave function has been constructed and strong evidence has been given that this state belongs to a topological phase. The uniqueness of the desired RVB-type ground states has, however, not been rigorously proven for the simplest possible such Hamiltonian, which acts on 12 spins at a time. Rather, this uniqueness has been demonstrated for a longer ranged (19-site) variant of this Hamiltonian by Schuch et al., via making contact with powerful results for projected entangled-pair states. In this paper, we extend this result to the 12-site Hamiltonian. Our result is based on numerical studies on finite clusters, for which we demonstrate a "ground state intersection property" with implications for arbitrary system size. We also review the relations between various constructions schemes for RVB parent-Hamiltonians found in the literature.

id: 1310.8023
title: Improving the efficiency of variational tensor network algorithms
authors: Glen Evenbly, Robert N. C. Pfeifer
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, RevTex 4.1, includes reference implementation
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 245118 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8023
abstract: We present several results relating to the contraction of generic tensor networks and discuss their application to the simulation of quantum many-body systems using variational approaches based upon tensor network states. Given a closed tensor network $\mathcal{T}$, we prove that if the environment of a single tensor from the network can be evaluated with computational cost $\kappa$, then the environment of any other tensor from $\mathcal{T}$ can be evaluated with identical cost $\kappa$. Moreover, we describe how the set of all single tensor environments from $\mathcal{T}$ can be simultaneously evaluated with fixed cost $3\kappa$. The usefulness of these results, which are applicable to a variety of tensor network methods, is demonstrated for the optimization of a Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) for the ground state of a 1D quantum system, where they are shown to substantially reduce the computation time.

id: 1310.8332
title: Particle entanglement in continuum many-body systems via quantum Monte Carlo
authors: C. M. Herdman, P.-N. Roy, R. G. Melko, A. Del Maestro
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 140501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8332
abstract: Entanglement of spatial bipartitions, used to explore lattice models in condensed matter physics, may be insufficient to fully describe itinerant quantum many-body systems in the continuum. We introduce a procedure to measure the R\'enyi entanglement entropies on a particle bipartition, with general applicability to continuum Hamiltonians via path integral Monte Carlo methods. Via direct simulations of interacting bosons in one spatial dimension, we confirm a logarithmic scaling of the single-particle entanglement entropy with the number of particles in the system. The coefficient of this logarithmic scaling increases with interaction strength, saturating to unity in the strongly interacting limit. Additionally, we show that the single-particle entanglement entropy is bounded by the condensate fraction, suggesting a practical route towards its measurement in future experiments.

id: 1310.8333
title: Sub-Micron Positioning of Trapped Ions with Respect to the Absolute Center of a Standing Wave Cavity Field
authors: Rasmus B. Linnet, Ian D. Leroux, Aur¨¦lien Dantan, Michael Drewsen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Text edited for clarity, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8333
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible, with sub-micron precision, to locate the absolute center of a Fabry-P\'erot resonator oriented along the rf-field-free axis of a linear Paul trap through the application of two simultaneously resonating optical fields. In particular, we apply a probe field, which is near-resonant with an electronic transition of trapped ions, simultaneously with an off-resonant strong field acting as a periodic AC Stark-shifting potential. Through the resulting spatially modulated fluorescence signal we can find the cavity center of an 11.7 mm-long symmetric Fabry- P\'erot cavity with a precision of $\pm$135 nm, which is smaller than the periodicity of the individual standing wave fields. This can e.g. be used to position the minimum of the axial trap potential with respect to the center of the cavity at any location along the cavity mode.

id: 1310.8354
title: Thermalization of field driven quantum systems
authors: H. Fotso, K. Mikelsons, J. K. freericks
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4699 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8354
abstract: There is much interest in how quantum systems thermalize after a sudden change, because unitary evolution should preclude thermalization. The eigenstate thermalization hypothesis resolves this because all observables for quantum states in a small energy window have essentially the same value; it is violated for integrable systems due to the infinite number of conserved quantities. Here, we show that when a system is driven by a DC electric field there are five generic behaviors: (i) monotonic or (ii) oscillatory approach to an infinite-temperature steady state; (iii) monotonic or (iv) oscillatory approach to a nonthermal steady state; or (v) evolution to an oscillatory state. Examining the Hubbard model (which thermalizes under a quench) and the Falicov-Kimball model (which does not), we find both exhibit scenarios (i-iv), while only Hubbard shows scenario (v). This shows richer behavior than in interaction quenches and integrability in the absence of a field plays no role.

id: 1310.8529
title: Observation of quantum jumps of a single quantum dot spin using sub-microsecond single-shot optical readout
authors: Aymeric Delteil, Wei-bo Gao, Parisa Fallahi, Javier Miguel-Sanchez, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 116802 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8529
abstract: Single-shot read-out of individual qubits is typically the slowest process among the elementary single- and two-qubit operations required for quantum information processing. Here, we use resonance fluorescence from a single-electron charged quantum dot to read-out the spin-qubit state in 800 nanoseconds with a fidelity exceeding 80%. Observation of the spin evolution on longer timescales reveals quantum jumps of the spin state: we use the experimentally determined waiting-time distribution to characterize the quantum jumps. Embedding a quantum dot in a photonic nanostructure could be used to enhance the collection efficiency by a factor of 10, enabling single-shot read-out with a fidelity exceeding 97%.

id: 1310.8562
title: Topological quantum phase transitions and edge states in spin-orbital coupled Fermi gases
authors: Tao Zhou, Yi Gao, Z. D. Wang
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 5218 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8562
abstract: We study the superconducting state in the presence of spin-orbital coupling and the Zeeman field. It is found that a phase transition from the Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state to the topological superconducting state occurs upon increasing the spin-orbital coupling. The nature of this topological phase transition and its critical property are investigated numerically. Physical properties of topological superconducting phase are also explored. Moreover, the local density of states is calculated, through which the topological feature may be tested experimentally.

id: 1310.8629
title: Lower bounds on high-temperature diffusion constants from quadratically extensive almost conserved operators
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 4 pages in RevTeX with 1 pdf figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 012142 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8629
abstract: We prove a general theorem which provides a strict lower bound on high-temperature Green-Kubo diffusion constants in locally interacting quantum lattice systems, under the assumption of existence of a quadratically extensive almost conserved quantity - an operator whose commutator with the lattice Hamiltonian is localized on the boundary sites only. We explicitly demonstrate and compute such a bound in two important models in one dimension, namely in the (isotropic) Heisenberg spin 1/2 chain and in the fermionic Hubbard chain.

id: 1310.8655
title: Full spectrum of the Rabi model
authors: Andrzej J. Maciejewski, Maria Przybylska, Tomasz Stachowiak
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 1-2, 16-20 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8655
abstract: It is shown that in the Rabi model, for an integer value of the spectral parameter $x$, in addition to the finite number of the classical Judd states there exist infinitely many possible eigenstates. These eigenstates exist if the parameters of the problem are zeros of a certain transcendental function; in other words, there are infinitely many possible choices of parameters for which integer $x$ belongs to the spectrum. Morover, it is shown that the classical Judd eigenstates appear as degenerate cases of the confluent Heun function.

id: 1310.8014
title: Schwinger's principle in Einstein-Cartan gravity
authors: Nikodem Poplawski
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 027501 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.8014
abstract: By applying Schwinger's variational principle to the Einstein-Cartan action for the gravitational field, we derive quantum commutation relations between the metric and torsion tensors.

id: 1310.7903
title: A reduction of semigroup DLP to classic DLP
authors: Matan Banin, Boaz Tsaban
comments: Improved discussion of the nonperiodic case
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7903
abstract: We present a polynomial-time reduction of the discrete logarithm problem in any periodic (a.k.a. torsion) semigroup (SGDLP) to the same problem in a subgroup of the same semigroup. It follows that SGDLP can be solved in polynomial time by quantum computers, and that SGDLP has subexponential algorithms whenever the classic DLP in the corresponding groups has subexponential algorithms.

id: 1310.7970
title: Topologically Universal Spectral Hierarchies of Quasiperiodic Systems
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: REXTEX4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 89, 205111 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7970
abstract: Topological properties of energy spectra of general one-dimensional quasiperiodic systems, describing also Bloch electrons in magnetic fields, are studied for an infinity of irrational modulation frequencies corresponding to irrational numbers of flux quanta per unit cell. These frequencies include well-known ones considered in works on Fibonacci quasicrystals. It is shown that the spectrum for any such frequency exhibits a self-similar hierarchy of clusters characterized by universal (system-independent) values of Chern topological integers which are exactly determined. The cluster hierarchy provides a simple and systematic organization of all the spectral gaps, labeled by universal topological numbers which are exactly determinable, thus avoiding their numerical evaluation using rational approximants of the irrational frequency. These numbers give both the quantum Hall conductance of the system and the winding number of the edge-state energy traversing a gap as a Bloch quasimomentum is varied.

id: 1310.5708
title: Bulk-Edge Correspondence in 2+1-Dimensional Abelian Topological Phases
authors: Jennifer Cano, Meng Cheng, Michael Mulligan, Chetan Nayak, Eugeniu Plamadeala, Jon Yard
comments: 26 pages, 1 table and 3 appendices; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 115116 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.5708
abstract: The same bulk two-dimensional topological phase can have multiple distinct, fully-chiral edge phases. We show that this can occur in the integer quantum Hall states at $\nu=8$ and 12, with experimentally-testable consequences. We show that this can occur in Abelian fractional quantum Hall states as well, with the simplest examples being at $\nu=8/7, 12/11, 8/15, 16/5$. We give a general criterion for the existence of multiple distinct chiral edge phases for the same bulk phase and discuss experimental consequences. Edge phases correspond to lattices while bulk phases correspond to genera of lattices. Since there are typically multiple lattices in a genus, the bulk-edge correspondence is typically one-to-many; there are usually many stable fully chiral edge phases corresponding to the same bulk. We explain these correspondences using the theory of integral quadratic forms. We show that fermionic systems can have edge phases with only bosonic low-energy excitations and discuss a fermionic generalization of the relation between bulk topological spins and the central charge. The latter follows from our demonstration that every fermionic topological phase can be represented as a bosonic topological phase, together with some number of filled Landau levels. Our analysis shows that every Abelian topological phase can be decomposed into a tensor product of theories associated with prime numbers $p$ in which every quasiparticle has a topological spin that is a $p^n$-th root of unity for some $n$. It also leads to a simple demonstration that all Abelian topological phases can be represented by $U(1)^N$ Chern-Simons theory parameterized by a K-matrix.

id: 1310.7050
title: On Modular Categories
authors: Paul Bruillard, Siu-Hung Ng, Eric C. Rowell, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 45 pages, 1 table. Version 2: removed weakly integral rank 6 and integral rank 7 section, improved rank 5 classification up to monoidal equivalence
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Category Theory (math.CT); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.7050
abstract: We prove a rank-finiteness conjecture for modular categories that there are only finitely many modular categories of fixed rank $r$, up to equivalence. Our main technical advance is a Cauchy theorem for modular categories: given a modular category $\mathcal{C}$, the set of prime ideals of the global quantum dimension $D^2$ of $\mathcal{C}$ in the cyclotomic number field $\mathcal{O}_N$ is identical to that of the Frobenius-Schur exponent $N=FSexp(\mathcal{C})$ of $\mathcal{C}$. By combining the Galois symmetry of the modular $S,T$ matrices with the knowledge of the modular representation of $SL(2,\mathbb{Z})$, we determine all possible fusion rules for all rank=$5$ modular categories and describe the corresponding monoidal equivalence classes.

