id: 1311.0001
title: Reality, No Matter How You Slice It
authors: Ken Wharton
comments: Third Prize winner in 2013 fqxi.org essay contest, "It from bit, or bit from it?", and sequel to 1211.7081 ("The Universe is not a Computer"). 10 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0001
abstract: In order to reject the notion that information is always about something, the "It from Bit" idea relies on the nonexistence of a realistic framework that might underly quantum theory. This essay develops the case that there is a plausible underlying reality: one actual spacetime-based history, although with behavior that appears strange when analyzed dynamically (one time-slice at a time). By using a simple model with no dynamical laws, it becomes evident that this behavior is actually quite natural when analyzed "all-at-once" (as in classical statistical mechanics). The "It from Bit" argument against a spacetime-based reality must then somehow defend the importance of dynamical laws, even as it denies a reality on which such fundamental laws could operate.

id: 1311.0002
title: Maximal Proper Acceleration and the Quantum-to-Classical Transition
authors: Howard E. Brandt
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0002
abstract: I first review the physical basis for the universal maximal proper acceleration. Next, I introduce a new formulation for a relativistic scalar quantum field which generalizes the canonical theory to include the limiting proper acceleration. This field is then used to construct a simple model of an uncorrelated many-body system. I next argue that for a macroscopic object consisting of more than Avogadro's number of atoms, any supposed quantum state of the object is negligibly small, so that for all practical purposes, the object is best described by classical mechanics. Thus, a new explanation is offered for the quantum-to-classical transition and the absence of quantum superposition of macroscopic objects in the everyday world.

id: 1311.0016
title: Environmental dynamics, correlations, and the emergence of noncanonical equilibrium states in open quantum systems
authors: Jake Iles-Smith, Neill Lambert, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032114 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0016
abstract: Quantum systems are invariably open, evolving under surrounding influences rather than in isolation. Standard open quantum system methods eliminate all information on the environmental state to yield a tractable description of the system dynamics. By incorporating a collective coordinate of the environment into the system Hamiltonian, we circumvent this limitation. Our theory provides straightforward access to important environmental properties that would otherwise be obscured, allowing us to quantify the evolving system-environment correlations. As a direct result, we show that the generation of robust system-environment correlations that persist into equilibrium (heralded also by the emergence of non-Gaussian environmental states) renders the canonical system steady-state almost always incorrect. The resulting equilibrium states deviate markedly from those predicted by standard perturbative techniques and are instead fully characterised by thermal states of the mapped system-collective coordinate Hamiltonian. We outline how noncanonical system states could be investigated experimentally to study deviations from canonical thermodynamics, with direct relevance to molecular and solid-state nanosystems.

id: 1311.0017
title: Quantum mechanical which-way experiment with an internal degree of freedom
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Pawel Horodecki, Michal Karpinski, Czeslaw Radzewicz
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Comm. 4, 2594 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0017
abstract: For a particle travelling through an interferometer, the trade-off between the available which-way information and the interference visibility provides a lucid manifestation of the quantum mechanical wave-particle duality. Here we analyze this relation for a particle possessing an internal degree of freedom such as spin. We quantify the trade-off with a general inequality that paints an unexpectedly intricate picture of wave-particle duality when internal states are involved. Strikingly, in some instances which-way information becomes erased by introducing classical uncertainty in the internal degree of freedom. Furthermore, even imperfect interference visibility measured for a suitable set of spin preparations can be sufficient to infer absence of which-way information. General results are illustrated with a proof-of-principle single photon experiment.

id: 1311.0018
title: Master equation for dissipative interacting qubits in a common environment
authors: J. P. Santos, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022128 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0018
abstract: In this paper, we derive a microscopic master equation for a pair of XY-coupled two-level systems interacting with the same memoryless reservoir. In particular, we apply this master equation to the case of a pair of two-level atoms in free space where we can clearly contrast the predictions made with the microscopic master equation obtained here and the phenomenological approaches where the atom-atom coupling is included just \textit{a posteriori}, i.e, not taking into account in the derivation of the open system equation of motion. We show, for instance, that the phenomenological approach fails completely in the assessment of the role played by the symmetric and antisymmetric decay channels. As a consequence, the predictions related to collective effects such as superradiance, for instance, are misleading in the phenomenological approach. We also obtain the fluorescence spectrum using the microscopic model developed here.

id: 1311.0019
title: Thermalization, Error-Correction, and Memory Lifetime for Ising Anyon Systems
authors: Courtney G. Brell, Simon Burton, Guillaume Dauphinais, Steven T. Flammia, David Poulin
comments: 34 pages, 9 figures; v2 matches the journal version and corrects a misstatement about the detailed balance condition of our Metropolis simulations. All conclusions from v1 are unaffected by this correction
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031058 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0019
abstract: We consider two-dimensional lattice models that support Ising anyonic excitations and are coupled to a thermal bath. We propose a phenomenological model for the resulting short-time dynamics that includes pair-creation, hopping, braiding, and fusion of anyons. By explicitly constructing topological quantum error-correcting codes for this class of system, we use our thermalization model to estimate the lifetime of the quantum information stored in the encoded spaces. To decode and correct errors in these codes, we adapt several existing topological decoders to the non-Abelian setting. We perform large-scale numerical simulations of these two-dimensional Ising anyon systems and find that the thresholds of these models range between 13% to 25%. To our knowledge, these are the first numerical threshold estimates for quantum codes without explicit additive structure.

id: 1311.0070
title: Tunable slowing, storing and releasing of a weak microwave field
authors: Keyu Xia
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, article
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023815 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0070
abstract: We study the slowing, storing and releasing of microwave pulses in a superconducting circuits composed of two coplanar waveguide resonators and a superconducting transmon-type qubit. The quantum interference analogy to electromagnetically induced transparency is created in two coupled resonators. By tuning the resonance frequency of the transmon, we dynamically tune the effective coupling between the resonators. Via the modulation of the coupling, we show the tunable true time delay of microwave pulses at the single-photon level. We also store the microwave field in a high-Q resonator and release the signal from it to the output port. Our scheme promises applications in both quantum information processing and classical wireless communications.

id: 1311.0093
title: Quantum states as complex probabilities: The physics behind direct observations of photon wavefunctions in weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the 10th Rochester Conference on Coherence and Quantum Optics, CQO-X, held June 17-20 2013 at Rochester, NY, USA
journal: Coherence and Quantum Optics X, edited by N.P. Bigelow, J.H. Eberly, and C.R. Stroud, p. 191-195 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0093
abstract: Weak measurements of photon position can be used to obtain direct experimental evidence of the wavefunction of a photon between generation and ultimate detection. Significantly, these measurement results can also be understood as complex valued conditional probabilities of intermediate photon positions. It is therefore possible to interpret the quantum state as a complex valued probability distribution from which measurement probabilities can be derived according to Bayesian rules. The conventional measurement probabilities derived from squares of the wavefunction then describes the effects of measurement back-action, which originate from a non-classical relation between dynamics and statistics that is characteristic of quantum mechanics. It is pointed out that this relation can be used to derive the complete Hilbert space formalism directly from complex probabilities, without the axiomatic introduction of quantum states or operators.

id: 1311.0146
title: A comparison of the new exact solutions of the relativistic wave equations of a charged particle propagating in a strong laser field in an underdense plasma
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Some text overlaps with arXiv:1305.4370 and arXiv:1306.0097. Based on the talk delivered by the author at the 1st European Advanced Accelerator Concepts Workshop (2-7 June 2013, La Biodola, Isola d'Elba, Italy). Manuscript sent for the NIMA Proceedings, Special Issue: EAAC2013, under a slightly different title, but with the same content
journal: Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 740 (2014) 280-283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0146
abstract: The relativistic wave equations of a charged particle propagating in a classical monochromatic electromagnetic plane wave, in a medium of index of refraction n_m < 1, have been studied. In the Dirac case the found exact solutions [arXiv:1305.4370] are expressed in terms of new complex polynomials, and in the Klein-Gordon case they are expressed in term of Ince polynomials [arXiv:1306.0097]. In each case these solutions form a doubly infinite discrete set, parametrized by quantized momentum components of the charged particle along the polarization vector and along the propagation direction of the electromagnetic radiation (which may be considered as a plasmon wave of arbitrary high amplitude, propagating in an underdense plasma). These solutions describe a high-contrast periodic structure of the particle density on the plasma length scale, and they may have relevance in the study of novel acceleration mechanisms.

id: 1311.0159
title: A new view on spin reduced density matrix for relativistic particles
authors: E. R. F. Taillebois, A. T. Avelar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0159
abstract: We present a new interpretation for reduced density matrices of secondary variables in relativistic systems via an analysis of Wigner's method to construct the irreducible unitary representations of the Poincar\'e group. We argue that the usual partial trace method used to obtain spin reduced matrices is not fully rigorous, however, employing our interpretation, similar effective reduced density matrices can be constructed. In addition, we show that our proposal is more useful than the usual one since we are not restricted only to the reduced density matrices that could be obtained by the ordinary partial trace method.

id: 1311.0205
title: Quantum field theory solves the problem of the collapse of the wave function
authors: Alexey V. Melkikh
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0205
abstract: The problem of measurement in quantum mechanics is that the quantum particle in the course of evolution, as described by the linear Schrodinger equation, exists in all of its possible states, but in measuring, the particle is always detected in only one of its states. This property is called the "collapse of the wave function" and was formulated by Von Neumann as one of the postulates of quantum mechanics. However, it remains unclear at what point in time and under what laws this transition occurs. This article demonstrates that the collapse of the wave function may be due to the creation or annihilation of particles (quasi-particles). The processes of the creation or annihilation of particles play a key role in the measurements and are described on the basis of quantum field theory. The system of equations of quantum field theory of particles and fields is non-linear; as a result, the principle of superposition does not hold for the theory. The collapse of the wave function is a consequence of this non-linearity and occurs at the moment of creation (annihilation) of a particle. This result demonstrates that the wave function collapse can occur in both microscopic and macroscopic systems. Understanding the mechanisms of the collapse of the wave function can lead to the creation of microscopic devices involved in the calculations based on quantum computing.

id: 1311.0210
title: Quantum discord for two-qubit $X$-states: A comprehensive approach inspired by classical polarization optics
authors: Krishna Kumar Sabapathy, R. Simon
comments: 30 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0210
abstract: Classical correlation and quantum discord are computed for two-qubit $X$-states. Our approach, which is inspired by the methods of classical polarization optics, is geometric in the sense that the entire analysis is tied to the correlation ellipsoid of all normalized conditional states of the A-qubit with measurement elements applied to the B-qubit. Aspects of the computation which depend on the location of the reduced state of A inside the ellipsoid get clearly separated from those which do not. Our treatment is comprehensive\,: all known results are reproduced, often more economically, and several new insights and results emerge. Detailed reexamination of the famous work of Ali, Rau, and Alber [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 81}, 042105 (2010)], in the light of ours and a counterexample we manufacture against their principal theorem points to an uncommon situation in respect of their principal result\,: their theorem turns out to be `numerically correct' in all but a very tiny region in the space of $X$-states, notwithstanding the fact that their proof of the theorem seems to make, in the disguise of an unusual group theoretic argument, an {\em a priori} assumption equivalent to the theorem itself.

id: 1311.0237
title: Critical Missing Equation of Quantum Physics for Understanding Atomic Structures
authors: Xiaofei Huang
comments: Presented in the 12th international conference on Mathematical Results in Quantum Mechanics (QMATH12), Humboldt University of Berlin, September, 2013
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0237
abstract: This paper presents an optimization approach to explain why and how a quantum system evolves from an arbitrary initial state to a stationary state, satisfying the time-independent Schr\"{o}dinger equation. It also points out the inaccuracy of this equation, which is critial important in quantum mechanics and quantum chemistry, due to a fundamental flaw in it conflicting with the physical reality. The some directions are suggested on how to modify the equation to fix the problem

id: 1311.0249
title: A Solution to the Lorentzian Quantum Reality Problem
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0249
abstract: The quantum reality problem is that of finding a mathematically precise definition of a sample space of configurations of beables, events, histories, paths, or other mathematical objects, and a corresponding probability distribution, for any given closed quantum system. Given a solution, we can postulate that physical reality is described by one randomly chosen configuration drawn from the sample space. For a physically sensible solution, this postulate should imply quasiclassical physics in realistic models. In particular, it should imply the validity of Copenhagen quantum theory and classical dynamics in their respective domains. A Lorentzian solution applies to relativistic quantum theory or quantum field theory in Minkowski space and is defined in a way that respects Lorentz symmetry. We outline a new solution to the non-relativistic and Lorentzian quantum reality problems, and associated new generalizations of quantum theory.

id: 1311.0259
title: Error-disturbance relations for finite dimensional systems
authors: Asger C. Ipsen
comments: welcome. 17 pages. v2: Added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0259
abstract: We propose an error-disturbance relation for general observables on finite dimensional Hilbert spaces based on operational notions of error and disturbance. For two-dimensional systems we derive tight inequalities expressing the trade-off between accuracy and disturbance.

id: 1311.0275
title: Quantifying Coherence
authors: T. Baumgratz, M. Cramer, M. B. Plenio
comments: 11 pages, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0275
abstract: We introduce a rigorous framework for the quantification of coherence and identify intuitive and easily computable measures of coherence. We achieve this by adopting the viewpoint of coherence as a physical resource. By determining defining conditions for measures of coherence we identify classes of functionals that satisfy these conditions and other, at first glance natural quantities, that do not qualify as coherence measure. We conclude with an outline of the questions that remain to be answered to complete the theory of coherence as a resource.

id: 1311.0277
title: An Introduction to Topological Quantum Codes
authors: H. Bombin
comments: 35 pages, 22 figures, (c) Cambridge University Press
journal: "Topological Codes", in "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, Cambridge University Press, New York, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0277
abstract: This is the chapter \emph{Topological Codes} of the book \emph{Quantum Error Correction}, edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, Cambridge University Press, New York, 2013. this http URL

id: 1311.0357
title: Analysis of Quantum Linear Systems' Response to Multi-photon States
authors: Guofeng Zhang
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Automatica
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0357
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to present a mathematical framework for analyzing the response of quantum linear systems driven by multi-photon states. Both the factorizable (namely, no correlation among the photons in the channel) and unfactorizable multi-photon states are treated. Pulse information of multi-photon input state is encoded in terms of tensor, and response of quantum linear systems to multi-photon input states is characterized by tensor operations. Analytic forms of output correlation functions and output states are derived. The proposed framework is applicable no matter whether the underlying quantum dynamic system is passive or active. The results presented here generalize those in the single-photon setting studied in (Milburn, 2008) and (Zhang and James, 2013}). Moreover, interesting multi-photon interference phenomena studied in (Sanaka, Resch, and Zeilinger, 2006), (Ou, 2007), and (Bartley, et al., 2012) can be reproduced in the proposed framework

id: 1311.0403
title: Noisy Quantum Cellular Automata for Quantum vs Classical Excitation Transfer
authors: Michele Avalle, Alessio Serafini
comments: 5+2 pages, 5+2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 112, 170403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0403
abstract: We introduce a class of noisy quantum cellular automata on a qubit lattice that includes all classical Markov chains, as well as maps where quantum coherence between sites is allowed to build up over time. We apply such a construction to the problem of excitation transfer through 1-d lattices, and compare the performance of classical and quantum dynamics with equal local transition probabilities. Our discrete approach has the merits of stripping down the complications of the open system dynamics, of clearly isolating coherent effects, of allowing for an exact treatment of conditional dynamics, all while capturing a rich variety of dynamical behaviours.

id: 1311.0429
title: Evaporative cooling of reactive polar molecules confined in a two-dimensional geometry
authors: Bihui Zhu, Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner, Ana M. Rey, Murray J. Holland
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0429
abstract: Recent experimental developments in the loading of ultracold KRb molecules into quasi-two-dimensional traps, combined with the ability to tune the ratio between elastic and loss (inelastic/reactive) collisions through application of an external electric field, are opening the door to achieving efficient evaporative cooling of reactive polar molecules. In this paper, we use Monte Carlo simulations and semianalytic models to study theoretically the experimental parameter regimes in which evaporative cooling is feasible under current trapping conditions. We investigate the effect of the anisotropic character of dipole-dipole collisions and reduced dimensionality on evaporative cooling. We also present an analysis of the experimentally relevant anti-evaporation effects that are induced by chemical reactions that take place when more than one axial vibrational state is populated.

id: 1311.0470
title: Deterministic polarization entanglement purification using time-bin entanglement
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0470
abstract: We present a deterministic entanglement purification protocol (EPP) working for currently available experiment technique. In this protocol, we resort to the robust time-bin entanglement to purify the polarization entanglement determinately, which is quite different from the previous EPPs. After purification, one can obtain a completely pure maximally entangled pair with the success probability of 100%, in principle. As the maximal polarization entanglement is of vice importance in long-distance quantum communication, this protocol may have a wide application.

id: 1311.0509
title: Gaussian local unitary equivalence of $n$-mode Gaussian states and Gaussian transformations by local operations with classical communication
authors: G¨¦za Giedke, Barbara Kraus
comments: 16+pages; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012335 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0509
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for arbitrary multi--mode (pure or mixed) Gaussian states to be equivalent under Gaussian local unitary operations. To do so, we introduce a standard form for Gaussian states, which has the properties that (i) every state can be transformed into its standard form via Gaussian local unitaries and (ii) it is unique and (iii) it can be easily computed. Thus, two states are equivalent under Gaussian local unitaries iff their standard form coincides. We explicitly derive the standard form for two-- and three--mode Gaussian pure states. We then investigate transformations between these classes by means of Gaussian local operations assisted by classical communication. For three-mode pure states, we identify a global property that cannot be created but only destroyed by local operations. This implies that the highly entangled family of symmetric three--mode Gaussian states is not sufficient to generated all three-mode Gaussian states by local Gaussian operations.

id: 1311.0568
title: Nonlinear theory of laser-induced dipolar interactions in arbitrary geometry
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043419 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0568
abstract: Polarizable dipoles, such as atoms, molecules or nanoparticles, subject to laser radiation, may attract or repel each other. We derive a general formalism in which such laser-induced dipole-dipole interactions (LIDDI) in any geometry and for any laser strength are described in terms of the resonant dipole-dipole interaction (RDDI) between dipoles dressed by the laser. Our expressions provide a physically clear and technically simple route towards the analysis of LIDDI in a general geometry. This approach can treat both mechanical and internal-state interactions between the dipoles. Our general results reveal LIDDI effects due to nonlinear dipole-laser interactions, unaccounted for by previous treatments of LIDDI. We discuss, via several simple approaches, the origin of these nonlinear effects and their absence in previous works.

id: 1311.0635
title: A one-dimensional ultracold medium of extreme optical depth
authors: Frank Blatt, Thomas Halfmann, Thorsten Peters
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0635
abstract: We report on the preparation of a one-dimensional ultracold medium in a hollow-core photonic crystal fiber, reaching an effective optical depth of 1000(150). We achieved this extreme optical depth by transferring atoms from a magneto-optical trap into a far-detuned optical dipole trap inside the hollow-core fiber, yielding up to 2.5(3)$\times$10$^5$ atoms inside the core with a loading efficiency of $2.5(6)~\%$. The preparation of an ultracold medium of such huge optical depth paves the way towards new applications in quantum optics and nonlinear optics.

id: 1311.0666
title: The Gaussian-Smoothed Wigner Function and Its Application to Precision Analysis
authors: Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0666
abstract: We study a class of phase-space distribution functions that is generated from a Gaussian convolution of the Wigner distribution function. This class of functions represents the joint count probability in simultaneous measurements of position and momentum. We show that, using these functions, one can determine the expectation value of a certain class of operators accurately, even if measurement data performed only with imperfect detectors are available. As an illustration, we consider the eight-port homodyne detection experiment that performs simultaneous measurements of two quadrature amplitudes of a radiation field.

id: 1311.0699
title: Coherence trapping and information back-flow in dephasing qubits
authors: Carole Addis, Gregoire Brebner, Pinja Haikka, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. New references have been added to the introduction. Also including minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 024101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0699
abstract: We study the interplay between coherence trapping, information back-flow and the form of the reservoir spectral density for dephasing qubits. We show that stationary coherence is maximized when the qubit undergoes non-Markovian dynamics, and we elucidate the different roles played by the low and high frequency parts of the environmental spectrum. We show that the low frequencies fully determine the presence or absence of information back-flow while the high frequencies dictate the maximal amount of coherence trapping.

id: 1311.0765
title: The Tao of It and Bit
authors: Ovidiu Cristinel Stoica
comments: Fourth prize in the FQXi's 2013 Essay Contest "It from Bit or Bit from It?" (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0765
abstract: The main mystery of quantum mechanics is contained in Wheeler's delayed choice experiment, which shows that the past is determined by our choice of what quantum property to observe. This gives the observer a participatory role in deciding the past history of the universe. Wheeler extended this participatory role to the emergence of the physical laws ('law without law'). Since what we know about the universe comes in yes/no answers to our interrogations, this led him to the idea of 'it from bit' (which includes the participatory role of the observer as a key component). The yes/no answers to our observations ('bit') should always be compatible with the existence of at least a possible reality - a global solution ('it') of the Schr\"odinger equation. I argue that there is in fact an interplay between 'it' and 'bit'. The requirement of global consistency leads to apparently acausal and nonlocal behavior, explaining the weirdness of quantum phenomena. As an interpretation of Wheeler's 'it from bit' and 'law without law', I discuss the possibility that the universe is mathematical, and that there is a 'mother of all possible worlds' - named the 'Zero Axiom'.

id: 1311.0799
title: Kicked Dirac particle in a box
authors: V.E. Eshniyazov, D.U. Matrasulov, J.R. Yusupov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0799
abstract: We study quantum dynamics of a kicked relativistic spin-half particle in a one dimensional box. Time-dependence of the average kinetic energy and evolution of the wave packet are explored. Kicking potential is introduced as the Lorentz-scalar, i.e., through the mass-term in the Dirac equation. It is found that depending on the values of the kicking parameters E(t) can be periodic, monotonically growing and non-periodic function of time. Particle transport in the system is studied by considering spatio-temporal evolution of the Gaussian wave packet.Splitting of the packet into two symmetric parts and restoration of the profile of the packet is found.

id: 1311.0813
title: Quantropy
authors: John C. Baez, Blake S. Pollard
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0813
abstract: There is a well-known analogy between statistical and quantum mechanics. In statistical mechanics, Boltzmann realized that the probability for a system in thermal equilibrium to occupy a given state is proportional to exp(-E/kT) where E is the energy of that state. In quantum mechanics, Feynman realized that the amplitude for a system to undergo a given history is proportional to exp(-S/i hbar) where S is the action of that history. In statistical mechanics we can recover Boltzmann's formula by maximizing entropy subject to a constraint on the expected energy. This raises the question: what is the quantum mechanical analogue of entropy? We give a formula for this quantity, which we call "quantropy". We recover Feynman's formula from assuming that histories have complex amplitudes, that these amplitudes sum to one, and that the amplitudes give a stationary point of quantropy subject to a constraint on the expected action. Alternatively, we can assume the amplitudes sum to one and that they give a stationary point of a quantity we call "free action", which is analogous to free energy in statistical mechanics. We compute the quantropy, expected action and free action for a free particle, and draw some conclusions from the results.

id: 1311.0825
title: Unconditional Security of Time-energy Entanglement Quantum Key Distribution using Dual-basis Interferometry
authors: Zheshen Zhang, Jacob Mower, Dirk Englund, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0825
abstract: High-dimensional quantum key distribution (HDQKD) offers the possibility of high secure-key rate with high photon-information efficiency. We consider HDQKD based on the time-energy entanglement produced by spontaneous parametric downconversion, and show that it is secure against collective attacks. Its security rests upon visibility data -- obtained from Franson and conjugate-Franson interferometers -- that probe photon-pair frequency correlations and arrival-time correlations. From these measurements an upper bound can be established on the eavesdropper's Holevo information by translating the Gaussian-state security analysis for continuous-variable quantum key distribution so that it applies to our protocol. We show that visibility data from just the Franson interferometer provides a weaker, but nonetheless useful, secure-key rate lower bound. To handle multiple-pair emissions, we incorporate the decoy-state approach into our protocol. Our results show that over 200\,km transmission distance in optical fiber, time-energy entanglement HDQKD could permit a 700 bit/sec secure-key rate, and a photon information efficiency of 2 secure-key bits per photon coincidence in the key-generation phase using receivers with 15% system efficiency.

id: 1311.0837
title: Heisenberg uncertainty for qubit measurements
authors: Paul Busch, Pekka Lahti, Reinhard F Werner
comments: Version 3 contains further clarifications in our argument refuting the alleged violation of Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation. Some new material added on the connection between preparation uncertainty and approximation error relations
journal: Physical Review A 89, 012129 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0837
abstract: Reports on experiments recently performed in Vienna [Erhard et al, Nature Phys. 8, 185 (2012)] and Toronto [Rozema et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100404 (2012)] include claims of a violation of Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation. In contrast, we have presented and proven a Heisenberg-type relation for joint measurements of position and momentum [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160405 (2013)]. To resolve the apparent conflict, we formulate here a new general trade-off relation for errors in qubit measurements, using the same concepts as we did in the position-momentum case. We show that the combined errors in an approximate joint measurement of a pair of +/-1 valued observables A,B are tightly bounded from below by a quantity that measures the degree of incompatibility of A and B. The claim of a violation of Heisenberg is shown to fail as it is based on unsuitable measures of error and disturbance. Finally we show how the experiments mentioned may directly be used to test our error inequality.

id: 1311.0857
title: "It from bit" and the quantum probability rule
authors: M. S. Leifer
comments: First prize winner of 2013 fqxi.org essay contest, "It from bit, or bit from it?". See this http URL and links therein. v1: LaTeX 10 pages v2: 14 pages. Updated for publication in Springer Frontiers Collection volume
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0857
abstract: I argue that, on the subjective Bayesian interpretation of probability, "it from bit" requires a generalization of probability theory. This does not get us all the way to the quantum probability rule because an extra constraint, known as noncontextuality, is required. I outline the prospects for a derivation of noncontextuality within this approach and argue that it requires a realist approach to physics, or "bit from it". I then explain why this does not conflict with "it from bit". This version of the essay includes an addendum responding to the open discussion that occurred on the FQXi website. It is otherwise identical to the version submitted to the contest.

id: 1311.0879
title: Gauge Color Codes
authors: H. Bombin
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, minimal changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0879
abstract: Color codes are topological stabilizer codes with unusual transversality properties. Here I show that their group of transversal gates only depends on the spatial dimension, not the local geometry. I also introduce a generalized, gauge version of color codes. In 3D they allow the transversal implementation of a universal set of gates by gauge fixing, while error-dectecting measurements involve only 4 or 6 qubits.

id: 1311.0885
title: Homological Product Codes
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 49 pages
journal: Proc. of the 46th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC 2014), pp. 273-282 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0885
abstract: Quantum codes with low-weight stabilizers known as LDPC codes have been actively studied recently due to their simple syndrome readout circuits and potential applications in fault-tolerant quantum computing. However, all families of quantum LDPC codes known to this date suffer from a poor distance scaling limited by the square-root of the code length. This is in a sharp contrast with the classical case where good families of LDPC codes are known that combine constant encoding rate and linear distance. Here we propose the first family of good quantum codes with low-weight stabilizers. The new codes have a constant encoding rate, linear distance, and stabilizers acting on at most $\sqrt{n}$ qubits, where $n$ is the code length. For comparison, all previously known families of good quantum codes have stabilizers of linear weight. Our proof combines two techniques: randomized constructions of good quantum codes and the homological product operation from algebraic topology. We conjecture that similar methods can produce good stabilizer codes with stabilizer weight $n^a$ for any $a>0$. Finally, we apply the homological product to construct new small codes with low-weight stabilizers.

id: 1311.0943
title: Generation of picosecond pulsed coherent state superpositions
authors: Ruifang Dong, Anders Tipsmark, Amine Laghaout, Leonid A. Krivitsky, Miroslav Je?ek, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0943
abstract: We present the generation of approximated coherent state superpositions - referred to as Schr\"odinger cat states - by the process of subtracting single photons from picosecond pulsed squeezed states of light at 830 nm. The squeezed vacuum states are produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in a periodically poled KTiOPO4 crystal while the single photons are probabilistically subtracted using a beamsplitter and a single photon detector. The resulting states are fully characterized with time-resolved homodyne quantum state tomography. Varying the pump power of the SPDC, we generated different states which exhibit non-Gaussian behavior.

id: 1311.0949
title: Time optimal quantum control of two-qubit systems
authors: Bin Li, Zu-Huan Yu, Shao-Ming Fei, XianQing Li-Jost
comments: 11 pages
journal: Science China G 56 (2013) 2116-2121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0949
abstract: We study the optimal quantum control of heteronuclear two-qubit systems described by a Hamiltonian containing both nonlocal internal drift and local control terms. We derive an explicit formula to compute the minimum time required to steer the system from an initial state to a specified final state. As applications the minimal time to implement Controlled-NOT gate, SWAP gate and Controlled-U gate is calculated in detail. The experimental realizations of these quantum gates are explicitly presented.

id: 1311.0978
title: Strongly Coupled Diamond Spin Qubits by Molecular Nitrogen Implantation
authors: Takashi Yamamoto, Christoph M¨¹ller, Liam P. McGuinness, Tokuyuki Teraji, Boris Naydenov, Shinobu Onoda, Takeshi Ohshima, J?rg Wrachtrup, Fedor Jelezko, Junichi Isoya
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review B: rapid communications
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 201201(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0978
abstract: Ionized nitrogen molecules ($^{15}$N$_{2}^+$) are used as efficient point sources for creating NV$^-$ pairs in diamond with nanoscale spatial separation and up to 55 kHz magnetic coupling strength. Co-implantation of $^{12}$C$^+$ increased the yield of pairs, and a $^{13}$C-depleted diamond allowed 0.65 ms coherence times to be obtained. Further coupling to a third dark spin provided a strongly coupled three spin register. These results mark an important step towards realization of multi-qubit systems and scalable NV$^-$ quantum registers.

id: 1311.0982
title: Adiabatic approximation for three qubits ultrastrongly coupled to a harmonic oscillator
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Rong-Xin Chen, Huai-Zhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0982
abstract: We study the system involving mutual interaction between three qubits and an oscillator within the ultrastrong coupling regime. We apply adiabatic approximation approach to explore two extreme regimes: (i) the oscillator's frequency is far larger than each qubit's frequency and (ii) the qubit's frequency is far larger than the oscillator's frequency, and analyze the energy-level spectrum and the ground-state property of the qubit-oscillator system under the conditions of various system parameters. For the energy-level spectrum, we concentrate on studying the degeneracy in low energy levels. For the ground state, we focus on its nonclassical properties that are necessary for preparing the nonclassical states. We show that the minimum qubit-oscillator coupling strength needed for generating the nonclassical states of the Schr\"{o}dinger-cat type in the oscillator is just one half of that in the Rabi model. We find that the qubit-qubit entanglement in the ground state vanishes if the qubit-oscillator coupling strength is strong enough, for which the entropy of three qubits keeps larger than one. We also observe the phase-transition-like behavior in the regime where the qubit's frequency is far larger than the oscillator's frequency.

id: 1311.0998
title: Atomic Kapitza-Dirac effect with quadrupole transitions
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0998
abstract: Interactions between atoms and light fields are usually described in the electric-dipole approximation. We show that electric-quadrupole terms are important in the Kapitza-Dirac arrangement for light gratings on resonance with a quadrupole atomic transition. We derive the diffraction patterns, which in some cases are experimentally verifiable with the same techniques used with dipole transitions.

id: 1311.1036
title: Reduced conditional dynamic of quantum system under indirect quantum measurement
authors: George Miroshnichenko, Alexander Trifanov
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics 2013, Stockholm, Sweden
journal: Nanosystems, 2013, V. 5(4), pp. 635-647
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1036
abstract: In this report, we study the reduced conditional dynamics of a quantum system in the case of indirect quantum measurement. The detectors microscopic part (pointer) interacts with the measured system (target) and the environment, which results in a nonunitary interaction between target and pointer. The quantum state evolution conditioned by the measurement result is under investigation. Particularly, we are interested in explicit analytical expressions for the conditional evolution superoperators and basic information characteristics of this measurement process, which is applied to the cavity mode photodetection problem.

id: 1311.1074
title: Repeat-Until-Success: Non-deterministic decomposition of single-qubit unitaries
authors: Adam Paetznick, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures. (v2): Slightly improved T scaling, improved achievable approximation accuracy with gearbox circuits, fixed several clerical errors
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 14(15 & 16): 1277-1301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1074
abstract: We present a decomposition technique that uses non-deterministic circuits to approximate an arbitrary single-qubit unitary to within distance $\epsilon$ and requires significantly fewer non-Clifford gates than existing techniques. We develop "Repeat-Until-Success" (RUS) circuits and characterize unitaries that can be exactly represented as an RUS circuit. Our RUS circuits operate by conditioning on a given measurement outcome and using only a small number of non-Clifford gates and ancilla qubits. We construct an algorithm based on RUS circuits that approximates an arbitrary single-qubit $Z$-axis rotation to within distance $\epsilon$, where the number of $T$ gates scales as $1.26\log_2(1/\epsilon) - 3.53$, an improvement of roughly three-fold over state-of-the-art techniques. We then extend our algorithm and show that a scaling of $2.4\log_2(1/\epsilon) - 3.28$ can be achieved for arbitrary unitaries and a small range of $\epsilon$, which is roughly twice as good as optimal deterministic decomposition methods.

id: 1311.1095
title: Universal decoherence due to gravitational time dilation
authors: Igor Pikovski, Magdalena Zych, Fabio Costa, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4+2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1095
abstract: Phenomena inherent to quantum theory on curved space-time, such as Hawking radiation, are typically assumed to be only relevant at extreme physical conditions: at high energies and in strong gravitational fields. Here we consider low-energy quantum mechanics in the presence of weak gravitational time dilation and show that the latter leads to universal decoherence of quantum superpositions. Time dilation induces a universal coupling between internal degrees-of-freedom and the centre-of-mass of a composite particle and we show that the resulting entanglement causes the particle's position to decohere. We derive the decoherence timescale and show that the weak time dilation on Earth is already sufficient to decohere micro-scale objects. No coupling to an external environment is necessary, thus even completely isolated composite systems will decohere on curved space-time. In contrast to gravitational collapse models, no modification of quantum theory is assumed. General relativity therefore can account for the emergence of classicality and the effect can in principle be tested in future matter wave experiments with large molecules or with trapped microspheres.

id: 1311.1128
title: Generating a state $t$-design by diagonal quantum circuits
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Masato Koashi, Mio Murao
comments: ver. 1: 15 pages, 1 figures. ver.2: 16 pages, 2 figures, major changes, we corrected a mistake, which slightly changes a main conclusion, added a new result, and improved a presentation. ver.3: 11 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 053043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1128
abstract: We investigate protocols for generating a state $t$-design by using a fixed separable initial state and a diagonal-unitary $t$-design in the computational basis, which is a $t$-design of an ensemble of diagonal unitary matrices with random phases as their eigenvalues. We first show that a diagonal-unitary $t$-design generates a $O(1/2^N)$-approximate state $t$-design, where $N$ is the number of qubits. We then discuss a way of improving the degree of approximation by exploiting non-diagonal gates after applying a diagonal-unitary $t$-design. We also show that it is necessary and sufficient to use $O(\log_2 t)$-qubit gates with random phases to generate a diagonal-unitary $t$-design by diagonal quantum circuits, and that each multi-qubit diagonal gate can be replaced by a sequence of multi-qubit controlled-phase-type gates with discrete-valued random phases. Finally, we analyze the number of gates for implementing a diagonal-unitary $t$-design by {\it non-diagonal} two- and one-qubit gates. Our results provide a concrete application of diagonal quantum circuits in quantum informational tasks.

id: 1311.1152
title: Repeatable measurements and the collapse postulate
authors: Michael Zirpel
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1152
abstract: J. v. Neumann justified the collapse postulate by the empirical fact of the repeatability of a measurement at a single quantum system. However, in his quantum mechanical treatment of the measurement process repeatability emerges without collapse. The entangled state of the measurement device and the measured system after their interaction ensures it already. Furthermore, this state gives the same predictions for the measured system alone as the description demanded by the collapse postulate.

id: 1311.1180
title: Catching Shaped Microwave Photons with 99.4% Absorption Efficiency
authors: J. Wenner, Yi Yin, Yu Chen, R. Barends, B. Chiaro, E. Jeffrey, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, J. Y. Mutus, C. Neill, P. J. J. O'Malley, P. Roushan, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, T. C. White, Alexander N. Korotkov, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: Main paper: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supplement: 11 pages, 12 figures. Revised abstract and introduction. Minor changes to Figure 1 and figure captions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1180
abstract: We demonstrate a high efficiency deterministic quantum receiver to convert flying qubits to logic qubits. We employ a superconducting resonator, which is driven with a shaped pulse through an adjustable coupler. For the ideal "time reversed" shape, we measure absorption and receiver fidelities at the single microwave photon level of, respectively, 99.41% and 97.4%. These fidelities are comparable with gates and measurement and exceed the deterministic quantum communication and computation fault tolerant thresholds.

id: 1311.1233
title: Finite-key analysis of high-dimensional time-energy entanglement-based quantum key distribution
authors: Catherine Lee, Jacob Mower, Zheshen Zhang, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Dirk Englund
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 14, Issue 3 (2015), Page 1005-1015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1233
abstract: We present a security analysis against collective attacks for the recently proposed time-energy entanglement-based quantum key distribution protocol, given the practical constraints of single photon detector efficiency, channel loss, and finite-key considerations. We find a positive secure-key capacity when the key length increases beyond $10^4$ for eight-dimensional systems. The minimum key length required is reduced by the ability to post-select on coincident single-photon detection events. Including finite-key effects, we show the ability to establish a shared secret key over a 200 km fiber link.

id: 1311.1282
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics Impact on the Foundations of Statistical Mechanics
authors: Heng-Na Xiong, Ping-Yuan Lo, Wei-Min Zhang, Franco Nori, Da Hsuan Feng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1282
abstract: The foundations of statistical mechanics, namely how equilibrium hypothesis emerges microscopically from quantum theory, is explored through investigating the environment-induced quantum decoherence processes. Based on the recent results on non-Markovian dynamics [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 170402 (2012)], we find that decoherence of quantum states manifests unexpected complexities. Indeed, an arbitrary given initial quantum state, under the influence of different reservoirs, can evolve into four different steady states: thermal, thermal-like, quantum memory and oscillating quantum memory states. The first two steady states \textit{de facto} provided a rigorous proof how the system relaxes to thermal equilibrium with its environment. The latter two steady states, with strong non-Markovian effects, will maintain the initial state information and not reach thermal equilibrium, which is beyond the conventional wisdom of statistical mechanics.

id: 1311.1285
title: Minimal energy cost of thermodynamic information processes only with entanglement transfer
authors: Hiroyasu Tajima
comments: 6pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1285
abstract: We present the minimal energy costs for the measurement and the information erase, using only the Helmholtz free energy and the entanglement of formation. The entanglement of formation appears in the form of difference which indicates the amount of entanglement transfer on the memory during the processes; the cost of the measurement is given by the entanglement gain, whereas the cost of the information erase is given by the loss of available entanglement. Putting together the present Letter and Rev. E 88, 042143 (2013), we can describe the violation and the restoration of the second law only in terms of the entanglement of formation; both of the excess of extracted work from thermodynamics with information process over the conventional second law and the total cost of the information process are given by the entanglement of formation, and the former is less than or equal to the latter.

id: 1311.1326
title: Evaporating black holes have leaky horizons or exotic atmospheres
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Stefano Pirandola
comments: Appendices generalize the analysis to allow for arbitrary infallen matter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1326
abstract: Classically, black holes are compact objects with perfect semi-permeable horizons: Anything may enter, nothing may leave. We consider an axiomatic approach that applies to any black hole type, including arbitrarily near-extremal black holes, that can unitarily evaporate away completely by any mechanism. We show that a quantum black hole must either have a leaky horizon (allowing quantum information out), or it must look very different from its classical counterpart having an external neighborhood consisting of exotic matter with super-ordinary entropic content (such as an `atmosphere' of microscopic black holes).

id: 1311.1341
title: Beyond information: A bit of meaning
authors: Olaf Dreyer
comments: Submission to the 2013 FQXi essay contest. 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1341
abstract: Is our world just information? We argue that our current notion of information has one serious shortcoming: It is quite literally meaningless. We suggest a meaningful extension of the notion of information that is dynamic, internal, approximate, contains an element of randomness, and is layered. This new notion of information derives from the interactions of material objects. Our answer to the essay question then is Bit from It or, more appropriately, Bit++ from It. We discuss how our new notion of information sheds light on the measurement problem in quantum mechanics and how it can be applied in philosophy and computer science.

id: 1311.1375
title: On Realization Theory of Quantum Linear Systems
authors: John E. Gough, Guofeng Zhang
comments: 26 pages,3 figures, submitted for publication. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1375
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to study the realization theory of quantum linear systems. It is shown that for a general quantum linear system its controllability and observability are equivalent and they can be checked by means of a simple matrix rank condition. Based on controllability and observability a specific realization is proposed for general quantum linear systems in which an uncontrollable and unobservable subspace is identified. When restricted to the passive case, it is found that a realization is minimal if and only if it is Hurwitz stable. Computational methods are proposed to find the cardinality of minimal realizations of a quantum linear passive system. It is found that the transfer function of a quantum linear passive system $G$ can be written as a fractional form in terms of a matrix function $\Sigma$; moreover, $G$ is lossless bounded real if and only if $\Sigma$ is lossless positive real. A type of realization for multi-input-multi-output quantum linear passive systems is derived, which is closely related to its controllability and observability decomposition. Two realizations, namely the independent-oscillator realization and the chain-mode realization, are proposed for single-input-single-output quantum linear passive systems, and it is shown that under the assumption of minimal realization, the independent-oscillator realization is unique, and these two realizations are related to the lossless positive real matrix function $\Sigma$.

id: 1311.1410
title: The efficiency of quantum tomography based on photon detection
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, S.P.Kulik
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10 (2013) 125202 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1410
abstract: We propose a general methodology for efficient statistical reconstruction of a quantum state through collection and analysis of photon counting statistics. Our approach includes both strict quantitative criteria for adequacy and completeness of the statistical inverse problem, as well as a simple and reliable method for evaluating errors in the reconstructed state and approximation of a quantum state by means of the reduced finite-dimensional model.

id: 1311.1462
title: Steering, incompatibility, and Bell inequality violations in a class of probabilistic theories
authors: Neil Stevens, Paul Busch
comments: Minor corrections and improvements in version 2
journal: Physical Review A 89, 022123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1462
abstract: We show that connections between a degree of incompatibility of pairs of observables and the strength of violations of Bell's inequality found in recent investigations can be extended to a general class of probabilistic physical models. It turns out that the property of universal uniform steering is sufficient for the saturation of a generalised Tsirelson bound, corresponding to maximal violations of Bell's inequality. It is also found that a limited form of steering is still available and sufficient for such saturation in some state spaces where universal uniform steering is not given. The techniques developed here are applied to the class of regular polygon state spaces, giving a strengthening of known results. However, we also find indications that the link between incompatibility and Bell violation may be more complex than originally envisaged.

id: 1311.1466
title: The theory of the double preparation: discerned and indiscerned particles
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1466
abstract: In this paper we propose a deterministic and realistic quantum mechanics interpretation which may correspond to Louis de Broglie's "double solution theory". Louis de Broglie considers two solutions to the Schr\"odinger equation, a singular and physical wave u representing the particle (soliton wave) and a regular wave representing probability (statistical wave). We return to the idea of two solutions, but in the form of an interpretation of the wave function based on two different preparations of the quantum system. We demonstrate the necessity of this double interpretation when the particles are subjected to a semi-classical field by studying the convergence of the Schr\"odinger equation when the Planck constant tends to 0. For this convergence, we reexamine not only the foundations of quantum mechanics but also those of classical mechanics, and in particular two important paradox of classical mechanics: the interpretation of the principle of least action and the the Gibbs paradox. We find two very different convergences which depend on the preparation of the quantum particles: particles called indiscerned (prepared in the same way and whose initial density is regular, such as atomic beams) and particles called discerned (whose density is singular, such as coherent states). These results are based on the Minplus analysis, a new branch of mathematics that we have developed following Maslov, and on the Minplus path integral which is the analog in classical mechanics of the Feynman path integral in quantum mechanics. The indiscerned (or discerned) quantum particles converge to indiscerned (or discerned) classical particles and we deduce that the de Broglie-Bohm pilot wave is the correct interpretation for the indiscerned quantum particles (wave statistics) and the Schr\"odinger interpretation is the correct interpretation for discerned quantum particles (wave soliton). Finally, we show that this double interpretation can be extended to the non semi-classical case.

id: 1311.1492
title: Prospects for storage and retrieval of a quantum dot single photon in an ultracold $^{87}$Rb ensemble
authors: Matthew T. Rakher, Richard J. Warburton, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053834 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1492
abstract: Epitaxially grown quantum dots (QDs) are promising sources of non-classical states of light such as single photons and entangled photons. However, in order for them to be used as a resource for long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum computation, or linear optics quantum computing, these photons must be coupled efficiently to long-lived quantum memories as part of a quantum repeater network. Here, we theoretically examine the prospects for efficient storage and retrieval of a QD-generated single photon with a 1 ns lifetime in a multi-level atomic system. We calculate using an experimentally demonstrated optical depth of 150 that the storage (total) efficiency can exceed 46% (28%) in a dense, ultracold ensemble of $^{87}$Rb atoms. Furthermore, we find that the optimal control pulse required for storage and retrieval can be obtained using a diode laser and an electro-optic modulator rather than a mode-locked, pulsed laser source. Increasing the optical depth, for example by using Bose-condensed ensembles or an optical cavity, can increase the efficiencies to near unity. Aside from enabling a high-speed quantum network based on QDs, such an efficient optical interface between an atomic ensemble and a QD can also lead to entanglement between collective spin-wave excitations of atoms and the spin of an electron or hole confined in the QD.

id: 1311.1516
title: Optimization of quantum state tomography in the presence of experimental constraints
authors: Mohammadreza Mohammadi, Agata M. Branczyk
comments: Additional discussion and minor edits; 7 pages (main text), 11 pages (total), 4 figures; comments very welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1516
abstract: In the absence of experimental constraints, optimal measurement schemes for quantum state tomography are well understood. We consider the scenario where the experimenter doesn't have arbitrary freedom to construct their measurement set, and may therefore not be able to implement a known optimal scheme. We introduce a simple procedure for minimizing the uncertainty in the reconstructed quantum state for an arbitrary tomographic scheme. We do this by defining a figure of merit based on the equally-weighted variance of the measurement statistics. This figure of merit is straightforwardly based on the singular value decomposition of the measurement matrix, making it well-suited for optimization.

id: 1311.1525
title: Certifying the dimension of classical and quantum systems in a prepare-and-measure scenario with independent devices
authors: Joseph Bowles, Marco Tulio Quintino, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1525
abstract: We consider the problem of testing the dimension of uncharacterised classical and quantum systems in a prepare-and-measure setup. Here we assume the preparation and measurement devices to be independent, thereby making the problem non-convex. We present a simple method for generating nonlinear dimension witnesses for systems of arbitrary dimension. The simplest of our witnesses is highly robust to technical imperfections, and can certify the use of qubits in the presence of arbitrary noise and arbitrarily low detection efficiency. Finally, we show that this witness can be used to certify the presence of randomness, suggesting applications in quantum information processing.

id: 1311.1533
title: General quantum error-correcting code with entanglement based on codeword stabilized quantum code
authors: Jeonghwan Shin, Jun Heo, Todd A. Brun
comments: 8 pages, no figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1533
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a unified framework to construct entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes, including additive and nonadditive codes, based on the codeword stabilized framework on subsystems. The codeword stabilized (CWS) framework is a scheme to construct quantum error-correcting codes (QECCs) including both additive and nonadditive codes, and gives a method to construct a QECC from a classical error-correcting code in standard form. Entangled pairs of qubits (ebits) can be used to improve capacity of quantum error correction. In addition, it gives a method to overcome the dual-containing constraint. Operator quantum error correction (OQEC) gives a general framework to construct quantum error-correcting codes. We construct OQEC codes with ebits based on the CWS framework. This new scheme, entanglement-assisted operator codeword stabilized (EAOCWS) quantum codes, is the most general framework we know of to construct both additive and nonadditive codes from classical error-correcting codes. We describe the formalism of our scheme, demonstrate the construction with examples, and give several EAOCWS codes.

id: 1311.1534
title: Interactive proofs for BQP via self-tested graph states (extended abstract)
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 13 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1309.5675
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1534
abstract: Using the measurement-based quantum computation model, we construct interactive proofs with non-communicating quantum provers and a classical verifier. Our construction gives interactive proofs for all languages in BQP with a polynomial number of quantum provers, each of which, in the honest case, performs only a single measurement. Our techniques use self-tested graph states which allow us to test the provers for honesty, establishing that they hold onto a particular graph state and measure it in specified bases. In this extended abstract we give an overview of the construction and proofs.

id: 1311.1536
title: Asymptotic State Discrimination and a Strict Hierarchy in Distinguishability Norms
authors: Eric Chitambar, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: Corrected errors from the previous draft. Close to publication form
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 112204 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1536
abstract: In this paper, we consider the problem of discriminating quantum states by local operations and classical communication (LOCC) when an arbitrarily small amount of error is permitted. This paradigm is known as asymptotic state discrimination, and we derive necessary conditions for when two multipartite states of any size can be discriminated perfectly by asymptotic LOCC. We use this new criterion to prove a gap in the LOCC and separable distinguishability norms. We then turn to the operational advantage of using two-way classical communication over one-way communication in LOCC processing. With a simple two-qubit product state ensemble, we demonstrate a strict majorization of the two-way LOCC norm over the one-way norm.

id: 1311.1551
title: Evolution of physical observables and entropy in laser process studied on the basis of Kraus-form solution of laser's master equation
authors: Jun-Hua Chen, Hong-Yi Fan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1551
abstract: Though laser physics began at 1960s, its entropy evolution has not been touched until very recently the Kraus-form solution of laser's master equation is reported (Ann. Phys. 334 (2013)). We study the new physics based on the discovery in this paper. We analyze time evolution of physical observables and quantum optical properties in the laser process with arbitrary initial states, such as the photon number, the second degree of coherence, etc. The evolution of entropy of these states is also studied. Our results well conform with the known behaviour of laser, which confirms that the master equation describes laser suitably, and the Kraus-form operator solution is correct, elegant and useful.

id: 1311.1559
title: Single-atom quantum control of macroscopic mechanical oscillators
authors: F. Bariani, J. Otterbach, Huatang Tan, P. Meystre
comments: 5 + 1 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 011801(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1559
abstract: We investigate a hybrid electro-mechanical system consisting of a pair of charged macroscopic mechanical oscillators coupled to a small ensemble of Rydberg atoms. The resonant dipole-dipole coupling between an internal atomic Rydberg transition and the mechanics allows cooling to its motional ground state with a single atom despite the considerable mass imbalance between the two subsystems. We show that the rich electronic spectrum of Rydberg atoms, combined with their high degree of optical control, paves the way towards implementing various quantum-control protocol for the mechanical oscillators.

id: 1311.1564
title: Reply to Comment on "System-environment coupling derived by Maxwell's boundary conditions from the weak to the ultrastrong light-matter-coupling regime"
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: Reply to arXiv:1307.5615 by Simone De Liberato on Phys. Rev. A 88, 013814 (2013) [arXiv:1301.3960]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 017802 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1564
abstract: As mentioned by Simone De Liberato [arXiv:1307.5615], when we suppose the metallic thin mirror and perform the renormalization additionally to the approach starting from the frequently-used system-environment coupling Hamiltonian, we can certainly resolve the discrepancy of its result from that obtained by the reliable approach in the main discussion of our paper [Phys. Rev. A 88, 013814 (2013), arXiv:1301.3960]. Although the suggested approach is currently applicable to the specific situation after checking its validity by our reliable but cumbersome approach, we instead propose to start from the system-environment coupling Hamiltonian determined properly by the mechanism of the confinement and loss of the cavity fields. This approach is applicable to any cavity structures in principle, and we do not face the renormalization problem appearing in the comment.

id: 1311.1582
title: Quantum Key Distribution From A Random Seed
authors: Eduin H Serna
comments: 3 pages, 1 Table, revtex4, submitted for publication. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1582
abstract: It is designed a new quantum cryptography protocol that generates various secret and secure keys of the same size of the transmitted qubits, implying zero information losses between the interlocutors. Besides, generates key swapping between the two recipients of photons, without even sharing a past between them. This protocol differs from BB84 just in the classic procedures, using a random seed and asymmetric cryptography.

id: 1311.1588
title: Analytical energy spectrum for hybrid mechanical systems
authors: Honghua Zhong, Qiongtao Xie, Xiwen Guan, Murray T. Batchelor, Kelin Gao, Chaohong Lee
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 045301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1588
abstract: We investigate the energy spectrum for hybrid mechanical systems described by non-parity-symmetric quantum Rabi models. A set of analytical solutions in terms of the confluent Heun functions and their analytical energy spectrum are obtained. The analytical energy spectrum includes regular and exceptional parts, which are both confirmed by direct numerical simulation. The regular part is determined by the zeros of the Wronskian for a pair of analytical solutions. The exceptional part is relevant to the isolated exact solutions and its energy eigenvalues are obtained by analyzing the truncation conditions for the confluent Heun functions. By analyzing the energy eigenvalues for exceptional points, we obtain the analytical conditions for the energy-level-crossings, which correspond to two-fold energy degeneracy.

id: 1311.1593
title: Quantum speedup in a memory environment
authors: Zhen-Yu Xu, Shunlong Luo, W. L. Yang, Chen Liu, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1593
abstract: Memory (non-Markovian) effect is found to be able to accelerate quantum evolution [S. Deffner and E. Lutz, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 010402 (2013)]. In this work, for an atom in a structured reservoir, we show that the mechanism for the speedup is not only related to non-Markovianity but also to the population of excited states under a given driving time. In other words, it is the competition between non-Markovianity and population of excited states that ultimately determines the acceleration of quantum evolution in memory environment. A potential experimental realization for verifying the above phenomena is discussed by using a nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) center embedded in a planar photonic crystal cavity (PCC) under the current experimental conditions.

id: 1311.1619
title: Transfer Matrices as Non-Unitary S-Matrices, Multimode Unidirectional Invisibility, and Perturbative Inverse Scattering
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, missing definition of one of the symbols added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012709 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1619
abstract: We show that in one dimension the transfer matrix M of any scattering potential v coincides with the S-matrix of an associated time-dependent non-Hermitian 2 x 2 matrix Hamiltonian H(\tau). If v is real-valued, H(\tau) is pseudo-Hermitian and its exceptional points correspond to the classical turning points of v. Applying time-dependent perturbation theory to H(\tau) we obtain a perturbative series expansion for M and use it to study the phenomenon of unidirectional invisibility. In particular, we establish the possibility of having multimode unidirectional invisibility with wavelength-dependent direction of invisibility and construct various physically realizable optical potentials possessing this property. We also offer a simple demonstration of the fact that the off-diagonal entries of the first Born approximation for M determine the form of the potential. This gives rise to a perturbative inverse scattering scheme that is particularly suitable for optical design. As a simple application of this scheme, we construct an infinite-range unidirectionally invisible potential.

id: 1311.1622
title: Efficient experimental validation of photonic boson sampling against the uniform distribution
authors: N. Spagnolo, C. Vitelli, M. Bentivegna, D. J. Brod, A. Crespi, F. Flamini, S. Giacomini, G. Milani, R. Ramponi, P. Mataloni, R. Osellame, E. F. Galvao, F. Sciarrino
comments: 5+2 pages, 4 figures, minor changes
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 615 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1622
abstract: A boson sampling device is a specialised quantum computer that solves a problem which is strongly believed to be computationally hard for classical computers. Recently a number of small-scale implementations have been reported, all based on multi-photon interference in multimode interferometers. In the hard-to-simulate regime, even validating the device's functioning may pose a problem . In a recent paper, Gogolin et al. showed that so-called symmetric algorithms would be unable to distinguish the experimental distribution from the trivial, uniform distribution. Here we report new boson sampling experiments on larger photonic chips, and analyse the data using a scalable statistical test recently proposed by Aaronson and Arkhipov. We show the test successfully validates small experimental data samples against the hypothesis that they are uniformly distributed. We also show how to discriminate data arising from either indistinguishable or distinguishable photons. Our results pave the way towards larger boson sampling experiments whose functioning, despite being non-trivial to simulate, can be certified against alternative hypotheses.

id: 1311.1666
title: Quantum Circuits and Spin(3n) Groups
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: v1. REVTeX 4-1, 2 columns, 10 pages, no figures, v3. extended, LaTeX2e, 1 col., 23+2 pages, v4. typos, accepted for publication
journal: Q. Inf. Comp., vol. 15, no.3/4, pp. 235-259, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1666
abstract: All quantum gates with one and two qubits may be described by elements of $Spin$ groups due to isomorphisms $Spin(3) \simeq SU(2)$ and $Spin(6) \simeq SU(4)$. However, the group of $n$-qubit gates $SU(2^n)$ for $n > 2$ has bigger dimension than $Spin(3n)$. A quantum circuit with one- and two-qubit gates may be used for construction of arbitrary unitary transformation $SU(2^n)$. Analogously, the `$Spin(3n)$ circuits' are introduced in this work as products of elements associated with one- and two-qubit gates with respect to the above-mentioned isomorphisms. The matrix tensor product implementation of the $Spin(3n)$ group together with relevant models by usual quantum circuits with $2n$ qubits are investigated in such a framework. A certain resemblance with well-known sets of non-universal quantum gates e.g., matchgates, noninteracting-fermion quantum circuits) related with $Spin(2n)$ may be found in presented approach. Finally, a possibility of the classical simulation of such circuits in polynomial time is discussed.

id: 1311.1671
title: Maximally discordant separable two qubit $X$ states
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: Preliminary draft, comment(s)/suggestion(s) welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1671
abstract: In a recent article S. Gharibian [\href{this http URL}{Phys. Rev. A {\bf 86}, 042106 (2012)}] has conjectured that no two qubit separable state of rank greater than two could be maximally non classical (defined to be those which have normalized geometric discord $1/4$) and asked for an analytic proof. In this work we prove analytically that among the subclass of $X$ states, there is a unique (up to local unitary equivalence) maximal separable state of rank two. Partial progress has been made towards the general problem and some necessary conditions have been derived.

id: 1311.1739
title: General model for simulation of the measurement-device independent quantum key distribution
authors: Qin Wang, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1739
abstract: We present a general model on the simulation of the measurement-device independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD). It can be used to predict experimental observations of a MDI-QKD with linear channel loss, simulating corresponding values for the gains, the error rates in different basis, and also the final key rates. Our model can be applicable to the MDI-QKDs with whatever convex source states or using whatever coding schemes. Therefore, it is useful in characterizing and evaluating the performance of any MDI-QKD protocols, making it a valuable tool in studying the quantum key distributions.

id: 1311.1836
title: A New Stochastic Model of the Causal Interpretation of Quantum Theory on the Development of the Fundamental Concept of Mass
authors: Muhamad Darwis Umar
comments: 59 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1836
abstract: In this paper we pose two fundamental ideas on the motion of an elementary particle supporting the internal "spin motion" or $\textit{Zitterbewegung}$ and a particle as concentrated energy. First, the particle moves randomly in a limited area (in a quantum sized-volume) like random vibrating system where the particle will diffuse in a quantum-sized volume when it absorbs or emits the quantized amount of energy. The quantum sized-volume can move too and plays role similar to the carrier amplitude, while the vibrational motion of the fundamental particle with frequency and amplitude represents a modulating signal. The current of diffusion process taking place in the quantum sized-volume will represent the emergence of a spin phenomenon shown by the existence of Clifford algebra. Second, the particle is pure energy concentrated on the surface of 3 dimensional sphere-form (2-manifold without boundary). Afterward we show that by defining the particle mass as an invariant quantity based on the two fundamental ideas, we can derive both the diffusion constant of the particle in the quantum sized-volume as $\beta = \hslash/2m$ and the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Furthermore, by posing that the vibrational motion of the particle limited on the quantum sized-volume plays fundamental role as time interval unit (proper time or particle clock), we show that the relativistic effects of the particle must represent atomic processes.

id: 1311.1851
title: Quantum Algorithms for Approximating the Effective Resistances in Electrical Networks
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 24 pages, 2 figure. Lower bound added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1851
abstract: The theory of electrical network has many applications in algorithm design and analysis. It is an important task to compute the basic quantities about electrical networks, such as electrical flows and effective resistances, as quickly as possible. Classically, to compute these quantities, one basically need to solve a Laplacian linear system, and the best known algorithms take $\tilde{O}(m)$ time, where $m$ is the number of edges. In this paper, we present two quantum algorithms for approximating the effective resistance between any two vertices in an electrical network. Both of them have time complexity polynomial in $\log{n}$, $d$, $c$, $1/\phi$ and $1/\epsilon$, where $n$ is the number of vertices, $d$ is the maximum degree of the vertices, $c$ is the ratio of the largest to the smallest edge resistance, $\phi$ is the expansion of the network, and $\epsilon$ is the relative error. In particular, when $d$ and $c$ are small and $\phi$ is large, our algorithms run very fast. In contrast, it is unknown whether classical algorithms can solve this case very fast. Furthermore, we prove that the polynomial dependence on the inverse expansion (i.e. $1/\phi$) is necessary. As a consequence, our algorithms cannot be significantly improved. Finally, as a by-product, our second algorithm also produces a quantum state approximately proportional to the electrical flow between any two vertices, which might be of independent interest. Our algorithms are based on using quantum tools to analyze the algebraic properties of graph-related matrices. While one of them relies on inverting the Laplacian matrix, the other relies on projecting onto the kernel of the weighted incidence matrix. It is hopeful that more quantum algorithms can be developed in similar way.

id: 1311.1889
title: Configurable unitary transformations and linear logic gates using quantum memories
authors: G. T. Campbell, O. Pinel, M. Hosseini, T. C. Ralph, B. C. Buchler, P. K. Lam
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 063601, Aug 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1889
abstract: We show that a set of optical memories can act as a configurable linear optical network operating on frequency-multiplexed optical states. Our protocol is applicable to any quantum memories that employ off-resonant Raman transitions to store optical information in atomic spins. In addition to the configurability, the protocol also offers favourable scaling with an increasing number of modes where N memories can be configured to implement an arbitrary N-mode unitary operations during storage and readout. We demonstrate the versatility of this protocol by showing an example where cascaded memories are used to implement a conditional CZ gate.

id: 1311.1920
title: Generalized coherent states
authors: T.G. Philbin
comments: 8 pages, references added
journal: Am. J. Phys. 82 (2014) 742
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1920
abstract: In the coherent state of the harmonic oscillator, the probability density is that of the ground state subjected to an oscillation along a classical trajectory. Senitzky and others pointed out that there are states of the harmonic oscillator corresponding to an identical oscillatory displacement of the probability density of any energy eigenstate. These generalizations of the coherent state are rarely discussed, yet they furnish an interesting set of quantum states of light that combine features of number states and coherent states. Here we give an elementary account of the quantum optics of generalized coherent states.

id: 1311.1945
title: Decoherence in a fermion environment: Non-Markovianity and Orthogonality Catastrophe
authors: F. Plastina, A. Sindona, J. Goold, N. Lo Gullo, S. Lorenzo
comments: 
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 20, 1340005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1945
abstract: We analyze the non-Markovian character of the dynamics of an open two-level atom interacting with a gas of ultra-cold fermions. In particular, we discuss the connection between the phenomena of orthogonality catastrophe and Fermi edge singularity occurring in such a kind of environment and the memory-keeping effects which are displayed in the time evolution of the open system.

id: 1311.1953
title: Chaotic Interference and Quantum-Classical Correspondence: Mechanisms of Decoherence and State Mixing
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Oleg V. Zhirov
comments: 38 pages, 6 figures, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1953
abstract: The famous Nils Bohr's quantum-classical correspondence principle states that the classical mechanics is a limiting case of the more general quantum mechanics. This implies that ``under certain conditions" quantum laws of motion become equivalent to classical laws. One of the conditions is fairly obvious: the corresponding classical action should be very large as compared with the Planck's constant. But this condition is not sufficient. Suppression of effects of quantum interference ("decoherence") is the phenomenon of primary importance for understanding of the Bohr's principle. Being, in essence, of quite general nature, this problem takes on special significance in the case of non-linear classically chaotic quantum systems. Whereas the rapid decay of phase correlations is an underlying feature of the classical dynamical chaos, the "quantum chaos" by itself is not capable of destroying the quantum phase coherence. Strictly speaking, any initially pure quantum state remains pure during an arbitrary long unitary evolution. Basically, formation of incoherent mixed states (decoherence) results only from the process of preparation of a mixed initial state or interaction with a noisy environment. Just the decoherence brigdes the quantum and classical worlds. Peculiarities of the time behavior of Peres fidelity, state purity, Shanon and von Neumann entropies are analyzed in detail. We demonstrate the ways the decoherence shows up in periodically driven systems that can be associated with Ramsey-type interferomentry experiments with ion traps. Finally, decoherence in ballistic electron quantum transport caused by interaction with a disordered environment is considered.

id: 1311.1963
title: Stochastic Master Equation Analysis of Optimized Three-Qubit Nondemolition Parity Measurement
authors: L. Tornberg, Sh. Barzanjeh, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1963
abstract: We analyze a direct parity measurement of the state of three superconducting qubits in circuit quantum electrodynamics. The parity is inferred from a homodyne measurement of the reflected/transmitted microwave radiation and the measurement is direct in the sense that the parity is measured without the need for any quantum circuit operations or for ancilla qubits. Qubits are coupled to two resonant cavity modes, allowing the steady state of the emitted radiation to satisfy the necessary conditions to act as a pointer state for the parity. However, the transient dynamics violates these conditions and we analyze this detrimental effect and show that it can be overcome in the limit of weak measurement signal. Our analysis shows that, with a moderate degree of post-selection, it is possible to achieve post-measurement states with fidelity of order 95%. We believe that this type of measurement could serve as a benchmark for future error-correction protocols in a scalable architecture.

id: 1311.1982
title: Efficient saturation of an ion in free space
authors: Martin Fischer, Marianne Bader, Robert Maiwald, Andrea Golla, Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1982
abstract: We report on the demonstration of a light-matter interface coupling light to a single $^{174}\textrm{Yb}^+$ ion in free space. The interface is realized through a parabolic mirror partially surrounding the ion. It transforms a Laguerre-Gaussian beam into a linear dipole wave converging at the mirror's focus. By measuring the non-linear response of the atomic transition we deduce the power required for reaching an upper-level population of $1/4$ to be $692\pm20~\textrm{pW}$ at half linewidth detuning from the atomic resonance. Performing this measurement while scanning the ion through the focus provides a map of the focal intensity distribution. From the measured power we infer a coupling efficiency of $7.2\pm0.2~\%$ on the linear dipole transition when illuminating from half solid angle, being among the best coupling efficiencies reported for a single atom in free space.

id: 1311.2045
title: Competition between memory-keeping and memory-erasing decoherence channels
authors: Tony J. G. Apollaro, Salvatore Lorenzo, Carlo Di Franco, Francesco Plastina, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2045
abstract: We study the competing effects of simultaneous Markovian and non-Markovian decoherence mechanisms acting on a single spin. We show the existence of a threshold in the relative strength of such mechanisms above which the spin dynamics becomes fully Markovian, as revealed by the use of several non-Markovianity measures. We identify a measure-dependent nested structure of such thresholds, hinting at a causality relationship amongst the various non-Markovianity witnesses used in our analysis. Our considerations are then used to argue the unavoidably non-Markovian evolution of a single-electron quantum dot exposed to both intrinsic and Markovian technical noise, the latter of arbitrary strength.

id: 1311.2052
title: Localization-like effect in two-dimensional alternate quantum walks with periodic coin operations
authors: Carlo Di Franco, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012328 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2052
abstract: Exploiting multi-dimensional quantum walks as feasible platforms for quantum computation and quantum simulation is attracting constantly growing attention from a broad experimental physics community. Here, we propose a two-dimensional quantum walk scheme with a single-qubit coin that presents, in the considered regimes, a strong localization-like effect on the walker. The result could provide new possible directions for the implementation of quantum algorithms or from the point of view of quantum simulation. We characterize the localization-like effect in terms of the parameters of a step-dependent qubit operation that acts on the coin space after any standard coin operation, showing that a proper choice can guarantee a non-negligible probability of finding the walker in the origin even for large times. We finally discuss the robustness to imperfections, a qualitative relation with coherences behavior, and possible experimental realizations of this model with the current state-of-the-art settings.

id: 1311.2062
title: Bent waveguides for matter-waves: supersymmetric potentials and reflectionless geometries
authors: Adolfo del Campo, Malcolm G. Boshier, Avadh Saxena
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 5274 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2062
abstract: Non-zero curvature in a waveguide leads to the appearance of an attractive quantum potential which crucially affects the dynamics in matter-wave circuits. Using methods of supersymmetric quantum mechanics, pairs of bent waveguides are found whose geometry-induced potentials share the same scattering properties. As a result, reflectionless waveguides, dual to the straight waveguide, are identified. Strictly isospectral waveguides are also found by modulating the depth of the trapping potential. Numerical simulations are used to demonstrate the efficiency of these approaches in tailoring and controlling curvature-induced quantum-mechanical effects.

id: 1311.2091
title: Generalized master equation for modular exciton density transfer
authors: Seogjoo Jang, Stephan Hoyer, Graham Fleming, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2091
abstract: A generalized master equation (GME) governing quantum evolution of modular exciton density (MED) is derived for large scale light harvesting systems composed of weakly interacting modules of multiple chromophores. The GME-MED offers a practical framework to incorporate real time coherent quantum dynamics calculations at small length scales into dynamics over large length scales, without assumptions of time scale separation or specific forms of intra-module quantum dynamics. A test of the GME-MED for four sites of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex demonstrates how coherent dynamics of excitonic populations over many coupled chromophores can be accurately described by transitions between subgroups (modules) of delocalized excitons.

id: 1311.2107
title: Tunable Bound States in Continuum by Optical Frequency
authors: Yingyue Boretz, Gonzalo Ordonez, Satoshi Tanaka, Tomio Petrosky
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023853 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2107
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of tunable bound-states in continuum (BIC) in a 1-dimensional quantum wire with two impurities induced by an intense monochromatic radiation field. We found that there is a new type of BIC due to the Fano interference between two optical transition channels, in addition to the ordinary BIC due to a geometrical interference between electron wave functions emitted by impurities. In both cases the BIC can be achieved by tuning the frequency of the radiation field.

id: 1311.2128
title: Quantum Commuting Circuits and Complexity of Ising Partition Functions
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2128
abstract: Instantaneous quantum polynomial-time (IQP) computation is a class of quantum computation consisting only of commuting two-qubit gates and is not universal in the sense of standard quantum computation. Nevertheless, it has been shown that if there is a classical algorithm that can simulate IQP efficiently, the polynomial hierarchy (PH) collapses at the third level, which is highly implausible. However, the origin of the classical intractability is still less understood. Here we establish a relationship between IQP and computational complexity of the partition functions of Ising models. We apply the established relationship in two opposite directions. One direction is to find subclasses of IQP that are classically efficiently simulatable in the strong sense, by using exact solvability of certain types of Ising models. Another direction is applying quantum computational complexity of IQP to investigate (im)possibility of efficient classical approximations of Ising models with imaginary coupling constants. Specifically, we show that there is no fully polynomial randomized approximation scheme (FPRAS) for Ising models with almost all imaginary coupling constants even on a planar graph of a bounded degree, unless the PH collapses at the third level. Furthermore, we also show a multiplicative approximation of such a class of Ising partition functions is at least as hard as a multiplicative approximation for the output distribution of an arbitrary quantum circuit.

id: 1311.2172
title: Entanglement of three cavity fields via resonant interactions with dressed three-level atoms
authors: Jinhua Zou
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2172
abstract: In this paper we show that three cavity fields can be entangled when they are tuned on resonance with an ensemble of dressed three-level atoms. The master equation for the three cavity modes is derived by using atomic dressed states and the inseparability of the three output cavity modes is described by using a sufficient criterion proposed by van Loock and Furusawa. The physical cause is the atomic coherence effects, by which the quantum correlations are created in the field dynamics.

id: 1311.2212
title: Equilibration and prethermalization in the Bose-Hubbard and Fermi-Hubbard models
authors: F. Queisser, K. V. Krutitsky, P. Navez, R. Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.2164
journal: Phys.Rev.A 89, 033616 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2212
abstract: We study the Bose and Fermi Hubbard model in the (formal) limit of large coordination numbers $Z\gg1$. Via an expansion into powers of $1/Z$, we establish a hierarchy of correlations which facilitates an approximate analytical derivation of the time-evolution of the reduced density matrices for one and two sites etc. With this method, we study the quantum dynamics (starting in the ground state) after a quantum quench, i.e., after suddenly switching the tunneling rate $J$ from zero to a finite value, which is still in the Mott regime. We find that the reduced density matrices approach a (quasi) equilibrium state after some time. For one lattice site, this state can be described by a thermal state (within the accuracy of our approximation). However, the (quasi) equilibrium state of the reduced density matrices for two sites including the correlations cannot be described by a thermal state. Thus, real thermalization (if it occurs) should take much longer time. This behavior has already been observed in other scenarios and is sometimes called ``pre-thermalization.'' Finally, we compare our results to numerical simulations for finite lattices in one and two dimensions and find qualitative agreement.

id: 1311.2233
title: Ultrafast nonlocal control of spontaneous emission
authors: Chao-Yuan Jin, Robert Johne, Milo Y. Swinkels, Thang B. Hoang, Leonardo Midolo, Peter J. van Veldhoven, Andrea Fiore
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 9, 886-890 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2233
abstract: Solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics systems will form scalable nodes of future quantum networks, allowing the storage, processing and retrieval of quantum bits, where a real-time control of the radiative interaction in the cavity is required to achieve high efficiency. We demonstrate here the dynamic molding of the vacuum field in a coupled-cavity system to achieve the ultrafast nonlocal modulation of spontaneous emission of quantum dots in photonic crystal cavities, on a timescale of ~200 ps, much faster than their natural radiative lifetimes. This opens the way to the ultrafast control of semiconductor-based cavity quantum electrodynamics systems for application in quantum interfaces and to a new class of ultrafast lasers based on nano-photonic cavities.

id: 1311.2263
title: Deterministic entanglement distillation for secure double-server blind quantum computation
authors: Lan Zhou, Yu-Bo Sheng
comments: 5 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2263
abstract: Blind quantum computation (BQC) provides an efficient method for the client who does not have enough sophisticated technology and knowledge to perform universal quantum computation. The single-server BQC protocol requires the client to have some minimum quantum ability, while the double-server BQC protocol makes the client's device completely classical, resorting to the pure and clean Bell-state shared by two servers. In this paper, we provide a deterministic entanglement distillation protocol in a practical noisy environment for the double-server BQC protocol. This protocol can obtain the pure maximally entangled Bell state with the success probability of 100% in principle. The distilled maximally entangled states can be remaind to perform the BQC protocol subsequently. The parties who perform the distillation protocol do not need to exchange the classical information and they learn nothing from the client. It makes this protocol unconditionally secure and suitable for current BQC protocol.

id: 1311.2266
title: Room-temperature ultra-sensitive mass spectrometer via dynamic decoupling
authors: Nan Zhao, Zhang-qi Yin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2266
abstract: We propose an ultra-sensitive mass spectrometer based on a coupled quantum-bit-oscillator system. Under dynamical decoupling control of the quantum bit (qubit), the qubit coherence exhibits a comb structure in time domain. The time-comb structure enables high precision measurement of oscillator frequency, which can be used as an ultra-sensitive mass spectrometer. Surprisingly, in ideal case, the sensitivity of the proposed mass spectrometer, which scales with the temperature $T$ as $T^{-1/2}$, has better performance in higher temperature. While taking into account qubit and oscillator decay, we show that the optimal sensitivity is independent on environmental temperature $T$. With present technology on solid state spin qubit and high-quality optomechanical system, our proposal is feasible to realize an ultra-sensitive mass spectrometer in room temperature.

id: 1311.2277
title: Level spacing statistics and spectral correlations in the diffuse van der Waals clusters
authors: Sudip Kumar Haldar, Barnali Chakrabarti, N. D. Chavda, T. K. Das, S. Canuto, V. K. B. Kota
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 043607(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2277
abstract: We present a statistical analysis of eigenenergies and discuss several measures of spectral fluctuations and spectral correlations for the van der Waals clusters of different sizes. We show that the clusters become more and more complex with increase in cluster size. We study nearest-neighbour level spacing distribution $P(s)$, the level number variance $\Sigma^2(L)$, and the Dyson-Mehta $\Delta_3-$statistics for various cluster sizes. For large clusters we find that although the Bohigas-Giannoni-Schmit (BGS) conjecture seems to be valid, it does not exhibit true signatures of quantum chaos. However contrasting conjecture of Berry and Tabor is observed with smaller cluster size. For small number of bosons, we observe the existence of large number of quasi-degenerate states in low-lying excitation which exhibits the Shnirelman peak in $P(s)$ distribution. We also find a narrow region of intermediate spectrum which can be described by semi-Poisson statistics whereas the higher levels are regular and exhibit Poisson statistics. These observations are further supported by the analysis of the distribution of the ratio of consecutive level spacings $P(r)$ which is independent of unfolding procedure and thereby provides a tool for more transparent comparison with experimental findings than $P(s)$. Thus our detail numerical study clearly shows that the van der Waals clusters become more correlated with the increase in cluster size.

id: 1311.2301
title: Spectral Engineering of Slow Light, Cavity Line Narrowing, and Pulse Compression
authors: Mahmood Sabooni, Qian Li, Lars Rippe, R. Krishna Mohan, Stefan Kroll
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1304.4456
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2301
abstract: More than 4 orders of magnitude of cavity-linewidth narrowing in a rare-earth-ion-doped crystal cavity, emanating from strong intracavity dispersion caused by off-resonant interaction with dopant ions, is demonstrated. The dispersion profiles are engineered using optical pumping techniques creating significant semipermanent but reprogrammable changes of the rare-earth absorption profiles. Several cavity modes are shown within the spectral transmission window. Several possible applications of this phenomenon are discussed.

id: 1311.2316
title: A strong laser impact on spin precession of a charged particle in the semi-relativistic interaction regime
authors: Arsen Khvedelidze, Dimitar Mladenov
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2316
abstract: In the present note new effects concerned the dynamics of a charged spin-1/2 particle in a strong monochromatic plane wave background are discussed beyond the conventional dipole approximation. Namely using the semiclassical approach in the semi-relativistic regime it is shown that the magnetic forces associated with the laser field have been retained and alter the spin evolution appreciably.

id: 1311.2328
title: Three-dimensional light-matter interface for collective spin squeezing in atomic ensembles
authors: Ben Q. Baragiola, Leigh M. Norris, Enrique Montano, Pascal G. Mickelson, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033850 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2328
abstract: We study the three-dimensional nature of the quantum interface between an ensemble of cold, trapped atomic spins and a paraxial laser beam, coupled through a dispersive interaction. To achieve strong entanglement between the collective atomic spin and the photons, one must match the spatial mode of the collective radiation of the ensemble with the mode of the laser beam while minimizing the effects of decoherence due to optical pumping. For ensembles coupling to a probe field that varies over the extent of the cloud, the set of atoms that indistinguishably radiates into a desired mode of the field defines an inhomogeneous spin wave. Strong coupling of a spin wave to the probe mode is not characterized by a single parameter, the optical density, but by a collection of different effective atom numbers that characterize the coherence and decoherence of the system. To model the dynamics of the system, we develop a full stochastic master equation, including coherent collective scattering into paraxial modes, decoherence by local inhomogeneous diffuse scattering, and backaction due to continuous measurement of the light entangled with the spin waves. This formalism is used to study the squeezing of a spin wave via continuous quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement. We find that the greatest squeezing occurs in parameter regimes where spatial inhomogeneities are significant, far from the limit in which the interface is well approximated by a one-dimensional, homogeneous model.

id: 1311.2351
title: Paradoxical quantum scattering off a time dependent potential
authors: Ori Reinhardt, Moshe Schwartz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2351
abstract: We consider the quantum scattering off a time dependent barrier in one dimension. Our initial state is the eigenstate of the potential t time t=0, corresponding to a plane wave travelling from left to right. It consists, of course, of an incoming plane wave and a reflected plane wave on the left of the barrier and a transmitted wave on its right. We find that at later times, the evolving wave function has a finite overlap with right going eigenstates of the Hamiltonian at time t=0. For simplicity we present an exact result for a time dependent delta function potential. Then we show that our result is not an artifact of that specific choice of the potential. This surprising result does not get along with our classical interpretation of this problem.

id: 1311.2368
title: Data Search by a Laser Ising Machine with Gradual Pumping or Coupling
authors: Kenta Takata, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2368
abstract: We study two operational schemes for a coherent Ising machine based on an injection-locked laser network. These schemes gradually increase the pumping rate or the mutual coupling among the slave lasers. We numerically simulate the two schemes against a data search problem implemented with the Ising model in cubic graphs without frustration. We show the machine can achieve a better success probability and effective computational time to find a target/ground state with these gradual schemes than those with the abrupt introduction of the mutual injection which has been studied previously. The computational time simulated with typical parameters is almost constant up to the problem size M = 200 and turns into a nearly linear scale holding up to M = 1000.

id: 1311.2377
title: Entanglement-assisted electron microscopy based on a flux qubit
authors: Hiroshi Okamoto, Yukinori Nagatani
comments: 8 pages, 3 fugures
journal: final version: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 062604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2377
abstract: A notorious problem in high-resolution biological electron microscopy is radiation damage to the specimen caused by probe electrons. Hence, acquisition of data with minimal number of electrons is of critical importance. Quantum approaches may represent the only way to improve the resolution in this context, but all proposed schemes to date demand delicate control of the electron beam in highly unconventional electron optics. Here we propose a scheme that involves a flux qubit based on a radio-frequency superconducting quantum interference device (rf-SQUID), inserted in essentially a conventional transmission electron microscope. The scheme significantly improves the prospect of realizing a quantum-enhanced electron microscope for radiation-sensitive specimens.

id: 1311.2397
title: Nonlinear quantum dynamics in a PT-symmetric double well
authors: Daniel Haag, Dennis Dast, Andreas L?hle, Holger Cartarius, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, additions in the text, two figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2397
abstract: We investigate the mean-field dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) described by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) in a double-well potential with particle gain and loss, rendering the system PT-symmetric. The stationary solutions of the system show a change from elliptically stable behavior to hyperbolically unstable behavior caused by the appearance of PT-broken solutions of the GPE and influenced by the nonlinear interaction. The dynamical behavior is visualized using the Bloch sphere formalism. However, the dynamics is not restricted to the surface of the sphere due to the nonlinear and non-Hermitian nature of the system.

id: 1311.2454
title: The position-momentum symmetry principle
authors: Alberto C. de la Torre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2454
abstract: It is shown that the Fourier transformation that relates position and momentum representations of quantum mechanics can be understood as a consequence of a symmetry principle that establishes the equivalence of being and becoming in the description of reality. There are however other transformation compatible with the same principle that could lead to different formalisms of quantum mechanics.

id: 1311.2479
title: Degenerate Parametric Amplification of Squeezed Photons: Explicit Solutions, Statistics, Means and Variances
authors: P. B. Acosta-Humanez, S. I. Kryuchkov, E. Suazo, S. K. Suslov
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure, 4 appendices and 120 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2479
abstract: In the Schroedinger picture, we find explicit solutions for two models of degenerate parametric oscillators in the case of multiparameter squeezed input photons. The corresponding photon statistics and Wigner's function are also derived in coordinate representation. Their time evolution is investigated in detail. The unitary transformation is briefly discussed too.

id: 1311.2485
title: Continuous-time quantum error correction
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, this is a chapter in the book "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013), at this http URL
journal: In "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2485
abstract: Continuous-time quantum error correction (CTQEC) is an approach to protecting quantum information from noise in which both the noise and the error correcting operations are treated as processes that are continuous in time. This chapter investigates CTQEC based on continuous weak measurements and feedback from the point of view of the subsystem principle, which states that protected quantum information is contained in a subsystem of the Hilbert space. We study how to approach the problem of constructing CTQEC protocols by looking at the evolution of the state of the system in an encoded basis in which the subsystem containing the protected information is explicit. This point of view allows us to reduce the problem to that of protecting a known state, and to design CTQEC procedures from protocols for the protection of a single qubit. We show how previously studied CTQEC schemes with both direct and indirect feedback can be obtained from strategies for the protection of a single qubit via weak measurements and weak unitary operations. We also review results on the performance of CTQEC with direct feedback in cases of Markovian and non-Markovian decoherence, where we have shown that due to the existence of a Zeno regime in non-Markovian dynamics, the performance of CTQEC can exhibit a quadratic improvement if the time resolution of the weak error-correcting operations is high enough to reveal the non-Markovian character of the noise process.

id: 1311.2510
title: Ab-initio characterization of the quantum linear-zigzag transition using DMRG
authors: Pietro Silvi, Tommaso Calarco, Giovanna Morigi, Simone Montangero
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 094103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2510
abstract: Ions of the same charge inside confining potentials can form crystalline structures which can be controlled by means of the ions density and of the external trap parameters. In particular, a linear chain of trapped ions exhibits a transition to a zigzag equilibrium configuration, which is controlled by the strength of the transverse confinement. Studying this phase transition in the quantum regime is a challenging problem, even when employing numerical methods to simulate microscopically quantum many-body systems. Here we present a compact analytical treatment to map the original long-range problem into a short-range quantum field theory on a lattice. We provide a complete numerical architecture, based on Density Matrix Renormalization Group, to address the effective quantum phi-four model. This technique is instrumental in giving a complete characterization of the phase diagram, as well as pinpoint the universality class of the criticality.

id: 1311.2534
title: Tracking Photon Jumps with Repeated Quantum Non-Demolition Parity Measurements
authors: L. Sun, A. Petrenko, Z. Leghtas, B. Vlastakis, G. Kirchmair, K. M. Sliwa, A. Narla, M. Hatridge, S. Shankar, J. Blumoff, L. Frunzio, M. Mirrahimi, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 6 pages with 4 figures for the main text, 14 pages with 9 figures for supplementary material
journal: Nature 511, 444-448 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2534
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is required for a practical quantum computer because of the fragile nature of quantum information. In QEC, information is redundantly stored in a large Hilbert space and one or more observables must be monitored to reveal the occurrence of an error, without disturbing the information encoded in an unknown quantum state. Such observables, typically multi-qubit parities such as <XXXX>, must correspond to a special symmetry property inherent to the encoding scheme. Measurements of these observables, or error syndromes, must also be performed in a quantum non-demolition (QND) way and faster than the rate at which errors occur. Previously, QND measurements of quantum jumps between energy eigenstates have been performed in systems such as trapped ions, electrons, cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers, and superconducting qubits. So far, however, no fast and repeated monitoring of an error syndrome has been realized. Here, we track the quantum jumps of a possible error syndrome, the photon number parity of a microwave cavity, by mapping this property onto an ancilla qubit. This quantity is just the error syndrome required in a recently proposed scheme for a hardware-efficient protected quantum memory using Schr\"{o}dinger cat states in a harmonic oscillator. We demonstrate the projective nature of this measurement onto a parity eigenspace by observing the collapse of a coherent state onto even or odd cat states. The measurement is fast compared to the cavity lifetime, has a high single-shot fidelity, and has a 99.8% probability per single measurement of leaving the parity unchanged. In combination with the deterministic encoding of quantum information in cat states realized earlier, our demonstrated QND parity tracking represents a significant step towards implementing an active system that extends the lifetime of a quantum bit.

id: 1311.2537
title: Visualization of Rabi oscillations in a magnetic resonance
authors: E.A. Ivanchenko
comments: revtex4-1, 15 pages, 10 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2537
abstract: A visualization scheme for dynamics of a qudit polarization vector in a time-dependent magnetic field is presented by solving equations for a density matrix in Hermitian basis. This is realized by means of mapping solution for the polarization vector on the three-dimensional spherical curve (vector hodograph). The obtained results obviously display the interference of precessional and nutational effects on the polarization vector in a magnetic resonance. The study can find the practical applications in a magnetic resonance and 3D visualization of computational data.

id: 1311.2555
title: Hamiltonian gadgets with reduced resource requirements
authors: Yudong Cao, Ryan Babbush, Jacob Biamonte, Sabre Kais
comments: 33 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 91, Issue 1, 012315, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2555
abstract: Application of the adiabatic model of quantum computation requires efficient encoding of the solution to computational problems into the lowest eigenstate of a Hamiltonian that supports universal adiabatic quantum computation. Experimental systems are typically limited to restricted forms of 2-body interactions. Therefore, universal adiabatic quantum computation requires a method for approximating quantum many-body Hamiltonians up to arbitrary spectral error using at most 2-body interactions. Hamiltonian gadgets, introduced around a decade ago, offer the only current means to address this requirement. Although the applications of Hamiltonian gadgets have steadily grown since their introduction, little progress has been made in overcoming the limitations of the gadgets themselves. In this experimentally motivated theoretical study, we introduce several gadgets which require significantly more realistic control parameters than similar gadgets in the literature. We employ analytical techniques which result in a reduction of the resource scaling as a function of spectral error for the commonly used subdivision, 3- to 2-body and $k$-body gadgets. Accordingly, our improvements reduce the resource requirements of all proofs and experimental proposals making use of these common gadgets. Next, we numerically optimize these new gadgets to illustrate the tightness of our analytical bounds. Finally, we introduce a new gadget that simulates a $YY$ interaction term using Hamiltonians containing only $\{X,Z,XX,ZZ\}$ terms. Apart from possible implications in a theoretical context, this work could also be useful for a first experimental implementation of these key building blocks by requiring less control precision without introducing extra ancillary qubits.

id: 1311.2612
title: What dynamics can be expected for mixed states in two-slit experiments?
authors: A. Luis, A. S. Sanz
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 357, 95 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2612
abstract: Weak-measurement-based experiments [Kocsis et al., Science 332 (2011) 1170] have shown that, at least for pure states, the average evolution of independent photons in Young's two-slit experiment is in compliance with the trajectories prescribed by the Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics. But, what happens if the same experiment is repeated assuming that the wave function associated with each particle is different, i.e., in the case of mixed (incoherent) states? This question is investigated here by means of two alternative numerical simulations of Young's experiment, purposely devised to be easily implemented and tested in the laboratory. Contrary to what could be expected a priori, it is found that even for conditions of maximal mixedness or incoherence (total lack of interference fringes), experimental data will render a puzzling and challenging outcome: the average particle trajectories will still display features analogous to those for pure states, i.e., independently of how mixedness arises, the associated dynamics is influenced by both slits at the same time. Physically this simply means that weak measurements are not able to discriminate how mixedness arises in the experiment, since they only provide information about the averaged system dynamics.

id: 1311.2619
title: The New Quantum Logic
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor changes and corrections to bring into conformity with published version
journal: Found. Phys. 44 (June, 2014) pp. 610-640
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2619
abstract: It is shown how all the major conceptual difficulties of standard (textbook) quantum mechanics, including the two measurement problems and the (supposed) nonlocality that conflicts with special relativity, are resolved in the consistent or decoherent histories interpretation of quantum mechanics by using a modified form of quantum logic to discuss quantum properties (subspaces of the quantum Hilbert space), and treating quantum time development as a stochastic process. The histories approach in turn gives rise to some conceptual difficulties, in particular the correct choice of a framework (probabilistic sample space) or family of histories, and these are discussed. The central issue is that the principle of unicity, the idea that there is a unique single true description of the world, is incompatible with our current understanding of quantum mechanics.

id: 1311.2638
title: Recurrent construction of optimal entanglement witnesses for 2N qubit systems
authors: Justyna P. Zwolak, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2638
abstract: We provide a recurrent construction of entanglement witnesses for a bipartite systems living in a Hilbert space corresponding to $2N$ qubits ($N$ qubits in each subsystem). Our construction provides a new method of generalization of the Robertson map that naturally meshes with $2N$ qubit systems, i.e., its structure respects the $2^{2N}$ growth of the state space. We prove that for $N>1$ these witnesses are indecomposable and optimal. As a byproduct we provide a new family of PPT (Positive Partial Transpose) entangled states.

id: 1311.2641
title: Necessary condition for local quantum operations and classical communication with extensive violation by separable operations
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 90, 012336 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2641
abstract: We give a conceptually simple necessary condition such that a separable quantum operation can be implemented by local operations on subsystems and classical communication between parties (LOCC), a condition which follows from a novel approach to understanding LOCC. This necessary condition holds for any number of parties and any finite number of rounds of communication and as such, also provides a completely general sufficient condition that a given separable operation cannot be exactly implemented by LOCC. Furthermore, it demonstrates an extremely strong difference between separable operations and LOCC, in that there exist examples of the former for which the condition is extensively violated. More precisely, the violation by separable operations of our necessary condition for LOCC grows without limit as the number of parties increases.

id: 1311.2673
title: Inverse counting statistics for stochastic and open quantum systems: the characteristic polynomial approach
authors: M. Bruderer, L. D. Contreras-Pulido, M. Thaller, L. Sironi, D. Obreschkow, M. B. Plenio
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 033030 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2673
abstract: We consider stochastic and open quantum systems with a finite number of states, where a stochastic transition between two specific states is monitored by a detector. The long-time counting statistics of the observed realizations of the transition, parametrized by cumulants, is the only available information about the system. We present an analytical method for reconstructing generators of the time evolution of the system compatible with the observations. The practicality of the reconstruction method is demonstrated by the examples of a laser-driven atom and the kinetics of enzyme-catalyzed reactions. Moreover, we propose cumulant-based criteria for testing the non-classicality and non-Markovianity of the time evolution, and lower bounds for the system dimension. Our analytical results rely on the close connection between the cumulants of the counting statistics and the characteristic polynomial of the generator, which takes the role of the cumulant generating function.

id: 1311.2693
title: Long-lived entanglement with Pulsed-driven initially entangled qubit pair
authors: N. Metwally, H. A. Batarfi, S. S.Hassan
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information Vol. 12 No. 1 (2014) 1450003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2693
abstract: The entanglement of different classes of initially entangled qubit pair is investigated in the presence of short laser pulses of rectangular and exponential shapes with either one or both qubits are excited. For the rectangular pulse, the detuning parameter protects the entanglement from degradation and controls its upper and lower bounds. We show that the upper bounds of entanglement decrease if both particles are excited, but the lower bounds are much better if only one particle is excited. The phenomena of entanglement degradation, sudden- death and -birth are shown for small initial time. Long -lived entanglement behavior, but with a variable degree, appears in the presence of rectangular pulse. However, in the case of the exponential pulse one obtains an invariably long- lived entanglement. For the combined case (rectangular $+$ exponential), we show that one can generate a long-lived entanglement with small variable by increasing the strength of the rectangular pulse area and decreasing the Rabi frequency of the exponential pulse.

id: 1311.2696
title: A Coherent Ising Machine Based On Degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillators
authors: Zhe Wang, Alireza Marandi, Kai Wen, Robert L. Byer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2696
abstract: A degenerate optical parametric oscillator network is proposed to solve the NP-hard problem of finding a ground state of the Ising model. The underlying operating mechanism originates from the bistable output phase of each oscillator and the inherent preference of the network in selecting oscillation modes with the minimum photon decay rate. Computational experiments are performed on all instances reducible to the NP-hard MAX-CUT problems on cubic graphs of order up to 20. The numerical results reasonably suggest the effectiveness of the proposed network.

id: 1311.2721
title: Experimental super-resolved phase measurements with shot-noise sensitivity
authors: L. Cohen, D. Istrati, L. Dovrat, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2721
abstract: The ultimate sensitivity of optical measurements is a key element of many recent works. Classically, it is mainly limited by the shot noise limit. However, a measurement setup that incorporates quantum mechanical principles can surpass the shot noise limit and reach the Heisenberg limit. Nevertheless, many of those experiments fail to break even the classical shot-noise limit. Following a recent proposal, we present here the results of optical phase measurements with a photon-number resolving detector using coherent states of up to 4200 photons on average. An additional scheme that can be implemented using standard single-photon detectors is also presented, and the results of the two schemes are compared. These measurements present deterministic single-shot sub-wavelength super-resolution up to 288 better than the optical wavelength. The results follow the classically limited sensitivity, up to 86 times better than the wavelength.

id: 1311.2762
title: Escape dynamics of Bose-Hubbard dimer out of a trap
authors: Dmitrii N. Maksimov, Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063612 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2762
abstract: We consider a potential scattering of Bose-Hubbard dimer in 1D optical lattice. A numerical approach based on effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian has been developed for solving the scattering problem. It allows to compute the tunneling and dissociation probabilities for arbitrary shape of the potential barrier and arbitrary kinetic energy of the dimer. The developed approach has been used to address the problem of two-particle decay out of a trap. In particular, it is shown that the presence of dissociation channels significantly decreases non-escape probability due to single-particle escape to those channels.

id: 1311.2772
title: Group representation approach to 1 - N universal quantum cloning machines
authors: Micha? Studzi¨½ski, Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Marek Mozrzymas
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2772
abstract: In this work, we revisit the problem of finding an admissible region of fidelities obtained after an application of an arbitrary $1 \rightarrow N$ universal quantum cloner which has been recently solved in [A. Kay et al., Quant. Inf. Comput 13, 880 (2013)] from the side of cloning machines. Using group-theory formalism, we show that the allowed region for fidelities can be alternatively expressed in terms of overlaps of pure states with recently found irreducible representations of the commutant $U \otimes U \otimes \ldots \otimes U \otimes U^*$, which gives the characterization of the allowed region where states being cloned are figure of merit. Additionally, it is sufficient to take pure states with real coefficients only, which makes calculations simpler. To obtain the allowed region, we make a convex hull of possible ranges of fidelities related to a given irrep. Subsequently, two cases: $1 \rightarrow 2$ and $1 \rightarrow 3$ cloners, are studied for different dimensions of states as illustrative examples.

id: 1311.2773
title: Mutually unbiased measurements for high-dimensional time-bin based photonic states
authors: Thomas Brougham, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: Accepted in EPL, 4.1 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2773
abstract: The task of measuring in two mutually unbiased bases is central to many quantum information protocols, as well as being of fundamental interest. Increasingly, there is an experimental focus on generating and controlling high-dimensional photonic states. One approach is to use the arrival time of a photon, which can be split into discrete time bins. An important problem associated with such states is the difficulty in experimentally realizing a measurement that is mutually unbiased with respect to the time-of-arrival. We propose a simple and compact scheme to measure in both the time of arrival basis and a basis that is approximately mutually unbiased with respect to the arrival time.

id: 1311.2778
title: Stationary entanglement of photons and atoms in a high-finesse resonator
authors: Hessam Habibian, Stefano Zippilli, Fabrizio Illuminati, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023832 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2778
abstract: We predict that the collective excitations of an atomic array become entangled with the light of a high-finesse cavity mode when they are suitably coupled. This entanglement is of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type, it is robust against cavity losses and is a stationary property of the coupled system. It is generated when the atomic array is aligned along the cavity axis and driven transversally by a laser, when coherent scattering of photons into the cavity mode is suppressed because of phase-mismatching. We identify the parameter regimes under which entanglement is found and show that these are compatible with existing experimental setups.

id: 1311.2787
title: The irreversible quantum
authors: P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J.M. Isidro, Milton H. Perea, J. Vazquez Molina
comments: 14 pages; refs. updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2787
abstract: We elaborate on the existing notion that quantum mechanics is an emergent phenomenon, by presenting a thermodynamical theory that is dual to quantum mechanics. This dual theory is that of classical irreversible thermodynamics. The linear regime of irreversibility considered here corresponds to the semiclassical approximation in quantum mechanics. An important issue we address is how the irreversibility of time evolution in thermodynamics is mapped onto the quantum-mechanical side of the correspondence.

id: 1311.2899
title: Manipulating a qubit through the backaction of sequential partial measurements and real-time feedback
authors: M.S. Blok, C. Bonato, M.L. Markham, D.J. Twitchen, V.V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics, 10, 189-193 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2899
abstract: Quantum measurements not only extract information from a system but also alter its state. Although the outcome of the measurement is probabilistic, the backaction imparted on the measured system is accurately described by quantum theory. Therefore, quantum measurements can be exploited for manipulating quantum systems without the need for control fields. We demonstrate measurement-only state manipulation on a nuclear spin qubit in diamond by adaptive partial measurements. We implement the partial measurement via tunable correlation with an electron ancilla qubit and subsequent ancilla readout. We vary the measurement strength to observe controlled wavefunction collapse and find post-selected quantum weak values. By combining a novel quantum non-demolition readout on the ancilla with real-time adaption of the measurement strength we realize steering of the nuclear spin to a target state by measurements alone. Besides being of fundamental interest, adaptive measurements can improve metrology applications and are key to measurement-based quantum computing.

id: 1311.2913
title: On the experimental verification of quantum complexity in linear optics
authors: Jacques Carolan, Jasmin D. A. Meinecke, Pete Shadbolt, Nicholas J. Russell, Nur Ismail, Kerstin W?rhoff, Terry Rudolph, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Anthony Laing
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 621 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2913
abstract: The first quantum technologies to solve computational problems that are beyond the capabilities of classical computers are likely to be devices that exploit characteristics inherent to a particular physical system, to tackle a bespoke problem suited to those characteristics. Evidence implies that the detection of ensembles of photons, which have propagated through a linear optical circuit, is equivalent to sampling from a probability distribution that is intractable to classical simulation. However, it is probable that the complexity of this type of sampling problem means that its solution is classically unverifiable within a feasible number of trials, and the task of establishing correct operation becomes one of gathering sufficiently convincing circumstantial evidence. Here, we develop scalable methods to experimentally establish correct operation for this class of sampling algorithm, which we implement with two different types of optical circuits for 3, 4, and 5 photons, on Hilbert spaces of up to 50,000 dimensions. With only a small number of trials, we establish a confidence >99% that we are not sampling from a uniform distribution or a classical distribution, and we demonstrate a unitary specific witness that functions robustly for small amounts of data. Like the algorithmic operations they endorse, our methods exploit the characteristics native to the quantum system in question. Here we observe and make an application of a "bosonic clouding" phenomenon, interesting in its own right, where photons are found in local groups of modes superposed across two locations. Our broad approach is likely to be practical for all architectures for quantum technologies where formal verification methods for quantum algorithms are either intractable or unknown.

id: 1311.2918
title: On the Possibility of Reversible Magnonic Logic Gates
authors: Alexander Khitun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2918
abstract: We propose and develop a concept of magnonic logic gates enabling reversible computing. The gates consist of passive elements: waveguides, cross-junctions and phase shifters. Logical 0 and 1 are encoded in the relative phase of the propagating spin wave packets (0 or {\pi}). The gates contain several possible trajectories for each packet to propagate from the input to the output. Re-direction of the spin wave packets among the possible trajectories is due to the interference in the magnetic cross-junctions. Two wave packets coming to the cross-junction in-phase propagate through the junction without reflection. Two packets coming out-of-phase to the junction are completely reflected back. The operation of the cross-junction is illustrated by numerical modeling. We estimate the power dissipation in the proposed circuits and the feasibility of cascading such magnetic devices in large circuits. The proposed gates may potentially provide a route to magnetic reversible logic circuitry with power dissipation less than kT per operation.

id: 1311.2920
title: Quantum effects improve the energy efficiency of feedback control
authors: Jordan M. Horowitz, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 042134 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2920
abstract: The laws of thermodynamics apply equally well to quantum systems as to classical systems, and because of this quantum effects do not change the fundamental thermodynamic efficiency of isothermal refrigerators or engines. We show that, despite this fact, quantum mechanics permits measurement-based feedback control protocols that are more thermodynamically efficient than their classical counterparts. As part of our analysis we perform a detailed accounting of the thermodynamics of unitary feedback control, and elucidate the sources of inefficiency in measurement-based and coherent feedback.

id: 1311.2923
title: On the spectral origin of non-Markovianity: an exact finite model
authors: Ruggero Vasile, Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: Main manuscript 5 pages, 5 figures. 2 pages and 4 figures for supplement material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2923
abstract: Non-homogeneous chain environments (e.g. segmented ion traps) are investigated through an exact diagonalization approach. Different spectral densities, including band-gaps, can be engineered to separately assess memory effects. Environment non-Markovianity is quantified with recently introduced measures of information flow-back and non-divisibility of the system dynamical map. By sweeping the bath spectrum via tuning of the system frequency we show strongest memory effect at band-gap edges and provide an interpretation based on energy flow between system and environment. A system weakly coupled to a stiff chain ensures a Markovian dynamics, while the size of the environment as well as the local density of modes are not substantial factors. We show an opposite effect when increasing the temperature inside or outside the spectral band-gap. Further, non-Markovianity arises for larger (negative and positive) powers of algebraic spectral densities, being the Ohmic case not always the most Markovian one.

id: 1311.2957
title: Experimental realization of multipartite entanglement of 60 modes of a quantum optical frequency comb
authors: Moran Chen, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Olivier Pfister
comments: Accepted by PRL. 5 pages, 5 figures + 14 pages, 9 figures of supplemental material. Ver3: better experimental data
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120505 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2957
abstract: We report the experimental realization and characterization of one 60-mode copy, and of two 30-mode copies, of a dual-rail quantum-wire cluster state in the quantum optical frequency comb of a bimodally pumped optical parametric oscillator. This is the largest entangled system ever created whose subsystems are all available simultaneously. The entanglement proceeds from the coherent concatenation of a multitude of EPR pairs by a single beam splitter, a procedure which is also a building block for the realization of hypercubic-lattice cluster states for universal quantum computing.

id: 1311.2979
title: Optimal post-processing for a generic single-shot qubit readout
authors: B. D'Anjou, W.A. Coish
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012313 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2979
abstract: We analyze three different post-processing methods applied to a single-shot qubit readout: the average-signal (boxcar filter), peak-signal, and maximum-likelihood methods. In contrast to previous work, we account for a stochastic turn-on time $t_i$ associated with the leading edge of a pulse signaling one of the qubit states. This model is relevant to spin-qubit readouts based on spin-to-charge conversion and would be generically reached in the limit of large signal-to-noise ratio $r$ for several other physical systems, including fluorescence-based readouts of ion-trap qubits and nitrogen-vacancy center spins. We derive analytical closed-form expressions for the conditional probability distributions associated with the peak-signal and boxcar filters. For the boxcar filter, we find an asymptotic scaling of the single-shot error rate $\varepsilon \sim \ln r/\sqrt{r}$ when $t_i$ is stochastic, in contrast to the result $\varepsilon \sim \ln r/ r$ for deterministic $t_i$. Consequently, the peak-signal method outperforms the boxcar filter significantly when $t_i$ is stochastic, but is only marginally better for deterministic $t_i$ (a result that is consistent with the widespread use of the boxcar filter for fluorescence-based readouts and the peak-signal for spin-to-charge conversion). We generalize the theoretically optimal maximum-likelihood method to stochastic $t_i$ and show numerically that a stochastic turn-on time $t_i$ will always result in a larger single-shot error rate. Based on this observation, we propose a general strategy to improve the quality of single-shot readouts by forcing $t_i$ to be deterministic.

id: 1311.3000
title: An on-chip coupled resonator optical waveguide single-photon buffer
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Nobuyuki Matsuda, Eiichi Kuramochi, William J. Munro, Masaya Notomi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. First draft. Typo corrected
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2725 (2013) (full version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3000
abstract: Integrated quantum optical circuits are now seen as one of the most promising approaches with which to realize single photon quantum information processing. Many of the core elements for such circuits have been realized including sources, gates and detectors. However, a significant missing function necessary for photonic information processing on-chip is a buffer, where single photons are stored for a short period of time to facilitate circuit synchronization. Here we report an on-chip single photon buffer based on coupled resonator optical waveguides (CROW) consisting of 400 high-Q photonic crystal line defect nanocavities. By using the CROW, a pulsed single photon was successfully buffered for 150 ps with 50-ps tunability while maintaining its non-classical properties. Furthermore, we showed that our buffer preserves entanglement by storing and retrieving one photon from a time-bin entangled state. This is a significant step towards an all-optical integrated quantum information processor.

id: 1311.3003
title: Optimal decoy intensity for decoy quantum key distribution
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3003
abstract: In the decoy quantum key distribution, we show that a smaller decoy intensity gives a better key generation rate in the asymptotic setting when we employ only one decoy intensity and the vacuum pulse. In particular, the counting rate of single photon can be perfectly estimated when the decoy intensity is infinitesimal. The same property holds even when the intensities cannot be perfectly identified. Further, we propose a protocol to improve the key generation rate over the existing protocol under the same decoy intensity.

id: 1311.3006
title: Tunneling of conduction band electrons driven by a laser field in a double quantum dot: An open systems approach
authors: B. Ahmadi, S. Salimi, A. S. Khorashad
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3006
abstract: In this paper, we investigate tunneling of conduction band electrons in a system of an asymmetric double quantum dot which interacts with an environment. First, we consider the case in which the system only interacts with the environment and demonstrate that as time goes to infinity they both reach an equilibrium, which is expected, and there is always a maximum and minimum for the populations of the states of the system. Then we investigate the case in which an external resonant optical pulse (a laser) is applied to the system interacting with the environment. However, in this case for different intensities we have different populations of the states in equilibrium and as the intensity of the laser gets stronger, the populations of the states in equilibrium approach the same constant.

id: 1311.3012
title: A Double-Threshold Technique for Fast Time-Correspondence Imaging
authors: Ming-Fei Li, Yu-Ran Zhang, Xue-Feng Liu, Xu-Ri Yao, Kai-Hong Luo, Heng Fan, Ling-An Wu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures To appear in Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3012
abstract: We present a robust imaging method based on time-correspondence imaging and normalized ghost imaging (GI) that sets two thresholds to select the reference frame exposures for image reconstruction. This double-threshold time-correspondence imaging protocol always gives better quality and signal-to-noise ratio than previous GI schemes, and is insensitive to surrounding noise. Moreover, only simple add and minus operations are required while less data storage space and computing time are consumed, thus faster imaging speeds are attainable. The protocol offers a general approach applicable to all GI techniques, and marks a further step forward towards real-time practical applications of correlation imaging.

id: 1311.3017
title: A showing of entangling and discording power for cooper-pair gate
authors: Masoud Abolfathiyar, Sina Entekhabi
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1310.6861
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3017
abstract: We present entangling and discording power of a gate that is made on strong contender for the basic element of a quantum computer. We present the effect gate on an experimental scheme of a two-qubit tomography. We propose a sufficient and implementable condition for the existence of nonzero quantum discord and entanglement in the considered experimental scheme.

id: 1311.3031
title: Swarm optimization for adaptive phase measurements with low visibility
authors: Alexander J. F. Hayes, Dominic W. Berry
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3031
abstract: Adaptive feedback normally provides the greatest accuracy for optical phase measurements. New advances in nitrogen vacancy centre technology have enabled magnetometry via individual spin measurements, which are similar to optical phase measurements but with low visibility. The adaptive measurements that previously worked well with high-visibility optical interferometry break down and give poor results for nitrogen vacancy centre measurements. We use advanced search techniques based on swarm optimisation to design better adaptive measurements that can provide improved measurement accuracy with low-visibility interferometry, with applications in nitrogen vacancy centre magnetometry.

id: 1311.3046
title: Jordan-Wigner formalism for arbitrary 2-input 2-output matchgates and their classical simulation
authors: Richard Jozsa, Akimasa Miyake, Sergii Strelchuk
comments: 6 pages; v2: 16 pages. New author added. New title and abstract. Content much expanded with new results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3046
abstract: In Valiant's matchgate theory, 2-input 2-output matchgates are 4x4 matrices that satisfy ten so-called matchgate identities. We prove that the set of all such matchgates (including non-unitary and non-invertible ones) coincides with the topological closure of the set of all matrices obtained as exponentials of linear combinations of the 2-qubit Jordan-Wigner (JW) operators and their quadratic products, extending a previous result of Knill. In Valiant's theory, outputs of matchgate circuits can be classically computed in poly-time. Via the JW formalism, Terhal & DiVincenzo and Knill established a relation of a unitary class of these circuits to the efficient simulation of non-interacting fermions. We describe how the JW formalism may be used to give an efficient simulation for all cases in Valiant's simulation theorem, which in particular includes the case of non-interacting fermions generalised to allow arbitrary 1-qubit gates on the first line at any stage in the circuit. Finally we give an exposition of how these simulation results can be alternatively understood from some basic Lie algebra theory, in terms of a formalism introduced by Somma et al.

id: 1311.3100
title: Controlling the coherence in a pure dephasing model for an arbitrarily prescribed time span
authors: Lucio Fassarella
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Corrections and improvements on the previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3100
abstract: We present an open-loop unitary strategy to control the coherence in a pure dephasing model (related to the phase-flip channel) that is able to recover, for whatever prescribed time span, the initial coherence at the end of the control process. The strategy's key idea is to steer the quantum state to the subset of invariant states and keep it there the necessary time, using a fine tuned control Hamiltonian.

id: 1311.3155
title: Magnetic conveyor belt transport of ultracold atoms to a superconducting atomchip
authors: Stefan Minniberger, Fritz Diorico, Stefan Haslinger, Christoph Hufnagel, Christian Novotny, Nils Lippok, Johannes Majer, Christian Koller, Stephan Schneider, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics B, 116, 1017-1021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3155
abstract: We report the realization of a robust magnetic transport scheme to bring 3x10^8 ultracold 87Rb atoms into a cryostat. The sequence starts with standard laser cooling and trapping of 87Rb atoms, transporting first horizontally and then vertically through the radiation shields into a cryostat by a series of normal- and superconducting magnetic coils. Loading the atoms in a superconducting microtrap paves the way for studying the interaction of ultracold atoms with superconducting surfaces and quantum devices requiring cryogenic temperatures.

id: 1311.3161
title: Complexity classification of local Hamiltonian problems
authors: Toby Cubitt, Ashley Montanaro
comments: 48 pages; v3: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3161
abstract: The calculation of ground-state energies of physical systems can be formalised as the k-local Hamiltonian problem, which is the natural quantum analogue of classical constraint satisfaction problems. One way of making the problem more physically meaningful is to restrict the Hamiltonian in question by picking its terms from a fixed set S. Examples of such special cases are the Heisenberg and Ising models from condensed-matter physics. In this work we characterise the complexity of this problem for all 2-local qubit Hamiltonians. Depending on the subset S, the problem falls into one of the following categories: in P; NP-complete; polynomial-time equivalent to the Ising model with transverse magnetic fields; or QMA-complete. The third of these classes contains NP and is contained within StoqMA. The characterisation holds even if S does not contain any 1-local terms; for example, we prove for the first time QMA-completeness of the Heisenberg and XY interactions in this setting. If S is assumed to contain all 1-local terms, which is the setting considered by previous work, we have a characterisation that goes beyond 2-local interactions: for any constant k, all k-local qubit Hamiltonians whose terms are picked from a fixed set S correspond to problems either in P; polynomial-time equivalent to the Ising model with transverse magnetic fields; or QMA-complete. These results are a quantum analogue of Schaefer's dichotomy theorem for boolean constraint satisfaction problems.

id: 1311.3227
title: Perturbative approach to Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Andy C.Y. Li, F. Petruccione, Jens Koch
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4887 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3227
abstract: Perturbation theory (PT) is a powerful and commonly used tool in the investigation of closed quantum systems. In the context of open quantum systems, PT based on the Markovian quantum master equation is much less developed. The investigation of open systems mostly relies on exact diagonalization of the Liouville superoperator or quantum trajectories. In this approach, the system size is rather limited by current computational capabilities. Analogous to closed-system PT, we develop a PT suitable for open quantum systems. This proposed method is useful in the analytical understanding of open systems as well as in the numerical calculation of system properties, which would otherwise be impractical.

id: 1311.3234
title: Spin polarized induction of quantum correlations-entanglement using a 2 MeV proton beam channeling
authors: Vesna Berec, J. S. Braunstein
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3234
abstract: In solid_state hybrid electron_nuclear spin systems quantum entanglement plays vital role in allowing accessible transfer of information between subatomic particles, regardless of the host lattice coordination spatial geometry, revealing the powerful resource for nuclear quantum states engineering. Here we present study of 2 MeV superfocused channeled proton (SCP) beam induced polarization of atom_photon correlated states, established in isotopically purified silicon nanocrystal. Two level entangling interaction which couples an initial quantum state to two possible light_matter states via silicon nanocrystal interface is presented. The anisotropic hyperfine coupling is demonstrated by strong mixing of quantum states within the control mechanism of the coherent proton pulse sequence. Obtained results reveal the mutual predictable correlation of particles of energy_matter, by using the fully broadcastable and precise hybrid electron_nuclear spin qubit manipulations which can be exploited for the speed_superior communication channels keeping at the same time the maximum degree of data preservation.

id: 1311.3297
title: The Bose-Hubbard model is QMA-complete
authors: Andrew M. Childs, David Gosset, Zak Webb
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the 41st International Colloquium on Automata, Languages, and Programming (ICALP 2014), pp. 308-319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3297
abstract: The Bose-Hubbard model is a system of interacting bosons that live on the vertices of a graph. The particles can move between adjacent vertices and experience a repulsive on-site interaction. The Hamiltonian is determined by a choice of graph that specifies the geometry in which the particles move and interact. We prove that approximating the ground energy of the Bose-Hubbard model on a graph at fixed particle number is QMA-complete. In our QMA-hardness proof, we encode the history of an n-qubit computation in the subspace with at most one particle per site (i.e., hard-core bosons). This feature, along with the well-known mapping between hard-core bosons and spin systems, lets us prove a related result for a class of 2-local Hamiltonians defined by graphs that generalizes the XY model. By avoiding the use of perturbation theory in our analysis, we circumvent the need to multiply terms in the Hamiltonian by large coefficients.

id: 1311.3309
title: Topological insulators with arbitrarily tunable entanglement
authors: J. C. Budich, J. Eisert, E. J. Bergholtz
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3309
abstract: We elucidate how Chern and topological insulators fulfill an area law for the entanglement entropy. By explicit construction of a family of lattice Hamiltonians, we are able to demonstrate that the area law contribution can be tuned to an arbitrarily small value, but is topologically protected from vanishing exactly. We prove this by introducing novel methods to bound entanglement entropies from correlations using perturbation bounds, drawing intuition from ideas of quantum information theory. This rigorous approach is complemented by an intuitive understanding in terms of entanglement edge states. These insights have a number of important consequences: The area law has no universal component, no matter how small, and the entanglement scaling cannot be used as a faithful diagnostic of topological insulators. This holds for all Renyi entropies which uniquely determine the entanglement spectrum which is hence also non-universal. The existence of arbitrarily weakly entangled topological insulators furthermore opens up possibilities of devising correlated topological phases in which the entanglement entropy is small and which are thereby numerically tractable, specifically in tensor network approaches.

id: 1311.3314
title: On time-local generators of quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: Lecture presented at the school "Open Quantum Systems", Torun, June 20-24, 2012 (30 pages)
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn., 21, 1440004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3314
abstract: We present a basic introduction to the dynamics of open quantum systems based on local-in-time master equations. We characterize the properties of time-local generators giving rise to legitimate completely positive trace preserving quantum evolutions. The analysis of Markovian and non-Markovian quantum dynamics is presented as well. The whole discussion is illustrated by the family of many instructive examples.

id: 1311.3343
title: Device-dependent and device-independent quantum key distribution without a shared reference frame
authors: Joshua A. Slater, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 043002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3343
abstract: Standard quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols typically assume that the distant parties share a common reference frame. In practice, however, establishing and maintaining a good alignment between distant observers is rarely a trivial issue, which may significantly restrain the implementation of long-distance quantum communication protocols. Here we propose simple QKD protocols that do not require the parties to share any reference frame, and study their security and feasibility in both the usual device-dependent case--in which the two parties use well characterized measurement devices--as well as in the device-independent case--in which the measurement devices can be untrusted, and the security relies on the violation of a Bell inequality. To illustrate the practical relevance of these ideas, we present a proof-of-principle demonstration of our protocols using polarization entangled photons distributed over a coiled 10-km-long optical fiber. We consider two situations, in which either the fiber spool freely drifts, or randomly chosen polarization transformations are applied. The correlations obtained from measurements allow, with high probability, to generate positive asymptotic secret key rates in both the device-dependent and device-independent scenarios (under the fair-sampling assumption for the latter case).

id: 1311.3357
title: Stereographical visualization of a polarization state using weak measurements with a optical vortex beam
authors: Hirokazu Kobayashi, Koji Nonaka, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053816 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3357
abstract: We propose a stereographical-visualization scheme for a polarization state by two-dimensional imaging of a weak value with a single setup. The key idea is to employ Laguerre-Gaussian modes or an optical vortex beam for a probe state in weak measurement. Our scheme has the advantage that we can extract information on the polarization state from the single image in which the zero-intensity point of the optical vortex beam corresponds to a stereographic projection point of the Poincar\'{e} sphere. We experimentally perform single-setup weak measurement to validate the stereographical relationship between the polarization state on the Poincar\'{e} sphere and the location of the zero-intensity point.

id: 1311.3364
title: From Consensus to Robust Randomized Algorithms: A Symmetrization Approach
authors: Luca Mazzarella, Francesco Ticozzi, Alain Sarlette
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3364
abstract: This paper interprets and generalizes consensus-type algorithms as switching dynamics leading to symmetrization with respect to the actions of a finite group. Explicit convergence results are provided in a group-theoretic formulation, both for deterministic and for stochastic dynamics. We show how the symmetrization framework directly extends the scope of consensus-type algorithms and results to applications as diverse as consensus on probability distributions (either classical or quantum), computation of the discrete Fourier transform, uniform random state generation, and open-loop disturbance rejection by quantum dynamical decoupling. This indicates a way to extend the desirable robustness of consensus-inspired algorithms to even more fields of application.

id: 1311.3365
title: Deriving the Qubit from Entropy Principles
authors: Adam Brandenburger, Pierfrancesco La Mura
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3365
abstract: The Heisenberg uncertainty principle is one of the most famous features of quantum mechanics. However, the non-determinism implied by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle --- together with other prominent aspects of quantum mechanics such as superposition, entanglement, and nonlocality --- poses deep puzzles about the underlying physical reality, even while these same features are at the heart of exciting developments such as quantum cryptography, algorithms, and computing. These puzzles might be resolved if the mathematical structure of quantum mechanics were built up from physically interpretable axioms, but it is not. We propose three physically-based axioms which together characterize the simplest quantum system, namely the qubit. Our starting point is the class of all no-signaling theories. Each such theory can be regarded as a family of empirical models, and we proceed to associate entropies, i.e., measures of information, with these models. To do this, we move to phase space and impose the condition that entropies are real-valued. This requirement, which we call the Information Reality Principle, arises because in order to represent all no-signaling theories (including quantum mechanics itself) in phase space, it is necessary to allow negative probabilities (Wigner [1932]). Our second and third principles take two important features of quantum mechanics and turn them into deliberately chosen physical axioms. One axiom is an Uncertainty Principle, stated in terms of entropy. The other axiom is an Unbiasedness Principle, which requires that whenever there is complete certainty about the outcome of a measurement in one of three mutually orthogonal directions, there must be maximal uncertainty about the outcomes in each of the two other directions.

id: 1311.3408
title: The phenomenon of state reduction
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 17 pages, no figure. Thoroughly revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3408
abstract: A theory of quantum measurement introduced some time ago is modified so that it can be extended to a the general theory of state reduction in a way preserving the unitary-transformation symmetry of quantum mechanics. Moreover, it works also for meters that are not macroscopic. The examples of screening, of Stern-Gerlach measurement and of some experiments with superconducting rings illustrate the idea. The last example shows that the theory is falsifiable.

id: 1311.3416
title: Quantum synchronizable codes from finite geometries
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, Peter Vandendriessche
comments: 10 pages, 2 tables, final accepted version for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 60 (2014) 7345-7354
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3416
abstract: Quantum synchronizable error-correcting codes are special quantum error-correcting codes that are designed to correct both the effect of quantum noise on qubits and misalignment in block synchronization. It is known that in principle such a code can be constructed through a combination of a classical linear code and its subcode if the two are both cyclic and dual-containing. However, finding such classical codes that lead to promising quantum synchronizable error-correcting codes is not a trivial task. In fact, although there are two families of classical codes that are proved to produce quantum synchronizable codes with good minimum distances and highest possible tolerance against misalignment, their code lengths have been restricted to primes and Mersenne numbers. In this paper, examining the incidence vectors of projective spaces over the finite fields of characteristic $2$, we give quantum synchronizable codes from cyclic codes whose lengths are not primes or Mersenne numbers. These projective geometric codes achieve good performance in quantum error correction and possess the best possible ability to recover synchronization, thereby enriching the variety of good quantum synchronizable codes. We also extend the current knowledge of cyclic codes in classical coding theory by explicitly giving generator polynomials of the finite geometric codes and completely characterizing the minimum weight nonzero codewords. In addition to the codes based on projective spaces, we carry out a similar analysis on the well-known cyclic codes from Euclidean spaces that are known to be majority logic decodable and determine their exact minimum distances.

id: 1311.3432
title: High-order Foldy-Wouthuysen transformations of the Dirac and Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonians in the weak-field limit
authors: Tsung-Wei Chen, Dah-Wei Chiou
comments: 18 pages; follow-up to arXiv:1005.4128, arXiv:1310.8513; v2: more materials added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3432
abstract: The low-energy and weak-field limit of Dirac equation can be obtained by an order-by-order block diagonalization approach to any desired order in the parameter $\pi/mc$ ($\pi$ is the kinetic momentum and $m$ is the mass of the particle). In the previous work, it has been shown that, up to the order of $(\pi/mc)^8$, the Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian in the Foldy-Wouthuysen (FW) representation may be expressed as a closed form and consistent with the classical Hamiltonian, which is the sum of the classical relativistic Hamiltonian for orbital motion and the Thomas-Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi (T-BMT) Hamiltonian for spin precession. In order to investigate the exact validity of the correspondence between classical and Dirac-Pauli spinors, it is necessary to proceed to higher orders. In this paper, we investigate the FW representation of the Dirac and Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonians by using Kutzelnigg's diagonalization method. We show that the Kutzelnigg diagonalization method can be further simplified if nonlinear effects of static and homogeneous electromagnetic fields are neglected (in the weak-field limit). Up to the order of $(\pi/mc)^{14}$, we find that the FW transformation for both Dirac and Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonians is in agreement with the classical Hamiltonian with the gyromagnetic ratio given by $g=2$ and $g\neq2$ respectively. Furthermore, with higher-order terms at hand, it is demonstrated that the unitary FW transformation admits a closed form in the low-energy and weak-field limit.

id: 1311.3462
title: Pulsed Sagnac polarization-entangled photon source with a PPKTP crystal at telecom wavelength
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Ryosuke Shimizu, Kentaro Wakui, Mikio Fujiwara, Taro Yamashita, Shigehito Miki, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures this http URL
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 10, pp. 11498-11507 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3462
abstract: We demonstrate pulsed polarization-entangled photons generated from a periodically poled $\mathrm{KTiOPO_4}$ (PPKTP) crystal in a Sagnac interferometer configuration at telecom wavelength. Since the group-velocity-matching (GVM) condition is satisfied, the intrinsic spectral purity of the photons is much higher than in the previous scheme at around 800 nm wavelength. The combination of a Sagnac interferometer and the GVM-PPKTP crystal makes our entangled source compact, stable, highly entangled, spectrally pure and ultra-bright. The photons were detected by two superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPDs) with detection efficiencies of 70% and 68% at dark counts of less than 1 kcps. We achieved fidelities of 0.981 $\pm$ 0.0002 for $\left| {\psi ^ -} \right\rangle$ and 0.980 $\pm$ 0.001 for $\left| {\psi ^ +} \right\rangle$ respectively. This GVM-PPKTP-Sagnac scheme is directly applicable to quantum communication experiments at telecom wavelength, especially in free space.

id: 1311.3463
title: Entangling unitary gates on distant qubits with ancilla feedback
authors: Kerem Halil Shah, Daniel K. L. Oi
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3463
abstract: By using an ancilla qubit as a mediator, two distant qubits can undergo a non-local entangling unitary operation. This is desirable for when attempting to scale up or distribute quantum computation by combining fixed static local sets of qubits with ballistic mediators. Using a model driven by measurements on the ancilla, it is possible to generate a maximally entangling CZ gate while only having access to a less entangling gate between the pair qubits and the ancilla. However this results in a stochastic process of generating control phase rotation gates where the expected time for success does not correlate with the entangling power of the connection gate. We explore how one can use feedback into the preparation and measurement parameters of the ancilla to speed up the expected time to generate a CZ gate between a pair of separated qubits and to leverage stronger coupling strengths for faster times. Surprisingly, by choosing an appropriate strategy, control of a binary discrete parameter achieves comparable speed up to full continuous control of all degrees of freedom of the ancilla.

id: 1311.3495
title: Bounding quantum theory with the exclusivity principle in a two-city experiment
authors: Mohamed Nawareg, Fabrizio Bisesto, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Elias Amselem, Fabio Sciarrino, Mohamed Bourennane, Adan Cabello
comments: 7+7 pages, 3+1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3495
abstract: Why do correlations between the results of measurements performed on physical systems violate Bell and non-contextuality inequalities up to some specific limits? The answer may follow from the observation that in quantum theory, unlike in other theories, whenever there is an experiment to measure $A$ simultaneously with $B$, another to measure $B$ with $C$, and another to measure $A$ with $C$, there is always an experiment to measure all of them simultaneously. This property implies that quantum theory satisfies a seemingly irrelevant restriction called the exclusivity (E) principle which, surprisingly, explains the set of quantum correlations in some fundamental scenarios. An open problem is whether the E principle explains the maximum quantum violation of the Bell-CHSH inequality. Here we show experimentally that the E principle imposes an upper bound to the violation of the Bell-CHSH inequality that matches the maximum predicted by quantum theory. For that, we use the result of an independent experiment testing a specific non-contextuality inequality. We perform both experiments: the Bell-CHSH inequality experiment on polarization entangled states of pairs of photons in Stockholm and, to demonstrate independence, the non-contextuality inequality experiment on single photons' orbital angular momentum states in Rome. The observed results provide the first experimental evidence that the E principle determines the limits of quantum correlations and prove that hypothetical super-quantum violations for either experiment would violate the E principle. This supports the conclusion that the E principle captures a fundamental limitation of nature. If this is true, much of quantum theory trivially follow from merely taking the E principle to be a fundamental truth, and various information-theoretic postulates are also simplified and/or strengthened.

id: 1311.3504
title: Light production metrics of radiation sources
authors: C. Tannous
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, to submit to American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3504
abstract: Light production by a radiation source is evaluated and reviewed as an important concept of physics from the Black-Body point of view. The mechanical equivalent of the lumen, the unit of perceived light, is explained and evaluated using radiation physics arguments. The existence of an upper limit of luminous efficacy is illustrated for various sources and implications are highlighted.

id: 1311.3528
title: New version of $q$-deformed supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, I.I. Kachurik, A.V. Lukash
comments: 8 pages, 2-column UJP style, based on talk at the internat. conf. "Quantum Groups and Guantum Integrable systems" (June 18-21, 2013, Kiev, Ukraine)
journal: Ukr. J. Phys., 2013, Vol. 58, no. 11, pp. 1025-1032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3528
abstract: A new version of the q-deformed supersymmetric quantum mechanics (q-SQM), which is inspired by the Tamm--Dankoff-type (TD-type) deformation of quantum harmonic oscillator, is constructed. The obtained algebra of q-SQM is similar to that in Spiridonov's approach. However, within our version of q-SQM, the ground state found explicitly in the special case of superpotential yiealding q-superoscillator turns out to be non-Gaussian and takes the form of special (TD-type) q-deformed Gaussian.

id: 1311.3536
title: Cavity mode entanglement in relativistic quantum information
authors: Nicolai Friis
comments: PhD thesis, University of Nottingham, 2013, 200 pages, 34 figures, available from e-theses server at this http URL v2: updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3536
abstract: A central aim of relativistic quantum information (RQI) is the investigation of quantum information tasks and resources taking into account the relativistic aspects of nature. More precisely, it is of fundamental interest to understand how the storage, manipulation, and transmission of information utilizing quantum systems are influenced by the fact that these processes take place in a relativistic spacetime. In particular, many studies in RQI have been focused on the effects of non-uniform motion on entanglement, the main resource of quantum information protocols. Early investigations in this direction were performed in highly idealized settings that prompted questions as to the practical accessibility of these results. To overcome these limitations it is necessary to consider quantum systems that are in principle accessible to localized observers. In this thesis we present such a model, the rigid relativistic cavity, and its extensions, focusing on the effects of motion on entanglement and applications such as quantum teleportation. We study cavities in (1+1) dimensions undergoing non-uniform motion, consisting of segments of uniform acceleration and inertial motion of arbitrary duration that allow the involved velocities to become relativistic. The transitions between segments can be sharp or smooth and higher dimensions can be incorporated. The primary focus lies in the Bogoliubov transformations of the quantum fields, real scalar fields or Dirac fields, confined to the cavities. The Bogoliubov transformations change the particle content and the occupation of the energy levels of the cavity. We show how these effects generate entanglement between the modes of the quantum fields inside a single cavity for various initial states. The entanglement between several cavities, on the other hand, is degraded by the non-uniform motion, influencing the fidelity of tasks such as teleportation.

id: 1311.3538
title: Noise analysis of single-qumode Gaussian operations using continuous-variable cluster states
authors: Rafael N. Alexander, Seiji C. Armstrong, Ryuji Ukai, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures, more accessible to general audience
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3538
abstract: We consider measurement-based quantum computation that uses scalable continuous-variable cluster states with a one-dimensional topology. The physical resource, known here as the dual-rail quantum wire, can be generated using temporally multiplexed offline squeezing and linear optics or by using a single optical parametric oscillator. We focus on an important class of quantum gates, specifically Gaussian unitaries that act on single modes, which gives universal quantum computation when supplemented with multi-mode operations and photon-counting measurements. The dual-rail wire supports two routes for applying single-qumode Gaussian unitaries: the first is to use traditional one-dimensional quantum-wire cluster-state measurement protocols. The second takes advantage of the dual-rail quantum wire in order to apply unitaries by measuring pairs of qumodes called macronodes. We analyze and compare these methods in terms of the suitability for implementing single-qumode Gaussian measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1311.3585
title: Random unitary matrices associated to a graph
authors: Pawe? Kondratiuk, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 124, 1098-1105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3585
abstract: We analyze composed quantum systems consisting of $k$ subsystems, each described by states in the $n$-dimensional Hilbert space. Interaction between subsystems can be represented by a graph, with vertices corresponding to individual subsystems and edges denoting a generic interaction, modeled by random unitary matrices of order $n^2$. The global evolution operator is represented by a unitary matrix of size $N=n^k$. We investigate statistical properties of such matrices and show that they display spectral properties characteristic to Haar random unitary matrices provided the corresponding graph is connected. Thus basing on random unitary matrices of a small size $n^2$ one can construct a fair approximation of large random unitary matrices of size $n^{k}$. Graph--structured random unitary matrices investigated here allow one to define the corresponding structured ensembles of random pure states.

id: 1311.3598
title: A Statistical Model of Information Evaporation of Perfectly Reflecting Black Holes
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 11 pages, Journal-ref: Int. J. Quant. Inf. (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3598
abstract: We provide a statistical communication model for the phenomenon of quantum information evaporation from black holes. A black hole behaves as a reflecting quantum channel in a very special regime, which allows for a receiver to perfectly recover the absorbed quantum information. The quantum channel of a perfectly reflecting (PR) black hole is the probabilistically weighted sum of infinitely many qubit cloning channels. In this work, we reveal the statistical communication background of the information evaporation process of PR black holes. We show that the density of the cloned quantum particles in function of the PR black hole's mass approximates a Chi-square distribution, while the stimulated emission process is characterized by zero-mean, circular symmetric complex Gaussian random variables. The results lead to the existence of Rayleigh random distributed coefficients in the probability density evolution, which confirms the presence of Rayleigh fading (a special type of random fluctuation) in the statistical communication model of black hole information evaporation.

id: 1311.3599
title: Decomposition of quantum gates
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Diane Pelejo
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3599
abstract: A recurrence scheme is presented to decompose an $n$-qubit unitary gate to the product of no more than $N(N-1)/2$ single qubit gates with small number of controls, where $N = 2^n$. Detailed description of the recurrence steps and formulas for the number of $k$-controlled single qubit gates in the decomposition are given. Comparison of the result to a previous scheme is presented, and future research directions are discussed.

id: 1311.3605
title: A Rigorous Analysis of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Inequality Experiment When Trials Need Not Be Independent
authors: Peter Bierhorst
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics (2014) 44: 736-61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3605
abstract: The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is a constraint that local theories must obey. Quantum Mechanics predicts a violation of this inequality in certain experimental settings. Treatments of this subject frequently make simplifying assumptions about the probability spaces available to a local hidden variable theory, such as assuming the state of the system is a discrete or absolutely continuous random variable, or assuming that repeated experimental trials are independent and identically distributed. In this paper, we do two things: first, show that the CHSH inequality holds even for completely general state variables in the measure-theoretic setting, and second, demonstrate how to drop the assumption of independence of subsequent trials while still being able to perform a hypothesis test that will distinguish Quantum Mechanics from local theories. The statistical strength of such a test is computed.

id: 1311.3610
title: Entanglement, Flow and Classical Simulatability in Measurement Based Quantum Computation
authors: Damian Markham, Elham Kashefi
comments: 28 pages, but lots of examples and pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3610
abstract: The question of which and how a particular class of entangled resource states (known as graph states) can be used for measurement based quantum computation (MBQC) recently gave rise to the notion of Flow and its generalisation gFlow. That is a causal structure for measurements guaranteeing deterministic computation. Furthermore, gFlow has proven itself to be a powerful tool in studying the difference between the measurement-based and circuit models for quantum computing, as well as analysing cryptographic protocols. On the other hand, entanglement is known to play a crucial role in MBQC. In this paper we first show how gFlow can be used to directly give a bound on the classical simulation of an MBQC. Our method offers an interpretation of the gFlow as showing how information flows through a computation, giving rise to an information light cone. We then establish a link between entanglement and the existence of gFlow for a graph state. We show that the gFlow can be used to bound the entanglement width and what we call the \emph{structural entanglement} of a graph state. In turn this gives another method relating the gFlow to bounds on how efficiently a computation can be simulated classically. These two methods of getting bounds on the difficulty of classical simulation are different and complementary and several known results follow. In particular known relations between the MBQC and the circuit model allow these results to be translated across models.

id: 1311.3625
title: Nondestructive Detection of an Optical Photon
authors: Andreas Reiserer, Stephan Ritter, Gerhard Rempe
comments: published online in Science Express, 14 November 2013
journal: Science 342, 1349-1351 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3625
abstract: All optical detectors to date annihilate photons upon detection, thus excluding repeated measurements. Here, we demonstrate a robust photon detection scheme which does not rely on absorption. Instead, an incoming photon is reflected off an optical resonator containing a single atom prepared in a superposition of two states. The reflection toggles the superposition phase which is then measured to trace the photon. Characterizing the device with faint laser pulses, a single-photon detection efficiency of 74% and a survival probability of 66% is achieved. The efficiency can be further increased by observing the photon repeatedly. The large single-photon nonlinearity of the experiment should enable the development of photonic quantum gates and the preparation of novel quantum states of light.

id: 1311.3691
title: Adiabatic two-photon quantum gate operations using a long-range photonic bus
authors: Anthony P. Hope, Thach G. Nguyen, Arnan Mitchell, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3691
abstract: Adiabatic techniques have much potential to realise practical and robust optical waveguide devices. Traditionally photonic elements are limited to coupling schemes that rely on proximity to nearest neighbour elements. We combine adiabatic passage with a continuum based long-range optical bus to break free from such topological restraints and thereby outline a new approach to photonic quantum gate design. We explicitly show designs for adiabatic quantum gates that produce a Hadamard, 50:50 and 1/3:2/3 beam splitter, and non-deterministic CNOT gate based on planar thin, shallow ridge waveguides. Our calculations are performed under conditions of one and two-photon inputs.

id: 1311.3698
title: Bohmian Trajectories For a Time Foliation with Kinks
authors: Ward Struyve, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, LaTex
journal: J. Geom. Phys. 82, 75-83 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3698
abstract: This paper concerns the hypersurface Bohm-Dirac model, i.e., the version of Bohmian mechanics in a relativistic space-time proposed by D\"urr et al. [1], which assumes a preferred foliation of space-time into spacelike hypersurfaces (called the time foliation) as given. We show that the leaves of the time foliation do not have to be smooth manifolds but can be allowed to have kinks. More precisely, we show that, also for leaves with kinks, the trajectories are still well defined and the appropriate $|\psi|^2$ distribution is still equivariant, so that the theory is still empirically equivalent to standard quantum mechanics. This result applies to the case where the time foliation is determined by the previously proposed law $dn=0$, since such a foliation generically has kinks.

id: 1311.3710
title: Local Orthogonality provides better upper bound for Hardy's nonlocality
authors: Subhadipa Das, Manik Banik, Md. Rajjak Gazi, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri
comments: 7 pages (2 columns); Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3710
abstract: The amount of nonlocality in quantum theory is limited compared to that allowed in generalized no-signaling theory [Found. Phys. 24, 379 (1994)]. This feature, for example, gets manifested in the amount of Bell inequality violation as well as in the degree of success probability of Hardy's (Cabello's) nonlocality argument. Physical principles like information causality and macroscopic locality have been proposed for analyzing restricted nonlocality in quantum mechanics---viz. explaining the Cirel'son bound. However, these principles are not that much successful in explaining the maximum success probability of Hardy's as well as Cabello's argument in quantum theory. Here we show that, a newly proposed physical principle namely Local Orthogonality does better by providing a tighter upper bound on the success probability for Hardy's nonlocality. This bound is relatively closer to the corresponding quantum value compared to the bounds achieved from other principles.

id: 1311.3855
title: Cauchy-Schwarz inequality and particle entanglement
authors: T. Wasak, P. Szankowski, P. Zin, M. Trippenbach, J. Chwedenczuk
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3855
abstract: The Glauber-Sudarshan $P$-representation is used in quantum optics to distinguish between semi-classical and genuinely quantum electromagnetic fields. We employ the analog of the $P$-representation to show that the violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality for the second-order correlation function is a proof of entanglement between identical massive bosons. The presented derivation is valid both in systems with fixed and fluctuating number of particles. Thanks to the recent advances in techniques of detecting positions of separate particles, the violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality can be used as a simple entanglement criterion in various many-body quantum systems.

id: 1311.3878
title: Solutions to position-dependent mass quantum mechanics for a new class of hyperbolic potentials
authors: H. R. Christiansen, M. S. Cunha
comments: Some typos corrected. Some references updated. The acronym in the title expanded. 15 pages, 27 figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 54 (2013) 122108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3878
abstract: We analytically solve the position-dependent mass (PDM) 1D Schr\"odinger equation for a new class of hyperbolic potentials $V_q^p(x) = -V_0\frac{\sinh^px}{\cosh^qx}, \, p= -2, 0, \dots q$ [see C. A. Downing, J. Math. Phys. 54 072101 (2013)] among which several hyperbolic single- and double-wells. For a solitonic mass distribution, $m(x)=m_0\,\text{sech}^2(x)$, we obtain exact analytic solutions to the resulting differential equations. For several members of the class, the quantum mechanical problems map into confluent Heun differential equations. The PDM Poschl-Teller potential is considered and exactly solved as a particular case.

id: 1311.3887
title: Relating different quantum generalizations of the conditional Renyi entropy
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Mario Berta, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55 (8), 082206 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3887
abstract: Recently a new quantum generalization of the Renyi divergence and the corresponding conditional Renyi entropies was proposed. Here we report on a surprising relation between conditional Renyi entropies based on this new generalization and conditional Renyi entropies based on the quantum relative Renyi entropy that was used in previous literature. Our result generalizes the well-known duality relation H(A|B) + H(A|C) = 0 of the conditional von Neumann entropy for tripartite pure states to Renyi entropies of two different kinds. As a direct application, we prove a collection of inequalities that relate different conditional Renyi entropies and derive a new entropic uncertainty relation.

id: 1311.3919
title: The Landau--Zener Problem with Decay and with Dephasing
authors: Yshai Avishai, Yehuda B. Band
comments: 20 pages, presentation reorganized, analysis of combined effects of decay and dephasing slightly extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3919
abstract: Two aspects of the classic two-level Landau--Zener (LZ) problem are considered. First, we address the LZ problem when one or both levels decay, i.e., $\veps_j(t) \to \veps_j(t)-i \Gamma_j/2$. We find that if the system evolves from an initial time $-T$ to a final time $+T$ such that $|\veps_1(\pm T)-\veps_2(\pm T)|$ is not too large, the LZ survival probability of a state $| j \ra$ can {\em increase} with increasing decay rate of the other state $|i \ne j \ra$. This surprising result occurs because the decay results in crossing of the two eigenvalues of the instantaneous non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. On the other hand, if $|\veps_1(\pm T)-\veps_2(\pm T)| \to \infty$ as $T \to \infty$, the probability is {\em independent} of the decay rate. These results are based on analytic solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equations for two cases: (a) the energy levels depend linearly on time, and (b) the energy levels are bounded and of the form $\veps_{1,2}(t) = \pm \veps \tanh (t/{\cal T})$. Second, we study LZ transitions affected by dephasing by formulating the Landau--Zener problem with noise in terms of a Schr\"{o}dinger-Langevin stochastic coupled set of differential equations. The LZ survival probability then becomes a random variable whose probability distribution is shown to behave very differently for long and short dephasing times. We also discuss the combined effects of decay and dephasing on the LZ probability.

id: 1311.3938
title: Probing nonlinear adiabatic paths with a universal integrator
authors: Michael Hofmann, Gernot Schaller
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 032308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3938
abstract: We apply a flexible numerical integrator to the simulation of adiabatic quantum computation with nonlinear paths. We find that a nonlinear path may significantly improve the performance of adiabatic algorithms versus the conventional straight-line interpolations. The employed integrator is suitable for solving the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for any qubit Hamiltonian. Its flexible storage format significantly reduces cost for storage and matrix-vector multiplication in comparison to common sparse matrix schemes.

id: 1311.3967
title: Adiabatic Quantum Simulation of Quantum Chemistry
authors: Ryan Babbush, Peter J. Love, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures
journal: Sci. Rep., 4, 1 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3967
abstract: We show how to apply the quantum adiabatic algorithm directly to the quantum computation of molecular properties. We describe a procedure to map electronic structure Hamiltonians to 2-local qubit Hamiltonians with a small set of physically realizable couplings. By combining the Bravyi-Kitaev construction to map fermions to qubits with perturbative gadgets to reduce the Hamiltonian to 2-local, we obtain precision requirements on the coupling strengths and a number of ancilla qubits that scale polynomially in the problem size. Hence our mapping is efficient. The required set of controllable interactions includes only two types of interaction beyond the Ising interactions required to apply the quantum adiabatic algorithm to combinatorial optimization problems. Our mapping may also be of interest to chemists directly as it defines a dictionary from electronic structure to spin Hamiltonians with physical interactions.

id: 1311.3978
title: Emergence of Molecular Chirality by Vibrational Raman Scattering
authors: Farhad Taher Ghahramani, Afshin Shafiee
comments: 5pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A 88, 032504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3978
abstract: In this study, we apply the monitoring master equation describing decoherence of internal states to an optically active molecule prepared in a coherent superposition of nondegenerate internal states interacting with thermal photons at low temperatures. We use vibrational Raman scattering theory up to the first chiral-sensitive contribution, i.e., the mixed electric-magnetic interaction, to obtain scattering amplitudes in terms of molecular polarizability tensors. The resulting density matrix is used to obtain elastic decoherence rates.

id: 1311.4049
title: Characterizing the non-classicality of mesoscopic optical twin-beam states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Marco Lamperti, Maria Bondani, Jan Perina Jr., Vaclav Michalek, Ondrej Haderka, Radek Machulka
comments: 10 pages, 10 captioned figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4049
abstract: We present a robust tool to analyze nonclassical properties of multimode twin-beam states in the mesoscopic photon-number domain. The measurements are performed by direct detection. The analysis exploits three different non-classicality criteria for detected photons exhibiting complementary behavior in the explored intensity regime. Joint signal-idler photon-number distributions and quasi-distributions of integrated intensities are determined and compared with the corresponding distributions of detected photons. Experimental conditions optimal for nonclassical properties of twin-beam states are identified.

id: 1311.4059
title: Measurement of the 5D Level Polarizabilty in Laser Cooled Rb atoms
authors: S. Snigirev, A. Golovizin, D. Tregubov, S. Pyatchenkov, D. Sukachev, A. Akimov, V. Sorokin, N. Kolachevsky
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012510 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4059
abstract: We report on accurate measurements of the scalar and tensor polarizabilities of the 5D fine structure levels 5D3/2 and 5D5/2 in Rb. The measured values show reasonable correspondence to previously published theoretical predictions, but are more accurate. We implemented laser excitation of the 5D level in a laser cooled cloud of optically polarized Rb-87 atoms placed in a constant electric field.

id: 1311.4091
title: Maximum likelihood versus likelihood-free quantum system identification in the atom maser
authors: Catalin Catana, Theodore Kypraios, Madalin Guta
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Methodology (stat.ME)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4091
abstract: We consider the system identification problem of estimating a dynamical parameter of a Markovian quantum open system (the atom maser), by performing continuous time measurements in the system's output (outgoing atoms). Two estimation methods are investigated and compared. On the one hand, the maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) takes into account the full measurement data and is asymptotically optimal in terms of its mean square error. On the other hand, the `likelihood-free' method of approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) produces an approximation of the posterior distribution for a given set of summary statistics, by sampling trajectories at different parameter values and comparing them with the measurement data via chosen statistics. Our analysis is performed on the atom maser model, which exhibits interesting features such as bistability and dynamical phase transitions, and has connections with the classical theory of hidden Markov processes. Building on previous results which showed that atom counts are poor statistics for certain values of the Rabi angle, we apply MLE to the full measurement data and estimate its Fisher information. We then select several correlation statistics such as waiting times, distribution of successive identical detections, and use them as input of the ABC algorithm. The resulting posterior distribution follows closely the data likelihood, showing that the selected statistics contain `most' statistical information about the Rabi angle.

id: 1311.4122
title: Preparing arbitrary pure states of spatial qudits with a single phase-only spatial light modulator
authors: M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, A. Arias, J. J. M. Varga, L. Reb¨®n, S. Ledesma, C. Iemmi, L. Neves
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 22, pp. 4762-4765 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4122
abstract: Spatial qudits are D-dimensional ($D\geq 2$) quantum systems carrying information encoded in the discretized transverse momentum and position of single photons. We present a proof-of-principle demonstration of a method for preparing arbitrary pure states of such systems by using a single phase-only spatial light modulator (SLM). The method relies on the encoding of the complex transmission function corresponding to a given spatial qudit state onto a preset diffraction order of a phase-only grating function addressed at the SLM. Fidelities of preparation above 94% were obtained with this method, which is simpler, less costly, and more efficient than those that require two SLMs for the same purpose.

id: 1311.4129
title: Photon added nonlinear coherent states for a one mode field in a Kerr medium
authors: R. Rom¨¢n-Ancheyta, C. Gonz¨¢lez Guti¨¦rrez, J. R¨¦camier
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, Accepted for publication in JOSAB
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B (JOSAB) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4129
abstract: We construct Deformed Photon Added Nonlinear Coherent States (DPANCSs) by application of the deformed creation operator upon the Nonlinear Coherent States obtained as eigenstates of the deformed annihilation operator and by application of a deformed displacement operator upon the vacuum state. We evaluate some statistical properties like the Mandel parameter, Husimi and Wigner functions for these states and analyze their differences, we give closed analytical expressions for them. We found a profound difference in the statistical properties of the DPANCSs obtained from the two above mentioned generalizations.

id: 1311.4135
title: Quantum probes for the spectral properties of a classical environment
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032114 (2014 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4135
abstract: We address the use of simple quantum probes for the spectral characterization of classical noisy environments. In our scheme a qubit interacts with a classical stochastic field describing environmental noise and is then measured after a given interaction time in order to estimate the characteristic parameters of the noise. In particular, we address estimation of the spectral parameters of two relevant kinds of non-Gaussian noise: random telegraph noise with Lorentzian spectrum and colored noise with $1/f^{\alpha}$ spectrum. We discuss the estimation precision achievable by quantum probes by analyzing in details the behavior of the quantum Fisher information (QFI) as a function of the noise and the other parameters. We found that population measurement on the qubit is optimal for noise estimation and also evaluate the optimal interaction times for the quantum probe, i.e. the values maximizing the QFI and the quantum signal-to-noise ratio. For random telegraph noise the QFI is inversely proportional to the square of the switching rate, meaning that the quantum signal-to-noise ratio is constant and thus the switching rate may be uniformly estimated with the same precision in its whole range of variation. For colored noise, the precision achievable in the estimation of ``color'', i.e. of the exponent $\alpha$, strongly depends on the structure of the environment, i.e. on the number of fluctuators describing the classical environment. For an environment modeled by a single random fluctuator estimation is more precise for pink noise, i.e. for $\alpha=1$, whereas by increasing the number of fluctuators, the QFI is has two local maxima, with the largest one drifting towards $\alpha=2$, i.e. brown noise.

id: 1311.4149
title: Qubit entanglement: A Jordan algebraic perspective
authors: L. Borsten
comments: 12 pages, 1 fig. To appear in proceedings of 3Quantum: Algebra Geometry Information (AGMP Network), Tallinn University of Technology, Estonia, 10-13 July 2012
journal: 2014 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 532 012003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4149
abstract: We review work classifying the physically distinct forms of 3-qubit entanglement using the elegant framework of Jordan algebras, Freudenthal triple systems and groups of type E_7. While this framework is, in the first instance, specific to three qubits, it is shown here how the essential features may be naturally generalised to an arbitrary number of qubits.

id: 1311.4187
title: Lasing and high temperature phase transitions in atomic systems with dressed state polaritons
authors: I. Yu. Chestnov, A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4187
abstract: We consider the fundamental problem of high temperature phase transitions in the system of high density two-level atoms off-resonantly interacting with a pump field in the presence of optical collisions (OCs) and placed in the cavity. OCs are considered in the framework of thermalization of atomic dressed state (DS) population. For the case of a strong atom-field coupling condition we analyze the problem of thermodynamically equilibrium superradiant phase transition for the order parameter representing a real amplitude of cavity mode and taking place as a result of atomic DSs thermalization process. Such transition is also connected with condensed (coherent) properties of low branch (LB) DS-polaritons occurring in the cavity. For describing non-equilibrium phase transitions we derive Maxwell-Bloch like equations which account for cavity decay rate, collisional decay rate and spontaneous emission. Various aspects of transitions to laser field formation by using atomic DS levels for both positive and negative detuning of a pump field from atomic transition frequency are studied in detail. It is revealed, that for positive atom-light detuning DS lasing can be obtained in the presence of quasi-equilibrium DS population that corresponds to a true two-level atomic system with the inversion in nonresonant limit.

id: 1311.4213
title: On the degree of non-Markovianity of quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4213
abstract: We propose a new characterization of non-Markovian quantum evolution based on the concept of non-Markovianity degree. It provides an analog of a Schmidt number in the entanglement theory and reveals the formal analogy between quantum evolution and the entanglement theory: Markovian evolution corresponds to a separable state and non-Markovian one is further characterized by its degree. It enables one to introduce a non-Markovinity witness -- an analog of an entanglement witness -- and a family of measures -- an analog of Schmidt coefficients -- and finally to characterize maximally non-Markovian evolution being an analog of maximally entangled state. Our approach allows to classify the non-Markovianity measures introduced so far in a unified rigorous mathematical framework.

id: 1311.4284
title: Simulating Anderson localization via a quantum walk on a one-dimensional lattice of superconducting qubits
authors: Joydip Ghosh
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, PRA version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4284
abstract: Quantum walk (QW) in presence of lattice disorders leads to a multitude of interesting phenomena, such as Anderson localization. While QW has been realized in various optical and atomic systems, its implementation with superconducting qubits still remains pending. The major challenge in simulating QW with superconducting qubits emerges from the fact that on-chip superconducting qubits cannot hop between two adjacent lattice sites. Here we overcome this barrier and develop a scheme to realize the discrete time QW by placing a pair of superconducting qubits on each site of a 1D lattice and treating an excitation as a walker. It is also shown that lattice disorders can be introduced and fully controlled within this scheme by tuning the qubit parameters. We observe a distinct signature of transition from the ballistic regime to a localized QW with an increasing strength of disorder. Finally, an eight-qubit experiment is proposed where the signature of localized and delocalized regimes can be detected with existing superconducting technology.

id: 1311.4345
title: Description of diffraction grating experiments for photons and electrons in Feynman's space-time formulation of quantum mechanics: The quantum origins of classical wave theories of light and massive particles
authors: J.H.Field
comments: 30 pages, no tables, 1 figure
journal: Eur.J.Phys. 34 (2013) 1507-1531
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4345
abstract: The five laws of relativistic quantum mechanics, according to Feynman's path integral formulation, are concisely stated and applied to experiments. Reflection diffraction grating experiments for both photons and electrons are analysed, in particular the Davisson-Germer experiment in which the wave-like property of electrons was first established. It is shown how classical, purely spatial, effective wave theories for both photons and electrons are predicted by the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics. The standard Copenhagen interpretation of wave mechanics is critically discussed in the light of the described experimental applications of the path integral formulation.

id: 1311.4405
title: On the origin of preferred-basis and evolution pattern of wave function
authors: Shizhong Mei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4405
abstract: The standard quantum mechanics assumes Schr\"odinger equation for regular evolution and wave function collapse for measurement. As shown in this paper, only particular collapse equation can continuously transition to Schr\"odinge equation. The collapse equation also adds some restriction to the preferred-basis. Under the assumptions that the preferred-basis depends on the whole system Hamiltonian but is not affected by the weights of the basis functions in the system wave function, a unique set of determination equations of the basis functions is derived from the collapse equation. The second order time derivative of the wave function is continuous at the end of the collapse. To make the derivative continuous at the beginning of the collapse, it is proved that the collapse equation has to contain a cyclic function with period twice the duration of the collapse, which leads to conditioned alternating Schr\"odinger evolution and collapse of equal duration.

id: 1311.4437
title: Complexity and instability of quantum motion near a quantum phase transition
authors: Pinquan Qin, Wen-ge Wang, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E 89, 032120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4437
abstract: We show that the number of harmonics of the Wigner function, recently proposed as a measure of quantum complexity, can be also used to characterize quantum phase transitions. The non-analytic behavior of this quantity in the neighborhood of a quantum phase transition is illustrated by means of the Dicke model and is compared to two well-known measures of the (in)stability of quantum motion, the quantum Loschmidt echo and the fidelity.

id: 1311.4447
title: A Balanced $_{10}F_{9}$ Hypergeometric Hybrid Hilbert-Schmidt/Bures Two-Qubit Function and Related Constructions
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 20 pages, one figure, new section IV reporting computation for the Bures n = 2, alpha = 1/2 moment formula
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4447
abstract: We seek to develop a Bures (minimal monotone/statistical distinguishability) metric-based series of formulas for the moments of probability distributions over the determinants $|\rho|$ and $|\rho^{PT}|$ of $4 \times 4$ density matrices, $\rho$, for generalized (rebit, quater[nionic]bit,\ldots) two-qubit systems, analogous to a series that has been obtained for the Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) metric. In particular, we desire--using moment-inversion procedures--to be able to closely test the previously-developed conjecture (J. Geom. Phys., 53, 74 [2005]) that the Bures separability probability over the (standard, fifteen-dimensional convex set of) two-qubit states is $\frac{1680 \left(\sqrt{2}-1\right)}{\pi ^8} \approx 0.0733389$--while, in the HS context, strong evidence has been adduced, along the indicated analytical lines, that the counterpart of this value is $\frac{8}{33}$ (J. Phys. A}, 45, 095305 [2012]). Working within the "utility function" framework of Dunkl employed in that latter study, we obtain an interesting $_{10}F_{9}$ balanced hypergeometric function based on a "hybridization" of known Bures and HS terms. This exercise appears to provide an upper bound on the Bures two-qubit separability probability of 0.0798218. We also examine the yet unresolved HS qubit-qutrit scenario. Mathematica calculations indicate that if the same form of hypergeometric paradigm as has been established for the generalized two-qubit HS moments is followed in either the HS qubit-qutrit or Bures two-qubit cases, then a balanced hypergeometric function $_{p}F_{p-1}$ with $p>9$ would be required.

id: 1311.4459
title: The Exact Wavefunction Factorization of a Vibronic Coupling System
authors: Ying-Chih Chiang, Shachar Klaiman, Frank Otto, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4459
abstract: We investigate the exact wavefunction as a single product of electronic and nuclear wavefunction for a model conical intersection system. Exact factorized spiky potentials and nodeless nuclear wavefunctions are found. The exact factorized potential preserves the symmetry breaking effect when the coupling mode is present. Additionally the nodeless wavefunctions are found to be closely related to the adiabatic nuclear eigenfunctions. This phenomenon holds even for the regime where the non-adiabatic coupling is relevant, and sheds light on the relation between the exact wavefunction factorization and the adiabatic approximation.

id: 1311.4474
title: Sizing up entanglement in mutually unbiased bases with Fisher information
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, A. B. Klimov, G. Leuchs, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 7 pages. 3 color figures. Close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4474
abstract: An efficient method for assessing the quality of quantum state tomography is developed. Special attention is paid to the tomography of multipartite systems in terms of unbiased measurements. Although the overall reconstruction errors of different sets of mutually unbiased bases are the same, differences appear when particular aspects of the measured system are contemplated. This point is illustrated by estimating the fidelities of genuinely tripartite entangled states.

id: 1311.4488
title: A New Loophole in Recent Bell Test Experiments
authors: Peter Bierhorst
comments: 5 pages. The single change in this version is the addition of a footnote to the abstract, which highlights some recent work on the problem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4488
abstract: Recent experiments have reached detection efficiencies sufficient to close the detection loophole with photons. Both experiments ran multiple successive trials in fixed measurement configurations, rather than randomly re-setting the measurement configurations before each measurement trial. This opens a new potential loophole for a local hidden variable theory. The loophole invalidates one proposed method of statistical analysis of the experimental results, as demonstrated in this note. Therefore a different analysis will be necessary to definitively assert that these experiments are subject only to the locality loophole.

id: 1311.4489
title: Local Detection of Quantum Correlations with a Single Trapped Ion
authors: M. Gessner, M. Ramm, T. Pruttivarasin, A. Buchleitner, H.-P. Breuer, H. Haeffner
comments: 6 Pages, 5 Figures + 6 Pages, 1 Figure of Supplementary Material
journal: Nature Physics 10, 105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4489
abstract: As one of the most striking features of quantum mechanics, quantum correlations are at the heart of quantum information science. Detection of correlations usually requires access to all the correlated subsystems. However, in many realistic scenarios this is not feasible since only some of the subsystems can be controlled and measured. Such cases can be treated as open quantum systems interacting with an inaccessible environment. Initial system-environment correlations play a fundamental role for the dynamics of open quantum systems. Following a recent proposal, we exploit the impact of the correlations on the open-system dynamics to detect system-environment quantum correlations without accessing the environment. We use two degrees of freedom of a trapped ion to model an open system and its environment. The present method does not require any assumptions about the environment, the interaction or the initial state and therefore provides a versatile tool for the study of quantum systems.

id: 1311.4547
title: True randomness from realistic quantum devices
authors: Daniela Frauchiger, Renato Renner, Matthias Troyer
comments: 12 pages + appendix; see ancillary files for extractor software
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4547
abstract: Even if the output of a Random Number Generator (RNG) is perfectly uniformly distributed, it may be correlated to pre-existing information and therefore be predictable. Statistical tests are thus not sufficient to guarantee that an RNG is usable for applications, e.g., in cryptography or gambling, where unpredictability is important. To enable such applications a stronger notion of randomness, termed "true randomness", is required, which includes independence from prior information. Quantum systems are particularly suitable for true randomness generation, as their unpredictability can be proved based on physical principles. Practical implementations of Quantum RNGs (QRNGs) are however always subject to noise, i.e., influences which are not fully controlled. This reduces the quality of the raw randomness generated by the device, making it necessary to post-process it. Here we provide a framework to analyse realistic QRNGs and to determine the post-processing that is necessary to turn their raw output into true randomness.

id: 1311.4558
title: A noise inequality for classical forces
authors: Dvir Kafri, J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages plus appendix, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4558
abstract: Lorentz invariance requires local interactions, with force laws such as the Coulomb interaction arising via virtual exchange of force carriers such as photons. Many have considered the possibility that, at long distances or large mass scales, this process changes in some way to lead to classical behavior. Here we hypothesize that classical behavior could be due to an inability of some force carriers to convey entanglement, a characteristic measure of nonlocal, quantum behavior. We then prove that there exists a local test that allows one to verify entanglement generation, falsifying our hypothesis. Crucially, we show that noise measurements can directly verify entanglement generation. This provides a step forward for a wide variety of experimental systems where traditional entanglement tests are challenging, including entanglement generation by gravity alone between macroscopic torsional oscillators.

id: 1311.4590
title: Quantifying Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Miguel Navascues, Daniel Cavalcanti
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. v2: One example (ex. (iv)) removed. One appendix (E) and one reference ([28]) added. V3: new example of one-way steering included, typos corrected, new references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 180404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4590
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering is a form of bipartite quantum correlation that is intermediate between entanglement and Bell nonlocality. It allows for entanglement certification when the measurements performed by one of the parties are not characterised (or are untrusted) and has applications in quantum key distribution. Despite its foundational and applied importance, EPR steering lacks a quantitative assessment. Here we propose a way of quantifying this phenomenon and use it to study the steerability of several quantum states. In particular we show that every pure entangled state is maximally steerable, the projector onto the anti-symmetric subspace is maximally steerable for all dimensions, we provide a new example of one-way steering, and give strong support that states with positive-partial-transposition are not steerable.

id: 1311.4630
title: Phase-asymmetry resource interconversion via estimation
authors: Varun Narasimhachar, Gilad Gour
comments: 8 pages; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033859 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4630
abstract: Practical implementations of quantum information-theoretic applications rely on phase coherences between systems. These coherences are disturbed by misalignment between phase references. Quantum states carrying phase-asymmetry act as resources to counteract this misalignment. In this paper, we construct protocols for interconverting these resources by first estimating the misalignment. Our method achieves sublinear, but otherwise arbitrarily high, asymptotic rate of conversion of pure resource states to mixed ones. No other method is known for asymptotic pure-to-mixed state conversion. Our method also has the advantage of achieving phase reference alignment in addition to resource conversion.

id: 1311.4649
title: Describing orbit space of global unitary actions for mixed qudit states
authors: Vladimir Gerdt, Arsen Khvedelidze, Yuri Palii
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Sciences, Vol. 200, No. 6 (2014), 682-689
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4649
abstract: The unitary $ \mathrm{U}(d)$-equivalence relation between elements of the space $\mathfrak{P}_+\,$ of mixed states of $d$-dimensional quantum system defines the orbit space $ \mathfrak{P}_+/ \mathrm{U}(d)\,$ and provides its description in terms the ring $\mathbb{R}[\mathfrak{P}_+]^{\mathrm{U}(d)}\,$ of $\mathrm{U}(d)$-invariant polynomials. We prove that the semi-algebraic structure of $ \mathfrak{P}_+/ \mathrm{U}(d)\, $ is determined completely by two basic properties of density matrices, their semi-positivity and Hermicity. Particularly, it is shown that the Processi-Schwarz inequalities in elements of integrity basis for $\mathbb{R}[\mathfrak{P}_+]^{\mathrm{U}(d)}\,$ defining the orbit space, are identically satisfied for all elements of $\mathfrak{P}_+$.

id: 1311.4678
title: Detecting nonlocality of noisy multipartite states with the CHSH inequality
authors: Rafael Chaves, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Leandro Aolita, Daniel Cavalcanti
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4678
abstract: The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality was originally proposed as a Bell inequality to detect nonlocality in bipartite systems. However, it can also be used to certify the nonlocality of multipartite quantum states. We apply this to study the nonlocality of multipartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, W and graph states under local decoherence processes. We derive lower bounds on the critical local-noise strength tolerated by GHZ states before becoming local. In addition, for the whole noisy dynamics, we derive lower bounds on the corresponding nonlocal content for the three classes of states. All the bounds presented can be calculated efficiently and, in some cases, provide significantly tighter estimates than with any other known method. For example, they reveal that $N$-qubit GHZ states undergoing local dephasing are, for all $N$, nonlocal throughout all the dephasing dynamics.

id: 1311.4692
title: Protecting qutrit-qutrit entanglement by weak measurement and reversal
authors: Xing Xiao, Yan-Ling Li
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4692
abstract: Entangled states in high dimensional systems are of great interest due to the extended possibilities they provide in quantum information processing. Recently, Sun et al. [Phys. Rev. A 82, 052323 (2010)] and Kim et al. [Nat. Phys. 8, 117 (2012)] pointed out that weak measurement and quantum weak measurement reversal can actively combat decoherence. We generalize their studies from qubits to qutrits under amplitude damping decoherence. We find that the qutrit-qutrit entanglement can be partially retrieved for certain initial states when only weak measurement reversals are performed. However, we can completely defeat amplitude damping decoherence for any initial states by the combination of prior weak measurements and post optimal weak measurement reversals. The experimental feasibility of our schemes is also discussed.

id: 1311.4722
title: A new quantum version of f-divergence
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4722
abstract: Quantum f-Divergence proposed by Petz (see HiaiMosonyiPetzBeny for comprehensive review) is widely studied, especially due to its implication to perfect error correction. The present author had proposed a new quantum version of "generalized fidelity". This is essentially a new version of quantum f-divergence (D_{f}^{max}, below) when f is operator monotone decreasing. In the definition, we supposed two states are strictly positive. In this paper, the definition is generalized to include operator convex function f and, to states which may have null eigenspace. Not only the definition, also the explicit formula for D_{f}^{max}({\rho}||{\sigma}) when {\rho} and {\sigma} have null eigenspaces is given, and several properties of the quantity is studied (convexity, monotonicity by CPTP maps.) Also, the condition D_{f}^{max}({\rho}||{\sigma})=D_{f}^{max}({\Lambda}({\rho})||{\Lambda}({\sigma})), where {\Lambda} is CPTP map, is studied. As is well-known, the analogous condition for D_{f} implied reversibility of {\Lambda}, or "sufficiency" of the map {\Lambda}. D_{f}^{max}-version of the condition gives another type of "sufficiency" property of {\Lambda}.

id: 1311.4811
title: Rapid Generation of Light Beams Carrying Orbital Angular Momentum
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Omar S. Magana-Loaiza, Changchen Chen, Brandon Rodenburg, Mehul Malik, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 25, pp. 30196-30203 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4811
abstract: We report a technique for encoding both amplitude and phase variations onto a laser beam using a single digital micro-mirror device (DMD). Using this technique, we generate Laguerre-Gaussian and vortex orbital-angular-momentum (OAM) modes, along with modes in a set that is mutually unbiased with respect to the OAM basis. Additionally, we have demonstrated rapid switching among the generated modes at a speed of 4 kHz, which is much faster than the speed regularly achieved by spatial light modulators (SLMs). The dynamic control of both phase and amplitude of a laser beam is an enabling technology for classical communication and quantum key distribution (QKD) systems that employ spatial mode encoding.

id: 1311.4895
title: Efficient Decoders for Qudit Topological Codes
authors: Hussain Anwar, Benjamin J. Brown, Earl T. Campbell, Dan E. Browne
comments: 20 pages, 21 figures, comments are welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 063038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4895
abstract: Qudit toric codes are a natural higher-dimensional generalization of the well-studied qubit toric code. However standard methods for error correction of the qubit toric code are not applicable to them. Novel decoders are needed. In this paper we introduce two renormalization group decoders for qudit codes and analyze their error correction thresholds and efficiency. The first decoder is a generalization of a "hard-decisions" decoder due to Bravyi and Haah [arXiv:1112.3252]. We modify this decoder to overcome a percolation effect which limits its threshold performance for high dimensions. The second decoder is a generalization of a "soft-decisions" decoder due to Poulin and Duclos-Cianci [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 050504 (2010)], with a small cell size to optimize the efficiency of implementation in the high dimensional case. In each case, we estimate thresholds for the uncorrelated bit-flip error model and provide a comparative analysis of the performance of both these approaches to error correction of qudit toric codes.

id: 1311.4939
title: Geometrical perspective on quantum states and quantum computation
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4939
abstract: We interpret quantum computing as a geometric evolution process by reformulating finite quantum systems via Connes' noncommutative geometry. In this formulation, quantum states are represented as noncommutative connections, while gauge transformations on the connections play a role of unitary quantum operations. Thereby, a geometrical model for quantum computation is presented, which is equivalent to the quantum circuit model. This result shows a geometric way of realizing quantum computing and as such, provides an alternative proposal of building a quantum computer.

id: 1311.4945
title: Dynamical energy transfer in ac driven quantum systems
authors: Maria Florencia Ludovico, Jong Soo Lim, Michael Moskalets, Liliana Arrachea, David Sanchez
comments: 5 figures, 2 pages; contains Supplementary Information
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 161306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4945
abstract: We analyze the time-dependent energy and heat flows in a resonant level coupled to a fermionic continuum. The level is periodically forced with an external power source that supplies energy into the system. Based on the tunneling Hamiltonian approach and scattering theory, we discuss the different contributions to the total energy flux. We then derive the appropriate expression for the dynamical dissipation, in accordance with the fundamental principles of thermodynamics. Remarkably, we find that the dissipated heat can be expressed as a Joule law with a universal resistance that is constant at all times.

id: 1311.4957
title: Single photon production by rephased amplified spontaneous emission
authors: Robin N Stevenson, Michael R Hush, Andre R R Carvalho, Sarah E Beavan, Matthew J Sellars, Joseph J Hope
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4957
abstract: The production of single photons using rephased amplified spontaneous emission is examined. This process produces single photons on demand with high efficiency by detecting the spontaneous emission from an atomic ensemble, then applying a population-inverting pulse to rephase the ensemble and produce a photon echo of the spontaneous emission events. The theoretical limits on the efficiency of the production are determined for several variants of the scheme. For an ensemble of uniform optical density, generating the initial spontaneous emission and its echo using transitions of different strengths is shown to produce single photons at 70% efficiency, limited by reabsorption. Tailoring the spatial and spectral density of the atomic ensemble is then shown to prevent reabsorption of the rephased photon, resulting in emission efficiency near unity.

id: 1311.4975
title: Enhancement of image resolution beyond the diffraction-limit by interacting dark resonances
authors: Onkar N. Verma, Tarak N. Dey
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033830 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4975
abstract: We show how quantum coherence effects can be used to improve the resolution and the contrast of diffraction-limited images imprinted onto a probe field. The narrow and sharp spectral features generated by double-dark resonances (DDR) are exploited to control absorption, dispersion and diffraction properties of the medium. The spatial modulated control field can produce inhomoge- neous susceptibility of the medium that encodes the spatial feature of the control image to probe field in the presence of DDR. The transmission of cloned image can be enhanced by use of incoher- ent pump field. We find that the feature size of cloned image is four times smaller than the initial characteristic size of the control image even though the control image is completely distorted after propagation through 3 cm long Rb vapour cell. We further discuss how spatial optical switching is possible by using of induced transparency and absorption of the medium.

id: 1311.4985
title: Translationally invariant conservation laws of local Lindblad equations
authors: Marko Znidaric, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 15 pages, no figs
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 021903 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4985
abstract: We study the conditions under which one can conserve local translationally invariant operators by local translationally invariant Lindblad equations in one-dimensional rings of spin-1/2 particles. We prove that for any 1-local operator (e.g., particle density) there exist Lindblad dissipators that conserve that operator, while on the other hand we prove that among 2-local operators (e.g., energy density) only trivial ones of the Ising type can be conserved, while all the other cannot be conserved, neither locally nor globally, by any 2- or 3-local translationally invariant Lindblad equation. Our statements hold for rings of any finite length larger than some minimal length determined by the locality of Lindblad equation. These results show in particular that conservation of energy density in interacting systems is fundamentally more difficult than conservation of 1-local quantities.

id: 1311.5003
title: Fault-tolerant thresholds for quantum error correction with the surface code
authors: Ashley M. Stephens
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022321 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5003
abstract: The surface code is a promising candidate for fault-tolerant quantum computation, achieving a high threshold error rate with nearest-neighbor gates in two spatial dimensions. Here, through a series of numerical simulations, we investigate how the precise value of the threshold depends on the noise model, measurement circuits, and decoding algorithm. We observe thresholds between 0.502(1)% and 1.140(1)% per gate, values which are generally lower than previous estimates.

id: 1311.5034
title: Experimental detection of polarization-frequency quantum correlations in a photonic quantum channel by local operations
authors: Jian-Shun Tang, Yi-Tao Wang, Geng Chen, Yang Zou, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Ying Yu, Mi-Feng Li, Guo-Wei Zha, Hai-Qiao Ni, Zhi-Chuan Niu, Manuel Gessner, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5034
abstract: We detect and quantify quantum correlations between the polarization and the frequency degrees of freedom of single photons by means of local operations acting only on the polarization degree of freedom. These operations only require experimental control over an easily accessible two-dimensional subsystem despite handling strongly mixed quantum states comprised of a continuum of orthogonal frequency states, which exclude an efficient finite-dimensional truncation of the total Hilbert space.

id: 1311.5037
title: Time-reversed two-photon interferometry for phase super-resolution
authors: Kazuhisa Ogawa, Shuhei Tamate, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Toshihiro Nakanishi, Masao Kitano
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063813 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5037
abstract: We observed two-photon phase super-resolution in an unbalanced Michelson interferometer with classical Gaussian laser pulses. Our work is a time-reversed version of a two-photon interference experiment using an unbalanced Michelson interferometer. A measured interferogram exhibits two-photon phase super-resolution with a high visibility of 97.9% \pm 0.4%. Its coherence length is about 22 times longer than that of the input laser pulses. It is a classical analogue to the large difference between the one- and two-photon coherence lengths of entangled photon pairs.

id: 1311.5060
title: Storage and retrieval of squeezing in multimode resonant quantum memories
authors: K.Tikhonov, K.Samburskaya, T.Golubeva, Yu.Golubev
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013811 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5060
abstract: In this article the ability to record, store, and read out the quantum properties of light is studied. The discussion is based on high-speed and adiabatic models of quantum memory in lambda-configuration and in the limit of strong resonance. We show that in this case the equality between efficiency and squeezing ratio, predicted by the simple beamsplitter model, is broken. The requirement of the maximum squeezing in the output pulse should not be accompanied by the requirement of maximum efficiency of memory, as in the beamsplitter model. We have demonstrated a high output pulse squeezing, when the efficiency reached only about 50%. Comprehension of this "paradox" is achieved on the basis of mode analysis. The memories eigenmodes, which have an impact on the memory process, are found numerically. Also, the spectral analysis of modes was performed to match the spectral width of the input signal to the capacities of the memories.

id: 1311.5147
title: Robust Rydberg interaction gates with adiabatic passage
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5147
abstract: We show that with adiabatic passage, one can reliably drive two-photon optical transitions between the ground states and interacting Rydberg states in a pair of atoms. For finite Rydberg interaction strengths a new adiabatic pathway towards the doubly Rydberg excited state is identified when a constant detuning is applied with respect to an intermediate optically excited level. The Rydberg interaction among the excited atoms provides a phase that may be used to implement quantum gate operations on atomic ground state qubits.

id: 1311.5186
title: Information Causality, Szemer¨¦di-Trotter and Algebraic Variants of CHSH
authors: Mohammad Bavarian, Peter W. Shor
comments: Fixed some typos and added minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5186
abstract: In this work, we consider the following family of two prover one-round games. In the CHSH_q game, two parties are given x,y in F_q uniformly at random, and each must produce an output a,b in F_q without communicating with the other. The players' objective is to maximize the probability that their outputs satisfy a+b=xy in F_q. This game was introduced by Buhrman and Massar (PRA 2005) as a large alphabet generalization of the celebrated CHSH game---which is one of the most well-studied two-prover games in quantum information theory, and which has a large number of applications to quantum cryptography and quantum complexity. Our main contributions in this paper are the first asymptotic and explicit bounds on the entangled and classical values of CHSH_q, and the realization of a rather surprising connection between CHSH_q and geometric incidence theory. On the way to these results, we also resolve a problem of Pawlowski and Winter about pairwise independent Information Causality, which, beside being interesting on its own, gives as an application a short proof of our upper bound for the entangled value of CHSH_q.

id: 1311.5212
title: Robust quantum data locking from phase modulation
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Mark M. Wilde, Seth Lloyd
comments: A new result on the robustness of quantum data locking has been added
journal: Physical Review A vol. 90, no. 2, page 022326, August 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5212
abstract: Quantum data locking is a unique quantum phenomenon that allows a relatively short key to (un)lock an arbitrarily long message encoded in a quantum state, in such a way that an eavesdropper who measures the state but does not know the key has essentially no information about the encrypted message. The application of quantum data locking in cryptography would allow one to overcome the limitations of the one-time pad encryption, which requires the key to have the same length as the message. However, it is known that the strength of quantum data locking is also its Achilles heel, as the leakage of a few bits of the key or the message may in principle allow the eavesdropper to unlock a disproportionate amount of information. In this paper we show that there exist quantum data locking schemes that can be made robust against information leakage by increasing the length of the shared key by a proportionate amount. This implies that a constant size key can still encrypt an arbitrarily long message as long as a fraction of it remains secret to the eavesdropper. Moreover, we greatly simplify the structure of the protocol by proving that phase modulation suffices to generate strong locking schemes, paving the way to optical experimental realizations. Also, we show that successful data locking protocols can be constructed using random codewords, which very well could be helpful in discovering random codes for data locking over noisy quantum channels.

id: 1311.5253
title: An Introduction to QBism with an Application to the Locality of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, N. David Mermin, Ruediger Schack
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Am. J. Phys., Vol. 82, No. 8, August 2014, 749-754
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5253
abstract: We give an introduction to the QBist interpretation of quantum mechanics. We note that it removes the paradoxes, conundra, and pseudo-problems that have plagued quantum foundations for the past nine decades. As an example, we show in detail how it eliminates quantum "nonlocality".

id: 1311.5269
title: Quantum Hamiltonian Learning Using Imperfect Quantum Resources
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Christopher Granade, Christopher Ferrie, David G. Cory
comments: 16 pages 11 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5269
abstract: Identifying an accurate model for the dynamics of a quantum system is a vexing problem that underlies a range of problems in experimental physics and quantum information theory. Recently, a method called quantum Hamiltonian learning has been proposed by the present authors that uses quantum simulation as a resource for modeling an unknown quantum system. This approach can, under certain circumstances, allow such models to be efficiently identified. A major caveat of that work is the assumption of that all elements of the protocol are noise-free. Here, we show that quantum Hamiltonian learning can tolerate substantial amounts of depolarizing noise and show numerical evidence that it can tolerate noise drawn from other realistic models. We further provide evidence that the learning algorithm will find a model that is maximally close to the true model in cases where the hypothetical model lacks terms present in the true model. Finally, we also provide numerical evidence that the algorithm works for non-commuting models. This work illustrates that quantum Hamiltonian learning can be performed using realistic resources and suggests that even imperfect quantum resources may be valuable for characterizing quantum systems.

id: 1311.5292
title: Low-light-level four-wave mixing by quantum interference
authors: Chang-Kai Chiu, Yi-Hsin Chen, Yen-Chun Chen, Ite A. Yu, Ying-Cheng Chen, Yong-Fan Chen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023839 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5292
abstract: We observed electromagnetically-induced-transparency-based four-wave mixing (FWM) in the pulsed regime at low light levels. The FWM conversion efficiency of 3.8(9)% was observed in a four-level system of cold 87Rb atoms using a driving laser pulse with a peak intensity of approximately 80 {\mu}W/cm^2, corresponding to an energy of approximately 60 photons per atomic cross section. Comparison between the experimental data and the theoretical predictions proposed by Harris and Hau [Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 4611 (1999)] showed good agreement. Additionally, a high conversion efficiency of 46(2)% was demonstrated when applying this scheme using a driving laser intensity of approximately 1.8 mW/cm^2. According to our theoretical predictions, this FWM scheme can achieve a conversion efficiency of nearly 100% when using a dense medium with an optical depth of 500.

id: 1311.5322
title: More Efficient Privacy Amplification with Less Random Seeds via Dual Universal Hash Function
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: 31 pages, no figure, 1 table; v3: revised arguments with new hash functions proposed additionally, v4: minor corrections and clarifications, some new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5322
abstract: We explicitly construct random hash functions for privacy amplification (extractors) that require smaller random seed lengths than the previous literature, and still allow efficient implementations with complexity $O(n\log n)$ for input length $n$. The key idea is the concept of dual universal$_2$ hash function introduced recently. We also use a new method for constructing extractors by concatenating $\delta$-almost dual universal$_2$ hash functions with other extractors. Besides minimizing seed lengths, we also introduce methods that allow one to use non-uniform random seeds for extractors. These methods can be applied to a wide class of extractors, including dual universal$_2$ hash function, as well as to conventional universal$_2$ hash functions.

id: 1311.5349
title: Characterizing the transition from classical to quantum as an irreversible loss of physical information
authors: Philippe Guillemant, Cherifa Abid, Marc Medale
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5349
abstract: The experimental confirmation of Landauer principle and the emerging concept of a computational universe make it more and more crucial to understand the physical sense of information, as it has an intrinsic relation with observer knowledge that is often rejected as subjective. In this paper we propose an objective definition of phase information in a purely classical computational universe with quantized phase states, this quantization being imposed by our fundamental hypothesis that physical information has a finite and limited density, responsible for the irreversibility. We use a statistical study of results obtained by numerical simulations of a billiard to highlight an excessive and paradoxical loss of phase information that we solve by involving a classical to quantum transition. After discussing the pertinence of such a transition to clarify some problematic aspects of statistical physics, we conclude that a computational universe should automatically lose phase information through time in an irreversible way, which could be compensated by a gain of physical information due to observation and decoherence.

id: 1311.5371
title: Quantum Breathing Mode of Trapped Systems in One and Two Dimensions
authors: Jan Willem Abraham, Michael Bonitz, Chris McDonald, Gianfranco Orlando, Thomas Brabec
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 013001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5371
abstract: We investigate the quantum breathing mode (monopole oscillation) of trapped fermionic particles with Coulomb and dipole interaction in one and two dimensions. This collective oscillation has been shown to reveal detailed information on the many-particle state of interacting trapped systems and is thus a sensitive diagnostics for a variety of finite systems, including cold atomic and molecular gases in traps and optical lattics, electrons in metal clusters and in quantum confined semiconductor structures or nanoplasmas. An improved sum rule formalism allows us to accurately determine the breathing frequencies from the ground state of the system, avoiding complicated time-dependent simulations. In combination with the Hartree-Fock and the Thomas-Fermi approximations this enables us to extend the calculations to large particle numbers $N$ on the order of several million. Tracing the breathing frequency to large $N$ as a function of the coupling parameter of the system reveals a surprising difference of the asymptotic behavior of one-dimensional and two-dimensional harmonically trapped Coulomb systems.

id: 1311.5378
title: Retrieving and Routing Quantum Information in a Quantum Network
authors: Sk Sazim, Indranil Chakrabarty, Chiranjeevi Vanarasa, Kannan Srinathan
comments: 5 Pages including Appendix, 3 Figures and 3 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5378
abstract: In extant quantum secret sharing protocols, once the secret is shared in a quantum network (\textsc{qnet}) it can not be retrieved back, even if the dealer wishes that her secret no longer be available in the network. For instance, if the dealer is part of two \textsc{qnet}s, say $\mathcal{Q}_1$ and $\mathcal{Q}_2$ and subsequently finds that $\mathcal{Q}_2$ is more reliable than $\mathcal{Q}_1$, the dealer may wish to transfer all her secrets from $\mathcal{Q}_1$ to $\mathcal{Q}_2$. In this work we address this problem by designing a protocol that enables the source/dealer to bring back the information shared in the network, if desired. Unlike classical revocation, no-cloning-theorem automatically ensures that the secret is no longer shared in the network. The implications of our results are multi-fold. One interesting implication of our technique is the possibility of routing qubits in asynchronous \textsc{qnets}. By asynchrony we mean that the requisite data/resources are intermittently available (but not necessarily simultaneously) in the \textsc{qnet}. For example, we show that a source $S$ can send quantum information to a destination $R$ even though (a) $S$ and $R$ share no quantum resource, (b) $R$'s identity is {\em unknown}\/ to $S$ initially, (c) $S$ herself can be $R$ at a later date and/or in a different location to bequeath her information and (d) the path chosen for routing the secret may hit a dead-end due to resource constraints. Another implication of our technique is the possibility of using {\em insecure}\/ resources. For instance, it may safely store its private information with a neighboring organization without revealing data to the host and losing control over retrieving the data. Putting the two implications together, namely routing and secure storage, it is possible to envision applications like quantum mail (qmail) as an outsourced service.

id: 1311.5409
title: Breakdown of Bose-Einstein distribution in photonic crystals
authors: Ping-Yuan Lo, Heng-Na Xiong, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5409
abstract: In the last two decades, considerable advances have been made in the investigation of nano-photonics in photonic crystals. Previous theoretical investigations of photon dynamics were carried out at zero temperature. Here, we investigate micro/nano cavity photonics in photonic crystals at finite temperature. Due to photonic-band-gap-induced non-Markovian dynamics, we discover that cavity photons in photonic crystals do not obey the standard Bose-Einstein statistical distribution. Within the photonic band gap and in the vicinity of the band edge, cavity photons combine nontrivial quantum dissipation with thermal fluctuations to form photon states that can memorize the initial cavity state information. As a result, Bose-Einstein distribution is completely broken down in these regimes, even if the thermal energy is larger than the photonic band gap.

id: 1311.5419
title: Against Absolute Actualization: Three "Non-Localities" and Failure of Model-External Randomness made easy with Many-Worlds Models including Stronger Bell-Violation and Correct QM Probability
authors: Sascha Vongehr
comments: 37 pages, 9 figures, text substancially revised for clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5419
abstract: Experimental violation of Bell-inequalities proves actualization of many futures (~ many-worlds); I show that this is not mere interpretation. To show this self-contained pedagogically, I resolve the EPR paradox by starting with a visually intuitive non-quantum many-worlds model that already has apparent non-locality. A modification leads to a classical-to-quantum transition model. Model-external randomness (a ghost outside the universe throwing a pebble on state-space) stays unchanged, but the modeled observers witness strong Bell-violation. I derive the quantum probability P from classical-to-quantum consistency. Model-internal probability (~ subjective Bayesianism) is derived as a measure of surprise (~ Deutsch's rational expectation). The model shows how absolute actualization, say by real hidden variables, fails. Models with P and standard Bell-violation are supplied for completeness. The transition model is the first touchable, interactive science-outreach exhibit teaching correct quantum physics. The discussion reinterprets the transition model, defends Einstein-locality, rejects "realism" etc., to the conclusion that the models teach the necessity of "many worlds/minds", rejecting probability concepts with random-randomness regress. The models teach how EPR empirically excludes certain realisms.

id: 1311.5506
title: Operational constraints on state-dependent formulations of quantum error-disturbance trade-off relations
authors: Kamil Korzekwa, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 7 pages. Published version. Improved and expanded discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5506
abstract: We argue for an operational requirement that all state-dependent measures of disturbance should satisfy. Motivated by this natural criterion, we prove that in any $d$-dimensional Hilbert space and for any pair of non-commuting operators, $A$ and $B$, there exists a set of at least $2^{d-1}$ zero-noise, zero-disturbance (ZNZD) states, for which the first observable can be measured without noise and the second will not be disturbed. Moreover, we show that it is possible to construct such ZNZD states for which the expectation value of the commutator $[A,B]$ does not vanish. Therefore any state-dependent error-disturbance relation, based on the expectation value of the commutator as a lower bound, must violate the operational requirement. We also discuss Ozawa's state-dependent error-disturbance relation in light of our results and show that the disturbance measure used in this relation exhibits unphysical properties. We conclude that the trade-off is inevitable only between state-independent measures of error and disturbance.

id: 1311.5576
title: Bayesian quantum frequency estimation in presence of collective dephasing
authors: Katarzyna Macieszczak, Martin Fraas, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5576
abstract: We advocate a Bayesian approach to optimal quantum frequency estimation - an important issue for future quantum enhanced atomic clock operation. The approach provides a clear insight into the interplay between decoherence and the extent of the prior knowledge in determining the optimal interrogation times and optimal estimation strategies. We propose a general framework capable of describing local oscillator noise as well as additional collective atomic dephasing effects. For a Gaussian noise the average Bayesian cost can be expressed using the quantum Fisher information and thus we establish a direct link between the two, often competing, approaches to quantum estimation theory

id: 1311.5598
title: The Glauber-Sudarshan and Kirkwood-Rihaczec functions
authors: H.M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 60, No. 9, 726-730 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5598
abstract: It is shown how to write the Kirkwood-Rihaczec quasiprobability distribution as an expectation value of the vacuum state. We do this, by writing the position eigenstates as a "displacment" of the vacumm. We also give a relation between the Glauber-Sudarshan and Kirkwood-Rihaczec quasiprobability distributions.

id: 1311.5602
title: General entropy-like uncertainty relations in finite dimensions
authors: S. Zozor, G. M. Bosyk, M. Portesi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5602
abstract: We revisit entropic formulations of the uncertainty principle for an arbitrary pair of positive operator-valued measures (POVM) $A$ and $B$, acting on finite dimensional Hilbert space. Salicr\'u generalized $(h,\phi)$-entropies, including R\'enyi and Tsallis ones among others, are used as uncertainty measures associated with the distribution probabilities corresponding to the outcomes of the observables. We obtain a nontrivial lower bound for the sum of generalized entropies for any pair of entropic functionals, which is valid for both pure and mixed states. The bound depends on the overlap triplet $(c_A,c_B,c_{A,B})$ with $c_A$ (resp. $c_B$) being the overlap between the elements of the POVM $A$ (resp. $B$) and $c_{A,B}$ the overlap between the pair of POVM. Our approach is inspired by that of de Vicente and S\'anchez-Ruiz [Phys.\ Rev.\ A \textbf{77}, 042110 (2008)] and consists in a minimization of the entropy sum subject to the Landau-Pollak inequality that links the maximum probabilities of both observables. We solve the constrained optimization problem in a geometrical way and furthermore, when dealing with R\'enyi or Tsallis entropic formulations of the uncertainty principle, we overcome the H\"older conjugacy constraint imposed on the entropic indices by the Riesz-Thorin theorem. In the case of nondegenerate observables, we show that for given $c_{A,B} > \frac{1}{\sqrt2}$, the bound obtained is optimal; and that, for R\'enyi entropies, our bound improves Deutsch one, but Maassen-Uffink bound prevails when $c_{A,B} \leq\frac12$. Finally, we illustrate by comparing our bound with known previous results in particular cases of R\'enyi and Tsallis entropies.

id: 1311.5605
title: Observing interferences between past and future quantum states in resonance fluorescence
authors: Philippe Campagne-Ibarcq, Landry Bretheau, Emmanuel Flurin, Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Fran?ois Mallet, Benjamin Huard
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Supplemnatary information available as an ancillary file here
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 180402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5605
abstract: In quantum physics, measurement results are random but their statistics can be predicted assuming some knowledge about the system in the past. Additional knowledge from a future measurement deeply changes the statistics in the present and leads to purely quantum features. In particular conditioned average outcomes of a weak measurement, so-called weak values, were shown to go beyond the conventional range, give a way to directly measure complex quantities, and can be used to enhance the sensitivity of quantum meters. Recently, these concepts have been considered in the general case of open quantum systems where decoherence occurs. Then, what are the properties of weak values for the unavoidable measurement associated to decoherence, the one performed by the environment? Here, we answer this question in the simplest open quantum system: a quantum bit in presence of a relaxation channel. We continuously monitor the fluorescence emitted by a superconducting qubit driven at resonance. Conditioned on initial preparation and final single shot measurement outcome of the qubit state, we probe weak values displaying all the above properties. The fluorescence signal exhibits interferences between oscillations associated to past and future quantum states. The measured data are in complete agreement with theory.

id: 1311.5619
title: Towards universal quantum computation through relativistic motion
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Carlos Sab¨ªn, Pieter Kok, G?ran Johansson, Per Delsing, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures. I. F. previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller. Updated to match resubmission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5619
abstract: We show how to use relativistic motion and local phase shifts to generate continuous variable Gaussian cluster states within cavity modes. Our results can be demonstrated experimentally using superconducting circuits where tuneable boundary conditions correspond to mirrors moving with velocities close to the speed of light. In particular, we propose the generation of a quadripartite square cluster state as a first example that can be readily implemented in the laboratory. Since cluster states are universal resources for universal one-way quantum computation, our results pave the way for relativistic quantum computation schemes.

id: 1311.5627
title: Optical Soliton Propagation in a Free-Standing Nonlinear Graphene Monolayer with Defects
authors: Frederick Ira Moxley III, Tim Byrnes, Adarsh Radadia, Weizhong Dai
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5627
abstract: Recently, optical soliton propagation in an intrinsic nonlinear graphene monolayer configuration has been discovered. However, optical soliton behavior in a free-standing graphene monolayer with defects has not yet been studied. The objective of this article is to employ the generalized finite- difference time-domain (G-FDTD) method to efficiently simulate bright optical solitons, illustrating propagation of the electric field distribution in a free-standing nonlinear layer with variation in nonlinearity along its width. These variations of nonlinearity along the width represent graphene impurities, or defects. Results show that solitons propagate effectively even in the presence of strong spatial variations in the nonlinearity, implying the robustness of the medium with respect to optical propagation.

id: 1311.5628
title: Recurrence in resonant transmission of one-dimensional array of delta potentials
authors: Guillermo Cordourier-Maruri, Virendra Gupta, Romeo de Coss
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Modern Physics Letters B
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 28, 1450016 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5628
abstract: The resonant transmission of a moving particle which interacts with an one-dimensional array of N delta-function potentials is investigated. A suitable transfer matrix formulation is used to obtain the particle transmission. We give the parameters for perfect tunnelling and the transcendental equation for the quasi-bound state energies for N = 2, 3 and 4. Conditions for perfect tunnelling and resonant transmission are discussed for arrays with arbitrary N. A model to explain how the tunnelling energy filter works in these systems is proposed here.

id: 1311.5631
title: Geometric phases between biorthogonal states
authors: Xiao-Dong Cui, Yujun Zheng
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5631
abstract: We investigate the evolution of a state which is dominated by a finite-dimensional non-Hermitian time-dependent Hamiltonian operator with a nondegenerate spectrum by using a biorthonormal approach. The geometric phase between any two states, biorthogonal or not, are generally derived by employing the generalized interference method. The counterpart of Manini-Pistolesi non-diagonal geometric phase in the non-Hermitian setting is taken as a typical example.

id: 1311.5702
title: Hierarchy of quantum correlation measures for two-qubit X states
authors: A. C. S. Costa, R. M. Angelo, M. W. Beims
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5702
abstract: Generalized quantum discord $(D_q)$, entanglement $(E)$, steering $(S_n^{v,e})$, and Bell nonlocality ($\mathcal{N}$) are logically distinct quantifiers of quantum correlations. All these measures capture some nonclassical aspect of quantum states and play some role as resources in quantum information processing. In this paper we look for a possible hierarchy among these quantum correlation witnesses for a given class of two-qubit states. We start by providing formal measures which are in agreement with current knowledge. Then, we show that $(\tfrac{2^q\ln 2}{q}D_q)^{1/2}\geq E\geq \mathcal{N} \geq S_2^e\leq S_3^e\leq E$, whereas there is not such a clear hierarchy as far as the variance-based steering $S_{2,3}^v$ is concerned. In addition, we prove by example that $S_{2,3}^v$ is not {\em invariant} under local unitary operations, being therefore not suitable for quantifying quantum correlations. Finally, since the observed hierarchy maintains when the quantum states under concern are subjected to certain noisy quantum channels, we derive a related chronology for sudden deaths.

id: 1311.5714
title: Relaxation of two coupled quantum oscillators to quasi-equilibrium states based on path integrals
authors: Illarion Dorofeyev
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 2014, 92(10): 1208-1222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5714
abstract: The paper addresses the problem of relaxation of open quantum systems. Using the path integral methods we found an analytical expression for time-dependent density matrix of two coupled quantum oscillators interacting with different baths of oscillators. The expression for density matrix was found in the linear regime with respect to the coupling constant between selected oscillators. Time-dependent spatial variances and covariance were investigated analytically and numerically. It was shown that asymptotic variances in the long-time limit are always in accordance with the fluctuation dissipation theorem despite on their initial values. In the weak coupling approach there is good reason to believe that subsystems asymptotically in equilibrium at their own temperatures even despite of the arbitrary difference in temperatures within the whole system.

id: 1311.5730
title: Quantum Optical State Comparison Amplifier
authors: Electra Eleftheriadou, Stephen M. Barnett, John Jeffers
comments: 7 pages including Supplemental Material, 8 FIgures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 213601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5730
abstract: It is a fundamental principle of quantum theory that an unknown state cannot be copied or, as a consequence, an unknown optical signal cannot be amplified deterministically and perfectly. Here we describe a protocol that provides nondeterministic quantum optical amplification in the coherent state basis with high gain, high fidelity and which does not use quantum resources. The scheme is based on two mature quantum optical technologies, coherent state comparison and photon subtraction. The method compares favourably with all previous nondeterministic amplifiers in terms of fidelity and success probability.

id: 1311.5752
title: Comment on Partial Adiabatic Quantum Search
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 88, 046301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5752
abstract: The partial adiabatic search algorithm was introduced in [A. Tulsi, Phys. Rev. A 80, 052328 (2009)] as a modification of the usual adiabatic algorithm for quantum search with the idea that most of the interesting computation only happens over a very short range of the adiabatic path. By focussing on that restricted range, one can potentially gain advantage by reducing the control requirements on the system, enabling a uniform rate of evolution. In this comment, we point out an oversight in the original work [1] that invalidates its proof. However, the argument can be corrected, and the calculations in [1] are then sufficient to show that the scheme still works. Nevertheless, subsequent works [2-6] cannot all be recovered in the same way.

id: 1311.5760
title: Realization of Quantum Digital Signatures without the requirement of quantum memory
authors: Robert J. Collins, Ross J. Donaldson, Vedran Dunjko, Petros Wallden, Patrick J. Clarke, Erika Andersson, John Jeffers, Gerald S. Buller
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures. Vesrion accepted in PRL. In v3 small change of title and substancial rewriting of parts of the paper following suggestion of referee. Part of the security analysis included in the appendix (supplementary material) for completeness, is similar to the one in our earlier paper arXiv:1309.1375, since it uses similar methods applied to a different setting
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 040502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5760
abstract: Digital signatures are widely used to provide security for electronic communications, for example in financial transactions and electronic mail. Currently used classical digital signature schemes, however, only offer security relying on unproven computational assumptions. In contrast, quantum digital signatures (QDS) offer information-theoretic security based on laws of quantum mechanics (e.g. Gottesman and Chuang 2001). Here, security against forging relies on the impossibility of perfectly distinguishing between non-orthogonal quantum states. A serious drawback of previous QDS schemes is however that they require long-term quantum memory, making them unfeasible in practice. We present the first realisation of a scheme (Dunjko et al 2013) that does not need quantum memory, and which also uses only standard linear optical components and photodetectors. To achieve this, the recipients measure the distributed quantum signature states using a new type of quantum measurement, quantum state elimination (e.g. Barnett 2009, Bandyopadhyay et al 2013). This significantly advances QDS as a quantum technology with potential for real applications.

id: 1311.5770
title: A standard format and a graphical user interface for spin system specification
authors: A.G. Biternas, G.T.P. Charnock, Ilya Kuprov
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 240 (2014) 124-131
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5770
abstract: We introduce a simple and general XML format for spin system description that is the result of extensive consultations within Magnetic Resonance community and unifies under one roof all major existing spin interaction specification conventions. The format is human-readable, easy to edit and easy to parse using standard XML libraries. We also describe a graphical user interface that was designed to facilitate construction and visualization of complicated spin systems. The interface is capable of generating input files for several popular spin dynamics simulation packages.

id: 1311.5809
title: Entangling power of two-qubit gates on mixed states
authors: Zhe Guan, Huan He, Yong-Jian Han, Chuan-Feng Li, Fernando Galve, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5809
abstract: The ability to reach a maximally entangled state from a separable one through the use of a two-qubit unitary operator is analyzed for mixed states. This extension from the known case of pure states shows that there are at least two families of gates which are able to give maximum entangling power for all values of purity. It is notable that one of this gates coincides with a maximum discording one. We give analytical proof that such gate is indeed perfect entangler at all purities and give numerical evidence for the existence of the second one. Further, we find that there are other gates, many in fact, which are perfect entanglers for a restricted range of purities. This highlights the fact that many perfect entangler gates could in principle be found if a thorough analysis of the full parameter space is performed.

id: 1311.5840
title: On an Atom-Interferometer Test of the Speed of Collapse of Wavefunctions in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Hans C. Ohanian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5840
abstract: I propose to resolve the controversy over the speed of collapse of quantum-mechanical wavefunctions by means of an experimental test with a modified symmetric Mach-Zehnder atom interferometer, with non-intersecting, parallel, widely-separated final beams. According to the conventional collapse scenario, the coherent twin-peak atomic wavefunction in the beams of the interferometer suffers an instantaneous collapse, at infinite speed, when the atom is captured by one of the two detectors at the ends of the beams, but it remains coherent until that instant. In contrast, according to the Hellwig-Kraus relativistic collapse scenario, the wavefunction collapses at the speed of light, backward in time along the past light cone of each detector. This leads to a premature collapse, or pre-collapse, which for a beam-to-beam separation of 3 m extends over a time span of 10 ns before arrival at the detectors. Within this time span the portions of the wavefunction in the two beams will be incoherent. The difference between the coherent wavepackets of the conventional scenario and the incoherent wavepackets of the relativistic scenario can be tested by probing the atomic beams with a transverse laser beam crossing them near the detectors. If the beam-to-beam distance is tuned to an odd number of half wavelengths of laser light, the arrangement is a null test: photons will be scattered under the relativistic scenario, but not under the conventional scenario. The design parameters for this test seem to lie within reach of current techniques of atom interferometry. PACS numbers: 03.75.-b, 03.75Dg, 03.65.-w, 03.65.Ta Key words: quantum physics, quantum measurements, collapse of wavefunction, reduction of wavefunction, atom optics, matter wave interferometer, decoherence

id: 1311.5890
title: Experimental realization of post-selected weak measurements on an NMR quantum processor
authors: Dawei Lu, Aharon Brodutch, Jun Li, Hang Li, Raymond Laflamme
comments: Similar to published version. Video abstract at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 16 053015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5890
abstract: The ability to post-select the outcomes of an experiment is a useful theoretical concept and experimental tool. In the context of weak measurements post-selection can lead to surprising results such as complex weak values outside the range of eigenvalues. Usually post-selection is realized by a projective measurement, which is hard to implement in ensemble systems such as NMR. We demonstrate the first experiment of a weak measurement with post-selection on an NMR quantum information processor. Our setup is used for measuring complex weak values and weak values outside the range of eigenvalues. The scheme for overcoming the problem of post-selection in an ensemble quantum computer is general and can be applied to any circuit-based implementation. This experiment paves the way for studying and exploiting post-selection and weak measurements in systems where projective measurements are hard to realize experimentally.

id: 1311.5940
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement and nonlocality in Bose-Einstein condensates by collective atomic recoil
authors: Samanta Piano, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Entropy 15, 1875 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5940
abstract: We study a system represented by a Bose-Einstein condensate interacting with a cavity field in presence of a strong off-resonant pumping laser. This system can be described by a three-mode Gaussian state, where two are the atomic modes corresponding to atoms populating upper and lower momentum sidebands and the third mode describes the scattered cavity field light. We show that, as a consequence of the collective atomic recoil instability, these modes possess a genuine tripartite entanglement that increases unboundedly with the evolution time and is larger than the bipartite entanglement in any reduced two-mode bipartition. We further show that the state of the system exhibits genuine tripartite nonlocality, which can be revealed by a robust violation of the Svetlichny inequality when performing displaced parity measurements. Our exact results are obtained by exploiting the powerful machinery of phase-space informational measures for Gaussian states, which we briefly review in the opening sections of the paper.

id: 1311.5948
title: All joint measurability structures are quantum realizable
authors: Ravi Kunjwal, Chris Heunen, Tobias Fritz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052126 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5948
abstract: We prove that quantum theory realizes all possible (in)compatibility relations among finite sets of observables.

id: 1311.5951
title: Dynamics of Quantum Fisher information in a spin-boson model
authors: Xiang Hao, Ninghua Tong, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A : Math. Theor. 46, 355302(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5951
abstract: Quantum Fisher information characterizes the phase sensitivity of qubits in the spin-boson model with a finite bandwidth spectrum. In contrast with Markovian reservoirs, the quantum Fisher information will flow from the environments to qubits after some times if the bath parameter $s$ is larger than a critical value which is related to temperatures. The sudden change behavior will happen during the evolution of the quantum Fisher information of the maximal entanglement state in the non-Markovian environments. The sudden change times can be varied with the change of the bath parameter $s$. For a very large number of entangled qubits, the sudden change behavior of the maximal quantum Fisher information can be used to characterize the existence of the entanglement. The metrology strategy based on the quantum correlated state leads to a lower phase uncertainty when compared to the uncorrelated product state.

id: 1311.5952
title: Nonunital non-Markovian dynamics induced by a spin bath and interplay of quantum Fisher information
authors: Xiang Hao, Wenjiong Wu, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5952
abstract: We explore the nonunital non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit immersed in a spin bath. The nonunital environmental effects on the precisions of quantum parameter estimation are investigated. The time-dependent transfer matrix and inhomogeneity vector are obtained for the description of the open dynamical process. The evolution of the coherent vectors for a qubit is studied so as to geometrically demonstrate the nonunital non-Markovian effects. The revivals of angles for the fidelity between a maximal mixed state and an arbitrary trajectory state are presented in the nonunital non-Markovian dynamics. The degree for the nonunitality is controllable with the changes of the local magnetic field for a qubit and spin bath temperature. It is found out that the increase of quantum Fisher information for composite states is connected with the nonunital non-Markovian effects, which is helpful for the improvement of quantum metrology.

id: 1311.5953
title: Finite-temperature decoherence of spin states in a $\texttt{\{}\emph{Cu}_3\texttt{\}}$ single molecular magnet
authors: Xiang Hao, Xiaoqun Wang, Chen Liu, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.1549
journal: Journal of Physics B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 025502(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5953
abstract: We investigate the quantum evolution of spin states of a single molecular magnet in a local electric field. The decoherence of a $\texttt{\{}\emph{Cu}_3\texttt{\}}$ single molecular magnet weakly coupled to a thermal bosonic environment can be analyzed by the spin-boson model. Using the finite-temperature time-convolutionless quantum master equation, we obtain the analytical expression of the reduced density matrix of the system in the secular approximation. The suppressed and revived dynamical behavior of the spin states are presented by the oscillation of the chirality spin polarization on the time scale of the correlation time of the environment. The quantum decoherence can be effectively restrained with the help of the manipulation of local electric field and the environment spectral density function. Under the influence of the dissipation, the pointer states measured by the von Neumann entropy are calculated to manifest the entanglement property of the system-environment model.

id: 1311.5994
title: Geometric Measure of Entanglement and Schmidt Decomposition of Multipartite Systems
authors: Levon Tamaryan
comments: PhD thesis, draft, comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5994
abstract: The thesis includes the original results of our articles [30, 37, 40, 42, 51, 53, 75]. A method is developed to compute analytically entanglement measures of three-qubit pure states. Owing to it closed-form expressions are presented for the geometric measure of entanglement for three-qubit states that are linear combinations of four orthogonal product states. It turns out that the geometric measure for these states has three different expressions depending on the range of definition in parameter space and the Hilbert space of three-qubits consists of three different entangled regions. The states that lie on joint surfaces separating different entangled regions, designated as shared states, have particularly interesting features and are dual quantum channels for the perfect teleportation and superdense coding [42]. A powerful method is developed to compute analytically multipartite entanglement measures. The method uses the duality concept and creates a bijection between highly entangled quantum states and their nearest separable states. The bijection gives explicitly the geometric entanglement measure of arbitrary generalized W states of n qubits [30, 75]. Additionaly, the behavior of the geometric entanglement measure of many-qubit W states is analyzed and an interpolating formula is derived [51]. Generalized Schmidt decomposition of pure three-qubit states has four positive and one complex coefficients. In contrast to the bipartite case, they are not arbitrary and the largest Schmidt coefficient restricts severely other coefficients. It is derived a non-strict inequality between three-qubit Schmidt coefficients, where the largest coefficient defines the least upper bound for the three nondiagonal coefficients or, equivalently, the three nondiagonal coefficients together define the greatest lower bound for the largest coefficient [53].

id: 1311.5999
title: The Pauli principle and magnetism
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5999
abstract: According to Heisenberg ferrmagnetism stems from the Pauli magic mediating between Coulomb interaction and electrons' spins. The primary aim of the paper is to turn the magic into an algebra by setting a precise bound to the degree a given electron density can affect spins. An application of the resulting spin-orbital Pauli constraints to Fe, Co, and Ni provides a new insight into the origin of magnetic moments in this archetypical ferromagnets.

id: 1311.6008
title: Exact and approximate solutions for the quantum minimum-Kullback-entropy estimation problem
authors: Carlo Sparaciari, Stefano Olivares, Francesco Ticozzi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6008
abstract: The minimum Kullback entropy principle (mKE) is a useful tool to estimate quantum states and operations from incomplete data and prior information. In general, the solution of a mKE problem is analytically challenging and an approximate solution has been proposed and employed in different context. Recently, the form and a way to compute the exact solution for finite dimensional systems has been found, and a question naturally arises on whether the approximate solution could be an effective substitute for the exact solution, and in which regimes this substitution can be performed. Here, we provide a systematic comparison between the exact and the approximate mKE solutions for a qubit system when average data from a single observable are available. We address both mKE estimation of states and weak Hamiltonians, and compare the two solutions in terms of state fidelity and operator distance. We find that the approximate solution is generally close to the exact one unless the initial state is near an eigenstate of the measured observable. Our results provide a rigorous justification for the use of the approximate solution whenever the above condition does not occur, and extend its range of application beyond those situations satisfying the assumptions used for its derivation.

id: 1311.6062
title: Wigner function description of entanglement swapping using parametric down conversion: the role of vacuum fluctuations in teleportation
authors: A. Casado, S. Guerra, J. Pl¨¢cido
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6062
abstract: We apply the Wigner formalism of quantum optics to study the role of the zeropoint field fluctuations in entanglement swapping produced via parametric down conversion. It is shown that the generation of mode entanglement between two initially non interacting photons is related to the quadruple correlation properties of the electromagnetic field, through the stochastic properties of the vacuum. The relationship between the process of transferring entanglement and the different zeropoint inputs at the nonlinear crystal and the Bell-state analyser is emphasized.

id: 1311.6099
title: Redundancy and Decoherence: Gateways From Quantum World to The Classical
authors: Alireza Poostindouz, Vahid Salari, Hamidreza Mohammadi
comments: This is an abstract of a talk presented in Third Conference on Recent Progress in Foundations of Physics, School of Physics, IPM, Tehran, Iran, 6-7 November 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6099
abstract: In our daily life experiences we face localized objects which are "here or there" not "here and there". The state of a cat could be "dead and alive" at the same time from a quantum mechanical point of view, which is not in agreement with our classical life observations. If we assume that quantum theory can explain the large scale events, how is it possible that quantumness disappears in the classical world? The answer lies in the interaction between the environment and the system of interest. Quantum Darwinism describes the proliferation of the quantum information of each system in the environment. We will show how entanglement plays a key role in coding and decoding the information of each system in its surrounding environment.

id: 1311.6101
title: Space-Time Circuit-to-Hamiltonian Construction and Its Applications
authors: Nikolas P. Breuckmann, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6101
abstract: The circuit-to-Hamiltonian construction translates dynamics (a quantum circuit and its output) into statics (the groundstate of a circuit Hamiltonian) by explicitly defining a quantum register for a clock. The standard Feynman-Kitaev construction uses one global clock for all qubits while we consider a different construction in which a clock is assigned to each interacting qubit. This makes it possible to capture the spatio-temporal structure of the original quantum circuit into features of the circuit Hamiltonian. The construction is inspired by the original two-dimensional interacting fermionic model (see this http URL) We prove that for one-dimensional quantum circuits the gap of the circuit Hamiltonian is appropriately lower-bounded, partially using results on mixing times of Markov chains, so that the applications of this construction for QMA (and partially for quantum adiabatic computation) go through. For one-dimensional quantum circuits, the dynamics generated by the circuit Hamiltonian corresponds to diffusion of a string around the torus.

id: 1311.6112
title: Toward a relativistic von Neumann no hidden variables theorem
authors: Alejandro Cabrera, Edson de Faria, Enrique Pujals, Charles Tresser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6112
abstract: We prove a version of Bell's Theorem that does not assume locality. Beside quantum mechanics and weak forms of relativistic causality and of realism, we only assume one correlation to be twice differentiable at zero. Since we prove that said correlation is once differentiable at zero, this brings us one degree of differentiability away from a relativistic von Neumann no hidden variables theorem.

id: 1311.6133
title: Strong antibunching in a generalized Rabi model
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo, Scott Parkins
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033802 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6133
abstract: We consider a generalized version of the Rabi model that includes a nonlinear, dispersive-type atom-field interaction in addition to the usual linear dipole coupling, as well as cavity dissipation. An effective system of this sort arises, for example, in a quantum simulation of the Rabi model based upon Raman transitions in an optical cavity QED setting [A. L. Grimsmo and S. Parkins, Phys. Rev. A {\bf87}, 033814 (2013)]. For a suitable choice of the nonlinear interaction strength, near degeneracies of the states in the cavity-mode vacuum and single-photon subspaces, in combination with cavity loss, gives rise to an essentially closed cycle of excitations and photon emissions within these subspaces. Consequently, the cavity output field is strongly antibunched. We develop a quantum-trajectory-based description of the system that models its key properties very well, and use a simple dressed-state picture to explain the novel structure of the cavity fluorescence spectrum. We also present numerical results for a potential realization of the system using a rubidium atom coupled strongly to a high-finesse optical cavity mode.

id: 1311.6198
title: Factorized Three-body S-Matrix Restrained by Yang-Baxter Equation and Quantum Entanglements
authors: Li-Wei Yu, Qing Zhao, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6198
abstract: This paper investigates the physical effects of Yang-Baxter equation (YBE) to quantum entanglements through the 3-body S-matrix in entangling parameter space. The explicit form of 3-body S-matrix $\breve{R}_{123}(\theta,\varphi)$ based on the 2-body S-matrices is given due to the factorization condition of YBE. The corresponding chain Hamiltonian has been obtained and diagonalized, also the Berry phase for 3-body system is given. It turns out that by choosing different spectral parameters the $\breve{R}(\theta,\varphi)$-matrix gives GHZ and W state respectively. The extended 1-D Kitaev toy model has been derived. Examples of the role of the model in entanglement transfer are discussed.

id: 1311.6287
title: A histories perspective on characterising quantum non-locality
authors: Fay Dowker, Joe Henson, Petros Wallden
comments: 28 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 033033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6287
abstract: We introduce a framework for studying non-locality and contextuality inspired by the path integral formulation of quantum theory. We prove that the existence of a strongly positive joint quantum measure -- the quantum analogue of a joint probability measure -- on a set of experimental probabilities implies the Navascues-Pironio-Acin (NPA) condition $Q^1$ and is implied by the stronger NPA condition $Q^{1+AB}$. A related condition is shown to be equivalent to $Q^{1+AB}$.

id: 1311.6295
title: The coupled-cluster approach to quantum many-body problem in a three-Hilbert-space reinterpretation
authors: Raymond F. Bishop, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 15 pages
journal: Acta Polytechnica 54 (2014), No. 2, pp. 85 - 92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6295
abstract: The quantum many-body bound-state problem in its computationally successful coupled cluster method (CCM) representation is reconsidered. In conventional practice one factorizes the ground-state wave functions $|\Psi\rangle= e^S |\Phi\rangle$ which live in the "physical" Hilbert space ${\cal H}^{(P)}$ using an elementary ansatz for $|\Phi\rangle$ plus a formal expansion of $S$ in an operator basis of multi-configurational creation operators. In our paper a reinterpretation of the method is proposed. Using parallels between the CCM and the so called quasi-Hermitian, alias three-Hilbert-space (THS), quantum mechanics, the CCM transition from the known microscopic Hamiltonian (denoted by usual symbol $H$), which is self-adjoint in ${\cal H}^{(P)}$, to its effective lower-case isospectral avatar $\hat{h}=e^{-S} H e^S$, is assigned a THS interpretation. In the opposite direction, a THS-prescribed, non-CCM, innovative reinstallation of Hermiticity is shown to be possible for the CCM effective Hamiltonian $\hat{h}$, which only appears manifestly non-Hermitian in its own ("friendly") Hilbert space ${\cal H}^{(F)}$. This goal is achieved via an ad hoc amendment of the inner product in ${\cal H}^{(F)}$, thereby yielding the third ("standard") Hilbert space ${\cal H}^{(S)}$. Due to the resulting exact unitary equivalence between the first and third spaces, ${\cal H}^{(P)}\sim {\cal H}^{(S)}$, the indistinguishability of predictions calculated in these alternative physical frameworks is guaranteed.

id: 1311.6302
title: Probing zero-modes of defect in Kitaev quantum wire
authors: Sheng-Wen Li, Zeng-Zhao Li, C. Y. Cai, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 134505 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6302
abstract: The Kitaev quantum wire (KQW) model with open boundary possesses two Majorana edge modes. When the local chemical potential on a defect site is much higher than that on other sites and than the hopping energy, the electron hopping is blocked at this site. We show that the existence of such a defect on a closed KQW also gives rise to two low-energy modes, which can simulate the edge modes. The energies of the defect modes vanish to zero as the local chemical potential of the defect increase to infinity. We develop a quantum Langevin equation to study the transport of KQW for both open and closed cases. We find that when the lead is contacted with the site beside the defect, we can observe two splitted peaks around the zero-bias voltage in the differential conductance spectrum. While if the lead is contacted with the bulk of the quantum wire far from the the defect or the open edges, we cannot observe any zero-bias peak.

id: 1311.6304
title: Tripartite Blind Quantum Computation
authors: Min Liang
comments: 18 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6304
abstract: This paper proposes a model of tripartite blind quantum computation (TBQC), in which three independent participants hold different resources and accomplish a computational task through cooperation. The three participants are called C,S,T separately, where C needs to compute on his private data, and T has the required quantum algorithm, and S provides sufficient quantum computational resources. Then two concrete TBQC protocols are constructed. The first protocol is designed based on Broadbent-Fitzsimons-Kashefi protocol, and it cannot prevent from collusive attack of two participants. Then based on universal quantum circuit, we present the second protocol which can prevent from collusive attack. In the latter protocol, for each appearance of $R$-gate in the circuit, one call to a classical AND-BOX is required for privacy.

id: 1311.6309
title: A parallel repetition theorem for entangled two-player one-round games under product distributions
authors: Rahul Jain, Attila Pereszl¨¦nyi, Penghui Yao
comments: 14 pages. Accepted by CCC 2014, camera-ready version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6309
abstract: We show a parallel repetition theorem for the entangled value $\omega^*(G)$ of any two-player one-round game $G$ where the questions $(x,y) \in \mathcal{X}\times\mathcal{Y}$ to Alice and Bob are drawn from a product distribution on $\mathcal{X}\times\mathcal{Y}$. We show that for the $k$-fold product $G^k$ of the game $G$ (which represents the game $G$ played in parallel $k$ times independently), $ \omega^*(G^k) =\left(1-(1-\omega^*(G))^3\right)^{\Omega\left(\frac{k}{\log(|\mathcal{A}| \cdot |\mathcal{B}|)}\right)} $, where $\mathcal{A}$ and $\mathcal{B}$ represent the sets from which the answers of Alice and Bob are drawn.

id: 1311.6321
title: Generation and stabilization of a three-qubit entangled W state in circuit QED via quantum feedback control
authors: Shang-Yu Huang, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Xin-Qi Li, G. J. Milburn
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. A (single-column 20 pages, 6 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6321
abstract: Circuit cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) is proving to be a powerful platform to implement quantum feedback control schemes due to the ability to control superconducting qubits and microwaves in a circuit. Here, we present a simple and promising quantum feedback control scheme for deterministic generation and stabilization of a three-qubit $W$ state in the superconducting circuit QED system. The control scheme is based on continuous joint Zeno measurements of multiple qubits in a dispersive regime, which enables us not only to infer the state of the qubits for further information processing but also to create and stabilize the target $W$ state through adaptive quantum feedback control. We simulate the dynamics of the proposed quantum feedback control scheme using the quantum trajectory approach with an effective stochastic maser equation obtained by a polaron-type transformation method and demonstrate that in the presence of moderate environmental decoherence, the average state fidelity higher than $0.9$ can be achieved and maintained for a considerable long time (much longer than the single-qubit decoherence time). This control scheme is also shown to be robust against measurement inefficiency and individual qubit decay rate differences. Finally, the comparison of the polaron-type transformation method to the commonly used adiabatic elimination method to eliminate the cavity mode is presented.

id: 1311.6330
title: Implementing a strand of a scalable fault-tolerant quantum computing fabric
authors: Jerry M. Chow, Jay M. Gambetta, Easwar Magesan, Srikanth J. Srinivasan, Andrew W. Cross, David W. Abraham, Nicholas A. Masluk, B. R. Johnson, Colm A. Ryan, M. Steffen
comments: 9 pages, 4 main figures, 3 extended data figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6330
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is an essential step towards realising scalable quantum computers. Theoretically, it is possible to achieve arbitrarily long protection of quantum information from corruption due to decoherence or imperfect controls, so long as the error rate is below a threshold value. The two-dimensional surface code (SC) is a fault-tolerant error correction protocol} that has garnered considerable attention for actual physical implementations, due to relatively high error thresholds ~1%, and restriction to planar lattices with nearest-neighbour interactions. Here we show a necessary element for SC error correction: high-fidelity parity detection of two code qubits via measurement of a third syndrome qubit. The experiment is performed on a sub-section of the SC lattice with three superconducting transmon qubits, in which two independent outer code qubits are joined to a central syndrome qubit via two linking bus resonators. With all-microwave high-fidelity single- and two-qubit nearest-neighbour entangling gates, we demonstrate entanglement distributed across the entire sub-section by generating a three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state with fidelity ~94%. Then, via high-fidelity measurement of the syndrome qubit, we deterministically entangle the otherwise un-coupled outer code qubits, in either an even or odd parity Bell state, conditioned on the syndrome state. Finally, to fully characterize this parity readout, we develop a new measurement tomography protocol to obtain a fidelity metric (90% and 91%). Our results reveal a straightforward path for expanding superconducting circuits towards larger networks for the SC and eventually a primitive logical qubit implementation.

id: 1311.6343
title: The propagator of a relativistic particle via the path-dependent vector potential
authors: Enderalp Yakaboylu, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6343
abstract: The proper time formalism for a particle propagator in an external electromagnetic field is combined with the path-dependent formulation of the gauge theory to simplify the quasiclassical propagator. The latter is achieved due to a specific choice of the gauge corresponding to the use of the classical path in the path-dependent formulation of the gauge theory, which leads to the cancellation of the interaction part of the action in the Feynman path integral. A simple expression for the quasiclassical propagator is obtained in all cases of the external field when the classical equation of motion in this field is integrable. As an example, new simple expressions for the propagators are derived for a spinless charged particle interacting with the following fields: an arbitrary constant and uniform electromagnetic field, an arbitrary plane wave and, finally, an arbitrary plane wave combined with an arbitrary constant and uniform electromagnetic field. In all these cases the quasiclassical propagator coincides with the exact result.

id: 1311.6458
title: Superconducting series nanowire detector counting up to twelve photons
authors: Zili Zhou, Saeedeh Jahanmirinejad, Francesco Mattioli, D?nd¨¹ Sahin, Giulia Frucci, Alessandro Gaggero, Roberto Leoni, Andrea Fiore
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6458
abstract: We demonstrate a superconducting photon-number-resolving detector capable of resolving up to twelve photons at telecommunication wavelengths. It is based on a series array of twelve superconducting NbN nanowire elements, each connected in parallel with an integrated resistor. The photon-induced voltage signals from the twelve elements are summed up into a single readout pulse with a height proportional to the detected photon number. Thirteen distinct output levels corresponding to the detection of n=0-12 photons are observed experimentally. A detailed analysis of the excess noise shows the potential of scaling to an even larger dynamic range.

id: 1311.6461
title: Non viability of hyperbolic quantum mechanics as a theory of Nature
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6461
abstract: Quantum and classical mechanics share a common algebraic formalism which is expressed naturally in the language of category theory. A third realization of this formalism is the so-called hyperbolic quantum mechanics where split-complex numbers replace the usual complex numbers. We introduce and explore the corresponding generalization of C*-algebras and prove that hyperbolic quantum mechanics is not a viable candidate for describing Nature. Quantum and classical mechanics are the only acceptable theories of Nature which are invariant under tensorial composition.

id: 1311.6474
title: An Information-Theoretic Proof of the Constructive Commutative Quantum Lov¨¢sz Local Lemma
authors: Martin Schwarz, Toby S. Cubitt, Frank Verstraete
comments: 7 pages, 9 pages appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6474
abstract: The Quantum Lov\'asz Local Lemma (QLLL) [AKS12] establishes non-constructively that any quantum system constrained by a local Hamiltonian has a zero-energy ground state, if the local Hamiltonian terms overlap only in a certain restricted way. In this paper, we present an efficient quantum algorithm to prepare this ground state for the special case of commuting projector terms. The related classical problem has been open for more than 34 years. Our algorithm follows the breakthrough ideas of Moser's [Moser09] classical algorithm and lifts his information theoretic argument to the quantum setting. A similar result has been independently published by Arad and Sattath [AS13] recently.

id: 1311.6494
title: A new way for the extension of quantum theory: Non-Bohmian quantum potentials
authors: Mahdi Atiq, Mozafar Karamian, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 9 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics, 2009, Volume 39, Issue 1, pp.33-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6494
abstract: Quantum Mechanics is a good example of a successful theory. Most of atomic phenomena are described well by quantum mechanics and cases such as Lamb Shift that are not described by quantum mechanics, are described by quantum electrodynamics. Of course, at the nuclear level, because of some complications, it is not clear that we can claim the same confidence. One way of taking these complications and corrections into account seems to be a modification of the standard quantum theory. In this paper and its follow ups we consider a straightforward way of extending quantum theory. Our method is based on a Bohmian approach. We show that this approach has the essential ability for extending quantum theory, and we do this by introducing "non-Bohmian" forms for the quantum potential.

id: 1311.6497
title: A Quasi-Newtonian Approach to Bohmian Mechanics I: Quantum Potential
authors: Mahdi Atiq, Mozafar Karamian, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 9 pages
journal: Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie, Volume 34 no 1, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6497
abstract: In this article, we investigate Bohm's view of quantum theory, especially Bohm's quantum potential, from a new perspective. We develop a quasi-Newtonian approach to Bohmian mechanics. We show that to arrive at Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics, there is no necessity to start from the Schr\"odinger equation. We also obtain an equation that restricts the possible forms of quantum potential and determines the functional form of it without appealing to the wave function and the Schr\"odinger equation. Finally, we discuss about the significance of quantum potential in the conceptual structure of quantum theory.

id: 1311.6498
title: A Quasi-Newtonian Approach to Bohmian Mechanics II: Inherent Quantization
authors: Mahdi Atiq, Mozafar Karamian, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 10 pages
journal: Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie, Volume 34 no 2, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6498
abstract: In a previous paper, we obtained the functional form of quantum potential by a quasi-Newtonian approach and without appealing to the wave function. We also described briefly the characteristics of this approach to the Bohmian mechanics. In this article, we consider the quantization problem and we show that the 'eigenvalue postulate' is a natural consequence of continuity condition and there is no need for postulating that the spectrum of energy and angular momentum are eigenvalues of their relevant operators. In other words, the Bohmian mechanics predicts the 'eigenvalue postulate'.

id: 1311.6571
title: An Algebraic Method for the Analytical Solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation for any angular momentum for some diatomic potentials
authors: Huseyin Akcay, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6571
abstract: Analytical solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation are obtained by reducing the radial part of the wave equation to a standard form of a second order differential equation. Differential equations of this standard form are solvable in terms of hypergeometric functions and we give an algebraic formulation for the bound state wave functions and for the energy eigenvalues. This formulation is applied for the solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation with some diatomic potentials.

id: 1311.6586
title: Quantum Metrology via Repeated Quantum Nondemolition Measurements in "Photon Box"
authors: Yu-Ran Zhang, Jie-Dong Yue, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022104 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6586
abstract: In quantum metrology schemes, one generally needs to prepare $m$ copies of $N$ entangled particles, such as entangled photon states, and then they are detected in a destructive process to estimate an unknown parameter. Here, we present a novel experimental scheme for estimating this parameter by using repeated indirect quantum nondemolition measurements in the setup called "photon box". This interaction-based scheme is able to achieve the phase sensitivity scaling as $1/N$ with a Fock state of $N$ photons. Moreover, we only need to prepare one initial $N$-photon state and it can be used repetitively for $m$ trials of measurements. This new scheme is shown to sustain the quantum advantage for a much longer time than the damping time of Fock state and be more robust than the common strategy with exotic entangled states. To overcome the $2\pi/N$ periodic error in the estimation of the true parameter, we can employ a cascaded strategy by adding a real-time feedback interferometric layout.

id: 1311.6600
title: Optimal condition for measurement observable via error-propagation
authors: Wei Zhong, Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoxing Jing, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47(2014)385304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6600
abstract: Propagation of error is a widely used estimation tool in experiments, where the estimation precision of the parameter depends on the fluctuation of the physical observable. Thus which observable is chosen will greatly affect the estimation sensitivity. Here we study the optimal observable for the ultimate sensitivity bounded by the quantum Cram\'er-Rao theorem in parameter estimation. By invoking the Schr\"odinger-Robertson uncertainty relation, we derive the necessary and sufficient condition for the optimal observables saturating the ultimate sensitivity for single parameter estimate. By applying this condition to Greenberg-Horne-Zeilinger states, we obtain the general expression of the optimal observable for separable measurements to achieve the Heisenberg-limit precision and show that it is closely related to the parity measurement. However, Jose {\em et al} [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 87}, 022330 (2013)] have claimed that the Heisenberg limit may not be obtained via separable measurements. We show this claim is incorrect.

id: 1311.6604
title: On applying the subspace perturbation theory to few-body Hamiltonians
authors: Alexander K. Motovilov
comments: Based on a talk presented at the 22nd European Conference on Few-Body Problems in Physics (September 9-13, 2013, Cracow, Poland)
journal: Few-Body Systems 55 (2014), 813-816
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6604
abstract: We present a selection of results on variation of the spectral subspace of a Hermitian operator under a Hermitian perturbation and show how these results may work for few-body Hamiltonians.

id: 1311.6619
title: Canonical versus noncanonical equilibration dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: Chun-Jie Yang, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, Yading Li, C. H. Oh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6619
abstract: In statistical mechanics, any quantum system in equilibrium with its weakly coupled reservoir is described by a canonical state at the same temperature as the reservoir. Here, by studying the equilibration dynamics of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a reservoir, we evaluate microscopically the condition under which the equilibration to a canonical state is valid. It is revealed that the non-Markovian effect and the availability of a stationary state of the total system play a profound role in the equilibration. In the Markovian limit, the conventional canonical state can be recovered. In the non-Markovian regime, when the stationary state is absent, the system equilibrates to a generalized canonical state at an effective temperature; whenever the stationary state is present, the equilibrium state of the system cannot be described by any canonical state anymore. Our finding of the physical condition on such noncanonical equilibration might have significant impact on statistical physics. A physical scheme based on circuit QED is proposed to test our results.

id: 1311.6645
title: All you ever wanted to know about the quantum Zeno effect in 70 minutes
authors: Saverio Pascazio
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures. Based on a tutorial lecture delivered in Torun, Poland, on June 21th, 2012, during the 44th Symposium on Mathematical Physics on "New Developments in the Theory of Open Quantum Systems"
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 21, 1440007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6645
abstract: This is a primer on the quantum Zeno effect, addressed to students and researchers with no previous knowledge on the subject. The prerequisites are the Schr\"odinger equation and the von Neumann notion of projective measurement.

id: 1311.6654
title: Simple, pulsed, polarisation entangled photon pair source
authors: N. Bruno, E. Zambrini Cruzeiro, A. Martin, R. T. Thew
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6654
abstract: We report the realisation of a fibred polarisation entangled photon-pair source at 1560 nm based on a type-II non linear interaction and working in the picosecond regime. By taking advantage of a set of filters, we deterministically separate the photons and project them into wavelength separable states. A standard entanglement measurement with a net interference visibility close to 1, proves the relevance of our approach as an enabling technology for entanglement-based quantum communication.

id: 1311.6687
title: Single-photon quantum router with multiple output ports
authors: Wei-Bin Yan, Heng Fan
comments: Coments are welcome! 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, Article number: 4820 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6687
abstract: We study the multi-channel quantum routing of the single photons in a waveguide-emitter system. The channels are composed by the waveguides and are connected by intermediate two-level emitters. By adjusting the intermediate emitters, the output channels of the input single photons can be controlled. This is demonstrated for the cases of one output channel, two output channels and the generic N output channels. The results show that the multi-channel quantum routing of single photons can be well achieved in present system. This sheds light on the experimental realization of quantum routing of single photons.

id: 1311.6696
title: Unifying Projected Entangled Pair States contractions
authors: Michael Lubasch, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mari-Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 28 pages, 15 figures, accepted version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 033014 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6696
abstract: The approximate contraction of a Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) tensor network is a fundamental ingredient of any PEPS algorithm, required for the optimization of the tensors in ground state search or time evolution, as well as for the evaluation of expectation values. An exact contraction is in general impossible, and the choice of the approximating procedure determines the efficiency and accuracy of the algorithm. We analyze different previous proposals for this approximation, and show that they can be understood via the form of their environment, i.e. the operator that results from contracting part of the network. This provides physical insight into the limitation of various approaches, and allows us to introduce a new strategy, based on the idea of clusters, that unifies previous methods. The resulting contraction algorithm interpolates naturally between the cheapest and most imprecise and the most costly and most precise method. We benchmark the different algorithms with finite PEPS, and show how the cluster strategy can be used for both the tensor optimization and the calculation of expectation values. Additionally, we discuss its applicability to the parallelization of PEPS and to infinite systems (iPEPS).

id: 1311.6699
title: Exploring the Local Orthogonality Principle
authors: A. B. Sainz, T. Fritz, R. Augusiak, J. Bohr Brask, R. Chaves, A. Leverrier, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: Typos corrected; data files uploaded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6699
abstract: Nonlocality is arguably one of the most fundamental and counterintuitive aspects of quantum theory. Nonlocal correlations could, however, be even more nonlocal than quantum theory allows, while still complying with basic physical principles such as no-signaling. So why is quantum mechanics not as nonlocal as it could be? Are there other physical or information-theoretic principles which prohibit this? So far, the proposed answers to this question have been only partially successful, partly because they are lacking genuinely multipartite formulations. In Nat. Comm. 4, 2263 (2013) we introduced the principle of Local Orthogonality (LO), an intrinsically multipartite principle which is satisfied by quantum mechanics but is violated by non-physical correlations. Here we further explore the LO principle, presenting new results and explaining some of its subtleties. In particular, we show that the set of no-signaling boxes satisfying LO is closed under wirings, present a classification of all LO inequalities in certain scenarios, show that all extremal tripartite boxes with two binary measurements per party violate LO, and explain the connection between LO inequalities and unextendible product bases.

id: 1311.6706
title: The role of local and global geometry in quantum entanglement percolation
authors: Gerald John Lapeyre Jr
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Fixed omitted word in previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6706
abstract: We prove that enhanced entanglement percolation via lattice transformation is possible even if the new lattice is more poorly connected in that: i) the coordination number (a local property) decreases, or ii) the classical percolation threshold (a global property) increases. In searching for protocols to transport entanglement across a network, it seems reasonable to try transformations that increase connectivity. In fact, all examples that we are aware of violate both conditions i and ii. One might therefore conjecture that all good transformations must violate them. Here we provide a counter-example that satisfies both conditions by introducing a new method, partial entanglement swapping. This result shows that a transformation may not be rejected on the basis of satisfying conditions i or ii. Both the result and the new method constitute steps toward answering basic questions, such as whether there is a minimum amount of local entanglement required to achieve long-range entanglement.

id: 1311.6759
title: Entanglement and Quantum Error Correction with Superconducting Qubits
authors: Matthew Reed
comments: Ph.D. thesis. 368 pages, 107 figures. Based in part on arXiv:1003.0142, arXiv:1003.2734, arXiv:1004.4323, arXiv:1004.4324, arXiv:1112.2621, and arXiv:1109.4948. Paper copies can be ordered from this http URL . Please refer any questions, comments, or suggestions to mdreed at gmail dot com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6759
abstract: A quantum computer will use the properties of quantum physics to solve certain computational problems much faster than otherwise possible. One promising potential implementation is to use superconducting quantum bits in the circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architecture. There, the low energy states of a nonlinear electronic oscillator are isolated and addressed as a qubit. These qubits are capacitively coupled to the modes of a microwave-frequency transmission line resonator which serves as a quantum communication bus. Microwave electrical pulses are applied to the resonator to manipulate or measure the qubit state. State control is calibrated using diagnostic sequences that expose systematic errors. Hybridization of the resonator with the qubit gives it a nonlinear response when driven strongly, useful for amplifying the measurement signal to enhance accuracy. Qubits coupled to the same bus may coherently interact with one another via the exchange of virtual photons. A two-qubit conditional phase gate mediated by this interaction can deterministically entangle its targets, and is used to generate two-qubit Bell states and three-qubit GHZ states. These three-qubit states are of particular interest because they redundantly encode quantum information. They are the basis of the quantum repetition code prototypical of more sophisticated schemes required for quantum computation. Using a three-qubit Toffoli gate, this code is demonstrated to autonomously correct either bit- or phase-flip errors. Despite observing the expected behavior, the overall fidelity is low because of decoherence. A superior implementation of cQED replaces the transmission-line resonator with a three-dimensional box mode, increasing lifetimes by an order of magnitude. In-situ qubit frequency control is enabled with control lines, which are used to fully characterize and control the system Hamiltonian.

id: 1311.6777
title: Quantum Algorithms for Learning Symmetric Juntas via the Adversary Bound
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 19 pages, many parts re-written, some references and minor results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6777
abstract: In this paper, we study the following variant of the junta learning problem. We are given oracle access to a Boolean function $f$ on $n$ variables that only depends on $k$ variables, and, when restricted to them, equals some predefined function $h$. The task is to identify the variables the function depends on. When $h$ is the XOR or the OR function, this gives a restricted variant of the Bernstein-Vazirani or the combinatorial group testing problem, respectively. We analyse the general case using the adversary bound, and give an alternative formulation for the quantum query complexity of this problem. We construct optimal quantum query algorithms for the cases when $h$ is the OR function (complexity is $\Theta(\sqrt{k})$) or the exact-half function (complexity is $\Theta(k^{1/4})$). The first algorithm resolves an open problem from arXiv:1210.1148. For the case when $h$ is the majority function, we prove an upper bound of $O(k^{1/4})$. All these algorithms can be made exact. We obtain a quartic improvement when compared to the randomised complexity (if $h$ is the exact-half or the majority function), and a quadratic one when compared to the non-adaptive quantum complexity (for all functions considered in the paper).

id: 1311.6781
title: On the Limits of Information Retrieval in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Peter B. Lerner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6781
abstract: The widely considered assertion is that the unitarity of quantum mechanical evolution assures the preservation of information. It is even promoted in popular literature as an established fact. (Susskind, 2008) Yet, a simple chain of reasoning demonstrates that: 1) almost any evolutionary operator can be well approximated by a degenerate (finite-rank) operator and 2) one needs an eternity to retrieve information exactly from a nonstationary quantum state and to distinguish between arbitrary unitary operator and its finite-dimensional approximations.

id: 1311.6784
title: Entanglement-swapping for X-states demands threshold values
authors: Ariana Mu?oz, Gesa Gr¨¹ning, Luis Roa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6784
abstract: The basic entanglement-swapping scheme can be seen as a process which allows to redistribute the Bell states' properties between different pairs of a four qubits system. Achieving the task requires performing a von Neumann measurement, which projects a pair of factorized qubits randomly onto one of the four Bell states. In this work we propose a similar scheme, by performing the same Bell-von Neumann measurement over two local qubits, each one initially being correlated through an X-state with a spatially distant qubit. This process swaps the X-feature without conditions, whereas the input entanglement is partially distributed in the four possible outcome states under certain conditions. Specifically, we obtain two threshold values for the input entanglement in order for the outcome states to be nonseparable. Besides, we find that there are two possible amounts of outcome entanglement, one is greater and the other less than the input entanglement; the probability of obtaining the greatest outcome entanglement is smaller than the probability of achieving the least one. In addition, we illustrate the distribution of the entanglement for some particular and interesting initial X-states.

id: 1311.6787
title: Constructing Pauli pulse schemes for decoupling and quantum simulation
authors: Holger Frydrych, Gernot Alber, Pavel Ba?ant
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6787
abstract: Dynamical decoupling is a powerful technique to suppress errors in quantum systems originating from environmental couplings or from unwanted inter-particle interactions. However, it can also be used to selectively decouple specific couplings in a quantum system. We present a simple and easy-to-use general method to construct such selective decoupling schemes on qubit and qudit networks by means of (generalized) Pauli operations. As these constructed schemes can suppress Hamiltonian interactions on general qudit networks selectively, they are well suited for purposes of approximate quantum simulation. Some examples are presented, demonstrating the use of our method and the resulting decoupling schemes.

id: 1311.6796
title: Sufficient bound on the mode mismatch of single photons for scalability of the boson sampling computer
authors: Valery Shchesnovich
comments: DOI added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6796
abstract: The boson sampler proposed by Aaronson and Arkhipov is a non-universal quantum computer, which can serve as evidence against the extended Church-Turing thesis. It samples the probability distribution at the output of linear unitary optical network, with indistinguishable single photons at the input. Four experimental groups have already tested their small-scale prototypes with up to four photons. The boson sampler with few dozens of single photons is believed to be hard to simulate on a classical computer. For scalability of a realistic boson sampler with current technology it is necessary to know the effect of the photon mode mismatch on its operation. Here a nondeterministic model of the boson sampler is analyzed, which employs partially indistinguishable single photons emitted by identical sources. A sufficient condition on the average mutual fidelity $ \langle \mathcal{F}\rangle$ of the single photons is found, which guarantees that the realistic boson sampler outperforms the classical computer. Moreover, the boson sampler computer with partially indistinguishable single photons is scalable while being beyond the power of classical computers when the single photon mode mismatch $1-\langle \mathcal{F}\rangle$ scales as $ \mathcal{O}(N^{-3/2})$ with the total number of photons $N$.

id: 1311.6842
title: Characteristics of Universal Embezzling Families
authors: Debbie Leung, Bingjie Wang
comments: Numerical analysis extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6842
abstract: We derive properties of general universal embezzling families for bipartite embezzlement protocols, where any pure state can be converted to any other without communication, but in the presence of the embezzling family. Using this framework, we exhibit various families inequivalent to that proposed by van Dam and Hayden. We suggest a possible improvement and present detail numerical analysis.

id: 1311.6852
title: On modifications of Reichenbach's principle of common cause in light of Bell's theorem
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Raymond Lal
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424018 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6852
abstract: Bell's 1964 theorem causes a severe problem for the notion that correlations require explanation, encapsulated in Reichenbach's Principle of Common Cause. Despite being a hallmark of scientific thought, dropping the principle has been widely regarded as a much less bitter medicine than the perceived alternative---dropping relativistic causality. Recently, however, some authors have proposed that modified forms of Reichenbach's principle could be maintained even with relativistic causality. Here we break down Reichenbach's principle into two independent assumptions---the Principle of Common Cause proper, and Factorisation of Probabilities. We show how Bell's theorem can be derived from these two assumptions plus Relativistic Causality and the Law of Total Probability for actual events, and we review proposals to drop each of these assumptions in light of the theorem. In particular, we show that the non-commutative common causes of Hofer-Szabo and Vecsernyes fail to have an analogue of the notion that the common causes can explain the observed correlations. Moreover, we show that their definition can be satisfied trivially by any quantum product state for any quantum correlations. We also discuss how the conditional states approach of Leifer and Spekkens fares in this regard.

id: 1311.6924
title: Scattering of a charged particle from a hard cylindrical solenoid: Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: Oktay Yilmaz
comments: 17 pages, no figures,corrected typos,added two references
journal: Chinese Journal of Physics, Volume 52,page 1203-1217, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6924
abstract: The scattering amplitude of a charged particle from a long hard cylinderical solenoid is derived by solving the time independent Schr\"{o}dinger equation on a double connected plane. It is a summation over the angular momentum quantum number (partial wave summation). It is shown that only negative mechanical angular momenta contribute to the amplitude when the radius of the solenoid goes to zero limit without varying the magnetic induction flux (Flux line). Original Aharonov-Bohm result is obtained with this limit.

id: 1311.6925
title: Nonadiabatic couplings and gauge-theoretical structure of curved quantum waveguides
authors: J. Stockhofe, P. Schmelcher
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033630 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6925
abstract: We investigate the quantum mechanics of a single particle constrained to move along an arbitrary smooth reference curve by a confinement that is allowed to vary along the waveguide. The Schr\"odinger equation is evaluated in the adapted coordinate frame and a transverse mode decomposition is performed, taking into account both curvature and torsion effects and the possibility of a cross-section potential that changes along the curve in an arbitrary way. We discuss the adiabatic structure of the problem, and examine nonadiabatic couplings that arise due to the curved geometry, the varying transverse profile and their interplay. The exact multi-mode matrix Hamiltonian is taken as the natural starting point for few-mode approximations. Such approximate equations are provided, and it is worked out how these recover known results for twisting waveguides and can be applied to other types of waveguide designs. The quantum waveguide Hamiltonian is recast into a form that clearly illustrates how it generalizes the Born-Oppenheimer Hamiltonian encountered in molecular physics. In analogy to the latter, we explore the local gauge structure inherent to the quantum waveguide problem and suggest the usefulness of diabatic states, giving an explicit construction of the adiabatic-to-diabatic basis transformation.

id: 1311.7073
title: Improved Bounds for Eigenpath Traversal
authors: Hao-Tien Chiang, Guanglei Xu, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7073
abstract: We present a bound on the length of the path defined by the ground states of a continuous family of Hamiltonians in terms of the spectral gap G. We use this bound to obtain a significant improvement over the cost of recently proposed methods for quantum adiabatic state transformations and eigenpath traversal. In particular, we prove that a method based on evolution randomization, which is a simple extension of adiabatic quantum computation, has an average cost of order 1/G^2, and a method based on fixed-point search, has a maximum cost of order 1/G^(3/2). Additionally, if the Hamiltonians satisfy a frustration-free property, such costs can be further improved to order 1/G^(3/2) and 1/G, respectively. Our methods offer an important advantage over adiabatic quantum computation when the gap is small, where the cost is of order 1/G^3.

id: 1311.7127
title: The wave-function is real but nonphysical: A view from counterfactual quantum cryptography
authors: Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth
comments: 6 pages; 3 figures; new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7127
abstract: Counterfactual quantum cryptography (CQC) is used here as a tool to assess the status of the quantum state: Is it real/ontic (an objective state of Nature) or epistemic (a state of the observer's knowledge)? In contrast to recent approaches to wave function ontology, that are based on realist models of quantum theory, here we recast the question as a problem of communication between a sender (Bob), who uses interaction-free measurements, and a receiver (Alice), who observes an interference pattern in a Mach-Zehnder set-up. An advantage of our approach is that it allows us to define the concept of "physical", apart from "real". In instances of counterfactual quantum communication, reality is ascribed to the interaction-freely measured wave function ($\psi$) because Alice deterministically infers Bob's measurement. On the other hand, $\psi$ does not correspond to the physical transmission of a particle because it produced no detection on Bob's apparatus. We therefore conclude that the wave function in this case (and by extension, generally) is real, but not physical. Characteristically for classical phenomena, the reality and physicality of objects are equivalent, whereas for quantum phenomena, the former is strictly weaker. As a concrete application of this idea, the nonphysical reality of the wavefunction is shown to be the basic nonclassical phenomenon that underlies the security of CQC.

id: 1311.7129
title: Concise Security Bounds for Practical Decoy-State Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Charles Ci Wen Lim, Marcos Curty, Nino Walenta, Feihu Xu, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 5+3 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7129
abstract: Due to its ability to tolerate high channel loss, decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) has been one of the main focuses within the QKD community. Notably, several experimental groups have demonstrated that it is secure and feasible under real-world conditions. Crucially, however, the security and feasibility claims made by most of these experiments were obtained under the assumption that the eavesdropper is restricted to particular types of attacks or that the finite-key effects are neglected. Unfortunately, such assumptions are not possible to guarantee in practice. In this work, we provide concise and tight finite-key security bounds for practical decoy-state QKD that are valid against general attacks.

id: 1311.7275
title: Separability for Weak Irreducible matrices
authors: Daniel Cariello
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7275
abstract: This paper is devoted to the study of the separability problem in the field of Quantum information theory. We deal mainly with the bipartite finite dimensional case and with two types of matrices, one of them being the PPT matrices. We proved that many results holds for both types. If these matrices have specific Hermitian Schmidt decompositions then the matrices are separable in a very strong sense. We proved that both types have what we call split decompositions. We defined the notion of weak irreducible matrix, based on the concept of irreducible state defined recently. These split decomposition theorems together with the notion of weak irreducible matrix, imply that these matrices are weak irreducible or a sum of weak irreducible matrices of the same type. The separability problem for these types of matrices can be reduced to the set of weak irreducible matrices of the same type. We also provided a complete description of weak irreducible matrices of both types. Using the fact that every positive semidefinite Hermitian matrix with tensor rank 2 is separable, we found sharp inequalites providing separability for both types.

id: 1311.7318
title: Three particle Hyper Entanglement: Teleportation and Quantum Key Distribution
authors: P. Chithrabhanu, A. Aadhi, Salla Gangi Reddy, Shashi Prabhakar, G. K. Samanta, Goutam Paul, R.P. Singh
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7318
abstract: We present a scheme to generate three particle hyper entanglement utilizing polarization and orbital angular momentum of a photon. We show that the generated state can be used to teleport a polarization-OAM four dimensional quantum bit (ququart). The proposed quantum system has also been used to describe a new multi party quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol. We give a sketch of experimental arrangement to realize the proposed teleportation and QKD.

id: 1311.7331
title: Photon echo with a few photons in two-level atoms
authors: M. Bonarota, J. Dajczgewand, A. Louchet-Chauvet, J.-L. Le Gou?t, T. Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 24 (2014) 094003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7331
abstract: To store and retrieve signals at the single photon level, various photon echo schemes have resorted to complex preparation steps involving ancillary shelving states in multi-level atoms. For the first time, we experimentally demonstrate photon echo operation at such a low signal intensity without any preparation step, which allows us to work with mere two-level atoms. This simplified approach relies on the so-coined "Revival Of Silenced Echo" (ROSE) scheme. Low noise conditions are obtained by returning the atoms to the ground state before the echo emission. In the present paper we manage ROSE in photon counting conditions, showing that very strong control fields can be compatible with extremely weak signals, making ROSE consistent with quantum memory requirements.

id: 1311.7378
title: The commuting local Hamiltonian on locally-expanding graphs is in NP
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Lior Eldar
comments: This is a much improved and comprehensive version of some of the results that had appeared in arXiv:1301.3407
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7378
abstract: The local Hamiltonian problem is famously complete for the class QMA, the quantum analogue of NP. The complexity of its semi-classical version, in which the terms of the Hamiltonian are required to commute (the CLH problem), has attracted considerable attention recently due to its intriguing nature, as well as in relation to growing interest in the qPCP conjecture. We show here that if the underlying bipartite interaction graph of the CLH instance is a good locally-expanding graph, namely, the expansion of any constant-size set is e-close to optimal, then approximating its ground energy to within additive factor O(e) lies in NP. The proof holds for k- local Hamiltonians for any constant k and any constant dimensionality of particles d. We also show that the approximation problem of CLH on such good local expanders is NP-hard. This implies that too good local expansion of the interaction graph constitutes an obstacle against quantum hardness of the approximation problem, though it retains its classical hardness. The result highlights new difficulties in trying to mimic classical proofs (in particular Dinur's PCP proof) in an attempt to prove the quantum PCP conjecture. A related result was discovered recently independently by Brandao and Harrow, for 2-local general Hamiltonians, bounding the quantum hardness of the approximation problem on good expanders, though no NP-hardness is known in that case.

id: 1311.7382
title: Gaussian and Non-Gaussian operations on non-Gaussian state: engineering non-Gaussianity
authors: Stefano Olivares, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7382
abstract: Multiple photon subtraction applied to a displaced phase-averaged coherent state, which is a non-Gaussian classical state, produces conditional states with a non trivial (positive) Glauber-Sudarshan $P$-representation. We theoretically and experimentally demonstrate that, despite its simplicity, this class of conditional states cannot be fully characterized by direct detection of photon numbers. In particular, the non-Gaussianity of the state is a characteristics that must be assessed by phase-sensitive measurements. We also show that the non-Gaussianity of conditional states can be manipulated by choosing suitable conditioning values and composition of phase-averaged states.

id: 1311.7394
title: A generic map from non-Lindblad to Lindblad master equations
authors: Michael R. Hush, Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032113 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7394
abstract: Many current problems of interest in quantum non-equilibrium are described by time-local master equations (TLMEs) for the density matrix that are not of the Lindblad form, that is, that are not strictly probability conserving and/or Markovian. Here we describe an generic approach by which the system of interest that obeys the TLME is coupled to an ancilla, such that the dynamics of the combined system-plus-ancilla is Markovian and thus described by a Lindblad equation. This in turn allows us to recover the properties of the original TLME dynamics from a physical unravelling of this associated Lindblad dynamics. We discuss applications of this generic mapping in two areas of current interest. The first one is that of "thermodynamics of trajectories", where non-Lindblad master equations encode the large-deviation properties of the dynamics, and we show that the relevant large-deviation functions (i.e. dynamical free-energies) can be recovered from appropriate observables of the ancilla. The second one is that of quantum filters, where we show tracking a quantum system undergoing a continuous homodyne measurement with another quantum system of the same size will inherently be inefficient in our framework.

id: 1311.7405
title: Klein-Gordon Equation with Coulomb Potential in the Presence of a Minimal Length
authors: Djamil Bouaziz
comments: 09 pages, presented in the The 9th international conference in subatomic physics and applications, Constantine, (Algeria) 30 Sep - 02 Oct 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7405
abstract: We study the Klein-Gordon equation for Coulomb potential, V(r)=(-Ze^{2})/r, in quantum mechanics with a minimal length. The zero energy solution is obtained analytically in momentum space in terms of Heun's functions. The asymptotic behavior of the solution shows that the presence of a minimal length regularize the potential in the strong attractive regime, Z>68. The equation with nonzero energy is established in a particular case in the first order of the deformation parameter; it is a generalized Heun's equation.

id: 1311.7410
title: Correction of dephasing oscillations in matter wave interferometry
authors: Alexander Rembold, Georg Sch¨¹tz, Wei-Tse Chang, Andr¨¦ Stefanov, Andreas Pooch, Ing-Shouh Hwang, Andreas G¨¹nther, Alexander Stibor
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033635 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7410
abstract: Vibrations, electromagnetic oscillations and temperature drifts are among the main reasons for dephasing in matter-wave interferometry. Sophisticated interferometry experiments, e.g. with ions or heavy molecules, often require integration times of several minutes due to the low source intensity or the high velocity selection. Here we present a scheme to suppress the influence of such dephasing mechanisms - especially in the low-frequency regime - by analyzing temporal and spatial particle correlations available in modern detectors. Such correlations can reveal interference properties that would otherwise be washed out due to dephasing by external oscillating signals. The method is shown experimentally in a biprism electron interferometer where a perturbing oscillation is artificially introduced by a periodically varying magnetic field. We provide a full theoretical description of the particle correlations where the perturbing frequency and amplitude can be revealed from the disturbed interferogram. The original spatial fringe pattern without the perturbation can thereby be restored. The technique can be applied to lower the general noise requirements in matter-wave interferometers. It allows for the optimization of electromagnetic shielding and decreases the efforts for vibrational or temperature stabilization.

id: 1311.7438
title: Enhanced Probing of Fermion Interaction Using Weak Value Amplification
authors: Alex Hayat, Amir Feizpour, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7438
abstract: We propose a scheme for enhanced probing of an interaction between two single fermions based on weak-value amplification. The scheme is applied to measuring the anisotropic electron-hole exchange interaction strength in semiconductor quantum dots, where both spin and energy are mapped onto emitted photons. We study the effect of dephasing of the probe on the weak-value-enhanced measurement. We find that in the limit of slow noise, weak-value amplification provides a unique tool for enhanced-precision measurement of few-fermion systems.

id: 1311.7470
title: On dynamical phases accompanying geometric phase shift gates
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Carlo M. Canali
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7470
abstract: This note concerns the appearance of a dynamical phase in realizations of geometric phase shift gates. This dynamical phase is a global phase dependent upon the input state and is therefore irrelevant to the gate operation. Thus, the geometric nature of geometric phase shift gates is established.

id: 1311.7486
title: Covariant vs. non-covariant quantum collapse: Proposal for an experimental test
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. The content of this paper has been presented at: Coll\`ege de Physique et Philosophie, Institut de France, Paris, May 13, 2013; and Colloque "Causalit\'e, temps et origine de l'Univers", Rencontres de Castelvieil, Marseille, November 12, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7486
abstract: Two alternative interpretations of the quantum collapse are proposed: a time-ordered and a timeless one. The time-ordered interpretation implies that the speed of light can be defined in an absolute way, while the timeless quantum collapse implies relativity and can be reckoned as covariant too. An experiment is proposed to decide between these two interpretations, which may also be considered a test of Bohm's "preferred frame" assumption.

id: 1311.7510
title: Variational Bose-Hubbard model revisited
authors: Jan Major, Mateusz ??cki, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043626 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7510
abstract: For strongly interacting bosons in optical lattices the standard description using Bose-Hubbard model becomes questionable. The role of excited bands becomes important. In such a situation we compare results of simulations using multiband Bose-Hubbard model with a recent proposition based on a time dependent variational approach. It is shown that the latter, in its original formulation, uses too small variational space leading often to spurious effects. Possible expansion of variational approach is discussed.

id: 1311.7558
title: Selective transfer of superposition of coherent states by exploiting a cavity QED system
authors: N. Behzadi, S. Kazemi Rudsary
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7558
abstract: We propose a scheme on the basis of a N+2 identical single-mode coupled-cavity QED system for selective transfer of a qubit constructed from superposition of standard coherent states. The cavities arranged in such way that the intermediate or channel cavity is connected uniformly to the sender and N receiver cavities. We consider N different ternary sets of identical QDs whose QDs have been distributed in the sender, channel and one of the receiver cavities respectively. We demonstrate a situation in which the dynamics of the system is confined selectively in a sub sector belongs to one of the ternary set of QDs. This selective dynamics is able to transfer the coherent state-constructed qubit (CSCQ) from the sender party to the desired receiver one reliably. Also, we illustrate that the scheme is optimally robust due to dissipations arises from photon losses in the cavities.

id: 1311.7592
title: Entanglement in dissipative dynamics of identical particles
authors: Ugo Marzolino
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 104, 40004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7592
abstract: Entanglement of identical massive particles recently gained attention, because of its relevance in highly controllable systems, e.g. ultracold gases. It accounts for correlations among modes instead of particles, providing a different paradigm for quantum information. We prove that the entanglement of almost all states rarely vanishes in the presence of noise, and analyse the most relevant noise in ultracold gases: dephasing and particle losses. Furthermore, when the particle number increases, the entanglement decay can turn from exponential into algebraic.

id: 1311.7612
title: Guaranteed energy-efficient bit reset in finite time
authors: Cormac Browne, Andrew J. P. Garner, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages + 5 page technical appendix. 5 figures. Author accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 100603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7612
abstract: Landauer's principle states that it costs at least kTln2 of work to reset one bit in the presence of a heat bath at temperature T. The bound of kTln2 is achieved in the unphysical infinite-time limit. Here we ask what is possible if one is restricted to finite-time protocols. We prove analytically that it is possible to reset a bit with a work cost close to kTln2 in a finite time. We construct an explicit protocol that achieves this, which involves changing the system's Hamiltonian avoiding quantum coherences, and thermalising. Using concepts and techniques pertaining to single-shot statistical mechanics, we further develop the limit on the work cost, proving that the heat dissipated is close to the minimal possible not just on average, but guaranteed with high confidence in every run. Moreover we exploit the protocol to design a quantum heat engine that works near the Carnot efficiency in finite time.

id: 1311.7619
title: Casimir forces on atoms in optical cavities
authors: Alvaro M. Alhambra, Achim Kempf, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures. Revtex 4.1. V2 Content extended and updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033835 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7619
abstract: Casimir-type forces, such as those between two neutral conducting plates, or between a sphere, atom or molecule and a plate have been widely studied and are becoming of increasing significance, for example, in nanotechnology. A key challenge is to better understand, from a fundamental microscopic approach, why the Casimir force is in some circumstances attractive and in others repulsive. Here, we study the Casimir-Polder forces experienced by small quantum systems such as atoms or molecules in an optical cavity. In order to make the problem more tractable, we work in a 1+1 dimensional setting, we take into account only the ground state and first excited state of the atom and we model the electromagnetic field as a scalar field with Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions. This allows us to determine the conditions for the Casimir force to be attractive or repulsive for individual atoms, namely through the interplay of paramagnetic and diamagnetic vacuum effects. We also study the microscopic-macroscopic transition, finding that as the number of atoms in the cavity is increased, the atoms start to affect the Casimir force exerted on the cavity walls similarly to a dielectric medium.

id: 1311.7626
title: Digital Quantum Simulation of Spin Systems in Superconducting Circuits
authors: U. Las Heras, A. Mezzacapo, L. Lamata, S. Filipp, A. Wallraff, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 200501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7626
abstract: We propose the implementation of a digital quantum simulator for prototypical spin models in a circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture. We consider the feasibility of the quantum simulation of Heisenberg and frustrated Ising models in transmon qubits coupled to coplanar waveguide microwave resonators. Furthermore, we analyze the time evolution of these models and compare the ideal spin dynamics with a realistic version of the proposed quantum simulator. Finally, we discuss the key steps for developing the toolbox of digital quantum simulators in superconducting circuits.

id: 1311.7637
title: State-Dependent Approach to Entropic Measurement-Disturbance Relations
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Fabian Furrer
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. v4: published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 379, 105, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7637
abstract: Heisenberg's intuition was that there should be a tradeoff between measuring a particle's position with greater precision and disturbing its momentum. Recent formulations of this idea have focused on the question of how well two complementary observables can be jointly measured. Here, we provide an alternative approach based on how enhancing the predictability of one observable necessarily disturbs a complementary one. Our measurement-disturbance relation refers to a clear operational scenario and is expressed by entropic quantities with clear statistical meaning. We show that our relation is perfectly tight for all measurement strengths in an existing experimental setup involving qubit measurements.

id: 1311.7649
title: The von Neumann Model of Measurement in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Pier A. Mello
comments: Course delivered at the 2013 session of the Latin American School of Physics, Mexico City, Aug. 2013. To appear in the AIP Conference Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7649
abstract: We describe how to obtain information on a quantum-mechanical system by coupling it to a probe and detecting some property of the latter, using a model introduced by von Neumann, which describes the interaction of the system proper with the probe in a dynamical way. We first discuss single measurements, where the system proper is coupled to one probe with arbitrary coupling strength. The goal is to obtain information on the system detecting the probe position. We find the reduced density operator of the system, and show how L\"uders rule emerges as the limiting case of strong coupling. The von Neumann model is then generalized to two probes that interact successively with the system proper. Now we find information on the system by detecting the position-position and momentum-position correlations of the two probes. The so-called "Wigner's formula" emerges in the strong-coupling limit, while "Kirkwood's quasi-probability distribution" is found as the weak-coupling limit of the above formalism. We show that successive measurements can be used to develop a state-reconstruction scheme. Finally, we find a generalized transform of the state and the observables based on the notion of successive measurements.

id: 1311.7651
title: Chiral symmetries associated with angular momentum
authors: M. Bhattacharya, M. Kleinert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7651
abstract: In beginning quantum mechanics courses, symmetries of a physical system are usually introduced as operators which commute with the Hamiltonian. In this article we will consider chiral symmetries which anticommute with the Hamiltonian. Typically, introductory courses at the (under)graduate level do not discuss these simple, useful and beautiful symmetries at all. The first time a student typically encounters them is when the Dirac equation is discussed in a course on relativistic quantum mechanics, or when particle-hole symmetry is studied in the context of superconductivity. In this article, we will show how chiral symmetries can be simply elucidated using the theory of angular momentum, which is taught in virtually all introductory quantum mechanics courses.

id: 1311.7675
title: Observation of Topological Structures in Photonic Quantum Walks
authors: Graciana Puentes, Ilja Gerhardt, Fabian Katzschmann, Christine Silberhorn, J?rg Wrachtrup, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, v2 was accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Letters. Later on it was retracted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7675
abstract: Phases of matter with non-trivial topological order are predicted to exhibit a variety of exotic phenomena, such as the existence robust localized bound states in 1D systems, and edge states in 2D systems, which are expected to display spin-helicity, immunity to back-scattering, and weak anti-localization. In this Letter, we present an experimental observation of topological structures generated via the controlled implementation of two consecutive non-commuting rotations in photonic discrete-time quantum walks. The second rotation introduces valley-like Dirac points in the system, allowing to create the non-trivial topological pattern. By choosing specific values for the rotations, it is possible to coherently drive the system between topological sectors characterized by different topological invariants. We probe the full topological landscape, demonstrating the emergence of localized bound states hosted at the topological boundaries, and the existence of extremely localized or delocalized non-Gaussian quantum states. Our results pave the way for the study of valley-based electronics and applications of topological mechanisms in robust optical-device engineering.

id: 1311.7685
title: An optimal quantum algorithm for the oracle identification problem
authors: Robin Kothari
comments: 16 pages; v2: minor changes
journal: Proceedings of the 31st International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2014), Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics 25, pp. 482-493 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7685
abstract: In the oracle identification problem, we are given oracle access to an unknown N-bit string x promised to belong to a known set C of size M and our task is to identify x. We present a quantum algorithm for the problem that is optimal in its dependence on N and M. Our algorithm considerably simplifies and improves the previous best algorithm due to Ambainis et al. Our algorithm also has applications in quantum learning theory, where it improves the complexity of exact learning with membership queries, resolving a conjecture of Hunziker et al. The algorithm is based on ideas from classical learning theory and a new composition theorem for solutions of the filtered $\gamma_2$-norm semidefinite program, which characterizes quantum query complexity. Our composition theorem is quite general and allows us to compose quantum algorithms with input-dependent query complexities without incurring a logarithmic overhead for error reduction. As an application of the composition theorem, we remove all log factors from the best known quantum algorithm for Boolean matrix multiplication.

id: 1311.7688
title: Spin glass reflection of the decoding transition for quantum error correcting codes
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7688
abstract: We study the decoding transition for quantum error correcting codes with the help of a mapping to random-bond Wegner spin models. Families of quantum low density parity-check (LDPC) codes with a finite decoding threshold lead to both known models (e.g., random bond Ising and random plaquette $\Z2$ gauge models) as well as unexplored earlier generally non-local disordered spin models with non-trivial phase diagrams. The decoding transition corresponds to a transition from the ordered phase by proliferation of extended defects which generalize the notion of domain walls to non-local spin models. In recently discovered quantum LDPC code families with finite rates the number of distinct classes of such extended defects is exponentially large, corresponding to extensive ground state entropy of these codes. Here, the transition can be driven by the entropy of the extended defects, a mechanism distinct from that in the local spin models where the number of defect types (domain walls) is always finite.

id: 1311.0071
title: Directional infrared emission resulting from cascade population inversion and four-wave mixing in Rb vapours
authors: Alexander Akulshin, Dmitry Budker, Russell McLean
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0071
abstract: Directional infrared emission at 1367 and 5230 nm is generated in Rb vapours that are step-wise excited by low-power resonant light. The mid-infrared radiation originating from amplified spontaneous emission on the 5D-6P transition consists of forward- and backward-directed components with distinctive spectral and spatial properties. Diffraction limited near-infrared light at 1367 nm generated in the co-propagating direction only is a product of parametric wave mixing around the 5P-5D-6P-6S-5P transition loop. This highly non-degenerate mixing process involves one externally applied and two internally generated optical fields. Similarities between wave mixing generated blue and near-IR light are demonstrated.

id: 1311.0273
title: Quantum-Limited Amplification via Reservoir Engineering
authors: A. Metelmann, A. A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages plus supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 133904 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0273
abstract: We describe a new kind of phase-preserving quantum amplifier which utilizes dissipative interactions in a parametrically-coupled three-mode bosonic system. The use of dissipative interactions provides a fundamental advantage over standard cavity-based parametric amplifiers: large photon number gains are possible with quantum-limited added noise, with no limitation on the gain-bandwidth product. We show that the scheme is simple enough to be implemented both in optomechanical systems and in superconducting microwave circuits.

id: 1311.0427
title: The uniform measure for discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 21 pages, revised version, Quantum Information Processing (in press)
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 13, Issue 5, pp.1103-1125 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0427
abstract: We obtain the uniform measure as a stationary measure of the one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks by solving the corresponding eigenvalue problem. As an application, the uniform probability measure on a finite interval at a time can be given.

id: 1311.0647
title: Supersymmetric quantum mechanics and Painleve equations
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fern¨¢ndez C
comments: 38 pages, 20 figures. Lecture presented at the XLIII Latin American School of Physics: ELAF 2013 in Mexico City
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0647
abstract: In these lecture notes we shall study first the supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY QM), specially when applied to the harmonic and radial oscillators. In addition, we will define the polynomial Heisenberg algebras (PHA), and we will study the general systems ruled by them: for zero and first order we obtain the harmonic and radial oscillators, respectively; for second and third order PHA the potential is determined by solutions to Painleve IV (PIV) and Painleve V (PV) equations. Taking advantage of this connection, later on we will find solutions to PIV and PV equations expressed in terms of confluent hypergeometric functions. Furthermore, we will classify them into several solution hierarchies, according to the specific special functions they are connected with.

id: 1311.0780
title: The renormalization flow of the hierarchical Anderson model at weak disorder
authors: F. L. Metz, L. Leuzzi, G. Parisi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 064201 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0780
abstract: We study the flow of the renormalized model parameters obtained from a sequence of simple transformations of the 1D Anderson model with long-range hierarchical hopping. Combining numerical results with a perturbative approach for the flow equations, we identify three qualitatively different regimes at weak disorder. For a sufficiently fast decay of the hopping energy, the Cauchy distribution is the only stable fixed-point of the flow equations, whereas for sufficiently slowly decaying hopping energy the renormalized parameters flow to a delta peak fixed-point distribution. In an intermediate range of the hopping decay, both fixed-point distributions are stable and the stationary solution is determined by the initial configuration of the random parameters. We present results for the critical decay of the hopping energy separating the different regimes.

id: 1311.0882
title: Critical integer quantum Hall topology and the integrable Maryland model as a topological quantum critical point
authors: Sriram Ganeshan, K. Kechedzhi, S. Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B (Rapid Communication) 90, 041405 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0882
abstract: One dimensional tight binding models such as Aubry-Andre-Harper (AAH) model (with onsite cosine potential) and the integrable Maryland model (with onsite tangent potential) have been the subject of extensive theoretical research in localization studies. AAH can be directly mapped onto the two dimensional Hofstadter model which manifests the integer quantum Hall topology on a lattice. However, no such connection has been made for the Maryland model (MM). In this work, we describe a generalized model that contains AAH and MM as the limiting cases with the MM lying precisely at a topological quantum phase transition (TQPT) point. A remarkable feature of this critical point is that the 1D MM retains well defined energy gaps whereas the equivalent 2D model becomes gapless, signifying the 2D nature of the TQPT.

id: 1311.0967
title: Matrix product states for anyonic systems and efficient simulation of dynamics
authors: Sukhwinder Singh, Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Guifre Vidal, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 18 pages, 15 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075112 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0967
abstract: Matrix product states (MPS) have proven to be a very successful tool to study lattice systems with local degrees of freedom such as spins or bosons. Topologically ordered systems can support anyonic particles which are labeled by conserved topological charges and collectively carry non-local degrees of freedom. In this paper we extend the formalism of MPS to lattice systems of anyons. The anyonic MPS is constructed from tensors that explicitly conserve topological charge. We describe how to adapt the time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm to the anyonic MPS in order to simulate dynamics under a local and charge-conserving Hamiltonian. To demonstrate the effectiveness of anyonic TEBD algorithm, we used it to simulate (i) the ground state (using imaginary time evolution) of an infinite 1D critical system of (a) Ising anyons and (b) Fibonacci anyons both of which are well studied, and (ii) the real time dynamics of an anyonic Hubbard-like model of a single Ising anyon hopping on a ladder geometry with an anyonic flux threading each island of the ladder. Our results pertaining to (ii) give insight into the transport properties of anyons. The anyonic MPS formalism can be readily adapted to study systems with conserved symmetry charges, as this is equivalent to a specialization of the more general anyonic case.

id: 1311.0991
title: Topological Order in an Entangled SU(2)$\otimes$XY Spin-Orbital Ring
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Jacek Dziarmaga, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures + supplemental material (2 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 117204 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.0991
abstract: We present rigorous topological order which emerges in a one-dimensional spin-orbital model due to the ring topology. Although an exact solution of a spin-orbital ring with SU(2) spin and XY orbital interactions separates spins from orbitals by means of a unitary transformation, the spins are not independent when the ring is closed, but form two half-rings carrying opposite pseudomomenta. We show that an inverse transformation back to the physical degrees of freedom entangles the spin half-rings with the orbitals once again. This surprising correlation arises on changing the topology from an open to a closed chain, which reduces the degeneracy of the ground-state manifold, leaving in it only the states in which pseudomomenta compensate each other.

id: 1311.1000
title: Universal equation of state and pseudogap in the two-dimensional Fermi gas
authors: Marianne Bauer, Meera M. Parish, Tilman Enss
comments: 5+1 pages, 5 figures; v2: new pressure data at finite temperature
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 135302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1000
abstract: We determine the thermodynamic properties and the spectral function for a homogeneous two-dimensional Fermi gas in the normal state using the Luttinger-Ward, or self-consistent T-matrix, approach. The density equation of state deviates strongly from that of the ideal Fermi gas even for moderate interactions, and our calculations suggest that temperature has a pronounced effect on the pressure in the crossover from weak to strong coupling, consistent with recent experiments. We also compute the superfluid transition temperature for a finite system in the crossover region. There is a pronounced pseudogap regime above the transition temperature: the spectral function shows a Bogoliubov-like dispersion with back-bending, and the density of states is significantly suppressed near the chemical potential. The contact density at low temperatures increases with interaction and compares well with both experiment and zero-temperature Monte Carlo results.

id: 1311.1182
title: Semiclassical partition function for the double-well potential
authors: D. Kroff, A. Bessa, C. A. A. de Carvalho, E. S. Fraga, S. E. Jor¨¢s
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 025019 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1182
abstract: We compute the partition function and specific heat for a quantum mechanical particle under the influence of a quartic double-well potential non-perturbatively, using the semiclassical method. Near the region of bounded motion in the inverted potential, the usual quadratic approximation fails due to the existence of multiple classical solutions and caustics. Using the tools of catastrophe theory, we identify the relevant classical solutions, showing that at most two have to be considered. This corresponds to the first step towards the study of spontaneous symmetry breaking and thermal phase transitions in the non-perturbative framework of the boundary effective theory.

id: 1311.1200
title: Entanglement growth during thermalization in holographic systems
authors: Hong Liu, S. Josephine Suh
comments: 36+11 pages, 21 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 066012 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1200
abstract: We derive in detail several universal features in the time evolution of entanglement entropy and other nonlocal observables in quenched holographic systems. The quenches are such that a spatially uniform density of energy is injected at an instant in time, exciting a strongly coupled CFT which eventually equilibrates. Such quench processes are described on the gravity side by the gravitational collapse of a thin shell that results in a black hole. Various nonlocal observables have a unified description in terms of the area of extremal surfaces of different dimensions. In the large distance limit, the evolution of an extremal surface, and thus the corresponding boundary observable, is controlled by the geometry around and inside the event horizon of the black hole, allowing us to identify regimes of pre-local- equilibration quadratic growth, post-local-equilibration linear growth, a memory loss regime, and a saturation regime with behavior resembling those in phase transitions. We also discuss possible bounds on the maximal rate of entanglement growth in relativistic systems.

id: 1311.1234
title: Dissipation in ultrahigh quality factor SiN membrane resonators
authors: S. Chakram, Y. S. Patil, L. Chang, M. Vengalattore
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 127201 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1234
abstract: We study the optomechanical properties of stoichiometric SiN resonators through a combination of spectroscopic and interferometric imaging techniques. At room temperature, we demonstrate ultrahigh quality factors of $5 \times 10^7$ and a $f \times Q$ product of $1 \times 10^{14}$ Hz that, to our knowledge, correspond to the largest values yet reported for mesoscopic flexural resonators. Through a comprehensive study of the limiting dissipation mechanisms as a function of resonator and substrate geometry, we identify radiation loss through the supporting substrate as the dominant loss process. In addition to pointing the way towards higher quality factors through optimized substrate designs, our work realizes an enabling platform for the observation and control of quantum behavior in a macroscopic mechanical system coupled to a room temperature bath.

id: 1311.1275
title: A new optical field state as an output of diffusion channel when the input being number state
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Sen-Yue Lou, Xiao-Yin Pan, Li-Yun Hu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1275
abstract: We theoretically propose a new optical field state which is named Laguerre-polynomial-weighted chaotic field. We show that such state can be implemented, i.e., when a number state enters into a diffusion channel, the output state is just this kind of states. We solve the master equation describing the diffusion process by using the summation method within ordered product of operators and the entangled state representaion. The solution manifestly shows how a pure state evolves into a mixed state. The physical difference between the diffusion and the amplitude damping is pointed out.

id: 1311.1320
title: Exact solutions to relativistic singular fractional power potentials
authors: Davids Agboola, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: 15 Pages, 16 Figures, 2 Tables. In press JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 505301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1320
abstract: We present (exact) solutions of the Dirac equation with equally mixed interactions for a single fermion bounded by the family of fractional power singular potentials. Closed-form expressions as well as numerical values for the energies were obtained. The wave functions and the allowed values of the potential parameters for the first two members of the family are obtained in terms of a set of algebraic equations. The non relativistic limit is also discussed and using the Hellmann-Feynmann theorem, some useful expectation values are obtained.

id: 1311.1543
title: Universality in the dynamics of second-order phase transitions
authors: G. Nikoghosyan, R. Nigmatullin, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1543
abstract: When traversing a symmetry breaking second order phase transition at a finite rate, topological defects form whose number dependence on the quench rate is given by simple power laws. We propose a general approach for the derivation of such scaling laws that is based on the analytical transformation of the associated equations of motion to a universal form rather than employing plausible physical arguments. We demonstrate the power of this approach by deriving the scaling of the number of topological defects in both homogenous and non-homogenous settings. The general nature and extensions of this approach is discussed.

id: 1311.1553
title: A four-pixel single-photon pulse-position camera fabricated from WSi superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors
authors: V. B. Verma, R. Horansky, F. Marsili, J. A. Stern, M. D. Shaw, A. E. Lita, R. P. Mirin, S. W. Nam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1553
abstract: We demonstrate a scalable readout scheme for an infrared single-photon pulse-position camera consisting of WSi superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SNSPDs). For an N x N array, only 2 x N wires are required to obtain the position of a detection event. As a proof-of-principle, we show results from a 2 x 2 array.

id: 1311.1566
title: Quasi-exactly solvable relativistic soft-core Coulomb models
authors: Davids Agboola, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: 14 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.5242
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 327 (2012) 2275
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1566
abstract: By considering a unified treatment, we present quasi exact polynomial solutions to both the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations with the family of soft-core Coulomb potentials $V_q(r)=-Z/\left(r^q+\beta^q\right)^{1/q}$, $Z>0$, $\beta>0$, $q\geq 1$. We consider cases $q=1$ and $q=2$ and show that both cases are reducible to the same basic ordinary differential equation. A systematic and closed form solution to the basic equation is obtain using the Bethe ansatz method. For each case, the expressions for the energies and the allowed parameters are obtained analytically and the wavefunctions are derive in terms of the roots of a set of Bethe ansatz equations.

id: 1311.1629
title: Measurement and modeling of the nonlinearity of photovoltaic and Geiger-mode photodiodes
authors: Thomas Kauten, Benedikt Pressl, Thomas Kaufmann, Gregor Weihs
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 063102 (2014)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1629
abstract: While in most cases the absolute accuracy, resolution, and noise floor are the only relevant specifications for the dynamic range of a photodetector, there are experiments for which the linearity plays a more important role than the former three properties. In these experiments nonlinearity can lead to systematic errors. In our work we present a modern implementation of the well-known superposition method and apply it to two different types of photodetectors.

id: 1311.1643
title: Volume Law for the Entanglement Entropy in Non-local QFTs
authors: Noburo Shiba, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures; v2, added references
journal: JHEP 02 (2014) 033
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1643
abstract: In this paper, we present a simple class of non-local field theories whose ground state entanglement entropy follows a volume law as long as the size of subsystem is smaller than a certain scale. We will confirm this volume law both from numerical calculations and from analytical estimation. This behavior fits nicely with holographic results for spacetimes whose curvatures are much smaller than AdS spaces such as those in the flat spacetime.

id: 1311.1656
title: Charge-mass ratio bound and optimization in the Parikh-Wilczek tunneling model of Hawking radiation
authors: Kyung Kiu Kim, Wen-Yu Wen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted version to PLB
journal: Physics Letters B 731C (2014), pp. 307-310
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1656
abstract: In this letter, we study the mutual information hidden in the Parikh-Wilczek tunneling model of Hawking radiation for Reissner-Norstrom black holes. We argue that the condition of nonnegativity of mutual information suggests bound(s) for charge-mass ratio of emitted particles. We further view the radiation as an optimization process and discuss its effect on time evolution of a charged black hole.

id: 1311.1662
title: Photoluminescence of high-density exciton-polariton condensates
authors: Natsuko Ishida, Tim Byrnes, Tomoyuki Horikiri, Franco Nori, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 241304(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1662
abstract: We examine the photoluminescence of highly-excited exciton-polariton condensates in semiconductor microcavities. Under strong pumping, exciton-polariton condensates have been observed to undergo a lasing transition where strong coupling between the excitons and photons is lost. We discuss an alternative high-density scenario, where the strong coupling is maintained. We find that the photoluminescence smoothly transitions between the lower polariton energy to the cavity photon energy. An intuitive understanding of the change in spectral characteristics is given, as well as differences to the photoluminescence characteristics of the lasing case.

id: 1311.1720
title: Frame functions in finite-dimensional Quantum Mechanics and its Hamiltonian formulation on complex projective spaces
authors: Valter Moretti, Davide Pastorello
comments: 30 pages, no figure, fixed some coefficients and added some comments
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1720
abstract: This work concerns some issues about the interplay of standard and geometric (Hamiltonian) approaches to finite-dimensional quantum mechanics, formulated in the projective space. Our analysis relies upon the notion and the properties of so-called frame functions, introduced by A.M. Gleason to prove his celebrated theorem. In particular, the problem of associating quantum state with positive Liouville densities is tackled from an axiomatic point of view, proving a theorem classifying all possible correspondences. A similar result is established for classical observables representing quantum ones. These correspondences turn out to be encoded in a one-parameter class and, in both cases, the classical objects representing quantum ones result to be frame functions. The requirements of $U(n)$ covariance and (convex) linearity play a central r\^ole in the proof of those theorems. A new characterization of classical observables describing quantum observables is presented, together with a geometric description of the $C^*$-algebra structure of the set of quantum observables in terms of classical ones.

id: 1311.1727
title: Periodic Orbit Theory Revisited in the Anisotropic Kepler Problem
authors: Kazuhiro Kubo, Tokuzo Shimada
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1727
abstract: The Gutzwiller's trace formula for the anisotropic Kepler problem is Fourier transformed with a convenient variable $u=1/\sqrt{-2E}$ which takes care of the scaling property of the AKP action $S(E)$. Proper symmetrization procedure (Gutzwiller's prescription) is taken by the introduction of half-orbits that close under symmetry transformations so that the two dimensional semi-classical formulas match correctly the quantum subsectors $m^\pi=0^+$ and $m^\pi=0^-$. Response functions constructed from half orbits in the POT side are explicitly given. In particular the response function $g_X$ from $X$-symmetric half orbit has an amplitude where the root of the monodromy determinant is inverse hyperbolic. The resultant {\it weighted densities of periodic orbits $D^{m=0}_e(\phi)$ and $D^{m=0}_o(\phi)$} from both quantum subsectors show peaks at the actions of the periodic orbits with correct peak heights corresponding to the Lyapunov exponents of them. The formulation takes care of the cut off of the energy levels, and the agreement between the $D(\phi)$s of QM and POT sides is observed independent for the choice of the cut off. The systematics appeared in the densities of the periodic orbits is explained in terms of features of periodic orbits. It is shown that from quantum energy levels one can extract the information of AKP periodic orbits, even the Lyapunov exponents-- the success of inverse quantum chaology in AKP.

id: 1311.1801
title: All-optical sensing of a single-molecule electron spin
authors: A. O. Sushkov, N. Chisholm, I. Lovchinsky, M. Kubo, P. K. Lo, S. D. Bennett, D. Hunger, A. Akimov, R. L. Walsworth, H. Park, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1801
abstract: We demonstrate an all-optical method for magnetic sensing of individual molecules in ambient conditions at room temperature. Our approach is based on shallow nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers near the surface of a diamond crystal, which we use to detect single paramagnetic molecules covalently attached to the diamond surface. The manipulation and readout of the NV centers is all-optical and provides a sensitive probe of the magnetic field fluctuations stemming from the dynamics of the electronic spins of the attached molecules. As a specific example, we demonstrate detection of a single paramagnetic molecule containing a gadolinium (Gd$^{3+}$) ion. We confirm single-molecule resolution using optical fluorescence and atomic force microscopy to co-localize one NV center and one Gd$^{3+}$-containing molecule. Possible applications include nanoscale and in vivo magnetic spectroscopy and imaging of individual molecules.

id: 1311.1805
title: A Many-Atom Cavity QED System with Homogeneous Atom-Cavity Coupling
authors: Jongmin Lee, Geert Vrijsen, Igor Teper, Onur Hosten, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 13, pp. 4005-4008 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1805
abstract: We demonstrate a many-atom-cavity system with a high-finesse dual-wavelength standing wave cavity in which all participating rubidium atoms are nearly identically coupled to a 780-nm cavity mode. This homogeneous coupling is enforced by a one-dimensional optical lattice formed by the field of a 1560-nm cavity mode.

id: 1311.1886
title: Thermodynamic and Logical Reversibilities Revisited
authors: Takahiro Sagawa
comments: Submitted to the Statphys 25 proceedings as a Special Issue of J. Stat. Mech
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P03025 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1886
abstract: We review and investigate the general theory of thermodynamics of computation, and derive the fundamental inequalities that set the lower bounds of the work requirement and the heat emission during a computation. These inequalities constitute the generalized Landauer principle, where the information contents are involved in the second law of thermodynamics. We discuss in detail the relationship between the thermodynamic and logical reversibilities; the former is related to the entropy production in the total system including a heat bath, while the latter is related to the entropy change only in the logical states of the memory. In particular, we clarify that any logically irreversible computation can be performed in a thermodynamically reversible manner in the quasi-static limit, which does not contradict the conventional Landauer principle. Our arguments would serve as the theoretical foundation of thermodynamics of computation in terms of modern statistical physics.

id: 1311.1954
title: Numerical studies of ground state fidelity of the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Mateusz ?acki, Bogdan Damski, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033625 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1954
abstract: We compute ground state fidelity of the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model at unit filling factor. To this aim, we apply the DMRG algorithm to systems with open and periodic boundary conditions. We find that fidelity differs significantly in the two cases and study its scaling properties in the quantum critical regime.

id: 1311.2021
title: Graphene physics via the Dirac oscillator in (2+1) dimensions
authors: C. Quimbay, P. Strange
comments: 11 pages, some references added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2021
abstract: We show how the two-dimensional Dirac oscillator model can describe some properties of electrons in graphene. This model explains the origin of the left-handed chirality observed for charge carriers in monolayer and bilayer graphene. The relativistic dispersion relation observed for monolayer graphene is obtained directly from the energy spectrum, while the parabolic dispersion relation observed for the case of bilayer graphene is obtained in the non-relativistic limit. Additionally, if an external magnetic field is applied, the unusual Landau-level spectrum for monolayer graphene is obtained, but for bilayer graphene the model predicts the existence of a magnetic field-dependent gap. Finally, this model also leads to the existence of a chiral phase transition.

id: 1311.2047
title: Optical coherences and wavelength mismatch in ladder systems
authors: A. Urvoy, C. Carr, R. Ritter, C. S. Adams, K. J. Weatherill, R. L?w
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 245001
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2047
abstract: We investigate experimentally and theoretically the coherent and incoherent processes in open 3-level ladder systems in room temperature gases and identify in which regime electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) occurs. The peculiarity of this work lies in the unusual situation where the wavelength of the probe field is shorter than that of the coupling field. The nature of the observed spectral features depends considerably on the total response of different velocity classes, the varying Doppler shifts for bichromatic excitation fields, on optical pumping to additional electronic states and transit time effects. All these ingredients can be absorbed in a model based on optical Bloch equations with only five electronic states.

id: 1311.2065
title: Trapping ultracold gases near cryogenic materials with rapid reconfigurability
authors: Matthew A. Naides, Richard W. Turner, Ruby A. Lai, Jack M. DiSciacca, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2065
abstract: We demonstrate a novel atom chip trapping system that allows the placement and high-resolution imaging of ultracold atoms within microns from any <100 um-thin, UHV-compatible material, while also allowing sample exchange with minimal experimental downtime. The sample is not connected to the atom chip, allowing rapid exchange without perturbing the atom chip or laser cooling apparatus. Exchange of the sample and retrapping of atoms has been performed within a week turnaround, limited only by chamber baking. Moreover, the decoupling of sample and atom chip provides the ability to independently tune the sample temperature and its position with respect to the trapped ultracold gas, which itself may remain in the focus of a high-resolution imaging system. As a first demonstration of this new system, we have confined a 700-nK cloud of 8x10^4 87Rb atoms within 100 um of a gold-mirrored 100-um-thick silicon substrate. The substrate was cooled to 35 K without use of a heat shield, while the atom chip, 120 um away, remained at room temperature. Atoms may be imaged and retrapped every 16 s, allowing rapid data collection.

id: 1311.2070
title: Characterization of a commercially available large area, high detection efficiency single-photon avalanche diode
authors: Mario Stip?evi?, Daqing Wang, Rupert Ursin
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures
journal: IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 31, no. 23, pages 3591-3596, December 1, 2013
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2070
abstract: We characterize a new commercial, back-illuminated reach-through silicon single-photon avalanche photo diode (SPAD) SAP500 (Laser Components. Inc.), operated in Geiger-mode for purpose of photon counting. We show that for this sensor a significant interplay exists between dark counts, detection efficiency, afterpulsing, excess voltage and operating temperature, sometimes requiring a careful optimization tailored for a specific application. We find that a large flat plateau of sensitive area of about 0.5 mm in diameter, a peak quantum efficiency of 73% at 560 nm and timing precision down to 150 ps FWHM are the main distinguishing characteristics of this SPAD.

id: 1311.2087
title: Dark soliton in quasi-one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates with a Gaussian trap
authors: H. L. C. Couto, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2087
abstract: In this paper we study dark solitons in quasi-one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) in presence of an anharmonic external potential. The theoretical model is based on the Mu\~noz-Mateo and Delgado (MMD) equation that describes cigar-shaped BECs with repulsive interatomic interactions. Since MMD equation presents a nonpolynomial form, the soliton-sound recombination cannot display the same pattern presented in the cubic model. We perform numerical simulations to compare both cases.

id: 1311.2143
title: A faster scaling in acceleration-sensitive atom interferometers
authors: Gordon D. McDonald, Carlos C. N. Kuhn, Shayne Bennetts, John E. Debs, Kyle S. Hardman, John D. Close, Nicholas P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters, 105, 63001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2143
abstract: Atom interferometers have been used to measure acceleration with at best a $T^2$ scaling in sensitivity as the interferometer time $T$ is increased. This limits the sensitivity to acceleration which is theoretically achievable by these configurations for a given frequency of acceleration. We predict and experimentally measure the acceleration-sensitive phase shift of a large-momentum-transfer atom interferometer based upon Bloch oscillations. Using this novel interferometric scheme we demonstrate an improved scaling of sensitivity which will scale as $T^3$. This enhanced scaling will allow an increase in achievable sensitivity for any given frequency of an oscillatory acceleration signal, which will be of particular use for inertial and navigational sensors, and proposed gravitational wave detectors. A straight forward extension should allow a $T^4$ scaling in acceleration sensitivity.

id: 1311.2195
title: Particle in a self-dual dyon background: hidden free nature, and exotic superconformal symmetry
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Andreas Wipf
comments: 23 pages; refs and comments added, version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 045017 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2195
abstract: We show that a non-relativistic particle in a combined field of a magnetic monopole and 1/r^2 potential reveals a hidden, partially free dynamics when the strength of the central potential and the charge-monopole coupling constant are mutually fitted to each other. In this case the system admits both a conserved Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector and a dynamical conformal symmetry. The supersymmetrically extended system corresponds then to a background of a self-dual or anti-self-dual dyon. It is described by a quadratically extended Lie superalgebra D(2,1;alpha) with alpha=1/2, in which the bosonic set of generators is enlarged by a generalized Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector and its dynamical integral counterpart related to Galilei symmetry, as well as by the chiral Z_2-grading operator. The odd part of the nonlinear superalgebra comprises a complete set of 24=2 x 3 x 4 fermionic generators. Here a usual duplication comes from the Z_2-grading structure, the second factor can be associated with a triad of scalar integrals --- the Hamiltonian, the generator of special conformal transformations and the squared total angular momentum vector, while the quadruplication is generated by a chiral spin vector integral which exits due to the (anti)-self-dual nature of the electromagnetic background.

id: 1311.2290
title: Applying quantitative semantics to higher-order quantum computing
authors: Michele Pagani, Peter Selinger, Beno?t Valiron
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2290
abstract: Finding a denotational semantics for higher order quantum computation is a long-standing problem in the semantics of quantum programming languages. Most past approaches to this problem fell short in one way or another, either limiting the language to an unusably small finitary fragment, or giving up important features of quantum physics such as entanglement. In this paper, we propose a denotational semantics for a quantum lambda calculus with recursion and an infinite data type, using constructions from quantitative semantics of linear logic.

id: 1311.2304
title: Ultracold-atom quantum simulator for attosecond science
authors: Simon Sala, Johann F?rster, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2304
abstract: A quantum simulator based on ultracold optically trapped atoms for simulating the physics of atoms and molecules in ultrashort intense laser fields is introduced. The slowing down by about 13 orders of magnitude allows to watch in slow motion the tunneling and recollision processes that form the heart of attosecond science. The extreme flexibility of the simulator promises a deeper understanding of strong-field physics, especially for many-body systems beyond the reach of classical computers. The quantum simulator can experimentally straightforwardly be realized and is shown to recover the ionization characteristics of atoms in the different regimes of laser-matter interaction.

id: 1311.2381
title: Dynamics of BEC mixtures loaded into the optical lattice in the presence of linear inter-component coupling
authors: Michael Uleysky, Denis Makarov
comments: Accepted for publication in the Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Vol. 35, No. 2, p. 138-150 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2381
abstract: We consider dynamics of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate where the components correspond to different hyperfine states of the same sort of atoms. External microwave radiation leads to resonant transitions between the states. The condensate is loaded into the optical lattice. We invoke the tight-binding approximation and examine the interplay of spatial and internal dynamics of the mixture. It is shown that internal dynamics qualitatively depends on the intra-component interaction strength and the phase configuration of the initial state. We focus attention on two intriguing phenomena occurring for certain parameter values. The first phenomenon is the spontaneous synchronization of Rabi oscillations running inside neighbouring lattice sites. Another one is the demixing of the condensate with formation of immiscible solitons when nonlinearity becomes sufficiently strong. Demixing is preceded by the transient regime with highly irregular behavior of the mixture.

id: 1311.2408
title: A Notable Relation between $N$-Qubit and $2^{N-1}$-Qubit Pauli Groups via Binary ${\rm LGr}(N,2N)$
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Holweck, Metod Saniga, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 041, 16 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2408
abstract: Employing the fact that the geometry of the $N$-qubit ($N \geq 2$) Pauli group is embodied in the structure of the symplectic polar space $\mathcal{W}(2N-1,2)$ and using properties of the Lagrangian Grassmannian ${\rm LGr}(N,2N)$ defined over the smallest Galois field, it is demonstrated that there exists a bijection between the set of maximum sets of mutually commuting elements of the $N$-qubit Pauli group and a certain subset of elements of the $2^{N-1}$-qubit Pauli group. In order to reveal finer traits of this correspondence, the cases $N=3$ (also addressed recently by L\'evay, Planat and Saniga [J. High Energy Phys. 2013 (2013), no. 9, 037, 35 pages, arXiv:1305.5689]) and $N=4$ are discussed in detail. As an apt application of our findings, we use the stratification of the ambient projective space ${\rm PG}(2^N-1,2)$ of the $2^{N-1}$-qubit Pauli group in terms of $G$-orbits, where $G \equiv {\rm SL}(2,2)\times {\rm SL}(2,2)\times\cdots\times {\rm SL}(2,2)\rtimes S_N$, to decompose $\underline{\pi}({\rm LGr}(N,2N))$ into non-equivalent orbits. This leads to a partition of ${\rm LGr}(N,2N)$ into distinguished classes that can be labeled by elements of the above-mentioned Pauli groups.

id: 1311.2615
title: Out-of-equilibrium dynamics and thermalization of string order
authors: Leonardo Mazza, Davide Rossini, Manuel Endres, Rosario Fazio
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Several changes; slightly extended version of PRB paper (non-symmetric Hamiltonians also addressed)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 020301(R) (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2615
abstract: We investigate the equilibration dynamics of string order in one-dimensional quantum systems. After initializing a spin-1 chain in the Haldane phase, the time evolution of non-local correlations following a sudden quench is studied by means of matrix-product-state-based algorithms. Thermalization occurs only for scales up to a horizon growing at a well defined speed, due to the finite maximal velocity at which string correlations can propagate, related to a Lieb-Robinson bound. The persistence of string ordering at finite times is non-trivially related to symmetries of the quenched Hamiltonian. A qualitatively similar behavior is found for the string order of the Mott insulating phase in the Bose-Hubbard chain. This paves the way towards an experimental testing of our results in present cold-atom setups.

id: 1311.2717
title: Quantum spin systems on infinite lattices
authors: Pieter Naaijkens
comments: 90 pages. Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2717
abstract: These are the lecture notes for a one semester course at Leibniz University Hannover. The main aim of the course is to give an introduction to the mathematical methods used in describing discrete quantum systems consisting of infinitely many sites. Such systems can be used, for example, to model some materials in condensed matter physics or lattice gases. The contents are roughly as follows: (1) quick recap of essentials from functional analysis, (2) introduction to operator algebra, (3) algebraic quantum mechanics, (4) infinite systems (quasilocal algebra), (5) KMS and ground states, (6) Lieb-Robinson bounds, (7) short discussion on related topics for further reading. The level is aimed at students who have at least had some exposure to (functional) analysis and have a certain mathematical "maturity".

id: 1311.2732
title: On the Foundation of Statistical Mechanics under Experimentally Realistic Conditions: A Comparison between the Quantum and the Classical Case
authors: Peter Reimann, Mykhaylo Evstigneev
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1210.5821
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 052114 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2732
abstract: Focusing on isolated macroscopic systems, described either in terms of a quantum mechanical or a classical model, our two key questions are: In how far does an initial ensemble (usually far from equilibrium and largely unknown in detail) evolve towards a stationary long-time behavior ("equilibration")? In how far is this steady state in agreement with the microcanonical ensemble as predicted by Statistical Mechanics ("thermalization")? In the first part of the paper, a recently developed quantum mechanical treatment of the problem is briefly summarized, putting particular emphasis on the realistic modeling of experimental measurements and non-equilibrium initial conditions. Within this framework, equilibration can be proven under very weak assumptions about those measurements and initial conditions, while thermalization still requires quite strong additional hypotheses. In the second part, an analogous approach within the framework of classical mechanics is developed and compared with the quantum case. In particular, the assumptions to guarantee classical equilibration are now rather strong, while thermalization then follows under relatively weak additional conditions.

id: 1311.2765
title: Teleportation-induced entanglement of two nanomechanical oscillators coupled to a topological superconductor
authors: Stefan Walter, Jan Carl Budich
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 155431, (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2765
abstract: A one-dimensional topological superconductor features a single fermionic zero mode that is delocalized over two Majorana bound states located at the ends of the system. We study a pair of spatially separated nanomechanical oscillators tunnel-coupled to these Majorana modes. Most interestingly, we demonstrate that the combination of electron-phonon coupling and a finite charging energy on the mesoscopic topological superconductor can lead to an effective superexchange between the oscillators via the non-local fermionic zero mode. We further show that this teleportation mechanism leads to entanglement of the two oscillators over distances that can significantly exceed the coherence length of the superconductor.

id: 1311.2843
title: $SU(1,1)$ coherent states for Dirac-Kepler-Coulomb problem in $D+1$ dimensions with scalar and vector potentials
authors: D. Ojeda-Guillen, R. D. Mota, V. D. Granados
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A378 (2014) 2931
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2843
abstract: We decouple the Dirac's radial equations in $D+1$ dimensions with Coulomb-type scalar and vector potentials through appropriate transformations. We study each of these uncoupled second-order equations in an algebraic way by using an $su(1,1)$ algebra realization. Based on the theory of irreducible representations, we find the energy spectrum and the radial eigenfunctions. We construct the Perelomov coherent states for the Sturmian basis, which is the basis for the unitary irreducible representation of the $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra. The physical radial coherent states for our problem are obtained by applying the inverse original transformations to the Sturmian coherent states.

id: 1311.2871
title: Non-Abelian Chern-Simons Theory from a Hubbard-like Model
authors: Giandomenico Palumbo, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 027703 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2871
abstract: Here, we provide a simple Hubbard-like model of spin-$1/2$ fermions that gives rise to the SU(2) symmetric Thirring model that is equivalent, in the low-energy limit, to Yang-Mills-Chern-Simons model. First, we identify the regime that simulates the SU(2) Yang-Mills theory. Then, we suitably extend this model so that it gives rise to the SU(2) level $k$ Chern-Simons theory with $k\geq2$ that can support non-Abelian anyons. This is achieved by introducing multiple fermionic species and modifying the Thirring interactions, while preserving the SU(2) symmetry. Our proposal provides the means to theoretically and experimentally probe non-Abelian SU(2) level $k$ topological phases.

id: 1311.2875
title: Effect of high frequency modes of medium on an open quantum system
authors: Nirupam Dutta, A. K. Chaudhuri, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: Major corrections added
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2875
abstract: We present a method to calculate the real time effective propagator of a generic open quantum system, immersed in a medium using a wave function based framework. The medium is characterised by a set of harmonic oscillators having a continuous span of frequencies. This technique has been applied to the Caldeira-Leggett model showing that high frequency modes of the medium do not contribute towards decay of the population of states of the open system. In fact, they cause a Rabi type oscillation. Moreover, our wave function based approach provides an excellent alternative to conventional formalisms involving the density matrix.

id: 1311.2892
title: Probing Hawking and Unruh effects and quantum field theory in curved space by geometric invariants
authors: Antonio Capolupo, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physical Review D 88, 024027 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2892
abstract: The presence of noncyclic geometric invariant is revealed in all the phenomena where particle generation from vacuum or vacuum condensates appear. Aharonov--Anandan invariants then can help to study such systems and can represent a new tool to be used in order to provide laboratory evidence of phenomena particulary hard to be detected, such as Hawking and Unruh effects and some features of quantum field theory in curved space simulated by some graphene morphologies. It is finally suggested that a very precise quantum thermometer can be built by exploiting geometric invariants properties.

id: 1311.3057
title: Phase Noise of the Radio Frequency (RF) Beatnote Generated by a Dual-Frequency VECSEL
authors: Syamsundar De, Abdelkrim El Amili, Ihsan Fsaifes, Gr¨¦goire Pillet, Ghaya Baili, Fabienne Goldfarb, Mehdi Alouini, Isabelle Sagnes, Fabien Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3057
abstract: We analyze, both theoretically and experimentally, the phase noise of the radio frequency (RF) beatnote generated by optical mixing of two orthogonally polarized modes in an optically pumped dual-frequency Vertical External Cavity Surface Emitting Laser (VECSEL). The characteristics of the RF phase noise within the frequency range of 10 kHz - 50 MHz are investigated for three different nonlinear coupling strengths between the two lasing modes. In the theoretical model, we consider two different physical mechanisms responsible for the RF phase noise. In the low frequency domain (typically below 500 kHz), the dominant contribution to the RF phase noise is shown to come from the thermal fluctuations of the semicondutor active medium induced by pump intensity fluctuations. However, in the higher frequency domain (typically above 500 kHz), the main source of RF phase noise is shown to be the pump intensity fluctuations which are transfered to the intensity noises of the two lasing modes and then to the phase noise via the large Henry factor of the semiconductor gain medium. For this latter mechanism, the nonlinear coupling strength between the two lasing modes is shown to play an important role in the value of the RF phase noise. All experimental results are shown to be in good agreement with theory.

id: 1311.3180
title: Recent progresses on the pseudospin symmetry in single particle resonant states
authors: Bing-Nan Lu, En-Guang Zhao, Shan-Gui Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; invited talk at the International School on Nuclear Physics, Neutron Physics and Applications, Sep 16-22, 2013, Varna, Bulgaria
journal: J. Phys: Conf. Ser. 533 (2014) 012021
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3180
abstract: The pseudospin symmetry (PSS) is a relativistic dynamical symmetry directly connected with the small component of the nucleon Dirac wave function. Much effort has been made to study this symmetry in bound states. Recently, a rigorous justification of the PSS in single particle resonant states was achieved by examining the asymptotic behaviors of the radial Dirac wave functions: The PSS in single particle resonant states in nuclei is conserved exactly when the attractive scalar and repulsive vector potentials have the same magnitude but opposite sign. Several issues related to the exact conservation and breaking mechanism of the PSS in single particle resonances were investigated by employing spherical square well potentials in which the PSS breaking part can be well isolated in the Jost function. A threshold effect in the energy splitting and an anomaly in the width splitting of pseudospin partners were found when the depth of the square well potential varies from zero to a finite value.

id: 1311.3327
title: Area law violation for the mutual information in a nonequilibrium steady state
authors: Viktor Eisler, Zoltan Zimboras
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, final version, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032321 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3327
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium steady state of an infinite chain of free fermions, resulting from an initial state where the two sides of the system are prepared at different temperatures. The mutual information is calculated between two adjacent segments of the chain and is found to scale logarithmically in the subsystem size. This provides the first example of the violation of the area law in a quantum many-body system outside a zero temperature regime. The prefactor of the logarithm is obtained analytically and, furthermore, the same prefactor is shown to govern the logarithmic increase of mutual information in time, before the system relaxes locally to the steady state.

id: 1311.3369
title: Renormalization and Scaling in Quantum Walks
authors: S. Boettcher, S. Falkner, R. Portugal
comments: 10 pages, revtex4, for more information, see this http URL
journal: Physical Review A 90, 032324 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3369
abstract: We show how to extract the scaling behavior of quantum walks using the renormalization group (RG). We introduce the method by efficiently reproducing well-known results on the one-dimensional lattice. As a nontrivial model, we apply this method to the dual Sierpinski gasket and obtain its exact, closed system of RG-recursions. Numerical iteration suggests that under rescaling the system length, $L^{\prime}=2L$, characteristic times rescale as $t^{\prime}=2^{d_{w}}t$ with the exact walk exponent $d_{w}=\log_{2}\sqrt{5}=1.1609\ldots$. Despite the lack of translational invariance, this is very close to the ballistic spreading, $d_{w}=1$, found for regular lattices. However, we argue that an extended interpretation of the traditional RG formalism will be needed to obtain scaling exponents analytically. Direct simulations confirm our RG-prediction for $d_w$ and furthermore reveal an immensely rich phenomenology for the spreading of the quantum walk on the gasket. Invariably, quantum interference localizes the walk completely with a site-access probability that declines with a powerlaw from the initial site, in contrast with a classical random walk, which would pass all sites with certainty.

id: 1311.3487
title: Quantum Mechanics ¨¤ la Langevin and Supersymmetry
authors: S. Nicolis
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. PoS class. 31st International Symposium on Lattice Field Theory - LATTICE 2013, July 29 - August 3, 2013, Mainz, Germany
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3487
abstract: We study quantum mechanics in the stochastic formulation, using the functional integral approach. The noise term enters the classical action as a local contribution of anticommuting fields. The partition function is not invariant under ${\mathcal N}=1$ SUSY, but can be obtained from a, manifestly, supersymmetric expression, upon fixing a local fermionic symmetry, called $\kappa-$symmetry. The kinetic term for the fermions is a total derivative and can contribute only on the boundaries. We define combinations that scale appropriately, as the lattice spacing is taken to zero and the lattice size to infinity and provide evidence, by numerical simulations, that the correlation functions of the auxiliary field do satisfy Wick's theorem. We show, in particular, that simulations can be carried out using a purely bosonic action. The physical import is that the classical trajectory, $\phi(\tau)$, becomes a (chiral) superfield, $(\phi(\tau),\psi_{\alpha}(\tau),F(\tau))$, when quantum fluctuations are taken into account.

id: 1311.3507
title: Spectrum and entanglement of phonons in quantum fluids of light
authors: Xavier Busch, Iacopo Carusotto, Renaud Parentani
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures. Version 2 contains an added description of experimental setup, as in journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043819 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3507
abstract: We study the quantum state of phonons propagating on top of a fluid of light coherently generated in a planar microcavity device by a quasi-resonant incident laser beam. In the steady-state under a monochromatic pump, because of the finite radiative lifetime of photons, a sizable incoherent population of low frequency phonons is predicted to appear. Their mean occupation number differs from a Planck distribution and is independent on the photon lifetime. When the photon fluid is subjected to a sudden change of its parameters, additional phonon pairs are created in the fluid with remarkable two-mode squeezing and entanglement properties. Schemes to assess non-separability of the phonon state from measurements of the correlation functions of the emitted light are discussed.

id: 1311.3544
title: Response calculations based on an independent particle system with the exact one-particle density matrix: polarizabilities
authors: Klaas J. H. Giesbertz, Oleg V. Gritsenko, Evert Jan Baerends
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 18A517 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3544
abstract: Recently, we have demonstrated that the problems finding a suitable adiabatic approximation in time-dependent one-body reduced density matrix functional theory can be remedied by introducing an additional degree of freedom to describe the system: the phase of the natural orbitals [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 013002 (2010), J. Chem. Phys. 133, 174119 (2010)]. In this article we will show in detail how the frequency-dependent response equations give the proper static limit ($\omega\to0$), including the perturbation in the chemical potential, which is required in static response theory to ensure the correct number of particles. Additionally we show results for the polarizability for H$_2$ and compare the performance of two different two-electron functionals: the phase-including L\"owdin-Shull functional and the density matrix form of the L\"owdin-Shull functional.

id: 1311.3554
title: Modeling 1D structures on semiconductor surfaces: Synergy of theory and experiment
authors: Danny E. P. Vanpoucke
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures, 3 tables, Review on metal-induced nanowires
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26, 133001 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3554
abstract: Atomic scale nanowires attract enormous interest in a wide range of fields. On the one hand, due to their quasi-one-dimensional nature, they can act as a experimental testbed for exotic physics: Peierls instability, charge density waves, and Luttinger liquid behavior. On the other hand, due to their small size, they are of interest for future device applications in the micro-electronics industry, but also for applications regarding molecular electronics. This versatile nature makes them interesting systems to produce and study, but their size and growth conditions push both experimental production and theoretical modeling to their limits. In this review, modeling of atomic scale nanowires on semiconductor surfaces is discussed focusing on the interplay between theory and experiment. The current state of modeling efforts on Pt- and Au-induced nanowires on Ge(001) is presented, indicating their similarities and differences. Recently discovered nanowire systems (Ir, Co, Sr) on the Ge(001) surface are also touched upon. The importance of scanning tunneling microscopy as a tool for direct comparison of theoretical and experimental data is shown, as is the power of density functional theory as an atomistic simulation approach. It becomes clear that complementary strengths of theoretical and experimental investigations are required for successful modeling of the atomistic nanowires, due to their complexity.

id: 1311.3615
title: Electron-hole spin flip-flop in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Y. Benny, R. Presman, Y.Kodriano, E. Poem, D. Gershoni, T. A. Truong, P. M. Petroff
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3615
abstract: We use temporally resolved intensity cross-correlation measurements to identify the biexciton-exciton radiative cascades in a negatively charged QD. The polarization sensitive correlation measurements show unambiguously that the excited two electron triplet states relax non-radiatively to their singlet ground state via a spin non conserving flip-flop with the ground state heavy hole. We explain this mechanism in terms of resonant coupling between the confined electron states and an LO phonon. This resonant interaction together with the electron-hole exchange interaction provides an efficient mechanism for this, otherwise spin-blockaded, electronic relaxation.

id: 1311.3734
title: Generalized Relativistic Wave Equations with Intrinsic Maximum Momentum
authors: Chee Leong Ching, Wei Khim Ng
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3734
abstract: We examine the nonperturbative effect of maximum momentum on the relativistic wave equations. In momentum representation, we obtain the exact eigen-energies and wavefunctions of one-dimensional Klein-Gordon and Dirac equation with linear confining potentials, and the Dirac oscillator. Bound state solutions are only possible when the strength of scalar potential are stronger than vector potential. The energy spectrum of the systems studied are bounded from above, whereby classical characteristics are observed in the uncertainties of position and momentum operators. Also, there is a truncation in the maximum number of bound states that is allowed. Some of these quantum-gravitational features may have future applications.

id: 1311.3741
title: Excitations of optomechanically driven Bose-Einstein condensates in a cavity: photodetection measurements
authors: Neha Aggarwal, Sonam Mahajan, Aranya B Bhatttacherjee, Man Mohan
comments: 17 pages, Submitted to Annalen der Physik
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3741
abstract: We present a detailed study to analyse the Dicke quantum phase transition within the thermodynamic limit for an optomechanically driven Bose-Einstein condensates in a cavity. The photodetection-based quantum optical measurements have been performed to study the dynamics and excitations of this optomechanical Dicke system. For this, we discuss the eigenvalue analysis, fluorescence spectrum and the homodyne spectrum of the system. It has been shown that the normal phase is negligibly affected by the mechanical mode of the mirror while it has a significant effect in the superradiant phase. We have observed that the eigenvalues and both the spectra exhibit distinct features that can be identified with the photonic, atomic and phononic branches. In the fluorescence spectra, we further observe an asymmetric coherent energy exchange between the three degrees of freedom of the system in the superradiant phase arising as a result of optomechanical interaction and Bloch-Siegert shift.

id: 1311.3802
title: Enhancing optomechanical coupling via the Josephson effect
authors: Tero T. Heikkil?, Francesco Massel, Jani Tuorila, Rapha?l Khan, Mika A. Sillanp??
comments: 5+ pages and 3 figures in the main text + 7 single-column pages and 1 figure for the Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. <b>112</b>, 203603 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3802
abstract: Cavity optomechanics is showing promise for studying quantum mechanics in large systems. However, smallness of the radiation-pressure coupling is a serious hindrance. Here we show how the charge tuning of the Josephson inductance in a single-Cooper-pair transistor (SCPT) can be exploited to arrange a strong radiation pressure -type coupling $g_0$ between mechanical and microwave resonators. In a certain limit of parameters, such a coupling can also be seen as a qubit-mediated coupling of two resonators. We show that this scheme allows reaching extremely high $g_0$. Contrary to the recent proposals for exploiting the non-linearity of a large radiation pressure coupling, the main non-linearity in this setup originates from a cross-Kerr type of coupling between the resonators, where the cavity refractive index depends on the phonon number. The presence of this coupling will allow accessing the individual phonon numbers via the measurement of the cavity.

id: 1311.3848
title: Dynamics of several two-level atoms in a one-mode cavity
authors: Paolo Schwendimann, Antonio Quattropani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3848
abstract: The dynamics of few two-level atoms interacting with one cavity mode is described in master equation formalism. Two different configurations are considered: a transient one with all atoms initially in the excited state and a stationary one where a coherent pump acts on either the atoms or the cavity mode. Superradiance, resonant scattering and switching between a low and a high emission state are considered. Cooperation and decoherence as well as the statistics of the emitted radiation field in both cases are discussed.

id: 1311.3862
title: Generalized oscillator representations for generalized Calogero Hamiltonians
authors: I.V. Tyutin, B.L. Voronov
comments: 39 pages, LaTeX-2e. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1211.6331
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3862
abstract: This paper is a natural continuation of the previous paper \cite{TyuVo13} where generalized oscillator representations for Calogero Hamiltonians with potential $V(x)=\alpha/x^2$, $\alpha\geq-1/4$, were constructed. In this paper, we present generalized oscillator representations for all generalized Calogero Hamiltonians with potential $V(x)=g_{1}/x^2+g_{2}x^2$, $g_{1}\geq-1/4$, $g_{2}>0$. These representations are generally highly nonunique, but there exists an optimum representation for each Hamiltonian, representation that explicitly determines the ground state and the ground-state energy. For generalized Calogero Hamiltonians with coupling constants $g_1<-1/4$ or $g_2<0$, generalized oscillator representations do not exist in agreement with the fact that the respective Hamiltonians are not bounded from below.

id: 1311.3945
title: Thermal entanglement in a triple quantum dot system
authors: M. Urbaniak, S. B. Tooski, A. Ramsak, B. R. Bulka
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, accepted in Eur. Phys. J. B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2013) 86: 505
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3945
abstract: We present studies of thermal entanglement of a three-spin system in triangular symmetry. Spin correlations are described within an effective Heisenberg Hamiltonian, derived from the Hubbard Hamiltonian, with super-exchange couplings modulated by an effective electric field. Additionally a homogenous magnetic field is applied to completely break the degeneracy of the system. We show that entanglement is generated in the subspace of doublet states with different pairwise spin correlations for the ground and excited states. At low temperatures thermal mixing between the doublets with the same spin destroys entanglement, however one can observe its restoration at higher temperatures due to the mixing of the states with an opposite spin orientation or with quadruplets (unentangled states) always destroys entanglement. Pairwise entanglement is quantified using concurrence for which analytical formulae are derived in various thermal mixing scenarios. The electric field plays a specific role -- it breaks the symmetry of the system and changes spin correlations. Rotating the electric field can create maximally entangled qubit pairs together with a separate spin (monogamy) that survives in a relatively wide temperature range providing robust pairwise entanglement generation at elevated temperatures.

id: 1311.3958
title: Lattice Laughlin States of Bosons and Fermions at Filling Fractions $1/q$
authors: Hong-Hao Tu, Anne E. B. Nielsen, J. Ignacio Cirac, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 5+5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 033025 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3958
abstract: We introduce a two-parameter family of strongly-correlated wave functions for bosons and fermions in lattices. One parameter, $q$, is connected to the filling fraction. The other one, $\eta$, allows us to interpolate between the lattice limit ($\eta=1$) and the continuum limit ($\eta\to 0^+$) of families of states appearing in the context of the fractional quantum Hall effect or the Calogero-Sutherland model. We give evidence that the main physical properties along the interpolation remain the same. Finally, in the lattice limit, we derive parent Hamiltonians for those wave functions and in 1D, we determine part of the low energy spectrum.

id: 1311.4011
title: Comment on "Aharonov-Casher and Scalar Aharonov-Bohm Topological Effects"
authors: Taeseung Choi, Sam Young Cho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4011
abstract: In this Comment we point out (i) that the Hamiltonian, Eq. (17) in the Letter(Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070405 (2012)), is not a relativistic Hamiltonian, (ii) then that the conditions in the Letter are irrelevant for a topological AC and SAB effects, and (iii) conclusively that the non-relativistic Hamiltonian employed by Peshkin and Lipkin (Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 2847 (1995)) has the same $U(1)_{mm}$ gauge structure for a fixed spin and then is not wrong, but their incorrect interpretation of the spin autocorrelations led to the incorrect conclusion.

id: 1311.4022
title: Casimir Energy between a Sinusoidally Corrugated Sphere and a Plate Using Proximity Force Approximation
authors: M. R. Setare, A. Seyedzahedi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4022
abstract: In this paper aiming to obtain the Casimir energy between a sinusoidally corrugated sphere and a plate, we first present a derivation of the sphere-plate Casimir force obtained by applying proximity force approximation (PFA). One may investigate this problem by using the scattering matrix method. Despite that this method achieves the exact result, but difficulties of applying this formalism make the procedure complicated. We use the PFA to achieve the purpose in a truly explicit manner. Considering the sphere to have different kinds of sinusoidally corrugations, we obtain the effect of deformation on the Casimir interaction energy. We suppose that $ a/r \leqslant 0.00755$ for the validity of PFA and an experimental accuracy goal of $1\verb"%"$ in the case of sphere with radius $r$ at a minimal distance $a$ from a plate \cite{0601094}. The effect of finite conductivity would be non negligible for such short distances. To reduce the inaccuracy of the result obtained by PFA, we have also investigate thermal corrections of the Casimir force.

id: 1311.4042
title: The parastatistics Fock space and explicit Lie superalgebra representations
authors: N.I. Stoilova
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 475202 (14pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4042
abstract: It is known that the defining triple relations of m pairs of parafermion operators and n pairs of paraboson operators with relative parafermion relations can be considered as defining relations for the Lie superalgebra osp(2m+1|2n) in terms of 2(m+n) generators. With the common Hermiticity conditions, this means that the parastatistics Fock space of order p corresponds to an infinite-dimensional unitary irreducible representation V(p) of osp(2m+1|2n), with lowest weight (-p/2,...,- p/|p/2,...,p/2). These representations (also in the simplest case m=n=1) had never been constructed due to computational difficulties, despite their importance. In the present paper we solve partially the problem in the general case using group theoretical techniques, in which the u(m|n) subalgebra of osp(2m+1|2n) plays a crucial role: a set of Gelfand-Zetlin patterns of u(m|n) can be used to label the basis vectors of V(p). An explicit and elegant construction of these representations V(p) for m=n=1, and the actions or matrix elements of the osp(3|2) generators are given.

id: 1311.4052
title: Quantum interference and control of the optical response in quantum dot molecules
authors: H. S. Borges, L. Sanz, J. M. Villas-Boas, A. M. Alcalde
comments: To appear in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 222101 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4052
abstract: We discuss the optical response of a quantum molecule under the action of two lasers fields. Using a realistic model and parameters, we map the physical conditions to find three different phenomena reported in the literature: the tunneling induced transparency, the formation of Autler-Townes doublets, and the creation of a Mollow-like triplet. We found that the electron tunneling between quantum dots is the responsible for the different optical regime. Our results not only explain the experimental results in the literature but also give insights for future experiments and applications in optics using quantum dots molecules.

id: 1311.4173
title: Mutual information after a local quench in conformal field theory
authors: Curtis T. Asplund, Alice Bernamonti
comments: 56 pages, 24 figures; v2: references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 066015 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4173
abstract: We compute the entanglement entropy and mutual information for two disjoint intervals in two-dimensional conformal field theories as a function of time after a local quench, using the replica trick and boundary conformal field theory. We obtain explicit formulae for the universal contributions, which are leading in the regimes of, for example, close or well-separated intervals of fixed length. The results are largely consistent with the quasiparticle picture, in which entanglement above that present in the ground state is carried by pairs of entangled, freely propagating excitations. We also calculate the mutual information for two disjoint intervals in a proposed holographic local quench, whose holographic energy-momentum tensor matches the conformal field theory one. We find that the holographic mutual information shows qualitative differences from the conformal field theory results and we discuss possible interpretations of this.

id: 1311.4192
title: Subtleties of Non-Abelian Gauge Theories in Cold-Atomic Lattices
authors: Peter Orland
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Based on talk given at the 31st International Symposium on Lattice Field Theory (Lattice 2013) 29 July - 3 August, 2013, Mainz, Germany
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4192
abstract: I point out two of the subtleties referred to in the title. The first is that gauge-invariant magnetic systems may realized under general circumstances, as suggested by a simple theorem. The second subtlety is that care is needed to identify the field theory simulated by a cold-atomic lattice gauge system. Though the simplest such model confines in 2+1 dimensions, it has non-relativistic ``gluon" excitations. Time-reversal invariance is spontaneously broken in this system. The confinement mechanism is related to an extra U(1) gauge invariance.There is a model, suggested long ago by D. Rohlich and me, which is known to have relativistic spin waves. One of the outstanding theoretical problems is a better determination of the energy-momentum relation of spin waves in different magnetic gauge systems.

id: 1311.4238
title: Nonlinear Acoustics -- Perturbation Theory and Webster's Equation
authors: Rog¨¦rio Jorge
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4238
abstract: Webster's horn equation (1919) offers a one-dimensional approximation for low-frequency sound waves along a rigid tube with a variable cross-sectional area. It can be thought as a wave equation with a source term that takes into account the nonlinear geometry of the tube. In this document we derive this equation using a simplified fluid model of an ideal gas. By a simple change of variables, we convert it to a Schr\"odinger equation and use the well-known variational and perturbative methods to seek perturbative solutions. As an example, we apply these methods to the Gabriel's Horn geometry, deriving the first order corrections to the linear frequency. An algorithm to the harmonic modes in any order for a general horn geometry is derived.

id: 1311.4244
title: Phase transition between quantum and classical regimes for the escape rate of dimeric molecular nanomagnets in a staggered magnetic field
authors: Solomon Akaraka Owerre, M.B Paranjape
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. More elaborated than the published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 1407
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4244
abstract: We study the phase transition of the escape rate of exchange-coupled dimer of single-molecule magnets which are coupled either ferromagnetic ally or antiferromagnetically in a staggered magnetic field and an easy $z$-axis anisotropy. The Hamiltonian for this system has been used to study molecular dimer nanomagnets [Mn$_4$]$_2$. We generalize the method of mapping a single-molecule magnetic spin problem onto a quantum-mechanical particle to dimeric molecular nanomagnets. The problem is mapped to a single particle quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian in terms of the relative coordinate and a coordinate dependent reduced mass. It is shown that the presence of the external staggered magnetic field creates a phase boundary separating the first- from the second-order transition. With the set of parameters used by R. Tiron, $\textit{et al}$, \prl {\bf 91}, 227203 (2003), and S. Hill, $\textit{et al}$ science {\bf 302}, 1015 (2003) to fit experimental data for [Mn$_{4}$]$_2$ dimer we find that the critical temperature at the phase boundary is $T^{(c)}_0 =0.29K$. Therefore, thermally activated transitions should occur for temperatures greater than $T^{(c)}_0$.

id: 1311.4275
title: The Superposition Principle in Quantum Mechanics - did the rock enter the foundation surreptitiously?
authors: N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 6 pages in LaTeX, will appear in proceedings of the conference '100 years of the Bohr Atom 1913-2013'
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4275
abstract: The superposition principle forms the very backbone of quantum theory. The resulting linear structure of quantum theory is structurally so rigid that tampering with it may have serious, seemingly unphysical, consequences. This principle has been succesful at even the highest available accelerator energies. Is this aspect of quantum theory forever then? The present work is an attempt to understand the attitude of the founding fathers, particularly of Bohr and Dirac, towards this principle. The Heisenberg matrix mechanics on the one hand, and the Schrodinger wave mechanics on the other, are critically examined to shed light as to how this principle entered the very foundations of quantum theory.

id: 1311.4363
title: Suppressing Hawking radiation by quantum Zeno effect
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 11 pages, revised, accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys. Lett. B 733, 6 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4363
abstract: We present evidence that quantum Zeno effect, otherwise working only for microscopic systems, may also work for large black holes (BH's). The expectation that a BH geometry should behave classically at time intervals larger than the Planck time t_Pl indicates that the quantum process of measurement of classical degrees of freedom takes time of the order of t_Pl. Since BH has only a few classical degrees of freedom, such a fast measurement makes a macroscopic BH strongly susceptible to the quantum Zeno effect, which repeatedly collapses the quantum state to the initial one, the state before the creation of Hawking quanta. By this mechanism, Hawking radiation from a BH of mass M is strongly suppressed by a factor of the order of m_Pl/M.

id: 1311.4430
title: Fundamental aspects of steady state heat to work conversion
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Tomaz Prosen, Keiji Saito
comments: Review paper, 28 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4430
abstract: We review theoretical approaches to analyzing efficiency of steady state heat to work conversion which is crucial in the timely problem of optimizing efficiency of small-scale heat engines and refrigerators. A rather abstract perspective of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics and dynamical system's theory is taken to view at this very practical problem. Several recently discovered general mechanisms of optimizing the figure of merit of thermoelectric efficiency are discussed, also in connection to breaking time-reversal symmetry of the microscopic equations of motion. Applications of these theoretical and mathematical ideas to practically relevant models are pointed out.

id: 1311.4512
title: Magnetic-film atom chip with 10 $¦Ì$m period lattices of microtraps for quantum information science with Rydberg atoms
authors: V.Y.F. Leung, D.R.M. Pijn, H. Schlatter, L. Torralbo-Campo, A. La Rooij, G.B. Mulder, J. Naber, M.L. Soudijn, A. Tauschinsky, C. Abarbanel, B. Hadad, E. Golan, R. Folman, R.J.C. Spreeuw
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 053102 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4512
abstract: We describe the fabrication and construction of a setup for creating lattices of magnetic microtraps for ultracold atoms on an atom chip. The lattice is defined by lithographic patterning of a permanent magnetic film. Patterned magnetic-film atom chips enable a large variety of trapping geometries over a wide range of length scales. We demonstrate an atom chip with a lattice constant of 10 $\mu$m, suitable for experiments in quantum information science employing the interaction between atoms in highly-excited Rydberg energy levels. The active trapping region contains lattice regions with square and hexagonal symmetry, with the two regions joined at an interface. A structure of macroscopic wires, cut out of a silver foil, was mounted under the atom chip in order to load ultracold $^{87}$Rb atoms into the microtraps. We demonstrate loading of atoms into the square and hexagonal lattice sections simultaneously and show resolved imaging of individual lattice sites. Magnetic-film lattices on atom chips provide a versatile platform for experiments with ultracold atoms, in particular for quantum information science and quantum simulation.

id: 1311.4557
title: Quench Dynamics in a Model with Tuneable Integrability Breaking
authors: F.H.L. Essler, S. Kehrein, S.R. Manmana, N.J. Robinson
comments: 22 pages, 35 figures, minor updates to manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165104 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4557
abstract: We consider quantum quenches in an integrable quantum chain with tuneable-integrability-breaking interactions. In the case where these interactions are weak, we demonstrate that at intermediate times after the quench local observables relax to a prethermalized regime, which can be described by a density matrix that can be viewed as a deformation of a generalized Gibbs ensemble. We present explicit expressions for the approximately conserved charges characterizing this ensemble. We do not find evidence for a crossover from the prethermalized to a thermalized regime on the time scales accessible to us. Increasing the integrability-breaking interactions leads to a behaviour that is compatible with eventual thermalization.

id: 1311.4657
title: Influence of spin dependent carrier dynamics on the properties of a dual-frequency vertical-external-cavity surface-emitting laser (VECSEL)
authors: Syamsundar De, Vladyslav Potapchuk, Fabien Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013841 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4657
abstract: The properties of a dual-frequency vertical external cavity surface emitting laser (VECSEL), in which two linear orthogonal polarization modes are oscillating simultaneously, are theoretically investigated. We derive a model based on the ideas introduced by San Miguel et al. [San Miguel, Feng, and Moloney, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{52}, 1728 (1995)], taking into account the spin dynamics of the carriers inside the quantum well (QW) based gain medium of the dual-frequency VECSEL. This model is shown to succeed in describing quite a few properties of the dual-frequency VECSEL, such as the behavior of nonlinear coupling strength between the modes, the spectral behavior of intensity noises of the modes, and also the correlation between these intensity noises. A good agreement is found with experimental data. The variables associated with the spin dependent carrier dynamics can be adiabatically eliminated due to the class-A dynamical behavior of the considered laser which is based on a cm-long external cavity. This leads to a simple analytical description of the dynamics of the dual-frequency VECSEL providing a better understanding of the physics involved

id: 1311.4688
title: Evolutionary Design in Biological Quantum Computing
authors: Gabor Vattay, Stuart A. Kauffman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4688
abstract: The unique capability of quantum mechanics to evolve alternative possibilities in parallel is appealing and over the years a number of quantum algorithms have been developed offering great computational benefits. Systems coupled to the environment lose quantum coherence quickly and realization of schemes based on unitarity might be impossible. Recent discovery of room temperature quantum coherence in light harvesting complexes opens up new possibilities to borrow concepts from biology to use quantum effects for computational purposes. While it has been conjectured that light harvesting complexes such as the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex in the green sulfur bacteria performs an efficient quantum search similar to the quantum Grover's algorithm the analogy has yet to be established. In this work we show that quantum dissipation plays an essential role in the quantum search performed in the FMO complex and it is fundamentally different from known algorithms. In the FMO complex not just the optimal level of phase breaking is present to avoid both quantum localization and Zeno trapping but it can harness quantum dissipation as well to speed the process even further up. With detailed quantum calculations taking into account both phase breaking and quantum dissipation we show that the design of the FMO complex has been evolutionarily optimized and works faster than pure quantum or classical-stochastic algorithms. Inspired by the findings we introduce a new computational concept based on decoherent quantum evolution. While it is inspired by light harvesting systems, the new computational devices can also be realized on different material basis opening new magnitude scales for miniaturization and speed.

id: 1311.4760
title: The quantum mechanics is a non-universal theory. The realistic Schrodinger's and positivistic Born's interpretation of the wave function
authors: Alexey Nikulov
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures, the chapter was written for Advances in Quantum Systems Research
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4760
abstract: Quantum mechanics describes successfully numerous quantum phenomena both microscopic and macroscopic, such as superconductivity. But the controversies about quantum mechanics, in the old days and present day, reveal fundamental obscurity in quantum mechanics. In this work reader attention is drawn first of all to the fact that the orthodox description of superconductivity and some other quantum phenomena uses the realistic interpretation of the wave function proposed by Schrodinger whereas the controversies take place until the present about the positivistic interpretation proposed by Born. Causes and essence of the fundamental obscurity of the Born interpretation are considered in detail in the first part of the paper. The fundamental obscurities of the orthodox description of superconductivity and other quantum phenomena are considered in the end of the paper.

id: 1311.4773
title: The asymmetric Goos-H?nchen effect
authors: Manoel P. Araujo, Silv?nia A. Carvalho, Stefano De Leo
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Optics 16, 015702-7 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4773
abstract: We show in which conditions optical gaussian beams, propagating throughout an homogeneous dielectric right angle prism, present an asymmetric Goos-H\"anchen (GH) effect. This asymmetric behavior is seen for incidence at critical angles and happens in the propagation direction of the outgoing beam. The asymmetric GH effect can be also seen as an amplification of the standard GH shift. Due to the fact that it only depends on the ratio between the wavelength and the minimal waist size of the incoming gaussian beam, it can be also used to determine one of these parameters. Multiple peaks interference is an additional phenomenon seen in the presence of such asymmetric effects.

id: 1311.4796
title: Mechanism of hole propagation in the orbital compass models
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Maria Daghofer, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. 89, 024417 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4796
abstract: We explore the propagation of a single hole in the quantum compass model, whose nematic ground state is given by mutually decoupled antiferromagnetic chains. The compass model can be seen as the strong-coupling limit of a spinless two-band Hubbard model, which we study here using mean field theory and the variational cluster approach. Due to the symmetries of the compass model, the inherent disorder along one lattice direction turns out not to affect hole motion and doping a hole consequently does not lift the subextensive degeneracy of the nematic phase. In order to broaden and deepen understanding, we derive a generalized itinerant model and address the transition to two-dimensional Ising order. We observe coherent hole motion in both the nematic and the antiferromagnetic phases, also in the presence of quantum fluctuations away from pure Ising exchange. In addition to quantum fluctuations and interorbital hopping, three-site hopping is found to play an important role and to dominate propagation in the two-dimensional Ising limit as well as along the antiferromagnetic chains in the nematic order which forms in the compass model.

id: 1311.4819
title: Orthogonal polynomials of equilibrium measures supported on Cantor sets
authors: Giorgio Mantica
comments: 28 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Complex Variables (math.CV); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4819
abstract: We study the orthogonal polynomials associated with the equilibrium measure, in logarithmic potential theory, living on the attractor of an Iterated Function System. We construct sequences of discrete measures, that converge weakly to the equilibrium measure, and we compute their Jacobi matrices via standard procedures, suitably enhanced for the scope. Numerical estimates of the convergence rate to the limit Jacobi matrix are provided, that show stability and efficiency of the whole procedure. As a secondary result, we also compute Jacobi matrices of equilibrium measures on finite sets of intervals, and of balanced measures of Iterated Function Systems. These algorithms can reach large orders: we study the asymptotic behavior of the orthogonal polynomials and we show that they can be used to efficiently compute Green's functions and conformal mappings of interest in constructive function theory.

id: 1311.4863
title: Vacuum decay and the transmission resonances in space-dependent electric fields
authors: Cesim K. Dumlu
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. v2: Revised and extended, to appear in PRD
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4863
abstract: We investigate the decay of quantum electrodynamical (QED) vacuum in arbitrary space-dependent electric fields. In particular, we analyze the resonance peaks of the positron emission spectrum for the external fields with subcycle structure. For this, we study the transmission probability in the framework of scattering approach to vacuum pair production. In under-the-barrier scattering regime, we show that the width of a transmission resonance can be enhanced when the effective scattering potential contains multiple wells. Such a broadening in the resonance width corresponds to a decrease in the tunneling time. This may be relevant for observing the vacuum decay at shorter timescales before the external field is adiabatically turned off. In above-the-barrier scattering regime, we give a set of coupled differential equations for the numerical computation of the Bogoliubov coefficients.

id: 1311.4885
title: Fluctuations of imbalanced fermionic superfluids in two dimensions induce continuous quantum phase transitions and non-Fermi liquid behavior
authors: Philipp Strack, Pawel Jakubczyk
comments: as accepted to Phys. Rev. X; 10 pages, 10 figures, 75 references
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4885
abstract: We study the nature of superfluid pairing in imbalanced Fermi mixtures in two spatial dimensions. We present evidence that the combined effect of Fermi surface mismatch and order parameter fluctuations of the superfluid condensate can lead to continuous quantum phase transitions from a normal Fermi mixture to an intermediate Sarma-Liu-Wilczek superfluid with two gapless Fermi surfaces -- even when mean-field theory (incorrectly) predicts a first order transition to a phase-separated "Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer plus excess fermions" ground state. We propose a mechanism for non-Fermi liquid behavior from repeated scattering processes between the two Fermi surfaces and fluctuating Cooper pairs. Prospects for experimental observation with ultracold atoms are discussed.

id: 1311.4956
title: The impossibility of exactly flat non-trivial Chern bands in strictly local periodic tight binding models
authors: Li Chen, Tahereh Mazaheri, Alexander Seidel, Xiang Tang
comments: Published Version. Some references and additional comments added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 152001
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4956
abstract: We investigate the possibility of exactly flat non-trivial Chern bands in tight binding models with local (strictly short-ranged) hopping parameters. We demonstrate that while any two of three criteria can be simultaneously realized (exactly flat band, non-zero Chern number, local hopping), it is not possible to simultaneously satisfy all three. Our theorem covers both the case of a single flat band, for which we give a rather elementary proof, as well as the case of multiple degenerate flat bands. In the latter case, our result is obtained as an application of $K$-theory. We also introduce a class of models on the Lieb lattice with nearest and next-nearest neighbor hopping parameters, which have an isolated exactly flat band of zero Chern number but, in general, non-zero Berry curvature.

id: 1311.4980
title: Detection of entanglement between collective spins
authors: F. Troiani, S. Carretta, P. Santini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195421 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4980
abstract: Entanglement between individual spins can be detected by using thermodynamics quantities as entanglement witnesses. This applies to collective spins also, provided that their internal degrees of freedom are frozen, as in the limit of weakly-coupled nanomagnets. Here, we extend such approach to the detection of entanglement between subsystems of a spin cluster, beyond such weak-coupling limit. The resulting inequalities are violated in spin clusters with different geometries, thus allowing the detection of zero- and finite-temperature entanglement. Under relevant and experimentally verifiable conditions, all the required expectation values can be traced back to correlation functions of individual spins, that are now made selectively available by four-dimensional inelastic neutron scattering.

id: 1311.5069
title: Refinement of Robertson-type uncertainty principles with geometric interpretation
authors: Attila Lovas, Attila Andai
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5069
abstract: A generalisation of the classical covariance for quantum mechanical observables has previously been presented by Gibilisco, Hiai and Petz. Gibilisco and Isola has proved that the usual quantum covariance gives the sharpest inequalities for the determinants of covariance matrices. We introduce a new generalisation of the classical covariance which gives better inequalities than the classical one furthermore it has a direct geometric interpretation.

id: 1311.5188
title: Thermalized Vacuum and Vacuum Effects
authors: Yi-Cheng Huang
comments: 18 pages, 0 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5188
abstract: Some of the well-known effects regarding the vacuum are revisited under the formalism of the imaginary-time field theory. From these effects, they could imply the existence of one thermal vacuum in different circumstances. The imaginary-time hamiltonian of the vacuum is found to provide not only exact distribution functions in the calculations of the Casimir effect and the Van der Waals force but also cutoff functions. The thermal bath for the Unruh effect is constructed from the imaginary-time Green function. From the field theory in the curved space-time, field quantizations are defined according to different vacuum states and lead to the Hawking radiation; the introduced conformal invariance agree with the formalism of the imaginary-time field theory. The induced Green functions in the curved space-time are in accordance with those from the picture given from the thermal vacuum.

id: 1311.5216
title: Relaxation after quantum quenches in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ chain
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Mario Collura, Fabian H.L. Essler, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 31 pages, 23 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 125101 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5216
abstract: We consider the time evolution after quantum quenches in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ quantum spin chain with Ising-like anisotropy. The time evolution of short-distance spin-spin correlation functions is studied by numerical tensor network techniques for a variety of initial states, including N\'eel and Majumdar-Ghosh states and the ground state of the XXZ chain at large values of the anisotropy. The various correlators appear to approach stationary values, which are found to be in good agreement with the results of exact calculations of stationary expectation values in appropriate generalized Gibbs ensembles. In particular, our analysis shows how symmetries of the post-quench Hamiltonian that are broken by particular initial states are restored at late times.

id: 1311.5333
title: Rational extension and Jacobi-type {\boldmath{$X_m$}} solutions of a quantum nonlinear oscillator
authors: Axel Schulze-Halberg, Barnana Roy
comments: To appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5333
abstract: We construct a rational extension of a recently studied nonlinear quantum oscillator model. Our extended model is shown to retain exact solvability, admitting a discrete spectrum and corresponding closed-form solutions that are expressed through Jacobi-type $X_m$ exceptional orthogonal polynomials.

id: 1311.5345
title: Josephson directional amplifier for quantum measurement of superconducting circuits
authors: Baleegh Abdo, Katrina Sliwa, S. Shankar, Michael Hatridge, Luigi Frunzio, Robert Schoelkopf, Michel Devoret
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 112,167701 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5345
abstract: We have realized a microwave quantum-limited amplifier that is directional and can therefore function without the front circulator needed in many quantum measurements. The amplification takes place in only one direction between the input and output ports. Directionality is achieved by multi-pump parametric amplification combined with wave interference. We have verified the device noise performances by using it to readout a superconducting qubit and observed quantum jumps. With an improved version of this device, qubit and preamplifer could be integrated on the same chip.

id: 1311.5373
title: Three-body bound states in dipole-dipole interacting Rydberg atoms
authors: Martin Kiffner, Wenhui Li, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures and supplementary material; to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5373
abstract: We show that the dipole-dipole interaction between three identical Rydberg atoms can give rise to bound trimer states. The microscopic origin of these states is fundamentally different from Efimov physics. Two stable trimer configurations exist where the atoms form the vertices of an equilateral triangle in a plane perpendicular to a static electric field. The triangle edge length typically exceeds $R\approx 2\,\mu\text{m}$, and each configuration is two-fold degenerate due to Kramers' degeneracy. The depth of the potential wells and the triangle edge length can be controlled by external parameters. We establish the Borromean nature of the trimer states, analyze the quantum dynamics in the potential wells and describe methods for their production and detection.

id: 1311.5393
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation and Many-Body Localization of Rotational Excitations of Polar Molecules
authors: M. P. Kwasigroch, N. R. Cooper
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5393
abstract: We study theoretically the collective dynamics of rotational excitations of polar molecules loaded into an optical lattice in two dimensions. These excitations behave as hard-core bosons with a relativistic energy dispersion arising from the dipolar coupling between molecules. This has interesting consequences for the collective many-body phases. The rotational excitations can form a Bose-Einstein condensate at non-zero temperature, manifesting itself as a divergent $T_2$ coherence time of the rotational transition even in the presence of inhomogeneous broadening. The dynamical evolution of a dense gas of rotational excitations shows regimes of non-ergodicity, characteristic of many-body localization and localization protected quantum order.

id: 1311.5470
title: Elements of Physics for the 21st century
authors: Werner A Hofer
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, the paper shall appear in the proceedings of the 2013 conference on emergent quantum mechanics (EmQM13), which took place in Vienna from October 3-6, 2013
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 504, 012014 (2014)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5470
abstract: Given the experimental precision in condensed matter physics -- positions are measured with errors of less than 0.1pm, energies with about 0.1meV, and temperature levels are below 20mK -- it can be inferred that standard quantum mechanics, with its inherent uncertainties, is a model at the end of its natural lifetime. In this presentation I explore the elements of a future deterministic framework based on the synthesis of wave mechanics and density functional theory at the single-electron level.

id: 1311.5472
title: Reversing quantum trajectories with analog feedback
authors: G. de Lange, D. Rist¨¨, M. J. Tiggelman, C. Eichler, L. Tornberg, G. Johansson, A. Wallraff, R. N. Schouten, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (7 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.112, 080501 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5472
abstract: We demonstrate the active suppression of transmon qubit dephasing induced by dispersive measurement, using parametric amplification and analog feedback. By real-time processing of the homodyne record, the feedback controller reverts the stochastic quantum phase kick imparted by the measurement on the qubit. The feedback operation matches a model of quantum trajectories with measurement efficiency $\tilde{\eta} \approx 0.5$, consistent with the result obtained by postselection. We overcome the bandwidth limitations of the amplification chain by numerically optimizing the signal processing in the feedback loop and provide a theoretical model explaining the optimization result.

id: 1311.5509
title: Dynamics of the entanglement spectrum in spin chains
authors: G. Torlai, L. Tagliacozzo, G. De Chiara
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, comments are welcome! Version published in JSTAT special issue on "Quantum Entanglement In Condensed Matter Physics"
journal: G Torlai et al J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P06001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5509
abstract: We study the dynamics of the entanglement spectrum, that is the time evolution of the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices after a bipartition of a one-dimensional spin chain. Starting from the ground state of an initial Hamiltonian, the state of the system is evolved in time with a new Hamiltonian. We consider both instantaneous and quasi adiabatic quenches of the system Hamiltonian across a quantum phase transition. We analyse the Ising model that can be exactly solved and the XXZ for which we employ the time-dependent density matrix renormalisation group algorithm. Our results show once more a connection between the Schmidt gap, i.e. the difference of the two largest eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix and order parameters, in this case the spontaneous magnetisation.

id: 1311.5530
title: Entanglement genesis by ancilla-based parity measurement in 2D circuit QED
authors: O.-P. Saira, J.P. Groen, J. Cramer, M. Meretska, G. de Lange, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; supplemental material with 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070502 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5530
abstract: We present an indirect two-qubit parity meter in planar circuit quantum electrodynamics, realized by discrete interaction with an ancilla and a subsequent projective ancilla measurement with a dedicated, dispersively coupled resonator. Quantum process tomography and successful entanglement by measurement demonstrate that the meter is intrinsically quantum non-demolition. Separate interaction and measurement steps allow commencing subsequent data qubit operations in parallel with ancilla measurement, offering time savings over continuous schemes.

id: 1311.5600
title: Model for the Atomic Dielectric Response in Time Dependent Laser Fields
authors: T.C. Rensink, T.M. Antonsen Jr., J.P. Palastro, D. Gordon
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5600
abstract: A nonlocal quantum model is presented for calculating the atomic dielectric response to a strong laser electric field. By replacing the Coulomb potential with a nonlocal potential in the Schrodinger equation, a 3+1D calculation of the time-dependent electric dipole moment can be replaced with a 0+1D integral equation, offering significant computational savings. The model is benchmarked against an established ionization model and \textit{ab initio} simulation of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. The reduced computational overhead makes the model a promising candidate to incorporate full quantum mechanical time dynamics in laser pulse propagation simulations.

id: 1311.5607
title: Holographic description of quantum black hole on a computer
authors: Masanori Hanada, Yoshifumi Hyakutake, Goro Ishiki, Jun Nishimura
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5607
abstract: The discovery of the fact that black holes radiate particles and eventually evaporate led Hawking to pose the well-known information loss paradox. This paradox caused a long and serious debate since it claims that the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics may be violated. A possible cure appeared recently from superstring theory, a consistent theory of quantum gravity: if the holographic description of a quantum black hole based on the gauge/gravity duality is correct, the information is not lost and quantum mechanics remains valid. Here we test this gauge/gravity duality on a computer at the level of quantum gravity for the first time. The black hole mass obtained by Monte Carlo simulation of the dual gauge theory reproduces precisely the quantum gravity effects in an evaporating black hole. This result opens up totally new perspectives towards quantum gravity since one can simulate quantum black holes through dual gauge theories.

id: 1311.5689
title: Detangling Flat Bands into Fano Lattices
authors: Sergej Flach, Daniel Leykam, Joshua D. Bodyfelt, P. Matthies, Anton S. Desyatnikov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. v3: published version + erratum
journal: EPL 105, 30001 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5689
abstract: Macroscopically degenerate flat bands (FB) in periodic lattices host compact localized states which appear due to destructive interference and local symmetry. Interference provides a deep connection between the existence of flat band states (FBS) and the appearance of Fano resonances for wave propagation. We introduce generic transformations detangling FBS and dispersive states into lattices of Fano defects. Inverting the transformation, we generate a continuum of FB models. Our procedure allows us to systematically treat perturbations such as disorder and explain the emergence of energy-dependent localization length scaling in terms of Fano resonances.

id: 1311.5698
title: Quantum hoop conjecture: Black hole formation by particle collisions
authors: Roberto Casadio, Octavian Micu, Fabio Scardigli
comments: RevTeX 6 pages, 3 figures. Final version to appear in PLB
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5698
abstract: We address the issue of (quantum) black hole formation by particle collision in quantum physics. We start by constructing the horizon wave-function for quantum mechanical states representing two highly boosted non-interacting particles that collide in flat one-dimensional space. From this wave-function, we then derive a probability that the system becomes a black hole as a function of the initial momenta and spatial separation between the particles. This probability allows us to extend the hoop conjecture to quantum mechanics and estimate corrections to its classical counterpart.

id: 1311.5742
title: Interaction effects on dynamical localization in driven helium
authors: Felix J?rder, Klaus Zimmermann, Alberto Rodriguez, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 063004 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5742
abstract: Dynamical localization prevents driven atomic systems from fast fragmentation by hampering the excitation process. We present numerical simulations within a collinear model of microwave-driven helium Rydberg atoms and prove that dynamical localization survives the impact of electron-electron interaction, even for doubly excited states in the presence of fast autoionization. We conclude that the effect of electron-electron repulsion on localization can be described by an appropriate rescaling of the atomic level density and of the external field with the strength of the interaction.

id: 1311.5771
title: Coherent emission of $¦Ã$ quanta by synchrotron radiation excited nuclei: geometry of nearly backward scattering
authors: G. V. Smirnov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5771
abstract: A possibility of further development of Synchrotron M\"{o}ssbauer Source (SMS) of $^{57}$Fe 14.4 keV radiation is considered. The principles and detailed description of the SMS device is given in Refs. Phys. Rev. A 84, 053851 (2011) G. V. Smirnov et al, J. Synchrotron Rad., v. 19, 559 (2012) V. Potapkin et al. The perfect crystal of Iron Borate, FeBO$_{3}$, is the central element of this device. The coherent nuclear fluorescence of IB crystal illuminated by synchrotron radiation produces the sharply directed beam of 14.4 keV M\"{o}ssbauer radiation from the crystal set at the pure nuclear Bragg reflection. Up to now the low angle scattering geometry was used for generation of the coherent $\gamma $ radiation. The analysis performed in the present paper shows that the source of about two times larger power can be obtained when nearly backward scattering geometry is employed. This result can be efficiently applied in development of high resolution spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation.

id: 1311.5851
title: Entanglement Spectra of Interacting Fermions in Quantum Monte Carlo Simulations
authors: Fakher F. Assaad, Thomas C. Lang, Francesco Parisen Toldin
comments: 7+ pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 125121 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5851
abstract: In a recent article T. Grover [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130402 (2013)] introduced a simple method to compute Renyi entanglement entropies in the realm of the auxiliary field quantum Monte Carlo algorithm. Here, we further develop this approach and provide a stabilization scheme to compute higher order Renyi entropies and an extension to access the entanglement spectrum. The method is tested on systems of correlated topological insulators.

id: 1311.5875
title: Injection locking of a semiconductor laser to a multi-frequency reference beam
authors: T. Yang, K. Pandey, Massimo Giudici, David Wilkowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5875
abstract: Injection locking is a well known and commonly used method for coherent light amplification. Usually injection locking is done with a single-frequency seeding beam. In this work we show that injection locking may also be achieved in the case of multi-frequency seeding beam when slave laser provides sufficient frequency filtering. One relevant parameter turns out to be the frequency detuning between the free running slave laser and each injected frequency component. Stable selective locking to a set of three components separated of $1.2\,$GHz is obtained for (positive) detuning values between zero and $1.5\,$GHz depending on seeding power (ranging from 10 to 150 microwatt). This result suggests that, using distinct slave lasers for each line, a set of mutually coherent narrow-linewidth high-power radiation modes can be obtained.

id: 1311.6050
title: A Quantum Probability Explanation in Fock Space for Borderline Contradictions
authors: Sandro Sozzo
comments: 18 pages, standard Latex, published in Journal of Mathematical Psychology
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6050
abstract: The construction of a consistent theory for structuring and representing how concepts combine and interact is one of the main challenges for the scholars involved in cognitive studies. All traditional approaches are still facing serious hindrances when dealing with combinations of concepts and concept vagueness. One of the main consequences of these difficulties is the existence of borderline cases which is hardly explainable from the point of view of classical (fuzzy set) logic and probability theory. Resting on a quantum-theoretic approach which successfully models conjunctions and disjuncions of two concepts, we propound a quantum probability model in Fock space which accords with the experimental data collected by Alxatib and Pelletier (2011) on borderline contradictions. Our model allows one to explain the occurrence of the latter contradictions in terms of genuine quantum effects, such as contextuality, superposition, interference and emergence. In particular, we claim that it is the specific mechanism of `emergence of a new concept' that is responsible of these deviations from classical logical thinking in the cognitive studies on human thought. This result seems to be compatible with a recent interesting application of quantum probabilistic modeling in the study of borderline vagueness (Blutner, Pothos & Bruza, 2012), and analogies and differences with it are sketched here.

id: 1311.6095
title: Holographic Geometry of cMERA for Quantum Quenches and Finite Temperature
authors: Ali Mollabashi, Masahiro Nozaki, Shinsei Ryu, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures. v2: typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6095
abstract: We study the time evolution of cMERA (continuous MERA) under quantum quenches in free field theories. We calculate the corresponding holographic metric using the proposal of arXiv:1208.3469 and confirm that it qualitatively agrees with its gravity dual given by a half of the AdS black hole spacetime, argued by Hartman and Maldacena in arXiv:1303.1080. By doubling the cMERA for the quantum quench, we give an explicit construction of finite temperature cMERA. We also study cMERA in the presence of chemical potential and show that there is an enhancement of metric in the infrared region corresponding to the Fermi energy.

id: 1311.6177
title: The Raman dressed spin-1 spin-orbit coupled quantum gas
authors: Zhihao Lan, Patrik Ohberg
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023630 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6177
abstract: The recently realized spin-orbit coupled quantum gases (Y.-J Lin {\it et al}., Nature 471, 83-86 (2011); P. Wang {\it et al}., PRL 109, 095301 (2012); L. W. Cheuk {\it et al}., PRL 109, 095302 (2012)) mark a breakthrough in the cold atom community. In these experiments, two hyperfine states are selected from a hyperfine manifold to mimic a pseudospin-1/2 spin-orbit coupled system by the method of Raman dressing, which is applicable to both bosonic and fermionic gases. In this work, we show that the method used in these experiments can be generalized to create any large pseudospin spin-orbit coupled gas if more hyperfine states are coupled equally by the Raman lasers. As an example, we study in detail a quantum gas with three hyperfine states coupled by the Raman lasers, and show when the state-dependent energy shifts of the three states are comparable, triple-degenerate minima will appear at the bottom of the band dispersions, thus realizing a spin-1 spin-orbit coupled quantum gas. A novel feature of this three minima regime is that there can be two different kinds of stripe phases with different wavelengths, which has an interesting connection to the ferromagnetic and polar phases of spin-1 spinor BECs without spin-orbit coupling.

id: 1311.6234
title: Protocol based on compressed sensing for high-speed authentication and cryptographic key distribution over a multiparty optical network
authors: Wen-Kai Yu, Shen Li, Xu-Ri Yao, Xue-Feng Liu, Ling-An Wu, Guang-Jie Zhai
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. To appear in Applied Optics
journal: Published online as Applied Optics, Vol. 52, Issue 33, pp. 7882-7888 (2013) on 13 November 2013
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6234
abstract: We present a protocol for the amplification and distribution of a one-time-pad cryptographic key over a point-to-multipoint optical network based on computational ghost imaging (GI) and compressed sensing (CS). It is shown experimentally that CS imaging can perform faster authentication and increase the key generation rate by an order of magnitude compared with the scheme using computational GI alone. The protocol is applicable for any number of legitimate user, thus, the scheme could be used in real intercity networks where high speed and high security are crucial.

id: 1311.6278
title: Infinitely Improvable Upper Bound Estimates for Acoustical Polaron Ground State Energy
authors: N.N. Bogolubov Jr, A.V. Soldatov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6278
abstract: It was shown that an infinite convergent sequence of improving non-increasing upper bounds to the ground state energy of a slow-moving acoustical polaron can be obtained by means of generalized variational method. The proposed approach is especially well-suited for massive analytical and numerical computations of experimentally measurable properties of realistic polarons and can be elaborated even further, without major alterations, to allow for treatment of various polaron-type models.

id: 1311.6284
title: Cosmological Constant in the Imaginary-Time Field Theory
authors: Yi-Cheng Huang
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6284
abstract: The origins of the cosmological constant are discussed from the perspective of the imaginary-time field theory. The concept of the thermal time, which is related to the Tolman-Ehrehfest relation, and the conformal invariance of the actions are applied to account for the relation between the scale factor of the FRW metric and the temperature of the vacuum. Finite values of the cosmological constant from the DeWitt-Schwinger representation and the Casimir effect with a large separation between two plates are derived. The induced energy density is found to be uniform over the space and independent of the evolution of the universe, and the equation of state ratio is indeed $w=-1$. From the point of view presented here, the largest discrepancy of the vacuum energy between the theoretical and the experimental sides can be conciliated. And the value of the cosmological constant corresponds to a characteristic temperature of vacuum determined by the history of the universe.

id: 1311.6301
title: Long-Distance Quantum Transport Dynamics in Macromolecules
authors: E. Schneider, P.Faccioli
comments: Work extended to include an illustrative application
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 134305 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6301
abstract: Using renormalization group methods, we develop a rigorous coarse-grained representation of the dissipative dynamics of quantum excitations propagating inside open macromolecular systems. We show that, at very low spatial resolution, this quantum transport theory reduces to a modified Brownian process, in which quantum delocalization effects are accounted for by means of an effective term in the Onsager-Machlup functional. Using this formulation, we derive a simple analytic solution for the time-dependent probability of observing the quantum excitation at a given point in the macromolecule. This formula can be used to predict the migration of natural or charged quantum excitations in a variety of molecular systems including biological and organic polymers, organic crystalline transistors or photosynthetic complexes. For illustration purpose, we apply this method to investigate intelastic electornic hole transport in a long homo-DNA chain.

id: 1311.6320
title: Exceptional points in open and PT symmetric systems
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: Correction of a few misprints; actualization of the references; paper will appear in conference proceedings: Acta Polytechnica 54, 106-112 (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6320
abstract: Exceptional points (EPs) determine the dynamics of open quantum systems and cause also PT symmetry breaking in PT symmetric systems. From a mathematical point of view, this is caused by the fact that the phases of the wavefunctions (eigenfunctions of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian) relative to one another are not rigid when an EP is approached. The system is therefore able to align with the environment to which it is coupled and, consequently, rigorous changes of the system properties may occur. We compare analytically as well as numerically the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of a $2\times 2$ matrix that is characteristic of either open quantum systems at high level density or of PT symmetric optical lattices. In both cases, the results show clearly the influence of the environment onto the system in the neighborhood of EPs. Although the systems are very different from one another, the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions indicate the same characteristic features.

id: 1311.6422
title: Non-Cancellation of Quantum Geometry Fluctuations
authors: Victor Parkinson, L. H. Ford
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 064018 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6422
abstract: Quantum vacuum fluctuations tend to be strongly anti-correlated, which reduces their observable effects. However, time dependence can upset the cancellation of these anti-correlated fluctuations and greatly enhance their effects. This form of non-cancellation is investigated for spacetime geometry fluctuations driven by the vacuum stress tensor fluctuations of the electromagnetic field. The time dependence can take the form of sinusoidal conformal metric perturbations or of time variation of the gravitational constant, both of which can arise from modifications of the gravitational action. We examine two observable quantities, luminosity fluctuations and redshift fluctuations, both of which can arise from stress tensor fluctuations. We find that both quantities can grow with increasing distance between a source and an observer. This secular growth raises the possibility of observing spacetime geometry fluctuation effects at length scales far longer than the Planck scale.

id: 1311.6539
title: Quantum Raychaudhuri equation
authors: Saurya Das
comments: Section on singularity theorems revised. To appear in Phys. Rev. D. 4 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. D89 (2014) 084068
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6539
abstract: We compute quantum corrections to the Raychaudhuri equation, by replacing classical geodesics with quantal (Bohmian) trajectories, and show that they prevent focusing of geodesics, and the formation of conjugate points. We discuss implications for the Hawking-Penrose singularity theorems, and for curvature singularities.

id: 1311.6563
title: Higher-order semantics for quantum programming languages with classical control
authors: Philip Atzemoglou
comments: DPhil Thesis. See full text for unabridged abstract
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6563
abstract: This thesis studies the categorical formalisation of quantum computing, through the prism of type theory, in a three-tier process. The first stage of our investigation involves the creation of the dagger lambda calculus, a lambda calculus for dagger compact categories. Our second contribution lifts the expressive power of the dagger lambda calculus, to that of a quantum programming language, by adding classical control in the form of complementary classical structures and dualisers. Finally, our third contribution demonstrates how our lambda calculus can be applied to various well known problems in quantum computation.

id: 1311.6673
title: Dirac solutions for quaternionic potentials
authors: Stefano De Leo, Sergio Giardino
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 022301-10 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6673
abstract: In this paper, the quaternionic Dirac equation is solved for quaternionic potentials, iV0+jW0. The study shows two different solutions. The first solution contains particles and anti-particles and leads to the diffusion, tunneling and Klein energy zones. The complex limit is recovered from this solution. The second solution, which does not have a complex counterpart, can be seen as a V0-antiparticle or |W0|-particle.

id: 1311.6808
title: Coherent cooling of atoms in a frequency-modulated standing laser wave: wave function and stochastic trajectory approaches
authors: Victor Argonov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1302.2970
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6808
abstract: The wave function of a moderately cold atom in a stationary near-resonant standing light wave delocalizes very fast due to wave packet splitting. However, we show that frequency modulation of the field may suppress packet splitting for some atoms having specific velocities in a narrow range. These atoms remain localized in a small space for a long time. We demonstrate and explain this effect numerically and analytically. Also we demonstrate that modulated field can not only trap, but also cool the atoms. We perform a numerical experiment with a large atomic ensebmble having wide initial velocity and energy distribution. During the experiment, most of atoms leave the wave while trapped atoms have narrow energy distribution

id: 1311.6832
title: Electrically and mechanically tunable electron spins in silicon carbide color centers
authors: Abram L. Falk, Paul V. Klimov, Bob B. Buckley, Viktor Iv¨¢dy, Igor A. Abrikosov, Greg Calusine, William F. Koehl, ?d¨¢m Gali, David D. Awschalom
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 187601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6832
abstract: The electron spins of semiconductor defects can have complex interactions with their host, particularly in polar materials like SiC where electrical and mechanical variables are intertwined. By combining pulsed spin resonance with ab-initio simulations, we show that spin-spin interactions within SiC neutral divacancies give rise to spin states with an enhanced Stark effect, sub-10**-6 strain sensitivity, and highly spin-dependent photoluminescence with intensity contrasts of 15-36%. These results establish SiC color centers as compelling systems for sensing nanoscale fields.

id: 1311.6854
title: $F_4$ Quantum Integrable, rational and trigonometric models: space-of-orbits view
authors: A.V. Turbiner, J.C. L¨®pez Vieyra
comments: 19 pages, Sec.2 rewritten, typos corrected, to be published in Journal of Physics (conference series), talk presented at QTS-8, Mexico-City, August 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6854
abstract: Algebraic-rational nature of the four-dimensional, $F_4$-invariant integrable quantum Hamiltonians, both rational and trigonometric, is revealed and reviewed. It was shown that being written in $F_4$ Weyl invariants, polynomial and exponential, respectively, both similarity-transformed Hamiltonians are in algebraic form, they are quite similar the second order differential operators with polynomial coefficients; the flat metric in the Laplace-Beltrami operator has polynomial (in invariants) matrix elements. Their potentials are calculated for the first time: they are meromorphic (rational) functions with singularities at the boundaries of the configuration space. Ground state eigenfunctions are algebraic functions in a form of polynomials in some degrees. Both Hamiltonians preserve the same infinite flag of polynomial spaces with characteristic vector $(1, 2, 2, 3)$, it manifests exact solvability. A particular integral common for both models is derived. The first polynomial eigenfunctions are presented explicitly.

id: 1311.6867
title: The SU(1,1) Perelomov number coherent states and the non-degenerate parametric amplifier
authors: D. Ojeda-Guillen, R. D. Mota, V. D. Granados
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys.55:042109,2014
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6867
abstract: We construct the Perelomov number coherent states for any three $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra generators and study some of their properties. We introduce three operators which act on Perelomov number coherent states and close the $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra. We show that the most general $SU(1,1)$ coherence-preserving Hamiltonian has the Perelomov number coherent states as eigenfunctions, and we obtain their time evolution. We apply our results to obtain the non-degenerate parametric amplifier eigenfunctions, which are shown to be the Perelomov number coherent states of the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator.

id: 1311.6917
title: On transition of non-stationary waves
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6917
abstract: The probability of the events that the final states are detected with or interact with the nucleus in a finite time interval T was found to be, $P=\text T \Gamma_0 +P^{(d)}$. $\Gamma_0$ is computed with Fermi's golden rule, and does not depend on the nuclear wave functions. $P^{(d)}$ is not given by Fermi's golden rule, and depends on the nuclear wave functions. In the electron mode of pion decays, $\Gamma_0$ is proportional to $m_e^2$ but $P^{(d)}$ for the event that the neutrino is detected is proportional to $m_{\nu}^{-2}$. $P^{(d)}$ does not hold the helicity suppression satisfied in $\Gamma_0$ and is inevitable in non-stationary quantum phenomena.

id: 1311.6927
title: Entanglement creation in a quantum dot-nanocavity system
authors: Ralf Blattmann, Hubert Krenner, Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012327 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6927
abstract: We explore the possibility to entangle an excitonic two-level system in a semiconductor quantum dot (QD) with a cavity defined on a photonic crystal by sweeping the cavity frequency across its resonance with the exciton transition. The dynamic cavity detuning is established by a radio frequency surface acoustic wave (SAW). It induces Landau-Zener (LZ) transitions between the excitonic and the photonic degrees of freedom and thereby creates a superposition state. We optimize this scheme by using tailored Fourier-synthesized SAW pulses with up to five harmonics. The theoretical study is performed with a master equation approach for present state-of-the-art setups. Assuming experimentally demonstrated system parameters, we demonstrate that the composed pulses increase both the maximum entanglement and its persistence. The latter is only limited by the dominant dephasing mechanism; i.e., the photon loss from the cavity.

id: 1311.6936
title: Renormalization for free harmonic oscillators
authors: H. Sonoda
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, improved for clarity, Appendix B added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 047702 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6936
abstract: We introduce a model of free harmonic oscillators that requires renormalization. The model is similar to but simpler than the soluble Lee model. We introduce two concrete examples: the first, resembling the three dimensional $\phi^4$ theory, needs only mass renormalization, and the second, resembling the four dimensional $\phi^4$ theory and the Lee model, needs additional renormalization of a coupling and a wave function.

id: 1311.6961
title: Integrated Fiber-Mirror Ion Trap for Strong Ion-Cavity Coupling
authors: Birgit Brandst?tter, Andrew McClung, Klemens Sch¨¹ppert, Bernardo Casabone, Konstantin Friebe, Andreas Stute, Piet O. Schmidt, Christian Deutsch, Jakob Reichel, Rainer Blatt, Tracy E. Northup
comments: The following article has been accepted by Review of Scientific Instruments. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.6961
abstract: We present and characterize fiber mirrors and a miniaturized ion-trap design developed to integrate a fiber-based Fabry-Perot cavity (FFPC) with a linear Paul trap for use in cavity-QED experiments with trapped ions. Our fiber-mirror fabrication process not only enables the construction of FFPCs with small mode volumes, but also allows us to minimize the influence of the dielectric fiber mirrors on the trapped-ion pseudopotential. We discuss the effect of clipping losses for long FFPCs and the effect of angular and lateral displacements on the coupling efficiencies between cavity and fiber. Optical profilometry allows us to determine the radii of curvature and ellipticities of the fiber mirrors. From finesse measurements we infer a single-atom cooperativity of up to $12$ for FFPCs longer than $200 \mu$m in length; comparison to cavities constructed with reference substrate mirrors produced in the same coating run indicates that our FFPCs have similar scattering losses. We discuss experiments to anneal fiber mirrors and explore the influence of the atmosphere under which annealing occurs on coating losses, finding that annealing under vacuum increases the losses for our reference substrate mirrors. Our unique linear Paul trap design provides clearance for such a cavity and is miniaturized to shield trapped ions from the dielectric fiber mirrors. We numerically calculate the trap potential in the absence of fibers. In the experiment additional electrodes can be used to compensate distortions of the potential due to the fibers. Home-built fiber feedthroughs connect the FFPC to external optics, and an integrated nanopositioning system affords the possibility of retracting or realigning the cavity without breaking vacuum.

id: 1311.7005
title: Geometric Constructions Underlying Relativistic Description of Spin on the Base of Non-Grassmann Vector-Like Variable
authors: Alexei A. Deriglazov, Andrey M. Pupasov-Maksimov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 012, 13 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7005
abstract: Basic notions of Dirac theory of constrained systems have their analogs in differential geometry. Combination of the two approaches gives more clear understanding of both classical and quantum mechanics, when we deal with a model with complicated structure of constraints. In this work we describe and discuss the spin fiber bundle which appeared in various mechanical models where spin is described by vector-like variable.

id: 1311.7114
title: Local operator partitioning of electronic energy for electronic energy transfer: An efficient algorithm
authors: Jayashree Nagesh, Artur F. Izmaylov, Paul Brumer
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error in the derivation of equation 24 and 25
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7114
abstract: An efficient computational algorithm to implement a local operator approach to partitioning electronic energy in general molecular systems is presented. This approach, which rigorously defines the electronic energy on any subsystem within a molecule, gives a precise meaning to the subsystem ground and excited electronic energies, which is crucial for investigating electronic energy transfer from first principles. We apply the technique to the $9-$(($1-$naphthyl)$-$methyl)-anthracene (A1N) molecule by partitioning A1N into anthracenyl and CH$_2-$naphthyl groups as subsystems, and examine their electronic energies and populations for several excited states using Configuration Interaction Singles method. The implemented approach shows a wide variety of different behaviors amongst these excited electronic states.

id: 1311.7136
title: Dynamical signature of edge state in the 1D Aubry-Andr¨¦ model
authors: H. Z. Shen, X. X. Yi, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 085501
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7136
abstract: Topological feature has become an intensively studied subject in many fields of physics. As a witness of topological phase, the edge states are topologically protected and may be helpful in quantum information processing. In this paper, we define a measure to quantify the dynamical localization of system and simulate the localization in the 1D Aubry-Andr\'{e} model. We find an interesting connection between the edge states and the dynamical localization of the system, this connection may be used as a signature of edge state and topological phase.

id: 1311.7151
title: Many-body Localization with Dipoles
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Chris R. Laumann, Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Michael Knap, Markus Mueller, Eugene A. Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. V2: Modified discussion of iterated pairs, added estimate of pseudo-spin size, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 243002 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7151
abstract: Systems of strongly interacting dipoles offer an attractive platform to study many-body localized phases, owing to their long coherence times and strong interactions. We explore conditions under which such localized phases persist in the presence of power-law interactions and supplement our analytic treatment with numerical evidence of localized states in one dimension. We propose and analyze several experimental systems that can be used to observe and probe such states, including ultracold polar molecules and solid-state magnetic spin impurities.

id: 1311.7268
title: Active narrowband filtering, line narrowing and gain using ladder electromagnetically induced transparency in an optically thick atomic vapour
authors: James Keaveney, Armen Sargsyan, David Sarkisyan, Aram Papoyan, Charles S. Adams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7268
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonances using the $5\rm{S}_{1/2}\rightarrow5\rm{P}_{3/2}\rightarrow5\rm{D}_{5/2}$ ladder-system in optically thick Rb atomic vapour are studied. We observe a strong line narrowing effect and gain at the $5\rm{S}_{1/2}\rightarrow5\rm{P}_{3/2}$ transition wavelength due to an energy-pooling assisted frequency conversion with characteristics similar to four-wave mixing. As a result it is possible to observe tunable and switchable transparency resonances with amplitude close to $100\%$ and a linewidth of 15 MHz. In addition, the large line narrowing effect allows resolution of $^{85}$Rb $5\rm{D}_{5/2}$ hyperfine structure even in the presence of strong power broadening.

id: 1311.7272
title: Fermionic Projected Entangled Pair States at Finite Temperature
authors: Piotr Czarnik, Jacek Dziarmaga
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures; new results on a high-Tc phase transition were added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 035144 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7272
abstract: An algorithm for imaginary time evolution of a fermionic projected entangled pair state (PEPS) with ancillas from infinite temperature down to a finite temperature state is presented. As a benchmark application, it is applied to spinless fermions hopping on a square lattice subject to $p$-wave pairing interactions. With a tiny bias it allows to evolve the system across a high-temperature continuous symmetry-breaking phase transition.

id: 1311.7323
title: Biprism Electron Interferometry with a Single Atom Tip Source
authors: Georg Sch¨¹tz, Alexander Rembold, Andreas Pooch, Simon Meier, Philipp Schneeweiss, Arno Rauschenbeutel, Andreas G¨¹nther, Wei-Tse Chang, Ing-Shouh Hwang, Alexander Stibor
comments: 
journal: Ultramicroscopy 141, 9 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7323
abstract: Experiments with electron or ion matter waves require a coherent, monochromatic and long-term stable source with high brightness. These requirements are best fulfilled by single atom tip (SAT) field emitters. The performance of an iridium covered W(111) SAT is demonstrated and analyzed for electrons in a biprism interferometer. Furthermore we characterize the emission of the SAT in a separate field electron and field ion microscope and compare it with other emitter types. A new method is presented to fabricate the electrostatic charged biprism wire that separates and combines the matter wave. In contrast to other biprism interferometers the source and the biprism size are well defined within a few nanometers. The setup has direct applications in ion interferometry and Aharonov-Bohm physics.

id: 1311.7335
title: From the Weyl quantization of a particle on the circle to number-phase Wigner functions
authors: Maciej Przanowski, Przemyslaw Brzykcy, Jaromir Tosiek
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7335
abstract: A generalized Weyl quantization formalism for a particle on the circle investigated in \cite{1} is developed. A Wigner function for the state $\hat{\varrho}$ and the kernel $\mathcal{K}$ for a particle on the circle is defined and its properties are analyzed. Then it is shown how this Wigner function can be easily modified to give the number-phase Wigner function in quantum optics. Some examples of such number-phase Wigner function are considered.

id: 1311.7338
title: The geometric phase and the geometrodynamics of relativistic electron vortex beams
authors: Pratul Bandyopadhyay, Banasri Basu, Debashree Chowdhury
comments: Accepted for publication in Proceedings of Royal Society A
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 470, 20130525(2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7338
abstract: We have studied here the geometrodynamics of relativistic electron vortex beams from the perspective of the geometric phase associated with the scalar electron encircling the vortex line. It is pointed out that the electron vortex beam carrying orbital angular momentum is a natural consequence of the skyrmion model of a fermion. This follows from the quantization procedure of a fermion in the framework of Nelson's stochastic mechanics when a direction vector (vortex line) is introduced to depict the spin degrees of freedom. In this formalism a fermion is depicted as a scalar particle encircling a vortex line. It is here shown that when the Berry phase acquired by the scalar electron encircling the vortex line involves quantized Dirac monopole we have paraxial (non-paraxial) beam when the vortex line is parallel (orthogonal) to the wavefront propagation direction. Non-paraxial beams incorporate spin-orbit interaction. When the vortex line is tilted with respect to the propagation direction the Berry phase involves non-quantized monopole. The temporal variation of the direction of the tilted vortices is studied here taking into account the renormalization group flow of the monopole charge and it is predicted that this gives rise to spin Hall effect.

id: 1311.7561
title: Measurement and dephasing of a flux qubit due to heat currents
authors: Samuele Spilla, Fabian Hassler, Janine Splettstoesser
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 045020 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7561
abstract: We study a flux qubit, made of a superconducting loop interrupted by three Josephson junctions, which is subject to a temperature gradient. We show that the heat current induced by the temperature gradient, being sensitive to the superconducting phase differences at the junctions, depends significantly on the state of the qubit. We furthermore investigate the impact of the heat current on the coherence properties of the qubit state. We have found that even small temperature gradients can lead to dephasing times of the order of microseconds for the Delft-qubit design.

id: 1311.7565
title: Time evolution as refining, coarse graining and entangling
authors: Bianca Dittrich, Sebastian Steinhaus
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures; v2: explanations and references added, improved structure; v3 and v4: minor updates, accepted in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 123041
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7565
abstract: We argue that refining, coarse graining and entangling operators can be obtained from time evolution operators. This applies in particular to geometric theories, such as spin foams. We point out that this provides a construction principle for the physical vacuum in quantum gravity theories and more generally allows to construct a (cylindrically) consistent continuum limit of the theory.

id: 1311.7571
title: On the convergence of output sets of quantum channels
authors: Benoit Collins, Motohisa Fukuda, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7571
abstract: We study the asymptotic behavior of the output states of sequences of quantum channels. Under a natural assumption, we show that the output set converges to a compact convex set, clarifying and substantially generalizing results in [BCN13]. Random mixed unitary channels satisfy the assumption; we give a formula for the asymptotic maximum output infinity norm and we show that the minimum output entropy and the Holevo capacity have a simple relation for the complementary channels. We also give non-trivial examples of sequences $\Phi_n$ such that along with any other quantum channel $\Xi$, we have convergence of the output set of $\Phi_n$ and $\Phi_n\otimes \Xi$ simultaneously; the case when $\Xi$ is entanglement breaking is investigated in details.

id: 1311.7604
title: Exact zero modes and decoherence in systems of interacting Majorana fermions
authors: Guang Yang, D. E. Feldman
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 035136 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7604
abstract: Majorana fermions often coexist with other low-energy fermionic degrees of freedom. In such situation, topological quantum computation requires the use of fermionic zero modes of a many-body system. We classify all such modes for interacting fermions and show how to select the mode that maximizes the decoherence time. We find that in a typical interacting system the maximal decoherence time is within one order of magnitude from the decoherence time of a qbit based on the local part of the fermion parity operator.

id: 1311.7605
title: Optical signatures of antiferromagnetic ordering of fermionic atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Francisco Cordobes Aguilar, Andrew F Ho, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 35 pages, 29 figs
journal: Physical Review X 4, 031036 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7605
abstract: We show how off-resonant light scattering can provide quantitative information on antiferromagnetic ordering of a two-species fermionic atomic gas in a tightly-confined two-dimensional optical lattice. We analyze the emerging magnetic ordering of atoms in the mean-field and in random phase approximations and show how the many-body static and dynamic correlations, evaluated in the standard Feynman-Dyson perturbation series, can be detected in the scattered light signal. The staggered magnetization reveals itself in the magnetic Bragg peaks of the individual spin components. These magnetic peaks, however, can be considerably suppressed in the absence of a true long-range antiferromagnetic order. The light scattered outside the diffraction orders can be collected by a lens a with highly improved signal-to-shot-noise ratio when the diffraction maxima are blocked. The collective and single-particle excitations are identified in the spectrum of the scattered light. We find that the spin-conserving and spin-exchanging atomic transitions convey information on density, longitudinal spin, and transverse spin correlations. The different correlations and scattering processes exhibit characteristic angular distribution profiles for the scattered light and, e.g., the diagnostic signal of transverse spin correlations could be separated from the signal by the scattering direction, frequency, or polarization. We also analyze the detection accuracy by estimating the number of required measurements, constrained by the heating rate that is determined by inelastic light scattering events. The imaging technique could be extended to the two-species fermionic states in other regions of the phase diagram where the ground state properties are still not fully understood.

id: 1311.7644
title: Hydrodynamic long-time tails after a quantum quench
authors: Jonathan Lux, Jan M¨¹ller, Aditi Mitra, Achim Rosch
comments: 5 pages + 4 pages Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053608 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7644
abstract: After a quantum quench, a sudden change of parameters, generic many particle quantum systems are expected to equilibrate. A few collisions of quasiparticles are usually sufficient to establish approximately local equilibrium. Reaching global equilibrium is, however, much more difficult as conserved quantities have to be transported for long distances to build up a pattern of fluctuations characteristic for equilibrium. Here we investigate the quantum quench of the one-dimensional bosonic Hubbard model from infinite to finite interaction strength U using semiclassical methods for weak, and exact diagonalization for strong quenches. Equilibrium is approached only slowly, as t^{-1/2} with subleading corrections proportional to t^{-3/4}, consistent with predictions from hydrodynamics. We show that these long-time tails determine the relaxation of a wide range of physical observables.

id: 1311.7684
title: Optical lattice implementation scheme of a bosonic topological model with fermionic atoms
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Germ¨¢n Sierra, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures. This article provides the full analysis of a scheme proposed in Nat. Commun. 4, 2864 (2013). v2: accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013606 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.7684
abstract: We present a scheme to implement a Fermi-Hubbard-like model in ultracold atoms in optical lattices and analyze the topological features of its ground state. In particular, we show that the ground state for appropriate parameters has a large overlap with a lattice version of the bosonic Laughlin state at filling factor one half. The scheme utilizes laser assisted and normal tunnelling in a checkerboard optical lattice. The requirements on temperature, interactions, and hopping strengths are similar to those needed to observe the N\'eel antiferromagnetic ordering in the standard Fermi-Hubbard model in the Mott insulating regime.

id: 1311.1373
title: Observation of zero-point quantum fluctuations of a single-molecule magnet through the relaxation of its nuclear spin bath
authors: A. Morello, A. Mill¨¢n, L.J. de Jongh
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1373
abstract: A single-molecule magnet placed in a magnetic field perpendicular to its anisotropy axis can be truncated to an effective two-level system, with easily tunable energy splitting. The quantum coherence of the molecular spin is largely determined by the dynamics of the surrounding nuclear spin bath. Here we report the measurement of the nuclear spin--lattice relaxation in a single crystal of the single-molecule magnet Mn$_{12}$-ac, at $T \approx 30$ mK in perpendicular fields $B_{\perp}$ up to 9 T. Although the molecular spin is in its ground state, we observe an increase of the nuclear relaxation rates by several orders of magnitude up to the highest $B_{\perp}$. This unique finding is a consequence of the zero-point quantum fluctuations of the Mn$_{12}$-ac spin, which allow it to efficiently transfer energy from the excited nuclear spin bath to the lattice. Our experiment highlights the importance of quantum fluctuations in the interaction between an `effective two-level system' and its surrounding spin bath.

id: 1311.1784
title: Topological quasiparticles and the holographic bulk-edge relation in 2+1D string-net models
authors: Tian Lan, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 32 pages, 8 figures, reference updated, some refinements
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115119 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1784
abstract: String-net models allow us to systematically construct and classify 2+1D topologically ordered states which can have gapped boundaries. We can use a simple ideal string-net wavefunction, which is described by a set of F-matrices [or more precisely, a unitary fusion category (UFC)], to study all the universal properties of such a topological order. In this paper, we describe a finite computational method -- Q-algebra approach, that allows us to compute the non-Abelian statistics of the topological excitations [or more precisely, the unitary modular tensor category (UMTC)], from the string-net wavefunction (or the UFC). We discuss several examples, including the topological phases described by twisted gauge theory (i.e., twisted quantum double $D^\alpha(G)$). Our result can also be viewed from an angle of holographic bulk-boundary relation. The 1+1D anomalous topological orders, that can appear as edges of 2+1D topological states, are classified by UFCs which describe the fusion of quasiparticles in 1+1D. The 1+1D anomalous edge topological order uniquely determines the 2+1D bulk topological order (which are classified by UMTC). Our method allows us to compute this bulk topological order (i.e., the UMTC) from the anomalous edge topological order (i.e., the UFC).

id: 1311.1028
title: Breakdown of scale invariance in a quasi-two-dimensional Bose gas due to the presence of the third dimension
authors: Karina Merloti, Romain Dubessy, Laurent Longchambon, Maxim Olshanii, H¨¦l¨¨ne Perrin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published in PRA Rapid Comm
journal: Physical Review A (2013) 061603
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.1028
abstract: In this Rapid Communication, we describe how the presence of the third dimension may break the scale invariance in a two-dimensional Bose gas in a pancake-shaped trap. From the two-dimensional perspective, the possibility of a weak spilling of the atomic density beyond the ground-state of the confinement alters the two-dimensional chemical potential; in turn, this correction no longer supports scale invariance. We compare experimental data with numerical and analytic perturbative results and find a good agreement.

