id: 1312.0023
title: Logic, Geometry And Probability Theory
authors: Federico Holik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0023
abstract: We discuss the relationship between logic, geometry and probability theory under the light of a novel approach to quantum probabilities which generalizes the method developed by R. T. Cox to the quantum logical approach to physical theories.

id: 1312.0055
title: Non-monotonic dependence of projection probabilities as a function of distinguishability
authors: Gunnar Bj?rk, Saroosh Shabbir
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0055
abstract: Typically, quantum superpositions, and thus measurement projections of quantum states involving interference, decrease (or increase) monotonically as a function of increased distinguishability. Distinguishability, in turn, can be a consequence of decoherence, for example caused by the (simultaneous) loss of excitation or due to inadequate mode matching (either deliberate or indeliberate). It is known that for some cases of multi-photon interference, non-monotonic decay of projection probabilities occurs, which has so far been attributed to interference between four or more two photons. We show that such a non-monotonic behaviour of projection probabilities is not unnatural, and can also occur for single-photon and even semiclassical states. Thus, while the effect traces its roots from indistinguishability and thus interference, the states for which this can be observed do not need to have particular quantum features.

id: 1312.0080
title: Uncertainty-induced quantum nonlocality
authors: Shao-xiong Wu, Jun Zhang, Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: Accepted by Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0080
abstract: Based on the skew information, we present a quantity, uncertainty-induced quantum nonlocality (UIN) to measure the quantum correlation. It can be considered as the updated version of the original measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) preserving the good computability but eliminating the non-contractivity problem. For 2 x d-dimensional state, it is shown that UIN can be given by a closed form. In addition, we also investigate the maximal uncertainty-induced nonlocality.

id: 1312.0103
title: Gate sequence for continuous variable one-way quantum computation
authors: Xiaolong Su, Shuhong Hao, Xiaowei Deng, Lingyu Ma, Meihong Wang, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 2828 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0103
abstract: Measurement-based one-way quantum computation (QC) using cluster states as resources provides an efficient model to perform computation and information processing of quantum codes. Arbitrary Gaussian QC can be implemented by sufficiently long single-mode and two-mode gate sequences. However, continuous variable (CV) gate sequences have not been realized so far due to an absence of cluster states larger than four submodes. Here we present the first CV gate sequence consisting of a single-mode squeezing gate and a two-mode controlled-phase gate based on a six-mode cluster state. The quantum property of this gate sequence is confirmed by the fidelities and the quantum entanglement of two output modes, which depend on both the squeezing and controlled-phase gates. The experiment demonstrates the feasibility of implementing Gaussian QC by means of accessible gate sequences.

id: 1312.0111
title: Optimal control theory for a unitary operation under dissipative evolution
authors: Michael H. Goerz, Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: New. J. Phys. 16, 055012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0111
abstract: We show that optimizing a quantum gate for an open quantum system requires the time evolution of only three states irrespective of the dimension of Hilbert space. This represents a significant reduction in computational resources compared to the complete basis of Liouville space that is commonly believed necessary for this task. The reduction is based on two observations: The target is not a general dynamical map but a unitary operation; and the time evolution of two properly chosen states is sufficient to distinguish any two unitaries. We illustrate gate optimization employing a reduced set of states for a controlled phasegate with trapped atoms as qubit carriers and a $\sqrt{i\text{SWAP}}$ gate with superconducting qubits.

id: 1312.0112
title: A stochastic model of the influence of buffer gas collisions on Mollow spectra
authors: K. Doan Quoc, T. Bui Dinh, V. Cao Long, W. Leonski
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. ST Vol.222 (2013) 2241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0112
abstract: In this paper we consider the influence of collisional fluctuations on the Mollow spectra of resonance fluorescence (RF). The fluctuations are taken into account by a simple shift of the constant detuning, involved in a set of optical Bloch equations by collision frequency noise which is modelled by a two-step random telegraph signal (RTS). We consider in detail the Mollow spectra for RF in the case of an arbitrary detuning of the laser frequency, where the emitter is a member of a statistical ensemble in thermodynamic equilibrium with the buffer gas at temperature $T$ which is treated as a colored environment, and velocity $v$ is distributed with the Maxwell-Boltzmann density.

id: 1312.0118
title: Quantum scissors - finite-dimensional states engineering
authors: W. Leo¨½ski, A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk
comments: Review paper concerning states defined in finite-dimensional Hilbert space. Various methods of generation of such states are also discussed. This is a manuscript of the article published in Progress in Optics
journal: Progress in Optics, Vol.56, (2011) Pages:131-185
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0118
abstract: This work discusses quantum states defined in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. In particular, after the presentation of some of them and their basic properties the work concentrates on the group of the quantum optical models that can be referred to as \textit{quantum optical scissors}. Such "devices" can generate on their outputs states that are finite-dimensional, and simultaneously use for such preparation quantum states that are defined in the infinity-dimensional space. The work concentrates on two groups of models: the first one, comprising linear elements and the second one -- models for which optical, Kerr-like nonlinear elements were applied.

id: 1312.0123
title: Observation of quasiperiodic dynamics in a one-dimensional quantum walk of single photons in space
authors: Peng Xue, Hao Qin, Bao Tang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 053009 (6 May 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0123
abstract: We realize quasi-periodic dynamics of a quantum walker over 2.5 quasi-periods by realizing the walker as a single photon passing through a quantum-walk optical-interferometer network. We introduce fully controllable polarization-independent phase shifters in each optical path to realize arbitrary site-dependent phase shifts, and we employ large clear-aperture beam displacers, while maintaining high-visibility interference, to enable reaching 10 quantum-walk steps. By varying the half-wave-plate setting, we control the quantum-coin bias thereby observing a transition from quasi-periodic dynamics to ballistic diffusion.

id: 1312.0160
title: Control of open quantum systems: Case study of the central spin model
authors: Christian Arenz, Giulia Gualdi, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 065023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0160
abstract: We study the controllability of a central spin guided by a classical field and interacting with a spin bath, showing that the central spin is fully controllable independently of the number of bath spins. Additionally we find that for unequal system-bath couplings even the bath becomes controllable by acting on the central spin alone. We then analyze numerically how the time to implement gates on the central spin scales with the number of bath spins and conjecture that for equal system-bath couplings it reaches a saturation value. We provide evidence that sometimes noise can be effectively suppressed through control.

id: 1312.0165
title: Fault tolerance for holonomic quantum computation
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 16 pages, this is a chapter in the book "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013), at this http URL
journal: In "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0165
abstract: We review an approach to fault-tolerant holonomic quantum computation on stabilizer codes. We explain its workings as based on adiabatic dragging of the subsystem containing the logical information around suitable loops along which the information remains protected.

id: 1312.0172
title: Spatial Search on Grids with Minimum Memory
authors: Andris Ambainis, Renato Portugal, Nikolay Nahimov
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0172
abstract: We study quantum algorithms for spatial search on finite dimensional grids. Patel et al. and Falk have proposed algorithms based on a quantum walk without a coin, with different operators applied at even and odd steps. Until now, such algorithms have been studied only using numerical simulations. In this paper, we present the first rigorous analysis for an algorithm of this type, showing that the optimal number of steps is $O(\sqrt{N\log N})$ and the success probability is $O(1/\log N)$, where $N$ is the number of vertices. This matches the performance achieved by algorithms that use other forms of quantum walks.

id: 1312.0188
title: Dissipative creation of three-dimensional entangled state in optical cavity via spontaneous emission
authors: Xiao-Qiang Shao, Tai-Yu Zheng, C. H. Oh, Shou Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0188
abstract: We present a dissipative protocol to engineer two $^{87}Rb$ atoms into a form of three-dimensional entangled state via spontaneous emission. The combination of coupling between ground states via microwave fields and dissipation induced by spontaneous emission make the current scheme deterministic and a stationary entangled state can always be achieved without state initialization. Moreover, this scheme can be straightforwardly generalized to preparation of an $N$-dimensional entangled state in principle.

id: 1312.0265
title: Translationally invariant multipartite Bell inequalities involving only two-body correlators
authors: J. Tura, A. B. Sainz, T. V¨¦rtesi, A. Ac¨ªn, M. Lewenstein, R. Augusiak
comments: 21 pages, to be published in the special issue of JPA "50 years of Bell's theorem"
journal: Journal of Physics A 42, 424024 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0265
abstract: Bell inequalities are natural tools that allow one to certify the presence of nonlocality in quantum systems. The known constructions of multipartite Bell inequalities contain, however, correlation functions involving all observers, making their experimental implementation difficult. The main purpose of this work is to explore the possibility of witnessing nonlocality in multipartite quantum states from the easiest-to-measure quantities, that is, the two-body correlations. In particular, we determine all three and four-partite Bell inequalities constructed from one and two-body expectation values that obey translational symmetry, and show that they reveal nonlocality in multipartite states. Also, by providing a particular example of a five-partite Bell inequality, we show that nonlocality can be detected from two-body correlators involving only nearest neighbours. Finally, we demonstrate that any translationally invariant Bell inequality can be maximally violated by a translationally invariant state and the same set of observables at all sites. We provide a numerical algorithm allowing one to seek for maximal violation of a translationally invariant Bell inequality.

id: 1312.0290
title: Quantum Non-Barking Dogs
authors: Sara Imari Walker, Paul C. W. Davies, Prasant Samantray, Yakir Aharonov
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0290
abstract: Quantum weak measurements with states both pre- and postselected offer a window into a hitherto neglected sector of quantum mechanics. A class of such systems involves time dependent evolution with transitions possible. In this paper we explore two very simple systems in this class. The first is a toy model representing the decay of an excited atom. The second is the tunneling of a particle through a barrier. The postselection criteria are chosen as follows: at the final time, the "atom" remains in its initial excited state for the first example and the particle remains behind the barrier for the second. We then ask what weak values are predicted in the physical environment of the "atom" (to which no net energy has been transferred) and in the region beyond the barrier (to which the particle has not tunneled). Previous work suggests that very large weak values might arise in these regions for long durations between pre- and postselection times. Our calculations reveal some distinct differences between the two model systems.

id: 1312.0303
title: Algorithms for entanglement renormalization: boundaries, impurities and interfaces
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: 29 pages, 29 figures
journal: J Stat Phys (2014) 157:931-978
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0303
abstract: We propose algorithms, based on the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz, to obtain the ground state of quantum critical systems in the presence of boundaries, impurities, or interfaces. By exploiting the theory of minimal updates [G. Evenbly and G. Vidal, arXiv:1307.0831], the ground state is completely characterized in terms of a number of variational parameters that is independent of the system size, even though the presence of a boundary, an impurity, or an interface explicitly breaks the translation invariance of the host system. Similarly, computational costs do not scale with the system size, allowing the thermodynamic limit to be studied directly and thus avoiding finite size effects e.g. when extracting the universal properties of the critical system.

id: 1312.0305
title: Preparation of Knill-Lafamme-Milburn states based on superconducting qutrits
authors: Qi-Gong Liu, Qi-Cheng Wu, Xin Ji
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31,672-677(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0305
abstract: We propose two schemes for generating the Knill-Lafamme-Milburn (KLM) states of two distant polar molecules (PMs) ensembles respectively in two transmission-line resonators (TLRs) connected by a superconducting charge qutrit (SCQ), and of two SCQs in a TLR, respectively. Both of the schemes are robust against photon decay due to the virtual excitations of the microwave photons of the TLRs, and the spontaneous emission can be suppressed owing to the virtual transitions of the SCQs in the second scheme. In addition, the schemes have high controllability and feasibility under the current available techniques.

id: 1312.0326
title: Spin Operator and Entanglement in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, C.H. Oh, Chengjie Zhang
comments: 17 pages. Substantially modified and extended. The title has been changed. To appear in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D90, 025028 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0326
abstract: Entanglement is studied in the framework of Dyson's S-matrix theory in relativistic quantum field theory, which leads to a natural definition of entangled states of a particle-antiparticle pair and the spin operator from a Noether current. As an explicit example, the decay of a massive pseudo-scalar particle into a pair of electron and positron is analyzed. Two spin operators are extracted from the Noether current. The Wigner spin operator characterizes spin states at the rest frame of each fermion and, although not measurable in the laboratory, gives rise to a straightforward generalization of low energy analysis of entanglement to the ultra-relativistic domain. In contrast, if one adopts a (modified) Dirac spin operator, the entanglement measured by spin correlation becomes maximal near the threshold of the decay, while the entanglement is replaced by the classical correlation for the ultra-relativistic electron-positron pair by analogy to the case of neutrinos, for which a hidden-variables-type description is possible. Chiral symmetry differentiates the spin angular momentum and the magnetic moment. The use of weak interaction that can measure helicity is suggested in the analysis of entanglement at high energies instead of a Stern-Gerlach apparatus which is useless for the electron. A difference between the electron spin at high energies and the photon linear polarization is also noted. The Standard Model can describe all the observable properties of leptons.

id: 1312.0331
title: The Objective Past of a Quantum Universe - Part 1: Redundant Records of Consistent Histories
authors: C. Jess Riedel, Wojciech H. Zurek, Michael Zwolak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0331
abstract: We extend the framework of quantum Darwinism onto the consistent histories approach to quantum mechanics. We use the orthogonality of records on subsystems, and Finkelstein's concept of partial-trace consistency, to define the redundancy of a history. The requirement of redundant records is proposed to reduce the size of the so-called set-selection problem.

id: 1312.0360
title: Optimized quantum state transfer through an XY spin chain
authors: Yang Liu, D. L. Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0360
abstract: Quantum state transfer along a one-dimensional spin chain has become a fundamental ingredient for quantum communication between distant nodes in a quantum network. We study the average fidelity of quantum state transfer (QST) along a XY spin chain by adjusting the basis identification between the first spin and the last spin. In a proper choice of the basis identification, we find that the QST fidelity depends only on the average parity of the initial state linearly. We propose a simple scheme to adjusting the basis identification to optimize the average fidelity such that it depends linearly on the absolute value of the average parity. In the case that the absolute value of the average parity is $1$ we prove that the fidelity takes the maximum at any time over arbitrary initial state and basis identification.

id: 1312.0396
title: Quantification and Control of non-Markovian Evolution in Finite Quantum Systems via Feedback
authors: Nicholas Chancellor, Christoph Petri, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Anthony F.J. Levi, Stephan Haas
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, Revised version with text made more clear and figure 1 improved. Author names changed from initials to full first names title changed from 'Control of Pseudo-Markovian Evolution in Finite Quantum Systems via Feedback'. Title later changed to current title. Minor revision in third version at editors request
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0396
abstract: We consider the unitary time evolution of continuous quantum mechanical systems confined to a cavity in contact with a finite bath of variable size. Measures for Markovianity for such finite system-bath configurations are developed in terms of Hilbert-Schmidt distances of time evolving wave packets. The relevant time scales are identified, which characterize pseudo-Markovian transient behavior, boundary scattering induced non-Markovian oscillations at intermediate times, and non-Markovian rephasing events at long time scales. It is shown how these time scales can be controlled by tunable parameters such as the bath size and the strength of the system-bath coupling.

id: 1312.0418
title: Stability of continuous-time quantum filters with measurement imperfections
authors: Hadis Amini, Clement Pellegrini, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0418
abstract: The fidelity between the state of a continuously observed quantum system and the state of its associated quantum filter, is shown to be always a submartingale. The observed system is assumed to be governed by a continuous-time Stochastic Master Equation (SME), driven simultaneously by Wiener and Poisson processes and that takes into account incompleteness and errors in measurements. This stability result is the continuous-time counterpart of a similar stability result already established for discrete-time quantum systems and where the measurement imperfections are modeled by a left stochastic matrix.

id: 1312.0429
title: From information to quanta: A derivation of the geometric formulation of quantum theory from information geometry
authors: Marcel Reginatto
comments: 18 pages. Presented at Symmetries in Science XVI, Bregenz, Austria, July 21-26, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0429
abstract: It is shown that the geometry of quantum theory can be derived from geometrical structure that may be considered more fundamental. The basic elements of this reconstruction of quantum theory are the natural metric on the space of probabilities (information geometry), the description of dynamics using a Hamiltonian formalism (symplectic geometry), and requirements of consistency (K\"{a}hler geometry). The theory that results is standard quantum mechanics, but in a geometrical formulation that includes also a particular case of a family of nonlinear gauge transformations introduced by Doebner and Goldin. The analysis is carried out for the case of discrete quantum mechanics. The work presented here relies heavily on, and extends, previous work done in collaboration with M. J. W. Hall.

id: 1312.0500
title: Near-field interferometry of a free-falling nanoparticle from a point-like source
authors: James Bateman, Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: Main: 4 pages, 3 figs; Supplementary: 12 pages, 5 figs
journal: Nature Communications 5:4788 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0500
abstract: Matter-wave interferometry performed with massive objects elucidates their wave nature and thus tests the quantum superposition principle at large scales. Whereas standard quantum theory places no limit on particle size, alternative, yet untested theories---conceived to explain the apparent quantum to classical transition---forbid macroscopic superpositions. Here we propose an interferometer with a levitated, optically cooled, and then free-falling silicon nanoparticle in the mass range of one million atomic mass units, delocalized over more than 150 nm. The scheme employs the near-field Talbot effect with a single standing-wave laser pulse as a phase grating. Our analysis, which accounts for all relevant sources of decoherence, indicates that this is a viable route towards macroscopic high-mass superpositions using available technology.

id: 1312.0503
title: Perfect routing of quantum information in regular cavity QED networks
authors: N. Behzadi, S. Kazemi Rudsary, B. Ahansaz Salmasi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0503
abstract: We introduce a scheme for perfect routing of quantum states and entanglement in regular cavity QED networks. The couplings between the cavities are quasi-uniform and each cavity is doped with a two-level atom. Quasi-uniform couplings leads the system to evolve in invariant subspaces. Combination the evolutions of the system in its invariant subspaces with quite simple local operations on atoms in the networks, gives the perfect routing of quantum states and entanglement through the network. To provide the protocol be robust due to decoherence arisen from photon loss, the ?eld mode of the cavities are only virtually excited.

id: 1312.0555
title: Group theoretic, Lie algebraic and Jordan algebraic formulations of the SIC existence problem
authors: D. M. Appleby, Christopher A. Fuchs, Huangjun Zhu
comments: 36 pages, to appear in Quantum Inf. Comput
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0555
abstract: Although symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures (SIC POVMs, or SICs for short) have been constructed in every dimension up to 67, a general existence proof remains elusive. The purpose of this paper is to show that the SIC existence problem is equivalent to three other, on the face of it quite different problems. Although it is still not clear whether these reformulations of the problem will make it more tractable, we believe that the fact that SICs have these connections to other areas of mathematics is of some intrinsic interest. Specifically, we reformulate the SIC problem in terms of (1) Lie groups, (2) Lie algebras and (3) Jordan algebras (the second result being a greatly strengthened version of one previously obtained by Appleby, Flammia and Fuchs). The connection between these three reformulations is non-trivial: It is not easy to demonstrate their equivalence directly, without appealing to their common equivalence to SIC existence. In the course of our analysis we obtain a number of other results which may be of some independent interest.

id: 1312.0572
title: Pseudoharmonic oscillator in quantum mechanics with a minimal length
authors: Djamil Bouaziz, Abdelmalek Boukhellout
comments: 12 pages, Published version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1312.2619
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 29, 1450143 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0572
abstract: The pseudoharmonic oscillator potential is studied in non relativistic quantum mechanics with a generalized uncertainty principle characterized by the existence of a minimal length scale. By using a perturbative approach, we analytically compute the correction to the energy spectrum in the first order of the minimal length parameter \b{eta}. We investigate the effect of this fundamental length on the vibration-rotation energy levels of diatomic molecules with this potential function interaction. We explicitly show that the minimal length would have some importance in studying the spectra of diatomic molecules.

id: 1312.0636
title: Causality and local determinism versus quantum nonlocality
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: 14 pages, 11 equations, 46 references, to be published in the Proceedings of EmQM13 in IOP Conf. Proc
journal: Kupczynski M 2014 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 504 012015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0636
abstract: The entanglement and the violation of Bell and CHSH inequalities in spin polarization correlation experiments (SPCE) is considered to be one of the biggest mysteries of Nature and is called quantum nonlocality. In this paper we show once again that this conclusion is based on imprecise terminology and on the lack of understanding of probabilistic models used in various proofs of Bell and CHSH theorems. These models are inconsistent with experimental protocols used in SPCE. This is the only reason why Bell and CHSH inequalities are violated. A probabilistic non-signalling description of SPCE, consistent with quantum predictions, is possible and it depends explicitly on the context of each experiment. It is also deterministic in the sense that the outcome is determined by supplementary local parameters describing both a physical signals and measuring instruments. The existence of such description gives additional arguments that quantum theory is emergent from some more detailed theory respecting causality and local determinism. If quantum theory is emergent then there exist perhaps some fine structures in time-series of experimental data which were not predicted by quantum theory. In this paper we explain how a systematic search for such fine structures can be done. If such reproducible fine structures were found it would show that quantum theory is not predictably complete what would be a major discovery.

id: 1312.0645
title: Quantum Systems based upon Galois Fields: from Sub-quantum to Super-quantum Correlations
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 22 pages LaTeX. Uses ws-procs975x65.cls. Contribution to the Proceedings of the Conference in Honour of the 90th Birthday of Freeman Dyson, 26-29 August 2013, Institute of Advanced Studies at the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. Talk presented by Takeuchi
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 29 (2014) 1430006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0645
abstract: In this talk we describe our recent work on discrete quantum theory based on Galois fields. In particular, we discuss how discrete quantum theory sheds new light on the foundations of quantum theory and we review an explicit model of super-quantum correlations we have constructed in this context. We also discuss the larger questions of the origins and foundations of quantum theory, as well as the relevance of super-quantum theory for the quantum theory of gravity.

id: 1312.0648
title: Classical Dynamics of a Thin Moving Mirror Interacting with a Laser
authors: Luis Octavio Casta?os, Ricardo Weder
comments: This published version has been edited to improve the presentation of the results
journal: Phys Rev A, Vol 89, 063807 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0648
abstract: We analyze the classical dynamics of a system composed of a one-dimensional cavity with a perfect, fixed mirror and a movable mirror with non-zero transparency interacting with a monochromatic laser. The movable mirror can deviate far from an equilibrium position, it is assumed to be thin so that it is modelled by a delta function, and we use the exact modes of the complete system. The transparency and the mirror-position dependent cavity resonance frequencies are built into the modes and this allows us to deduce that the radiation pressure force comes from a periodic potential with period half the wavelength of the field. The exact modes and the radiation pressure potential allow us to give intuitive physical interpretations of the dynamics of the system and to obtain approximate analytic solutions for the motion of the mirror. Three regimes are identified depending on the intensity of the field and it is found that the dynamics can be qualitatively very different in each of them with some regimes being very sensitive to the values of the parameters. Moreover, we determine conditions when the Maxwell-Newton equations used to describe the system constitute accurate approximations of the exact equations governing the dynamics.

id: 1312.0680
title: Modes of asymmetry: the application of harmonic analysis to symmetric quantum dynamics and quantum reference frames
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures, Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0680
abstract: Finding the consequences of symmetry for open system quantum dynamics is a problem with broad applications, including describing thermal relaxation, deriving quantum limits on the performance of amplifiers, and exploring quantum metrology in the presence of noise. The symmetry of the dynamics may reflect a symmetry of the fundamental laws of nature, a symmetry of a low-energy effective theory, or it may describe a practical restriction such as the lack of a reference frame. In this paper, we apply some tools of harmonic analysis together with ideas from quantum information theory to this problem. The central idea is to study the decomposition of quantum operations---in particular, states, measurements and channels---into different modes, which we call modes of asymmetry. Under symmetric processing, a given mode of the input is mapped to the corresponding mode of the output, implying that one can only generate a given output if the input contains all of the necessary modes. By defining monotones that quantify the asymmetry in a particular mode, we also derive quantitative constraints on the resources of asymmetry that are required to simulate a given asymmetric operation. We present applications of our results for deriving bounds on the probability of success in nondeterministic state transitions, such as quantum amplification, and a simplified formalism for studying the degradation of quantum reference frames.

id: 1312.0738
title: Quantum-discord-induced superradiance and subradiance in a system of two separated atoms
authors: Shi-Qing Tang, Ji-Bing Yuan, Xin-Wen Wang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0738
abstract: We investigate collective radiant properties of two separated atoms in X-type quantum states. We show that quantum correlations measured by quantum discord (QD) can induce and enhance superradiance and subradiance in the two-atom system even though in the absence of interatomic quantum entanglement. We also explore quantum statistical properties of photons in the superradiance and subradiance by addressing the second-order correlation function. In particular, when the initial state of the two separated atoms is the Werner state with non-zero QD, we find that radiation photons in the superradiant region exhibit the nonclassical sub-Poissonian statistics and the degree of the sub-Poissonian statistics increases with increasing of the QD amount, while radiation photons in the subradiant region have either the sub-Poissonian or super-Poissonian statistics depending on the amount of QD and the directional angle. In the subradiant regime we predict the QD-induced photon statistics transition from the super-Poissonian to sub-Poissonian statistics. These results shed a new light on applications of QD as a quantum resource.

id: 1312.0757
title: Complex Classical Mechanics of a QES Potential
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Sushant S. Mahajan
comments: Minor modifications, Refs added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0757
abstract: We consider a Parity-time (PT) invariant non-Hermitian quasi-exactly solvable (QES) potential which exhibits PT phase transition. We numerically study this potential in a complex plane classically to demonstrate different quantum effects. The particle with real energy makes closed orbits around one of the periodic wells of the complex potential depending on the initial condition. However interestingly the particle can have open orbits even with real energy if it is initially placed in certain region between the two wells on the same side of the imaginary axis. On the other hand when the particle energy is complex the trajectory is open and the particle tunnels back and forth between two wells which are separated by a classically forbidden path. The tunneling time is calculated for different pair of wells and is shown to vary inversely with the imaginary component of energy. At the classical level unlike the analogous quantum situation we do not see any qualitative differences in the features of the particle dynamics for PT symmetry broken and unbroken phases.

id: 1312.0763
title: Quantum memory for light: large efficiency at telecom wavelength
authors: Juli¨¢n Dajczgewand, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Anne Louchet-Chauvet, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 9, pp. 2711-2714 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0763
abstract: We implement the ROSE protocol in an erbium doped solid, compatible with the telecom range. The ROSE scheme is an adaptation of the standard 2-pulse photon echo to make it suitable for a quantum memory. We observe an efficiency of 40% in a forward direction by using specific orientations of the light polarizations, magnetic field and crystal axes.

id: 1312.0830
title: Decoherence enhanced quantum measurement of a quantum dot spin qubit
authors: Katarzyna Roszak, ?ukasz Marcinowski, Pawe? Machnikowski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032118 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0830
abstract: We study the effect of phonons on a proposed scheme for the direct measurement of two-electron spin states in a double quantum dot by monitoring the the noise of the current flowing through a quantum point contact coupled to one of the dots. We show that although the effect of phonons is damaging to the procedure at extremely low temperatures characteristic of spin-in-quantum-dots experiments, and may even be fatal, increasing the temperature leads to a revival of the schemes usefulness. Furthermore, at higher, but still reasonably low temperatures phonon effects become advantageous to the measurement scheme, and lead to the enhancement of the spin-singlet noise without disturbing the low spin-triplet noise. Hence, the uncontrollable interaction of the measured system with the open bosonic environment, can be harnessed to increase the distinguishability between the measured states.

id: 1312.0839
title: Quantumness of correlations in indistinguishable particles
authors: Fernando Iemini, Tiago Debarba, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0839
abstract: We discuss a general notion of quantum correlations in fermionic or bosonic indistinguishable particles. Our approach is mainly based on the identification of the algebra of single-particle observables, which allows us to devise an activation protocol in which the \textit{quantumness of correlations} in the system leads to a unavoidable creation of entanglement with the measurement apparatus. Using the distillable entanglement, or the relative entropy of entanglement, as entanglement measure, we show that our approach is equivalent to the notion of minimal disturbance in a single-particle von Neumann measurement, also leading to a geometrical approach for its quantification.

id: 1312.0888
title: On the emergence of duration from quantum observation and some consequences
authors: Andreas Schlatter
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0888
abstract: We show that by the act of quantum measurement on a system there emerges a notion of duration and a corresponding time flow which turns out to be the thermal flow connected to the system. We show that, under some quasi-classical assumptions on the observer, this flow shows relevant properties of empirical time and some interesting consequences for Special Relativity are drawn.

id: 1312.0908
title: A general framework for complete positivity
authors: Jason M. Dominy, Alireza Shabani, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0908
abstract: Complete positivity of quantum dynamics is often viewed as a litmus test for physicality, yet it is well known that correlated initial states need not give rise to completely positive evolutions. This observation spurred numerous investigations over the past two decades attempting to identify necessary and sufficient conditions for complete positivity. Here we describe a complete and consistent mathematical framework for the discussion and analysis of complete positivity for correlated initial states of open quantum systems. This formalism is built upon a few simple axioms and is sufficiently general to contain all prior methodologies going back to Pechakas, PRL (1994). The key observation is that initial system-bath states with the same reduced state on the system must evolve under all admissible unitary operators to system-bath states with the same reduced state on the system, in order to ensure that the induced dynamical maps on the system are well-defined. Once this consistency condition is imposed, related concepts like the assignment map and the dynamical maps are uniquely defined. In general, the dynamical maps may not be applied to arbitrary system states, but only to those in an appropriately defined physical domain. We show that the constrained nature of the problem gives rise to not one but three inequivalent types of complete positivity. Using this framework we elucidate the limitations of recent attempts to provide conditions for complete positivity using quantum discord and the quantum data-processing inequality. The problem remains open, and may require fresh perspectives and new mathematical tools. The formalism presented herein may be one step in that direction.

id: 1312.0952
title: Tensor networks for frustrated systems: emergence of order from simplex entanglement
authors: Daniel Alsina, Jos¨¦ Ignacio Latorre
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0952
abstract: We consider a frustrated anti-ferromagnetic triangular lattice Hamiltonian and show that the properties of the manifold of its degenerated ground state are represented by a novel type of tensor networks. These tensor networks are not based on ancillary maximally entangled pairs, but rather on triangular W-like simplices. Anti-ferromagnetic triangular frustration is then related to ancillary W-states in contrast to ferromagnetic order which emerges from the contraction of GHZ-like triangular simplices. We further discuss the outwards entangling power of various simplices. This analysis suggests the emergence of distinct macroscopic types of order from the classification of entanglement residing on the simplices that define a tensor network.

id: 1312.0965
title: Bound states of a charged particle in the field of an electric quadrupole in two dimensions
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0965
abstract: The Schr\"odinger equation for a charged particle in the field of a nonrelativistic electric quadrupole in two dimensions is known to be separable in spherical coordinates. We investigate the occurrence of bound states of negative energy and find that the particle can be bound by a quadrupole of any magnitude. This result is remarkably different from the one for a charged particle in the field of a nonrelativistic electric dipole in three dimensions where a minimum value of the dipole strength is necessary for capture. Present results differ from those obtained earlier by other author.

id: 1312.0973
title: Evolution prediction from tomography
authors: Jason M. Dominy, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Alireza Shabani, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0973
abstract: Quantum process tomography provides a means of measuring the evolution operator for a system at a fixed measurement time $t$. The problem of using that tomographic snapshot to predict the evolution operator at other times is generally ill-posed since there are, in general, infinitely many distinct and compatible solutions. We describe the prediction, in some ``maximal ignorance'' sense, of the evolution of a quantum system based on knowledge only of the evolution operator for finitely many times $0<\tau_{1}<\dots<\tau_{M}$ with $M\geq 1$. To resolve the ill-posedness problem, we construct this prediction as the result of an average over some unknown (and unknowable) variables. The resulting prediction provides a description of the observer's state of knowledge of the system's evolution at times away from the measurement times. Even if the original evolution is unitary, the predicted evolution is described by a non-unitary, completely positive map.

id: 1312.0979
title: Attacks on Fixed Apparatus Quantum Key Distribution Schemes
authors: Michel Boyer, Ran Gelles, Tal Mor
comments: 10 pages, 3 figure, 8 tables. A preliminary version of this manuscript appeared in TPNC '12: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Theory and Practice of Natural Computing, LNCS, Vol. 7505 (2012)
journal: Physical Review A 90, 012329 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0979
abstract: We consider quantum key distribution implementations in which the receiver's apparatus is fixed and does not depend on his choice of basis at each qubit transmission. We show that, although theoretical quantum key distribution is proven secure, such implementations are totally insecure against a strong eavesdropper that has one-time (single) access to the receiver's equipment. The attack we present here, the "fixed-apparatus attack" causes a potential risk to the usefulness of several recent implementations.

id: 1312.0981
title: Continuous variable entanglement swapping and its local certification: entangling distant mechanical modes
authors: Mehdi Abdi, Stefano Pirandola, Paolo Tombesi, David Vitali
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0981
abstract: We introduce a modification of the standard entanglement swapping protocol where the generation of entanglement between two distant modes is realized and verified using only local optical measurements. We show, indeed, that a simple condition on the purity of the initial state involving also an ancillary mode is sufficient to guarantee the success of the protocol by local measurements {M. Abdi \textit{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{109}, 143601 (2012)}]. We apply the proposed protocol to a tripartite optomechanical system where the never interacting mechanical modes become entangled and certified using only local optical measurements.

id: 1312.1015
title: Global versus local optimality in feedback-controlled qubit purification: new insights from minimizing R¨¦nyi entropies
authors: Colin Teo, Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in the New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 105010 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1015
abstract: It was first shown by Jacobs, in 2003, that the process of qubit state purification by continuous measurement of one observable can be enhanced, on average, by unitary feedback control. Here, we quantify this by the reduction in any one of the family of R\'enyi entropies $S_\alpha$, with $0< \alpha < \infty$, at some terminal time, revealing the rich structure of stochastic quantum control even for this simple problem. We generalize Jacobs' original argument, which was for (the unique) impurity measure with a linear evolution map under his protocol, by replacing linearity with convexity, thereby making it applicable to R\'enyi entropies $S_\alpha$ for $\alpha$ in a finite interval about $1$. Even with this generalization, Jacobs' argument fails to identify the surprising fact, which we prove by Bellman's principle of dynamic programming, that his protocol is globally optimal for all R\'enyi entropies whose decrease is locally maximized by that protocol. Also surprisingly, even though there is a range of R\'enyi entropies whose decrease is always locally maximized by the null-control protocol, that null-control protocol cannot be shown to be globally optimal in any instance. These results highlight the non-intuitive relation between local and global optimality in stochastic quantum control.

id: 1312.1079
title: Interfacing single photons and single quantum dots with photonic nanostructures
authors: Peter Lodahl, Sahand Mahmoodian, S?ren Stobbe
comments: Updated version resubmitted to Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1079
abstract: Photonic nanostructures provide means of tailoring the interaction between light and matter and the past decade has witnessed a tremendous experimental and theoretical progress in this subject. In particular, the combination with semiconductor quantum dots has proven successful. This manuscript reviews quantum optics with excitons in single quantum dots embedded in photonic nanostructures. The ability to engineer the light-matter interaction strength in integrated photonic nanostructures enables a range of fundamental quantum-electrodynamics experiments on, e.g., spontaneous-emission control, modified Lamb shifts, and enhanced dipole-dipole interaction. Furthermore, highly efficient single-photon sources and giant photon nonlinearities may be implemented with immediate applications for photonic quantum-information processing. The review summarizes the general theoretical framework of photon emission including the role of dephasing processes, and applies it to photonic nanostructures of current interest, such as photonic-crystal cavities and waveguides, dielectric nanowires, and plasmonic waveguides. The introduced concepts are generally applicable in quantum nanophotonics and apply to a large extent also to other quantum emitters, such as molecules, nitrogen vacancy ceters, or atoms. Finally, the progress and future prospects of applications in quantum-information processing are considered.

id: 1312.1092
title: Separable Schmidt modes of a non-separable state
authors: Alessio Avella, Marco Gramegna, Alexander Shurupov, Giorgio Brida, Maria Chekhova, Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023808 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1092
abstract: Two-photon states entangled in continuous variables such as wavevector or frequency represent a powerful resource for quantum information protocols in higher-dimensional Hilbert spaces. At the same time, there is a problem of addressing separately the corresponding Schmidt modes. We propose a method of engineering two-photon spectral amplitude in such a way that it contains several non-overlapping Schmidt modes, each of which can be filtered losslessly. The method is based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) pumped by radiation with a comb-like spectrum. There are many ways of producing such a spectrum; here we consider the simplest one, namely passing the pump beam through a Fabry-Perot interferometer. For the two-photon spectral amplitude (TPSA) to consist of non-overlapping Schmidt modes, the crystal dispersion dependence, the length of the crystal, the Fabry-Perot free spectral range and its finesse should satisfy certain conditions. We experimentally demonstrate the control of TPSA through these parameters. We also discuss a possibility to realize a similar situation using cavity-based SPDC.

id: 1312.1102
title: Experimental linear-optics simulation of the ground state of an interacting quantum spin-ring
authors: Adeline Orieux, Joelle Boutari, Marco Barbieri, Mauro Paternostro, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 7184 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1102
abstract: Critical phenomena involve a structural change in the correlations of its constituents. These features can be employed in quantum simulators to assess when a criticality occurred in medium-size systems, for which phase transitions are not captured by standard thermodynamical methods. Here we demonstrate these concepts in a photonic quantum simulator: we encode the wavefunction of the ground state of a three-spin Ising ring by using a pair of entangled photons. The effect of a simulated magnetic field, leading to a critical modification of the correlation within the ring, is analysed by studying two- and three-spin entanglement. In particular, we make a quantitative connection between the violation of Svetlichny's inequality to the amount of three-tangle and tripartite negativity in our ring.

id: 1312.1119
title: Minimum tomography of two entangled qutrits using local measurements of one-qutrit SIC-POVM
authors: W. M. Pimenta, B. Marques, T. O. Maciel, R. O. Vianna, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1119
abstract: An experimental demonstration of two-qutrit state tomography via one-qutrit symmetric informationally complete positive operator-valued measure (SIC-POVM) is presented. A two-qutrit state is encoded in the transversal paths of a spontaneous parametric down-converted photon pair. A spatial light modulator allows to implement the necessary 81 POVM elements to reconstruct the state. The quality of the reconstruction is evaluated by comparing independent measurements with the predicted results calculated with the reconstructed state. Entanglement in the system is calculated via negativity and generalized robustness from the two-qutrit reconstructed density operator.

id: 1312.1167
title: Optimally Convergent Quantum Jump Expansion
authors: Felix Lucas, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1167
abstract: A method for deriving accurate analytic approximations for Markovian open quantum systems was recently introduced in [F. Lucas and K. Hornberger, Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240401 (2013)]. Here, we present a detailed derivation of the underlying non-perturbative jump expansion, which involves an adaptive resummation to ensure optimal convergence. Applying this to a set of exemplary master equations, we find that the resummation typically leads to convergence within the lowest two to five orders. Besides facilitating analytic approximations, the optimal jump expansion thus provides a numerical scheme for the efficient simulation of open quantum systems.

id: 1312.1184
title: Rutherford scattering of electron vortices
authors: Ruben Van Boxem, Bart Partoens, Jo Verbeeck
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032715 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1184
abstract: By considering a cylindrically symmetric generalization of a plane wave, the first Born approximation of screened Coulomb scattering unfolds two new dimensions in the scattering problem: transverse momentum and orbital angular momentum of the incoming beam. In this paper, the elastic Coulomb scattering amplitude is calculated analytically for incoming Bessel beams. This reveals novel features occurring for wide angle scattering when the incoming beam is correctly prepared. The result successfully generalizes the well known Rutherford formula, incorporating transverse and orbital angular momentum into the formalism.

id: 1312.1218
title: Phase-Entanglement Complementarity with Time-Energy Uncertainty
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Mai-Lin Liang
comments: 5 papes, 1 fig. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1218
abstract: We present a unified view of the Berry phase of a quantum system and its entanglement with surroundings. The former reflects the nonseparability between a system and a classical environment as the latter for a quantum environment, and the concept of geometric time-energy uncertainty can be adopted as a signature of the nonseparability. Based on this viewpoint, we study their relationship in the quantum-classical transition of the environment, with the aid of a spin-half particle (qubit) model exposed to a quantum-classical hybrid field. In the quantum-classical transition, the Berry phase has a similar connection with the time-energy uncertainty as the case with only a classical field, whereas the geometric phase for the mixed state of the qubit exhibits a complementary relationship with the entanglement. Namely, for a fixed time-energy uncertainty, the entanglement is gradually replaced by the mixed geometric phase as the quantum field vanishes. And the mixed geometric phase becomes the Berry phase in the classical limit. The same results can be draw out from a displaced harmonic oscillator model.

id: 1312.1245
title: Quantum Error Correction During 50 Gates
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1305.2763
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1245
abstract: Fault tolerant protocol assumes the application of error correction after every quantum gate. However, correcting errors is costly in terms of time and number of qubits. Here we demonstrate that quantum error correction can be applied significantly less often with only a minimal loss of fidelity. This is done by simulating the implementation of 50 encoded, single-qubit, quantum gates within the [[7,1,3]] quantum error correction code in a noisy, non-equiprobable Pauli error environment with error correction being applied at different intervals. We find that applying error correction after every gate is rarely optimal and even applying error correction only once after all 50 gates, though not generally optimal, sacrifices only a slight amount of fidelity with the benefit of 50-fold saving of resources. In addition, we find that in cases where bit-flip errors are dominant, it is best not to apply error correction at all.

id: 1312.1306
title: Quantum Entanglement of Complex Photon Polarization Patterns in Vector Beams
authors: Robert Fickler, Radek Lapkiewicz, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 060301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1306
abstract: We report the efficient creation and detection of hybrid entanglement between one photon's polarization and another photon's complex transverse polarization pattern. The polarization measurement of the first photon triggers a polarization sensitive imaging of its partner photon, the vector photon, using a single-photon sensitive camera. Thereby, we reconstruct tomographically the vector photon's complex polarization patterns dependent on the type of polarization measurement performed on its partner. We visualize the varying strengths of polarization entanglement for different transverse regions and demonstrate a novel feature: each vector photon can be both entangled and not entangled in polarization with its partner photon. We give an intuitive, information theoretical explanation for our results.

id: 1312.1319
title: Implementing generalized measurements with superconducting qubits
authors: Justin Dressel, Todd A. Brun, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1319
abstract: We describe a method to perform any generalized purity-preserving measurement of a qubit with techniques tailored to superconducting systems. First, we consider two methods for realizing a two-outcome partial projection: using a thresholded continuous measurement in the circuit QED setup, or using an indirect ancilla qubit measurement. Second, we decompose an arbitrary purity-preserving two-outcome measurement into single qubit unitary rotations and a partial projection. Third, we systematically reduce any multiple-outcome measurement to a sequence of such two-outcome measurements and unitary operations. Finally, we consider how to define suitable fidelity measures for multiple-outcome generalized measurements.

id: 1312.1329
title: Quantifying quantumness via commutators: an application to quantum walk
authors: Pavan Iyengar, G. N. Chandan, R. Srikanth
comments: 5 pages; 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1329
abstract: The question of witnessing or quantifying nonclassicality of quantum systems has been addressed in various ways. For a given system or theory, we propose identifying it with the incompatibility of admissible states. We quantify the nonclassicality of quantum systems using the Hilbert-Schmidt norm of the commutator of two states. As a particular application of this measure, we study the classicalization of a discrete-time quantum walk with a noisy coin.

id: 1312.1345
title: The whole is greater than the sum of the parts: on the possibility of purely statistical interpretations of quantum theory
authors: Joseph Emerson, Dmitry Serbin, Chris Sutherland, Victor Veitch
comments: 5 + epsilon pages. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1345
abstract: The Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem (PBR) claims to rule out the possibility of a purely statistical interpretation of the quantum state under an assumption of how to represent independent operations in any hidden variable model. We show that PBR's assumption of independence encodes an assumption of local causality, which is already known to conflict with the predictions of quantum theory via Bell-type inequalities. We devise a weaker formulation of independence within a general hidden variable model that is empirically indistinguishable from the PBR assumption in situations where certain hidden variables are inaccessible. Under this weaker principle we are able to construct an explicit hidden variable model that is purely statistical and also reproduces the quantum predictions. Our results suggest that the assumption of a purely statistical interpretation is actually an innocent bystander in the PBR argument, rather than the driving force behind their contradiction.

id: 1312.1356
title: Quantum Fisher Information: Variational principle and simple iterative algorithm for its efficient computation
authors: Katarzyna Macieszczak
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1356
abstract: We derive a new variational principle for the quantum Fisher information leading to a simple iterative alternating algorithm, the convergence of which is proved. The case of a fixed measurement, i.e. the classical Fisher information, is also discussed.

id: 1312.1377
title: Klein Paradox in the Pilot Wave Interpretation
authors: John F. Dodaro
comments: 21 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1377
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm pilot wave interpretation of quantum mechanics is shown to provide a consistent explanation for a single relativistic particle (more accurately, a single particle process since pair production is addressed). This is accomplished by incorporating the Feynman-Stueckelberg interpretation of anti-matter. The lack of conserved probability and existence of negative energy solutions is studied through this interpretation. We discuss the resolution of Klein's original paradox through the pilot wave interpretation, and similarly analyze the potential barrier problem. Simulations are presented for a wave packet incident on potential steps & barriers of various heights.

id: 1312.1414
title: Exponential improvement in precision for simulating sparse Hamiltonians
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Andrew M. Childs, Richard Cleve, Robin Kothari, Rolando D. Somma
comments: v1: 27 pages; Subsumes and improves upon results in arXiv:1308.5424. v2: 28 pages, minor changes
journal: Proceedings of the 46th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC 2014), pp. 283-292 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1414
abstract: We provide a quantum algorithm for simulating the dynamics of sparse Hamiltonians with complexity sublogarithmic in the inverse error, an exponential improvement over previous methods. Specifically, we show that a $d$-sparse Hamiltonian $H$ acting on $n$ qubits can be simulated for time $t$ with precision $\epsilon$ using $O\big(\tau \frac{\log(\tau/\epsilon)}{\log\log(\tau/\epsilon)}\big)$ queries and $O\big(\tau \frac{\log^2(\tau/\epsilon)}{\log\log(\tau/\epsilon)}n\big)$ additional 2-qubit gates, where $\tau = d^2 \|{H}\|_{\max} t$. Unlike previous approaches based on product formulas, the query complexity is independent of the number of qubits acted on, and for time-varying Hamiltonians, the gate complexity is logarithmic in the norm of the derivative of the Hamiltonian. Our algorithm is based on a significantly improved simulation of the continuous- and fractional-query models using discrete quantum queries, showing that the former models are not much more powerful than the discrete model even for very small error. We also simplify the analysis of this conversion, avoiding the need for a complex fault correction procedure. Our simplification relies on a new form of "oblivious amplitude amplification" that can be applied even though the reflection about the input state is unavailable. Finally, we prove new lower bounds showing that our algorithms are optimal as a function of the error.

id: 1312.1426
title: Quantum Fisher information as signature of superradiant quantum phase transition
authors: T. L. Wang, L. N. Wu, W. Yang, G. R. Jin, N. Lambert, F. Nori
comments: 7.8 pages, 3 figures, typing errors are fixed and new references are added
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 063039 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1426
abstract: The single-mode Dicke model is well-known to undergo a quantum phase transition from the so-called normal phase to the supperradiant phase (hereinafter called the "superradiant quantum phase transition"). Normally, quantum phase transitions are closely related to the critical behavior of quantities such as entanglement, quantum fluctuations, and fidelity. In this paper, we study quantum Fisher information (QFI) of the field mode and that of the atoms in the ground state of the Dicke Hamiltonian. For finite and large enough number of atoms, our numerical results show that near the critical atom-field coupling, the QFIs of the atomic and the field subsystems can surpass the classical limits, due to the appearance of nonclassical squeezed states. As the coupling increases far beyond the critical point, the two subsystems are in highly mixed states, which degrade the QFI and hence the ultimate phase sensitivity. In the thermodynamic limit, we present analytical results of the QFIs and their relationships with the reduced variances. For each subsystem, we find that there is a singularity in the derivative of the QFI at the critical point, a clear signature of quantum criticality in the Dicke model.

id: 1312.1436
title: Security flaw of counterfactual quantum cryptography in practical setting
authors: Yan-Bing Li, Qiao-Yan Wen, Zi-Chen Li
comments: In this version, we changed some description
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1436
abstract: Recently, counterfactual quantum cryptography proposed by T. G. Noh [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 230501 (2009)] becomes an interesting direction in quantum cryptography, and has been realized by some researchers (such as Y. Liu et al's [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 030501 (2012)]). However, we find out that it is insecure in practical high lossy channel setting. We analyze the secret key rates in lossy channel under a polarization-splitting-measurement attack. Analysis indicates that the protocol is insecure when the loss rate of the one-way channel exceeds $50%$.

id: 1312.1454
title: The initial condition problems of damped quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: Yang Gao, Qing Bin Tang, Ru Min Wang
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1454
abstract: We investigate the exact dynamics of the damped quantum harmonic oscillator under the (un)correlated initial conditions. The master equation is generalized to the cases of the arbitrary factorized state and/or Gaussian state. We show that the variances of the factorized Gaussian state do not sensitively depend on the initial oscillator-bath correlation, which however can remarkably affect the mean values even at high temperature. We also illustrate that the correlations among the factorized states still give rise to the initial dips during the purity evolutions, which can be smoothed out by increasing the amount of correlation to some extent. We finally study the effects of repeated measurements on the time evolution of the damped oscillator analytically, which are compared with the weak coupling results to indicate that they give rather different transient behaviors even for an intermediate coupling.

id: 1312.1469
title: The Local Hamiltonian problem on a line with eight states is QMA-complete
authors: Sean Hallgren, Daniel Nagaj, Sandeep Narayanaswami
comments: an older paper that didn't appear on the arXiv before (28 pages)
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.13, No.9&10, pp0721-0750 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1469
abstract: The Local Hamiltonian problem is the problem of estimating the least eigenvalue of a local Hamiltonian, and is complete for the class QMA. The 1D problem on a chain of qubits has heuristics which work well, while the 13-state qudit case has been shown to be QMA-complete. We show that this problem remains QMA-complete when the dimensionality of the qudits is brought down to 8.

id: 1312.1572
title: Quantum dissonance provide power to deterministic quantum computation with single qubit
authors: Mazhar Ali
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform., 12, 1450037 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1572
abstract: Mixed state quantum computation can perform certain tasks which are believed to be efficiently intractable on a classical computer. For a specific model of mixed state quantum computation, namely, {\it deterministic quantum computation with a single qubit} (DQC1), recent investigations suggest that quantum correlations other than entanglement might be responsible for the power of DQC1 model. However, strictly speaking, the role of entanglement in this model of computation was not entirely clear. We provide conclusive evidence that there are instances where quantum entanglement is not present in any part of this model, nevertheless we have advantage over classical computation. This establishes the fact that quantum dissonance (quantum correlations) present in fully separable states provide power to DQC1 model.

id: 1312.1615
title: Action principle for cellular automata and the linearity of quantum mechanics
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 6 pages; presented in part in invited talks at "Wigner 111 Scientific Symposium" (11-13 Nov 2013, Budapest) and "EmQM13 - Emergent Quantum Mechanics" (3-6 Oct 2013, Vienna)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1615
abstract: We introduce an action principle for a class of integer valued cellular automata and obtain Hamiltonian equations of motion. Employing sampling theory, these discrete deterministic equations are invertibly mapped on continuum equations for a set of bandwidth limited harmonic oscillators, which encode the Schr\"odinger equation. Thus, the linearity of quantum mechanics is related to the action principle of such cellular automata and its conservation laws to discrete ones.

id: 1312.1661
title: Quantum Communications Based on Quantum Hashing
authors: Alexander Vasiliev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1661
abstract: Based on the polynomial presentation of Boolean functions and quantum hashing technique we present a method for computing Boolean functions in the quantum one-way communication model. Some of the results are also true in a more restricted Simultaneous Message Passing model.

id: 1312.1695
title: Gate count estimates for performing quantum chemistry on small quantum computers
authors: Dave Wecker, Bela Bauer, Bryan K. Clark, Matthew B. Hastings, Matthias Troyer
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables. Added references and clarified key aspects. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1695
abstract: As quantum computing technology improves and quantum computers with a small but non-trivial number of N > 100 qubits appear feasible in the near future the question of possible applications of small quantum computers gains importance. One frequently mentioned application is Feynman's original proposal of simulating quantum systems, and in particular the electronic structure of molecules and materials. In this paper, we analyze the computational requirements for one of the standard algorithms to perform quantum chemistry on a quantum computer. We focus on the quantum resources required to find the ground state of a molecule twice as large as what current classical computers can solve exactly. We find that while such a problem requires about a ten-fold increase in the number of qubits over current technology, the required increase in the number of gates that can be coherently executed is many orders of magnitude larger. This suggests that for quantum computation to become useful for quantum chemistry problems, drastic algorithmic improvements will be needed.

id: 1312.1720
title: Propagation of non-classical states of light through one-dimensional photonic lattices
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am B 31, 878-881 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1720
abstract: We study the propagation of non-classical light through arrays of coupled linear photonic waveguides and introduce some sets of refractive indices and coupling parameters that provide a closed form propagator in terms of orthogonal polynomials. We present propagation examples of non-classical states of light: single photon, coherent state, path-entangled state and two-mode squeezed vacuum impinging into two-waveguide couplers and a photonic lattice producing coherent transport.

id: 1312.1747
title: Image cloning beyond diffraction based on coherent population trapping in a hot Rubidium vapor
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi
comments: Accepted by Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1747
abstract: Following the recent theoretical predictions given in a paper [PRA 88, 013810 (2013)], we reported on an experimental realization of an image cloning beyond usual diffraction through coherent population trapping (CPT) effect in a hot rubidium vapor. In our experiment, an alphabet image was transferred from a coupling field to a probe field based on the CPT effect. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the cloned probe field carrying the image transmitted without usual diffraction. To our best knowledge, there is no any such an experimental report about images cloning beyond diffraction. We believe this mechanism based on CPT definitely has important applications in image metrology, image processing and biological imaging.

id: 1312.1772
title: On Quantum Tunneling in Real Time
authors: Neil Turok
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Accepted and to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1772
abstract: A detailed real time description of quantum tunneling in the semiclassical limit is given, using complex classical trajectories. This picture connects naturally with the ideas of post-selection and weak measurement introduced by Aharonov and collaborators. I show that one can precisely identify the {\it complex} classical trajectory which a post-selected tunneling particle has followed, and which dominates the path integral in the limit as Planck's constant $\hbar$ tends to zero. Detailed analytical calculations are presented for tunneling in cubic and quartic potentials. For a long post-selected tunneling time, the imaginary part of the tunneling coordinate is found to achieve very large values just before the particle tunnels. I discuss how the real and imaginary parts of the particle's coordinate may, in principle, be independently measured using weak measurements. It would be very interesting to observe this effect, which would demonstrate the essential role of complex numbers in our closest possible classical description of reality. Extensions to quantum field theory and general relativity are briefly discussed.

id: 1312.1783
title: Quantum Jumps Are More Quantum Than Quantum Diffusion
authors: Shakib Daryanoosh, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 063028 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1783
abstract: It was recently argued [Phys. Rev. Lett 108, 220402 (2012)] that the stochastic dynamics of an open quantum system are not inherent to the system, but rather depend on the existence and nature of a distant detector. The proposed experimental tests involved homodyne detection, giving rise to quantum diffusion, and required total efficiencies of well over 50%. Here we prove that for no system is it possible to demonstrate detector-dependence using diffusive-type detection of efficiency less than 50%. However, this no-go theorem does not apply to quantum jumps, and we propose a test involving a qubit, using different jump-type detectors, with a threshold efficiency of only 37%.

id: 1312.1832
title: Universally Optimal Noisy Quantum Walks on Complex Networks
authors: Filippo Caruso
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 055015 (2014), Focus on Quantum Efficiency
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1832
abstract: Transport properties play a crucial role in several fields of science, as biology, chemistry, sociology, information science, and physics. The behavior of many dynamical processes running over complex networks is known to be closely related to the geometry of the underlying topology, but this connection becomes even harder to understand when quantum effects come into play. Here, we exploit the Kossakoski-Lindblad formalism of quantum stochastic walks to investigate the capability to quickly and robustly transmit energy (or information) between two distant points in very large complex structures, remarkably assisted by external noise and quantum features as coherence. An optimal mixing of classical and quantum transport is, very surprisingly, quite universal for a large class of complex networks. This widespread behaviour turns out to be also extremely robust with respect to geometry changes. These results might pave the way for designing optimal bio-inspired geometries of efficient transport nanostructures that can be used for solar energy and also quantum information and communication technologies.

id: 1312.1833
title: Optimal, robust geometries for coherent excitation transport
authors: Stefano Mostarda, Federico Levi, Diego Prada-Gracia, Florian Mintert, Francesco Rao
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, 6 supplementary figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1833
abstract: Coherent transport promises to be the basis for an emerging new technology. Notwithstanding, a mechanistic understanding of the fundamental principles behind optimal scattering media is still missing. Here, complex network analysis is applied for the characterization of geometries that result in optimal coherent transport. The approach is tailored towards the elucidation of the subtle relationship between transport and geometry. Investigating systems with a different number of elementary units allows us to identify classes of structures which are common to all system sizes and which possess distinct robustness features. In particular, we find that small groups of two or three sites closely packed together that do not carry excitation at any time are fundamental to realize efficient and robust excitation transport. Features identified in small systems recur also in larger systems, what suggests that such strategy can efficiently be used to construct close-to-optimal transport properties irrespective of the system size.

id: 1312.1857
title: Deriving tight error-trade-off relations for approximate joint measurements of incompatible quantum observables
authors: Cyril Branciard
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1857
abstract: The quantification of the "measurement uncertainty" aspect of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle---that is, the study of trade-offs between accuracy and disturbance, or between accuracies in an approximate joint measurement on two incompatible observables---has regained a lot of interest recently. Several approaches have been proposed and debated. In this paper we consider Ozawa's definitions for inaccuracies (as root-mean-square errors) in approximate joint measurements, and study how these are constrained in different cases, whether one specifies certain properties of the approximations---namely their standard deviations and/or their bias---or not. Extending our previous work [C. Branciard, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 110, 6742 (2013)], we derive new error-trade-off relations, which we prove to be tight for pure states. We show explicitly how all previously known relations for Ozawa's inaccuracies follow from ours. While our relations are in general not tight for mixed states, we show how these can be strengthened and how tight relations can still be obtained in that case.

id: 1312.1861
title: A geometric approach to the distribution of quantum states in bipartite physical systems
authors: J. Batle
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1861
abstract: Any set of pure states living in an given Hilbert space possesses a natural and unique metric --the Haar measure-- on the group $U(N)$ of unitary matrices. However, there is no specific measure induced on the set of eigenvalues $\Delta$ of any density matrix $\rho$. Therefore, a general approach to the global properties of mixed states depends on the specific metric defined on $\Delta$. In the present work we shall employ a simple measure on $\Delta$ that has the advantage of possessing a clear geometric visualization whenever discussing how arbitrary states are distributed according to some measure of mixedness. The degree of mixture will be that of the participation ratio $R=1/Tr(\rho^2)$ and the concomitant maximum eigenvalue $\lambda_m$. The cases studied will be the qubit-qubit system and the qubit-qutrit system, whereas some discussion will be made on higher-dimensional bipartite cases in both the $R$-domain and the $\lambda_m$-domain.

id: 1312.1940
title: Testing randomness with photons
authors: Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Rebecca Whittaker, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Peter S. Turner
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures (including appendix)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1940
abstract: Generating and characterising randomness is fundamentally important in both classical and quantum information science. Here we report the experimental demonstration of ensembles of pseudorandom optical processes comprising what are known as t-designs. We show that in practical scenarios, certain finite ensembles of two-mode transformations---1- and 2-designs---are indistinguishable from truly random operations for 1- and 2-photon quantum interference, but they fail to mimic randomness for 2- and 3-photon cases, respectively. This provides a novel optical test of pseudo randomness. We make use of the fact that t-photon behaviour is governed by degree-2t polynomials in the parameters of the optical process to experimentally verify the ensembles' behaviour for complete bases of polynomials. This ensures that outputs will be uniform for arbitrary configurations, satisfying the strict definition of pseudorandomness implicit in the mathematical definition.

id: 1312.1954
title: Efficient basis for the Dicke Model I: theory and convergence in energy
authors: Miguel Angel Bastarrachea-Magnani, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 6 Pages, 5 Figures, Proceedings 20th CEWQO 2013, Physica Scripta T in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1954
abstract: An extended bosonic coherent basis has been shown by Chen to provide numerically exact solutions of the finite-size Dicke model. The advantages in employing this basis, as compared with the photon number (Fock) basis, are exhibited to be valid for a large region of the Hamiltonian parameter space by analyzing the converged values of the ground state energy.

id: 1312.1958
title: Efficient basis for the Dicke Model II: wave function convergence and excited states
authors: Jorge G. Hirsch, Miguel A. Bastarrachea-Magnani
comments: 6 Pages, 5 Figures, Proceedings 20th CEWQO 2013, Physica Scripta T in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1958
abstract: An extended bosonic coherent basis has been shown by Chen et al to provide numerically exact solutions of the finite-size Dicke model. The advantages in employing this basis, as compared with the photon number (Fock) basis, are exhibited to be valid for a large region of the Hamiltonian parameter space and many excited states by analyzing the convergence in the wave functions.

id: 1312.1963
title: Fidelity, susceptibility and critical exponents in the Dicke model
authors: M. A. Bastarrachea-Magnani, O. Casta?os, E. Nahmad-Achar, R. L¨®pez-Pe?a, J. G. Hirsch
comments: 9 Pages, 9 Figures, Proceedings of Nuclear Physics Symposium (Cocoyoc), IOP Conference Series in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1963
abstract: We calculate numerically the fidelity and its susceptibility for the ground state of the Dicke model. A minimum in the fidelity identifies the critical value of the interaction where a quantum phase crossover, the precursor of a phase transition for finite number of atoms N, takes place. The evolution of these observables is studied as a function of N, and their critical exponents evaluated. Using the critical exponents the universal curve for the specific susceptibility is recovered. An estimate to the precision to which the ground state wave function is numerically calculated is given, and found to have its lowest value, for a fixed truncation, in a vicinity of the critical coupling.

id: 1312.1990
title: On quantum potential dynamics
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Ward Struyve
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, LaTex; v2 minor additions; v3 figures added
journal: J. Phys. A 48, 025303 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1990
abstract: Non-relativistic de Broglie-Bohm theory describes particles moving under the guidance of the wave function. In de Broglie's original formulation, the particle dynamics is given by a first-order differential equation. In Bohm's reformulation, it is given by Newton's law of motion with an extra potential that depends on the wave function--the quantum potential--together with a constraint on the possible velocities. It was recently argued, mainly by numerical simulations, that relaxing this velocity constraint leads to a physically untenable theory. We provide further evidence for this by showing that for various wave functions the particles tend to escape the wave packet. In particular, we show that for a central classical potential and bound energy eigenstates the particle motion is often unbounded. This work seems particularly relevant for ways of simulating wave function evolution based on Bohm's formulation of the de Broglie-Bohm theory. Namely, the simulations may become unstable due to deviations from the velocity constraint.

id: 1312.2005
title: Analysis of geometric phase effects in the quantum-classical Liouville formalism
authors: Ilya G. Ryabinkin, Chang-Yu Hsieh, Raymond Kapral, Artur F. Izmaylov
comments: 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys., 140, 084104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2005
abstract: We analyze two approaches to the quantum-classical Liouville (QCL) formalism that differ in the order of two operations: Wigner transformation and projection onto adiabatic electronic states. The analysis is carried out on a two-dimensional linear vibronic model where geometric phase (GP) effects arising from a conical intersection profoundly affect nuclear dynamics. We find that the Wigner-then-Adiabatic (WA) QCL approach captures GP effects, whereas the Adiabatic-then-Wigner (AW) QCL approach does not. Moreover, the Wigner transform in AW-QCL leads to an ill-defined Fourier transform of double-valued functions. The double-valued character of these functions stems from the nontrivial GP of adiabatic electronic states in the presence of a conical intersection. In contrast, WA-QCL avoids this issue by starting with the Wigner transform of single-valued quantities of the full problem. Since the WA-QCL approach uses solely the adiabatic potentials and non-adiabatic derivative couplings as an input, our results indicate that WA-QCL can capture GP effects in general two-state crossing problems using first-principles electronic structure calculations without prior diabatization or introduction of explicit phase factors.

id: 1312.2012
title: Scalable Spatial Super-Resolution using Entangled Photons
authors: Lee A. Rozema, James D. Bateman, Dylan H. Mahler, Ryo Okamoto, Amir Feizpour, Alex Hayat, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 223602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2012
abstract: N00N states -- maximally path-entangled states of N photons -- exhibit spatial interference patterns sharper than any classical interference pattern. This is known as super-resolution. However, even with perfectly efficient number-resolving detectors, the detection efficiency of all previously demonstrated methods to measure such interference decreases exponentially with the number of photons in the N00N state, often leading to the conclusion that N00N states are unsuitable for spatial measurements. Here, we create spatial super-resolution fringes with two-, three-, and four-photon N00N states, and demonstrate a scalable implementation of the so-called ``optical centroid measurement'' which provides an in-principle perfect detection efficiency. Moreover, we compare the N00N-state interference to the corresponding classical super-resolution interference. Although both provide the same increase in spatial frequency, the visibility of the classical fringes decreases exponentially with the number of detected photons, while the visibility of our experimentally measured N00N-state super-resolution fringes remains approximately constant with N. Our implementation of the optical centroid measurement is a scalable method to measure high photon-number quantum interference, an essential step forward for quantum-enhanced measurements, overcoming what was believed to be a fundamental challenge to quantum metrology.

id: 1312.2017
title: Dynamically protected cat-qubits: a new paradigm for universal quantum computation
authors: Mazyar Mirrahimi, Zaki Leghtas, Victor V. Albert, Steven Touzard, Robert J. Schoelkopf, Liang Jiang, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 28 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 045014 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2017
abstract: We present a new hardware-efficient paradigm for universal quantum computation which is based on encoding, protecting and manipulating quantum information in a quantum harmonic oscillator. This proposal exploits multi-photon driven dissipative processes to encode quantum information in logical bases composed of Schr\"odinger cat states. More precisely, we consider two schemes. In a first scheme, a two-photon driven dissipative process is used to stabilize a logical qubit basis of two-component Schr\"odinger cat states. While such a scheme ensures a protection of the logical qubit against the photon dephasing errors, the prominent error channel of single-photon loss induces bit-flip type errors that cannot be corrected. Therefore, we consider a second scheme based on a four-photon driven dissipative process which leads to the choice of four-component Schr\"odinger cat states as the logical qubit. Such a logical qubit can be protected against single-photon loss by continuous photon number parity measurements. Next, applying some specific Hamiltonians, we provide a set of universal quantum gates on the encoded qubits of each of the two schemes. In particular, we illustrate how these operations can be rendered fault-tolerant with respect to various decoherence channels of participating quantum systems. Finally, we also propose experimental schemes based on quantum superconducting circuits and inspired by methods used in Josephson parametric amplification, which should allow to achieve these driven dissipative processes along with the Hamiltonians ensuring the universal operations in an efficient manner.

id: 1312.2174
title: A comparison of parallel and anti-parallel two qubit mixed states
authors: Azam Mani, Vahid Karimipour, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: Accepted for Publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012304 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2174
abstract: We investigate the correlation properties of separable two qubit states with maximally mixed marginals. These states are divided to two sets with the same geometric quantum correlation. However a closer scrutiny of these states reveals a profound difference between their quantum correlations as measured by more probing measures. Although these two sets of states are prepared by the same type of quantum operations acting on classically correlated states with equal classical correlations, the amount of final quantum correlation is different. We investigate this difference and trace it back to the hidden classical correlation which exists in their preparation process. We also compare these states with regard to their usefulness for entanglement distribution and their robustness against noise.

id: 1312.2178
title: On particle oscillations
authors: Marek G¨®?d?, Andrzej G¨®?d?
comments: Accepted for publication in the proceedings of the XX Nuclear Physics Workshop this http URL To be published in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2178
abstract: It has been firmly established, that neutrinos change their flavour during propagation. This feature is attributed to the fact, that each flavour eigenstate is a superposition of three mass eigenstates, which propagate with different frequencies. This picture, although widely accepted, is wrong in the simplest approach and requires quite sophisticated treatment based on the wave-packet description within quantum field theory. In this communication we present a novel, much simpler explanation and show, that oscillations among massive particles can be obtained in a natural way. We use the framework of quantum mechanics with time being a physical observable, not just a parameter.

id: 1312.2197
title: Robust two-qubit gates for donors in silicon controlled by hyperfine interactions
authors: Rachpon Kalra, Arne Laucht, Charles Hill, Andrea Morello
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021044 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2197
abstract: We present two strategies for performing two-qubit operations on the electron spins of an exchange-coupled pair of phosphorus donors in silicon, using the ability to set the donor nuclear spins in arbitrary states. The effective magnetic detuning of the two electron qubits is provided by the hyperfine interaction when the $^{31}$P nuclei are prepared in opposite spin states. This can be exploited to switch on and off SWAP operations with modest tuning of the electron exchange interaction. Furthermore, the hyperfine detuning enables high-fidelity conditional rotation gates based on selective resonant excitation. The latter requires no dynamic tuning of the exchange interaction at all, and offers a very attractive scheme to implement two-qubit logic gates under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1312.2251
title: A solution of the Gaussian optimizer conjecture
authors: V. Giovannetti, A. S. Holevo, R. Garcia-Patron
comments: 24 pages, no figures (minor typos corrected)
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, 334:3 (2015), 1553-1571
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2251
abstract: The long-standing conjectures of the optimality of Gaussian inputs for Gaussian channel and Gaussian additivity are solved for a broad class of covariant or contravariant Bosonic Gaussian channels (which includes in particular thermal, additive classical noise, and amplifier channels) restricting to the class of states with finite second moments. We show that the vacuum is the input state which minimizes the entropy at the output of such channels. This allows us to show also that the classical capacity of these channels (under the input energy constraint) is additive and is achieved by Gaussian encodings.

id: 1312.2271
title: Probing semiconductor quantum dot state and manipulation with superconducting transmission line resonator
authors: Zhe Guan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2271
abstract: A coupled system of a superconducting transmission line resonator with a semiconductor double quantum dot is analyzed. We simulate the phase shift of the microwave signal in the resonator, which is sensitive to the quantum dot qubit state and manipulation. The measurement quality is sufficiently high and the results demonstrate a solid-state quantum processor based on this type of circuit can be envisioned.

id: 1312.2316
title: Comparing the Overhead of Topological and Concatenated Quantum Error Correction
authors: Martin Suchara, Arvin Faruque, Ching-Yi Lai, Gerardo Paz, Frederic T. Chong, John Kubiatowicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2316
abstract: This work compares the overhead of quantum error correction with concatenated and topological quantum error-correcting codes. To perform a numerical analysis, we use the Quantum Resource Estimator Toolbox (QuRE) that we recently developed. We use QuRE to estimate the number of qubits, quantum gates, and amount of time needed to factor a 1024-bit number on several candidate quantum technologies that differ in their clock speed and reliability. We make several interesting observations. First, topological quantum error correction requires fewer resources when physical gate error rates are high, white concatenated codes have smaller overhead for physical gate error rates below approximately 10E-7. Consequently, we show that different error-correcting codes should be chosen for two of the studied physical quantum technologies - ion traps and superconducting qubits. Second, we observe that the composition of the elementary gate types occurring in a typical logical circuit, a fault-tolerant circuit protected by the surface code, and a fault-tolerant circuit protected by a concatenated code all differ. This also suggests that choosing the most appropriate error correction technique depends on the ability of the future technology to perform specific gates efficiently.

id: 1312.2354
title: Variational Truncated Wigner Approximation
authors: Dries Sels, Fons Brosens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2354
abstract: In this paper we reconsider the notion of an optimal effective Hamiltonian for the semiclassical propagation of the Wigner distribution in phase space. An explicit expression for the optimal effective Hamiltonian is obtained in the short time limit by minimizing the Hilbert-Schmidt distance between the semiclassical approximation and the real state of the system. The method is illustrated for the quartic oscillator.

id: 1312.2407
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and surface plasmons
authors: Harald R. Haakh, Carsten Henkel, Salvatore Spagnolo, Lucia Rizzuto, Roberto Passante
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2407
abstract: We investigate the time-dependent Casimir-Polder potential of a polarizable two-level atom placed near a surface of arbitrary material, after a sudden change in the parameters of the system. Different initial conditions are taken into account. For an initially bare ground-state atom, the time-dependent Casimir-Polder energy reveals how the atom is "being dressed" by virtual, matter-assisted photons. We also study the transient behavior of the Casimir-Polder interaction between the atom and the surface starting from a partially dressed state, after an externally induced change in the atomic level structure or transition dipoles. The Heisenberg equations are solved through an iterative technique for both atomic and field operators in the medium-assisted electromagnetic field quantization scheme. We analyze in particular how the time evolution of the interaction energy depends on the optical properties of the surface, in particular on the dispersion relationof surface plasmon polaritons. The physical significance and the limits of validity of the obtained results are discussed in detail.

id: 1312.2426
title: Reply to "Comment on "Aharonov-Casher and Scalar Aharonov-Bohm Topological Effects""
authors: Kai Ma, Sayipjamal Dulat
comments: This is a Reply to the comment paper arXiv:1311.4011. 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2426
abstract: In this Reply we argue that (i) the Hamiltonian, Eq. (17) in our paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070405 (2012)), is definitely Lorentz invariant; (ii) the conditions of generating topological Aharonov-Casher(AC) and Scalar Aharonov-Bohm (SAB) effects are essential and physically meaningful; (iii) the Hamiltonians both in Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 2847 (1995) and arXiv:1311.4011 are not suitable to describe the polarized spinor particles.

id: 1312.2427
title: Four remarks on spin coherent states
authors: Anna Baecklund, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; talk at the Vaxjo conference 2013; minor polish in version 2
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2427
abstract: We discuss how to recognize the constellations seen in the Majorana representation of quantum states. Then we give explicit formulas for the metric and symplectic form on SU(2) orbits containing general number states. Their metric and symplectic areas differ unless the states are coherent. Finally we discuss some patterns that arise from the Lieb-Solovej map, and for dimensions up to nine we find the location of those states that maximize the Wehrl-Lieb entropy.

id: 1312.2435
title: Quantum many-body models with cold atoms coupled to photonic crystals
authors: J. S. Douglas, H. Habibian, C.-L. Hung, A. V. Gorshkov, H. J. Kimble, D. E. Chang
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 9, 326-331 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2435
abstract: Using cold atoms to simulate strongly interacting quantum systems represents an exciting frontier of physics. However, achieving tunable, coherent long-range interactions between atoms is an outstanding challenge, which currently leaves a large class of models inaccessible to quantum simulation. Here, we propose a solution exploiting the powerful new platform of cold atoms trapped near nano-photonic systems. We show that the dielectric contrast of an atom trapped near a photonic crystal can seed a localized cavity mode around the atomic position. In a dynamic form of "all-atomic" cavity QED, the length of these cavity modes can be tuned, and atoms separated by the order of the effective cavity length can interact coherently with each other. Considering realistic conditions such as fabrication disorder and photon losses, coherent long-range potentials or spin interactions can be dominant in the system over length scales up to hundreds of wavelengths.

id: 1312.2496
title: On the hardness of classically simulating the one clean qubit model
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii, Joseph F. Fitzsimons
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2496
abstract: Deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit (DQC1) is a model of quantum computing where the input restricted to containing a single qubit in a pure state and with all other qubits in a completely-mixed state, with only a single qubit measurement at the end of the computation [E. Knill and R. Laflamme, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf81}, 5672 (1998)]. While it is known that DQC1 can efficiently solve several problems for which no known classical efficient algorithms exist, the question of whether DQC1 is really more powerful than classical computation remains open. In this paper, we introduce a slightly modified version of DQC1, which we call DQC1$_k$, where $k$ output qubits are measured, and show that DQC1$_k$ cannot be classically efficiently simulated for any $k\geq3$ unless the polynomial hierarchy collapses at the third level.

id: 1312.2517
title: A new method of construction of all sets of mutually unbiased bases for two-qubit systems
authors: Iulia Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Journ. of Phys.: Conf. Series 338, 012008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2517
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases are an important tool in many applications of quantum information theory. We present a new algorithm for finding the mutually unbiased bases for two-qubit systems. We derive a system of four equations in the Galois field GF(4) and show that the solutions of this system are sufficient for obtaining the most general set of mutually unbiased bases. Further, our algorithm is applied to an example and we show that there are three possible solutions of the system of four equations, each solution leading to a different set of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1312.2546
title: Decoding in Hyperbolic Spaces: LDPC Codes With Linear Rate and Efficient Error Correction
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2546
abstract: We analyze the four dimensional toric code in a hyperbolic space and show that it has a classical error correction procedure which runs in almost linear time and can be parallelized to almost constant time, giving an example of a quantum LDPC code with linear rate and efficient error correction.

id: 1312.2555
title: Peres Lattices and chaos in the Dicke model
authors: Miguel Angel Bastarrachea-Magnani, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 9 Pages, 5 Figures, IOP Journal of Physics Conference Series, Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2555
abstract: Peres lattices are employed as a visual method to identify the presence of chaos in different regions of the energy spectra in the Dicke model. The coexistence of regular and chaotic regions can be clearly observed for certain energy regions, even if the coupling constant is smaller than the critical value to reach superradiance. It also exhibits the presence of two Excited-State Quantum Phase Transitions, a static and a dynamic one. The diagonalization is performed in a extended bosonic coherent basis which enable us to reach a large number of excited states with good numerical convergence.

id: 1312.2558
title: Hamiltonian Characterization for Dipolar Coupled Spin Systems
authors: Denis-Alexandre Trottier, Virginia Jauregui-Villanueva, Jingfu Zhang
comments: comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2558
abstract: Measuring the Hamiltonian of dipolar coupled spin systems is usually a difficult task due to the high complexity of their spectra. Currently, molecules with unknown geometrical structure and low symmetry are extremely tedious or impossible to analyze by sheer spectral fitting. We present a novel method that addresses the problem of spectral analysis, and report experimental results of extracting, by spectral fitting, the parameters of an oriented 6-spin system with very low symmetry in structure, without using a priori knowledge or assumptions on the molecular geometry or order parameters. The advantages of our method are achieved with the use of a new spectral analysis algorithm - NAFONS (Non-Assigned Frequency Optimization of NMR Spectra), and by the use of simplified spectra obtained by transition selective pulses. This new method goes beyond the limit of spectral analysis for dipolar coupled spin systems and is helpful for related fields, such as quantum computation and molecular structure analysis.

id: 1312.2579
title: Quantum Algorithms for Quantum Chemistry based on the sparsity of the CI-matrix
authors: Borzu Toloui, Peter J. Love
comments: Discussion of scaling in text corrected. Typos fixed. Complete proof provided in appendix for graph coloring method
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2579
abstract: Quantum chemistry provides a target for quantum simulation of considerable scientific interest and industrial importance. The majority of algorithms to date have been based on a second-quantized representation of the electronic structure Hamiltonian - necessitating qubit requirements that scale linearly with the number of orbitals. The scaling of the number of gates for such methods, while polynomial, presents some serious experimental challenges. However, because the number of electrons is a good quantum number for the electronic structure problem it is unnecessary to store the full Fock space of the orbitals. Representation of the wave function in a basis of Slater determinants for fixed electron number suffices. However, to date techniques for the quantum simulation of the Hamiltonian represented in this basis - the CI-matrix - have been lacking. We show how to apply techniques developed for the simulation of sparse Hamiltonians to the CI-matrix. We prove a number of results exploiting the structure of the CI-matrix, arising from the Slater rules which define it, to improve the application of sparse Hamiltonian simulation techniques in this case. We show that it is possible to use the minimal number of qubits to represent the wavefunction, and that these methods can offer improved scaling in the number of gates required in the limit of fixed electron number and increasing basis set size relevant for high-accuracy calculations. We hope these results open the door to further investigation of sparse Hamiltonian simulation techniques in the context of the quantum simulation of quantum chemistry.

id: 1312.2604
title: The Relationship Between Discrete and Continuous Entropy in EPR-Steering Inequalities
authors: James Schneeloch
comments: 6 pages. See arXiv:1210.4234 for original results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2604
abstract: This document expands upon the relationship between discrete and continuous entropy given in (Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 130407), \Violating Continuous Variable Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering with Discrete Measurements". We provide a detailed derivation for the inequality relating the continuous conditional entropy to its discrete approximation, and show how this connection works between discrete and continuous entropic quantities in general. In addition, we use this connection to show how to derive the continuous variable Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering inequality with discrete measurements as seen in (Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 130407), and make an additional comment which strengthens this result.

id: 1312.2619
title: Kratzer's molecular potential in quantum mechanics with a generalized uncertainty principle
authors: Djamil Bouaziz
comments: 20 pages
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 355,pages 269-281 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2619
abstract: The Kratzer's potential $V(r)=g_{1}/r^{2}-g_{2}/r$ is studied in quantum mechanics with a generalized uncertainty principle, which includes a minimal length $\left( \Delta X\right) _{\min}=\hbar\sqrt{5\beta}$. In momentum representation, the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is a generalized Heun's differential equation, which reduces to a hypergeometric and to a Heun's equations in special cases. We explicitly show that the presence of this finite length regularizes the potential in the range of the coupling constant $g_{1}$ where the corresponding Hamiltonian is not self-adjoint. In coordinate space, we perturbatively derive an analytical expression for the bound states spectrum in the first order of the deformation parameter $\beta$. We qualitatively discuss the effect of the minimal length on the vibration-rotation energy levels of diatomic molecules, through the Kratzer interaction. By comparison with an experimental result of the hydrogen molecule, an upper bound for the minimal length is found to be of about $0.01$ \AA . We argue that the minimal length would have some physical importance in studying the spectra of such systems

id: 1312.2621
title: Quantum statistics of light transmitted through an intracavity Rydberg medium
authors: A. Grankin, E. Brion, E. Bimbard, R. Boddeda, I. Usmani, A. Ourjoumtsev, P. Grangier
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 043020 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2621
abstract: We theoretically investigate the quantum statistical properties of light transmitted through an atomic medium with strong optical non-linearity induced by Rydberg-Rydberg van der Waals interactions. In our setup, atoms are located in a cavity and non-resonantly driven on a two-photon transition from their ground state to a Rydberg level via an intermediate state by the combination of the weak signal field and a strong control beam. To characterize the transmitted light we compute the second-order correlation function $g^{\left(2\right)}\left(\tau\right)$. The simulations we obtained on the specific case of rubidium atoms suggest that the bunched or antibunched nature of the outgoing beam can be chosen at will by appropriately tuning the physical parameters.

id: 1312.2636
title: Free-running InGaAs single photon detector with 1 dark count per second at 10% efficiency
authors: Boris Korzh, Nino Walenta, Tommaso Lunghi, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 081108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2636
abstract: We present a free-running single photon detector for telecom wavelengths based on a negative feedback avalanche photodiode (NFAD). A dark count rate as low as 1 cps was obtained at a detection efficiency of 10%, with an afterpulse probability of 2.2% for 20 {\mu}s of deadtime. This was achieved by using an active hold-off circuit and cooling the NFAD with a free-piston stirling cooler down to temperatures of -110${^o}$C. We integrated two detectors into a practical, 625 MHz clocked quantum key distribution system. Stable, real-time key distribution in presence of 30 dB channel loss was possible, yielding a secret key rate of 350 bps.

id: 1312.2644
title: Two-way deterministic quantum key distribution against detector side channel attacks
authors: Hua Lu, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Qing-yu Cai
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 044302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2644
abstract: In a two-way deterministic quantum key distribution (DQKD) protocol, Bob randomly prepares qubits in one of four states and sends them to Alice. To encode a bit, Alice performs an operation on each received qubit and returns it to Bob. Bob then measures the backward qubits to learn about Alice's operations and hence the key bits. Recently, we proved the unconditional security of the final key of this protocol in the ideal device setting. In this paper, we prove that two-way DQKD protocols are immune to all detector side channel attacks at Bob's side, while we assume ideal detectors at Alice's side for error testing. Our result represents a step forward in making DQKD protocols secure against general detector side channel attacks.

id: 1312.2648
title: Vacuum pair production of charged scalar bosons in time-dependent electric fields
authors: Zi-Liang Li, Ding Lu, Bai-Song Xie
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2648
abstract: Based on the quantum mechanical scattering model, the dynamical assist effect and the multiple-slit interference effect in electron-positron pair production from vacuum are generalized to vacuum pair production of charged scalar bosons. For the former effect some combinations of a strong but slowly varying electric field and a weak but rapidly varying one with different time delay are studied. Results indicate that the oscillation intensity of momentum spectrum and the number density of created bosons reduce with increasing of the time delay. Obviously, they achieve the maximum if the time delay equals zero. For the latter effect, it is shown that this effect does not exist for equal-sign $N$-pulse electric field in contrast to its existence for alternating-sign $N$-pulse. An approximate solution of boson momentum spectrum is got and it is agreeable well with the exact numerical one in alternating-sign $N$-pulse electric field, especially for $2$-pulse field and for small longitudinal momentum. The difference of vacuum pair production between bosons and fermions are also compared for their longitudinal momentum spectra.

id: 1312.2665
title: Comparative quantum and semi-classical analysis of Atom-Field Systems I: density of states and excited-state quantum phase transitions
authors: M. A. Bastarrachea-Magnani, S. Lerma-Hernandez, J. G. Hirsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2665
abstract: We study the non-integrable Dicke model, and its integrable approximation, the Tavis-Cummings model, as functions of both the coupling constant and the excitation energy. Excited-state quantum phase transitions (ESQPT) are found analyzing the density of states in the semi-classical limit and comparing it with numerical results for the quantum case in large Hilbert spaces, taking advantage of efficient methods recently developed. Two different ESQPTs are identified in both models, which are signaled as singularities in the semi-classical density of states, one {\em static} ESQPT occurs for any coupling, whereas a dynamic ESQPT is observed only in the superradiant phase. The role of the unstable fixed points of the Hamiltonian semi-classical flux in the occurrence of the ESQPTs is discussed and determined. Numerical evidence is provided that shows that the semi-classical result describes very well the tendency of the quantum energy spectrum for any coupling in both models. Therefore the semi-classical density of states can be used to study the statistical properties of the fluctuation in the spectra, a study that is presented in a companion paper.

id: 1312.2672
title: Comparative quantum and semi-classical analysis of Atom-Field Systems II: Chaos and regularity
authors: M.A. Bastarrachea-Magnani, S. Lerma-Hernandez, J.G. Hirsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2672
abstract: The non-integrable Dicke model and its integrable approximation, the Tavis-Cummings (TC) model, are studied as functions of both the coupling constant and the excitation energy. The present contribution extends the analysis presented in the previous paper by focusing on the statistical properties of the quantum fluctuations in the energy spectrum and their relation with the excited state quantum phase transitions (ESQPT). These properties are compared with the dynamics observed in the semi-classical versions of the models. The presence of chaos for different energies and coupling constants is exhibited, employing Poincar\'e sections and Peres lattices in the classical and quantum versions, respectively. A clear correspondence between the classical and quantum result is found for systems containing between $\mathcal{N} = 80$ to $200$ atoms. A measure of the Wigner character of the energy spectrum for different couplings and energy intervals is also presented employing the statistical Anderson-Darling test. It is found that in the Dicke Model, for any coupling, a low energy regime with regular states is always present. The richness of the onset of chaos is discussed both for finite quantum systems and for the semi-classical limit, which is exact when the number of atoms in the system tends to infinite.

id: 1312.2680
title: Transformation of subradiant state to superradiant state in a thick resonant medium
authors: R.N. Shakhmuratov
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2680
abstract: The propagation of a step pulse through a thick resonant absorber with homogeneously broadened absorption line is considered. It is shown that a specific subradiant state is naturally developed in the absorber due to the formation of the spatial domains of the atomic coherence with opposite phases. It is proposed to divide the absorber into slices in accord with these domains and place the phase shifters in front of the first slice and between the other slices. If the phase shifters are switched on simultaneously at a particular moment of time, elapsed from the beginning of the step pulse, a strong sharp pulse is generated at the output of the last slice of the absorber. The effect is explained by the phasing of the atomic coherence along all slices of the absorber, which transforms subradiant state of atom-field system to superradiant state.

id: 1312.2713
title: Space-Time Area in Atom Interferometry
authors: Gordon D. McDonald, Carlos C. N. Kuhn
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2713
abstract: It is a commonly stated that the acceleration sensitivity of an atom interferometer is proportional to the space-time area enclosed between the two interfering arms. Here we derive the interferometric phase shift for an extensive class of interferometers, and explore the circumstances in which only the inertial terms contribute. We then analyse various configurations in light of this geometric interpretation of the interferometric phase shift.

id: 1312.2763
title: An experimental proposal for a Gaussian amendable quantum channel
authors: Daniela Buono, Gaetano Nocerino, Alberto Porzio, Andrea Mari, Antonella De Pasquale, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2763
abstract: We propose a quantum optics experiment where a single two-mode Gaussian entangled state is used for realizing the paradigm of an amendable Gaussian channel recently presented in Phys. Rev. A, \textbf{87}, 062307 (2013). Depending on the choice of the experimental parameters the entanglement of the probe state is preserved or not and the relative map belongs or not to the class of entanglement breaking channels. The scheme has been optimized to be as simple as possible: it requires only a single active non-linear operation followed by four passive beam-splitters. The effects of losses, detection inefficiencies and statistical errors are also taken into account, proving the feasibility of the experiment with current realistic resources.

id: 1312.2786
title: Entanglement classification of three fermions with up to nine single-particle states
authors: G¨¢bor S¨¢rosi, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 56 pages, 3 figures. Changes made: We changed the title to be more informative and to meet the suggestion of the journal. We added a new section (Sec V.) on pinning of occupation numbers. We corrected some factors due to an unfortunate mismatch in the normalization convention in e.q. (149). We corrected some wrong factors in e.q. (176). We corrected several typos through the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2786
abstract: Based on results well known in the mathematics literature but have not made their debut to the physics literature yet we conduct a study on three-fermionic systems with six, seven, eight and nine single-particle states. Via introducing special polynomial invariants playing the role of entanglement measures the structure of the SLOCC entanglement classes is investigated. The SLOCC classes of the six- and seven-dimensional cases can elegantly be described by special subconfigurations of the Fano plane. Some special embedded systems containing distinguishable constituents are arising naturally in our formalism, namely, three-qubits and three-qutrits. In particular the three fundamental invariants $I_6$, $I_9$, and $I_{12}$ of the three-qutrits system are shown to arise as special cases of the four fundamental invariants of three-fermions with nine single-particle states.

id: 1312.2801
title: Non-local common cause explanations for EPR
authors: Matthias Egg, Michael Esfeld
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2801
abstract: The paper argues that a causal explanation of the correlated outcomes of EPR-type experiments is desirable and possible. It shows how Bohmian mechanics and the GRW mass density theory offer such an explanation in terms of a non-local common cause.

id: 1312.2811
title: Topological order away from equilibrium
authors: Alioscia Hamma
comments: Talk given at International Conference on Nanomaterials (ICN 2013) - August 12-16, 2013 at Western University, London, Canada
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2811
abstract: Topological ordered states are exotic quantum states of matter that defy the usual description in terms of symmetry breaking and local order parameters. The type or order they feature is of non-local, topological nature, and it allows such systems to present unusual and interesting behaviours, like robust degeneracy, and anyonic excitations. Here we focus on the behaviour of such systems away from equilibrium. After a sudden change of the Hamiltonian - the so called quantum quench - quantum many body systems show thermalization, unless the quench is integrable. We show how in topologically ordered systems out of equilibrium behaviour do not follow the usual thermalization behaviour.

id: 1312.2849
title: Efficient quantum simulation of fermionic and bosonic models in trapped ions
authors: L. Lamata, A. Mezzacapo, J. Casanova, E. Solano
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Published in EPJ Quantum Technology
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 1, 9 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2849
abstract: We analyze the efficiency of quantum simulations of fermionic and bosonic models in trapped ions. In particular, we study the optimal time of entangling gates and the required number of total elementary gates. Furthermore, we exemplify these estimations in the light of quantum simulations of quantum field theories, condensed-matter physics, and quantum chemistry. Finally, we show that trapped-ion technologies are a suitable platform for implementing quantum simulations involving interacting fermionic and bosonic modes, paving the way for overcoming classical computers in the near future.

id: 1312.2852
title: Discrete Spacetime and Relativistic Quantum Particles
authors: Terence C. Farrelly, Anthony J. Short
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2852
abstract: We study a single quantum particle in discrete spacetime evolving in a causal way. We see that in the continuum limit any massless particle with a two dimensional internal degree of freedom obeys the Weyl equation, provided that we perform a simple relabeling of the coordinate axes or demand rotational symmetry in the continuum limit. It is surprising that this occurs regardless of the specific details of the evolution: it would be natural to assume that discrete evolutions giving rise to relativistic dynamics in the continuum limit would be very special cases. We also see that the same is not true for particles with larger internal degrees of freedom, by looking at an example with a three dimensional internal degree of freedom that is not relativistic in the continuum limit. In the process we give a formula for the Hamiltonian arising from the continuum limit of massless and massive particles in discrete spacetime.

id: 1312.2875
title: Generation of all sets of mutually unbiased bases for three-qubit systems
authors: Iulia Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta T153, 014027 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2875
abstract: We propose a new method of finding the mutually unbiased bases for three qubits. The key element is the construction of the table of striation-generating curves in the discrete phase space. We derive a system of equations in the Galois field GF(8) and show that the solutions of these equations are sufficient for the construction of the general sets of complete mutually unbiased bases. A few examples are presented in order to show how our algorithm works in the cases: striation table with three, two axes, and one and no axis in the discrete phase space.

id: 1312.2932
title: Transient Quantum Coherent Response to a Partially Coherent Radiation Field
authors: Z.S. Sadeq, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2932
abstract: The response of an arbitrary closed quantum system to a partially coherent electric field is investigated, with a focus on the transient coherences in the system. As a model we examine, both perturbatively and numerically, the coherences induced in a three level $V$ system. Both rapid turn-on and pulsed turn-on effects are investigated. The effect of a long and incoherent pulse is also considered, demonstrating that during the pulse the system shows a coherent response which reduces after the pulse is over. Both the pulsed scenario and the thermally broadened CW case approach a mixed state in the long time limit, with rates dictated by the adjacent level spacings and the coherence time of the light, and via a mechanism that is distinctly difference from traditional decoherence. These two excitation scenarios are also explored for a minimal "toy" model of the electronic levels in pigment protein complex PC645 by both a collisionally broadened CW laser and by a noisy pulse, where unexpectedly long transient coherence times are observed and explained. The significance of environmentally induced decoherence is noted.

id: 1312.2939
title: Quasinormal mode approach to modelling light-emission and propagation in nanoplasmonics
authors: Rong-Chun Ge, Philip Trost Kristensen, Jeff. F. Young, Stephen Hughes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2939
abstract: We describe a powerful and intuitive technique for modeling light-matter interactions in classical and quantum nanoplasmonics. Our approach uses a quasinormal mode expansion of the Green function within a metal nanoresonator of arbitrary shape, together with a Dyson equation, to derive an expression for the spontaneous decay rate and far field propagator from dipole oscillators outside resonators. For a single quasinormal mode, at field positions outside the quasi-static coupling regime, we give a closed form solution for the Purcell factor and generalized effective mode volume. We augment this with an analytic expression for the divergent LDOS very near the metal surface, which allows us to derive a simple and highly accurate expression for the electric field outside the metal resonator at distances from a few nanometers to infinity. This intuitive formalism provides an enormous simplification over full numerical calculations and fixes several pending problems in quasinormal mode theory.

id: 1312.2963
title: Observation of a Dissipation-Induced Classical to Quantum Transition
authors: James Raftery, Darius Sadri, Sebastian Schmidt, Hakan E. T¨¹reci, Andrew A. Houck
comments: 34 pages, 13 figures, includes supplementary material; significant additions to theory sections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2963
abstract: We report here the experimental observation of a dynamical quantum phase transition in a strongly interacting open photonic system. The system studied, comprising a Jaynes-Cummings dimer realized on a superconducting circuit platform, exhibits a dissipation driven localization transition. Signatures of the transition in the homodyne signal and photon number reveal this transition to be from a regime of classical oscillations into a macroscopically self-trapped state manifesting revivals, a fundamentally quantum phenomenon. This experiment also demonstrates a small-scale realization of a new class of quantum simulator, whose well controlled coherent and dissipative dynamics is suited to the study of quantum many-body phenomena out of equilibrium.

id: 1312.2981
title: Amplification of Angular Rotations Using Weak Measurements
authors: Omar S. Magana-Loaiza, Mohammad Mirhosseini, Brandon Rodenburg, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, contains supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 200401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2981
abstract: We present a weak measurement protocol that permits a sensitive estimation of angular rotations based on the concept of weak-value amplification. The shift in the state of a pointer, in both angular position and the conjugate orbital angular momentum bases, is used to estimate angular rotations. This is done by an amplification of both the real and imaginary parts of the weak-value of a polarization operator that has been coupled to the pointer, which is a spatial mode, via a spin-orbit coupling. Our experiment demonstrates the first realization of weak-value amplification in the azimuthal degree of freedom. We have achieved effective amplification factors as large as 100, providing a sensitivity that is on par with more complicated methods that employ quantum states of light or extremely large values of orbital angular momentum.

id: 1312.2999
title: A Robust Mathematical Model for Clauser-Horne Experiments, With Implications for Rigorous Statistical Analysis
authors: Peter Bierhorst
comments: To appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (2015) 48, 195302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2999
abstract: Recent experiments have reached detection efficiencies sufficient to close the detection loophole, testing the Clauser-Horne (CH) version of Bell's inequality. For a similar future experiment to be completely loophole-free, it will be important to have discrete experimental trials with randomized measurement settings for each trial, and the statistical analysis should not overlook the possibility of a local state varying over time with possible dependence on earlier trials (the "memory loophole"). In this paper, a mathematical model for such a CH experiment is presented, and a method for statistical analysis that is robust to memory effects is introduced. Additionally, a new method for calculating exact p-values for martingale-based statistics is described; previously, only non-sharp upper bounds derived from the Azuma-Hoeffding inequality have been available for such statistics. This improvement decreases the required number of experimental trials to demonstrate non-locality. The statistical techniques are applied to the data of recent experiments and found to perform well.

id: 1312.3016
title: Basic Properties of Coherent-Squeezed States Revisited
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike
comments: Latex ; 19 pages ; 2 figures ; minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys, 11(2014), 1450051 (15 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3016
abstract: In this paper we treat coherent-squeezed states of Fock space once more and study some basic properties of them from a geometrical point of view. Since the set of coherent-squeezed states $\{\ket{\alpha, \beta}\ |\ \alpha, \beta \in \fukuso\}$ makes a real 4-dimensional surface in the Fock space ${\cal F}$ (which is of course not flat), we can calculate its metric. On the other hand, we know that coherent-squeezed states satisfy the minimal uncertainty of Heisenberg under some condition imposed on the parameter space $\{\alpha, \beta\}$, so that we can study the metric from the view point of uncertainty principle. Then we obtain a surprising simple form (at least to us). We also make a brief review on Holonomic Quantum Computation by use of a simple model based on nonlinear Kerr effect and coherent-squeezed operators.

id: 1312.3036
title: Weak value as an indicator of back-action
authors: Riuji Mochizuki
comments: Submitted to PTEP. 14 pages, 1 figure. This paper contains main part of our previous manuscript arXiv:1302.6003
journal: Prog.Theor.Exp.Phys.2014,043A02
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3036
abstract: In this study we critically examine some important papers on weak measurement and weak values. We find some insufficiency and mistakes in these papers, and we demonstrate that the real parts of weak values provide the back-action to the post-selection, which is caused by weak measurement. Two examples, a counterfactual statement of Hardy's paradox and experiments that determine the average trajectory of photons passing through double slits, are investigated from our view point.

id: 1312.3080
title: Stringent and efficient assessment of Boson-Sampling devices
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Klaus Mayer, Andreas Buchleitner, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, version accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3080
abstract: Boson-Sampling holds the potential to experimentally falsify the Extended Church Turing thesis. The computational hardness of Boson-Sampling, however, complicates the certification that an experimental device yields correct results in the regime in which it outmatches classical computers. To certify a boson-sampler, one needs to verify quantum predictions and rule out models that yield these predictions without true many-boson interference. We show that a semiclassical model for many-boson propagation reproduces coarse-grained observables that were proposed as witnesses of Boson-Sampling. A test based on Fourier matrices is demonstrated to falsify physically plausible alternatives to coherent many-boson propagation.

id: 1312.3086
title: Quantum repeater with Rydberg blocked atomic ensembles in fiber-coupled cavities
authors: E. Brion, F. Carlier, V. M. Akulin, K. Moelmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3086
abstract: We propose and analyze a quantum repeater architecture in which Rydberg blocked atomic ensembles inside optical cavities are linked by optical fibers. Entanglement generation, swapping and purification are achieved through collective laser manipulations of the ensembles and photon transmission. Successful transmission and storage of entanglement are heralded by ionization events rather than by photon detection signal used in previous proposals. We demonstrate how the high charge detection efficiency allows for a shortened average entanglement generation time, and we analyze an implementation of our scheme with ensembles of Cs atoms.

id: 1312.3105
title: Quantum spectroscopy of plasmonic nanostructures
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Zhenying Pan, Arseniy I. Kuznetsov, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review X 4, 011049 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3105
abstract: We use frequency entangled photons, generated via spontaneous parametric down conversion, to measure the broadband spectral response of an array of gold nanoparticles exhibiting Fano-type plasmon resonance. Refractive index sensing of a liquid is performed by measuring the shift of the array resonance. This method is robust in excessively noisy conditions compared with conventional broadband transmission spectroscopy. Detection of a refractive index change is demonstrated with a noise level 70 times higher than the signal, which is shown to be inaccessible with the conventional transmission spectroscopy. Use of low photon fluxes makes this method suitable for measurements of photosensitive bio-samples and chemical substances.

id: 1312.3157
title: Non-unitarity and non-reciprocity in scattering from real potentials in presence of confined non-linearity
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 8 pages, Five Figures each with three parts a.b.c
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3157
abstract: Investigations of scattering in presence of non-linearity which have just begun require the confinement of both the potential, $V(x)$, and the non-linearity, $\gamma f(|\psi|)$. There could be two options for the confinement. One is the finite support on $x \in [-L,L]$ and the other one is on $x \in [0,L]$. Here, we consider real Hermitian potentials and report a surprising disparate behaviour of these two types of confinements. We prove that in the first option the symmetric potential enjoys reciprocity of both reflectivity ($R$) and transmitivity ($T$) and their unitarity. More interestingly, the asymmetry in $V(x)$ causes non-unitarity ($ R+T\ne 1$) and the non-reciprocity (reciprocity) of $T (R)$. On the other hand, the second option of confinement gives rise to an essential non-unitarity even when $V(x)$ is symmetric about a point in $[0,L]$. In the absence of symmetry there occurs non-reciprocity of both $R$ and $T$.

id: 1312.3210
title: Inhibiting unwanted transitions in population transfer in two- and three-level quantum systems
authors: Anthony Kiely, Andreas Ruschhaupt
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3210
abstract: We examine the stability of population transfer in two- and three-level systems against unwanted additional transitions. This population inversion is achieved by using recently proposed schemes called "shortcuts to adiabaticity". We quantify and compare the sensitivity of different schemes to these unwanted transitions. Finally, we provide examples of shortcut schemes which lead to a zero transition sensitivity in certain regimes, i.e. which lead to a nearly perfect population inversion even in the presence of unwanted transitions.

id: 1312.3227
title: Noise Studies of Driven Geometric Phase Gates with Trapped Ions
authors: A. Lemmer, A. Bermudez, M. B. Plenio
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures to be published in "Proceedings of the International School of Physics "E. Fermi""
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3227
abstract: We present a study of the performance of the trapped-ion driven geometric phase gates introduced in [New J. Phys. 15, 083001 (2013)] when realized in a stimulated Raman transition. We show that the gate can achieve errors below the fault-tolerance threshold in the presence of laser intensity fluctuations. We also find that, in order to reduce the errors due to photon scattering below the fault-tolerance threshold, very intense laser beams are required to allow for large detunings in the Raman configuration without compromising the gate speed.

id: 1312.3236
title: The correspondence between mutually unbiased bases and mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares
authors: Iulia Ghiu, Cristian Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics 73, 49 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3236
abstract: We study the connection between mutually unbiased bases and mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares, a wider class of squares which does not contain only the Latin squares. We show that there are four types of complete sets of mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares for the dimension $d=8$. We introduce the concept of physical striation and show that this is equivalent to the extraordinary supersquare. The general algorithm for obtaining the mutually unbiased bases and the physical striations is constructed and it is shown that the complete set of mutually unbiased physical striations is equivalent to the complete set of mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares. We apply the algorithm to two examples: one for two-qubit systems ($d=4$) and one for three-qubit systems ($d=8$), by using the Type II complete sets of mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares of order 8.

id: 1312.3239
title: Unitary Inequivalent Representations in Quantum Physics
authors: Arman Stepanian, Mahsa Kohandel
comments: 11 pages, Some new subsections added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3239
abstract: First we will discuss the concept of unitary inquivalentness in quantum physics. Then by giving some examples in the Quantum Field Theory(QFT), we will show their role to understand some phenomena such as Hawking effect.

id: 1312.3287
title: Strong converse rates for classical communication over thermal and additive noise bosonic channels
authors: Bhaskar Roy Bardhan, Mark M. Wilde
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A; minor changes in the text and few references
journal: Physical Review A 89, 022302 (February 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3287
abstract: We prove that several known upper bounds on the classical capacity of thermal and additive noise bosonic channels are actually strong converse rates. Our results strengthen the interpretation of these upper bounds, in the sense that we now know that the probability of correctly decoding a classical message rapidly converges to zero in the limit of many channel uses if the communication rate exceeds these upper bounds. In order for these theorems to hold, we need to impose a maximum photon number constraint on the states input to the channel (the strong converse property need not hold if there is only a mean photon number constraint). Our first theorem demonstrates that Koenig and Smith's upper bound on the classical capacity of the thermal bosonic channel is a strong converse rate, and we prove this result by utilizing the structural decomposition of a thermal channel into a pure-loss channel followed by an amplifier channel. Our second theorem demonstrates that Giovannetti et al.'s upper bound on the classical capacity of a thermal bosonic channel corresponds to a strong converse rate, and we prove this result by relating success probability to rate, the effective dimension of the output space, and the purity of the channel as measured by the Renyi collision entropy. Finally, we use similar techniques to prove that similar previously known upper bounds on the classical capacity of an additive noise bosonic channel correspond to strong converse rates.

id: 1312.3315
title: Non-exponential decay in Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Field Theory
authors: Francesco Giacosa
comments: Proceeding contribution for the symposium "Symmetries in Science", 21-26/7/2013, Bregenz (Austria). 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3315
abstract: We describe some salient features as well as some recent developments concerning short-time deviations from the exponential decay law in the context of Quantum Mechanics by using the Lee Hamiltonian approach and Quantum Field Theory by using relativistic Lagrangians. In particular, the case in which two decay channels are present is analyzed: the ratio of decay probability densities, which is a constant equal to the ratio of decay widths in the exponential limit, shows in general sizable fluctuations which persist also at long times.

id: 1312.3332
title: Discord Empowered Quantum Illumination
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Stefano Pirandola, Jayne Thompson, Vlatko Vedral, Mile Gu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3332
abstract: Quantum illumination employs entanglement to detect reflecting objects in environments so noisy that all entanglement is destroyed. This appears paradoxical: the benefit of entanglement outlasts entanglement itself. Here we demonstrate that the resilience of quantum illumination is due to quantum discord - a more resilient form of quantum correlations. We prove a direct equality between the performance gain in quantum illumination and the amount of discord which is expended to resolve the target. Discord outlasts entanglement; and in harnessing this discord, quantum illumination outperforms all conventional techniques. This simultaneously explains why quantum illumination thrives in entanglement breaking noise, and confirms discord is a resource of immediate value.

id: 1312.3360
title: Geometry of quantum evolution for mixed quantum states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: Presentation at CEWQO2013-Stockholm, 6 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. T 160 (2014) 014004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3360
abstract: The geometric formulation of quantum mechanics is a very interesting field of research which has many applications in the emerging field of quantum computation and quantum information, such as schemes for optimal quantum computers. In this work we discuss a geometric formulation of mixed quantum states represented by density operators. Our formulation is based on principal fiber bundles and purifications of quantum states. In our construction, the Riemannian metric and symplectic form on the total space are induced from the real and imaginary parts of the Hilbert-Schmidt Hermitian inner product, and we define a mechanical connection in terms of a locked inertia tensor and moment map. We also discuss some applications of our geometric framework.

id: 1312.3365
title: Nonlinear Spectroscopy of Controllable Many-Body Quantum Systems
authors: M. Gessner, F. Schlawin, H. Haeffner, S. Mukamel, A. Buchleitner
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 092001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3365
abstract: We establish a novel approach to probing spatially resolved multi-time correlation functions of interacting many-body systems, with scalable experimental overhead. Specifically, designing nonlinear measurement protocols for multidimensional spectra in a chain of trapped ions with single-site addressability enables us, e.g., to distinguish coherent from incoherent transport processes, to quantify potential anharmonicities, and to identify decoherence-free subspaces.

id: 1312.3366
title: Quantum fluctuations from a local-causal information dynamics
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: A large part of text of the previous version is omitted. A longer version is accepted for publication in Physica A. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1301.5345
journal: Physica A 399, 40 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3366
abstract: We shall show that the abstract and formal rules which govern the quantum kinematic and dynamics can be derived from a law of change of the information content or the degree of uncertainty that the system has a certain configuration in a microscopic time scale, which is singled out uniquely, up to a free parameter, by imposing the condition of Macroscopic Classicality and the principle of Locality. Unlike standard quantum mechanics, however, the system always has a definite configuration all the time as in classical mechanics, following a continuous trajectory fluctuating randomly in time.

id: 1312.3395
title: Local PT symmetry violates the no-signaling principle
authors: Yi-Chan Lee, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Steven T. Flammia, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3395
abstract: Bender et al. have developed PT-symmetric quantum theory as an extension of quantum theory to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We show that when this model has a local PT symmetry acting on composite systems it violates the non-signaling principle of relativity. Since the case of global PT symmetry is known to reduce to standard quantum mechanics, this shows that the PT-symmetric theory is either a trivial extension or likely false as a fundamental theory.

id: 1312.3404
title: Goldstone and Higgs modes of photons inside a cavity
authors: Yi-Xiang Yu, Jinwu Ye, Wuming Liu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, Article number: 3476 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3404
abstract: Goldstone and Higgs modes have been detected in various condensed matter, cold atom and particle physics experiments. Here, we demonstrate that the two modes can also be observed in optical systems with only a few (artificial) atoms inside a cavity. We establish this connection by studying the $ U(1)/Z_2 $ Dicke model where $ N $ qubits (atoms) coupled to a single photon mode. We determine the Goldstone and Higgs modes inside the super-radiant phase and their corresponding spectral weights by performing both $ 1/J=2/N $ expansion and exact diagonization (ED) study at a finite $ N $. We find nearly perfect agreements between the results achieved by the two approaches when $ N $ gets down even to $ N = 2 $. The quantum finite size effects at a few qubits make the two modes quite robust against an effectively small counter-rotating wave term. We present a few schemes to reduce the critical coupling strength, so the two modes can be observed in several experimental systems of (artificial) atoms inside a cavity by just conventional optical measurements.

id: 1312.3427
title: The Emergent Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Timothy J. Hollowood
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3427
abstract: We introduce a new and conceptually simple interpretation of quantum mechanics based on reduced density matrices of sub-systems from which the standard Copenhagen interpretation emerges as an effective description of macroscopically large systems. Wave function collapse is seen to be a useful but fundamentally unnecessary piece of prudent book keeping which is only valid for macro-systems. The new interpretation lies in a class of modal interpretations in that it applies to quantum systems that interact with a much larger environment. However, we show that it does not suffer from the problems that have plagued similar modal interpretations like macroscopic superpositions and rapid flipping between macroscopically distinct states. We describe how the interpretation fits neatly together with fully quantum formulations of statistical mechanics and that a measurement process can be viewed as a process of ergodicity breaking analogous to a phase transition. The key feature of the new interpretation is that joint probabilities for the ergodic subsets of states of disjoint macro-systems only arise as emergent quantities. Finally we give an account of the EPR-Bohm thought experiment and show that the interpretation implies the violation of the Bell inequality characteristic of quantum mechanics but in a way that is rather novel. The final conclusion is that the Copenhagen interpretation gives a completely satisfactory phenomenology of macro-systems interacting with micro-systems.

id: 1312.3464
title: Wireless network control of interacting Rydberg atoms
authors: Jaron Sanders, Rick van Bijnen, Edgar Vredenbregt, Servaas Kokkelmans
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures; includes corrections and improvements from the peer-review process
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 163001. Published 22 April 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3464
abstract: We identify a relation between the dynamics of ultracold Rydberg gases in which atoms experience a strong dipole blockade and spontaneous emission, and a stochastic process that models certain wireless random-access networks. We then transfer insights and techniques initially developed for these wireless networks to the realm of Rydberg gases, and explain how the Rydberg gas can be driven into crystal formations using our understanding of wireless networks. Finally, we propose a method to determine Rabi frequencies (laser intensities) such that particles in the Rydberg gas are excited with specified target excitation probabilities, providing control over mixed-state populations.

id: 1312.3476
title: Lindblad equation approach for the full counting statistics of work and heat in driven quantum systems
authors: Mihail Silaev, Tero T. Heikkil?, Pauli Virtanen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3476
abstract: We formulate the general approach based on the Lindblad equation to calculate the full counting statistics of work and heat produced by driven quantum systems weakly coupled with a Markovian thermal bath. The approach can be applied to a wide class of dissipative quantum systems driven by an arbitrary force protocol. We show the validity of general fluctuation relations and consider several generic examples. The possibilities of using calorimetric measurements to test the presence of coherence and entanglement in the open quantum systems are discussed.

id: 1312.3487
title: Quantum analysis of the direct measurement of light waves
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha
comments: 12 pages (one-column format), 2 figures. To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3487
abstract: In a beautiful experiment performed about a decade ago, Goulielmakis et al. made a direct measurement of the electric field of light waves [E. Goulielmakis et al., Science 305, 1267-1269 (2004)]. However, they used a laser source to produce the light field, whose quantum state has a null expectation value for the electric field operator, so how was it possible to measure this electric field? Here we present a quantum treatment for the f:2f interferometer used to calibrate the carrier-envelope phase of the light pulses in the experiment. We show how the special nonlinear features of the f:2f interferometer can change the quantum state of the electromagnetic field inside the laser cavity to a state with a definite oscillating electric field, explaining how the "classical" electromagnetic field emerges in the experiment. We discuss that this experiment was, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of an absolute coherent superposition of different photon number states in the optical regime.

id: 1312.3499
title: Maximally incompatible quantum observables
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Jussi Schultz, Alessandro Toigo, Mario Ziman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 1695--1699
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3499
abstract: The existence of maximally incompatible quantum observables in the sense of a minimal joint measurability region is investigated. Employing the universal quantum cloning device it is argued that only infinite dimensional quantum systems can accommodate maximal incompatibility. It is then shown that two of the most common pairs of complementary observables (position and momentum; number and phase) are maximally incompatible.

id: 1312.3514
title: Loss-tolerant quantum cryptography with imperfect sources
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Marcos Curty, Go Kato, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Koji Azuma
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3514
abstract: In principle, quantum key distribution (QKD) offers unconditional security based on the laws of physics. In practice, flaws in the state preparation undermine the security of QKD systems, as standard theoretical approaches to deal with state preparation flaws are not loss-tolerant. An eavesdropper can enhance and exploit such imperfections through quantum channel loss, thus dramatically lowering the key generation rate. Crucially, the security analyses of most existing QKD experiments are rather unrealistic as they typically neglect this effect. Here, we propose a novel and general approach that makes QKD loss-tolerant to state preparation flaws. Importantly, it suggests that the state preparation process in QKD can be significantly less precise than initially thought. Our method can widely apply to other quantum cryptographic protocols.

id: 1312.3545
title: Quantum state majorization at the output of bosonic Gaussian channels
authors: Andrea Mari, Vittorio Giovannetti, Alexander S. Holevo
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3826 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3545
abstract: Quantum communication theory explores the implications of quantum mechanics to the tasks of information transmission. Many physical channels can be formally described as quantum Gaussian operations acting on bosonic quantum states. Depending on the input state and on the quality of the channel, the output suffers certain amount of noise. For a long time it has been conjectured, but never proved, that output states of Gaussian channels corresponding to coherent input signals are the less noisy ones (in the sense of a majorization criterion). In this work we prove this conjecture. Specifically we show that every output state of a phase insensitive Gaussian channel is majorized by the output state corresponding to a coherent input. The proof is based on the optimality of coherent states for the minimization of strictly concave output functionals. Moreover we show that coherent states are the unique optimizers.

id: 1312.3559
title: Biomimetic Cloning of Quantum Observables
authors: U. Alvarez-Rodriguez, M. Sanz, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: 6+2 pages, 3 figures, Published in Scientific Reports
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4910 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3559
abstract: We propose a bio-inspired sequential quantum protocol for the cloning and preservation of the statistics associated to quantum observables of a given system. It combines the cloning of a set of commuting observables, permitted by the no-cloning and no-broadcasting theorems, with a controllable propagation of the initial state coherences to the subsequent generations. The protocol mimics the scenario in which an individual in an unknown quantum state copies and propagates its quantum information into an environment of blank qubits. Finally, we propose a realistic experimental implementation of this protocol in trapped ions.

id: 1312.3586
title: On superactivation of one-shot zero-error quantum capacity and the related property of quantum measurements
authors: M.E. Shirokov, T.V. Shulman
comments: 20 pages, examples with any given level of superactivation have been added; any comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3586
abstract: We begin with a detailed description of a low dimensional quantum channel ($d_A=4, d_E=3$) demonstrating the symmetric form of superactivation of one-shot zero-error quantum capacity. This means appearance of a noiseless (perfectly reversible) subchannel in the tensor square of a channel having no noiseless subchannels. Then we describe a quantum channel $\Phi$ such that $\,\bar{Q}_0(\Phi)=0$ and $\,\bar{Q}_0(\Phi\otimes\Phi)\geq\log n\,$ for any $\,n\leq+\infty$. We also show that the superactivation of one-shot zero-error quantum capacity of a channel can be reformulated in terms of quantum measurements theory as appearance of an indistinguishable subspace for tensor product of two observables having no indistinguishable subspaces.

id: 1312.3606
title: Strong squeezing and robust entanglement in cavity electromechanics
authors: Eyob A. Sete, H. Eleuch
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013841 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3606
abstract: We investigate nonlinear effects in an electromechanical system consisting of a superconducting charge qubit coupled to transmission line resonator and a nanomechanical oscillator, which in turn is coupled to another transmission line resonator. The nonlinearities induced by the superconducting qubit and the optomechanical coupling play an important role in creating optomechanical entanglement as well as the squeezing of the transmitted microwave field. We show that strong squeezing of the microwave field and robust optomechanical entanglement can be achieved in the presence of moderate thermal decoherence of the mechanical mode. We also discuss the effect of the coupling of the superconducting qubit to the nanomechanical oscillator on the bistability behaviour of the mean photon number.

id: 1312.3614
title: Multiuser Quadrature Allocation for Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 41 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3614
abstract: We propose the adaptive multicarrier quadrature division-multiuser quadrature allocation (AMQD-MQA) multiple access technique for continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD). The MQA scheme is based on the AMQD modulation, which granulates the inputs of the users into Gaussian subcarrier continuous-variables (CVs). The subcarrier coherent states formulate Gaussian sub-channels from the physical link with diverse transmittance coefficients. In an AMQD-MQA multiple access scenario, the simultaneous reliable transmission of the users is handled by the dynamic allocation of the Gaussian subcarrier CVs. We propose two different settings of AMQD-MQA for multiple input-multiple output communication. We introduce a rate-selection strategy that tunes the modulation variances and allocates adaptively the quadratures of the users over the sub-channels. We also prove the rate formulas if only partial channel side information is available for the users of the sub-channel conditions. In an experimental CVQKD scenario, an ideal Gaussian input modulation can only be approximated, which affects the quadrature adaption and the efficiency of the transmission. We show a technique for the compensation of a nonideal Gaussian input modulation, which allows the users to overwhelm the modulation imperfections to reach optimal capacity-achieving communication over the Gaussian sub-channels. We investigate the diversity amplification of the sub-channel transmittance coefficients and reveal that a strong diversity can be exploited by opportunistic Gaussian modulation.

id: 1312.3630
title: Entanglement tongue and quantum synchronization of disordered oscillators
authors: Tony E. Lee, Ching-Kit Chan, Shenshen Wang
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 022913 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3630
abstract: We study the synchronization of dissipatively-coupled van der Pol oscillators in the quantum limit, when each oscillator is near its quantum ground state. Two quantum oscillators with different frequencies exhibit an entanglement tongue, which is the quantum analogue of an Arnold tongue. It means that the oscillators are entangled in steady state when the coupling strength is greater than a critical value, and the critical coupling increases with detuning. An ensemble of many oscillators with random frequencies still exhibits a synchronization phase transition in the quantum limit, and we analytically calculate how the critical coupling depends on the frequency disorder. Our results can be experimentally observed with trapped ions or neutral atoms.

id: 1312.3655
title: Fidelity of Fock-state-encoded qubits subjected to continuous variable Gaussian processes
authors: Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3655
abstract: When a harmonic oscillator is under the influence of a Gaussian process such as linear damping, parametric gain, and linear coupling to a thermal environment, its coherent states are transformed into states with Gaussian Wigner function. Qubit states can be encoded in the |0> and |1> Fock states of a quantum harmonic oscillator, and it is relevant to know the fidelity of the output qubit state after a Gaussian process on the oscillator. In this paper we present a general expression for the average qubit fidelity in terms of the first and second moments of the output from input coherent states subjected to Gaussian processes.

id: 1312.3667
title: The status of determinism in proofs of the impossibility of a noncontextual model of quantum theory
authors: Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 18 pages. v2 is the published version. Besides the new title, the main change from v1 is the inclusion of a summary of the features of quantum theory that are needed to demonstrate that measurements are represented outcome-deterministically if and only if they are sharp, and why these features by themselves are insufficient to derive a contradiction with noncontextuality
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 1125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3667
abstract: In order to claim that one has experimentally tested whether a noncontextual ontological model could underlie certain measurement statistics in quantum theory, it is necessary to have a notion of noncontextuality that applies to unsharp measurements, i.e., those that can only be represented by positive operator-valued measures rather than projection-valued measures. This is because any realistic measurement necessarily has some nonvanishing amount of noise and therefore never achieves the ideal of sharpness. Assuming a generalized notion of noncontextuality that applies to arbitrary experimental procedures, it is shown that the outcome of a measurement depends deterministically on the ontic state of the system being measured if and only if the measurement is sharp. Hence for every unsharp measurement, its outcome necessarily has an indeterministic dependence on the ontic state. We defend this proposal against alternatives. In particular, we demonstrate why considerations parallel to Fine's theorem do not challenge this conclusion.

id: 1312.3717
title: Optimal algorithms for linear algebra by quantum inspiration
authors: Michael Ben-Or, Lior Eldar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3717
abstract: Recent results by Harrow et. al. and by Ta-Shma, suggest that quantum computers may have an exponential advantage in solving a wealth of linear algebraic problems, over classical algorithms. Building on the quantum intuition of these results, we step back into the classical domain, and explore its usefulness in designing classical algorithms. We achieve an algorithm for solving the major linear-algebraic problems in time $O(n^{\omega+\nu})$ for any $\nu>0$, where $\omega$ is the optimal matrix-product constant. Thus our algorithm is optimal w.r.t. matrix multiplication, and comparable to the state-of-the-art algorithm for these problems due to Demmel et. al. Being derived from quantum intuition, our proposed algorithm is completely disjoint from all previous classical algorithms, and builds on a combination of low-discrepancy sequences and perturbation analysis. As such, we hope it motivates further exploration of quantum techniques in this respect, hopefully leading to improvements in our understanding of space complexity and numerical stability of these problems.

id: 1312.3730
title: Entanglement of Bipartite Quantum Systems driven by Repeated Interactions
authors: S. Attal, J. Deschamps, C. Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3730
abstract: We consider a non-interacting bipartite quantum system $\mathcal H_S^A\otimes\mathcal H_S^B$ undergoing repeated quantum interactions with an environment modeled by a chain of independant quantum systems interacting one after the other with the bipartite system. The interactions are made so that the pieces of environment interact first with $\mathcal H_S^A$ and then with $\mathcal H_S^B$. Even though the bipartite systems are not interacting, the interactions with the environment create an entanglement. We show that, in the limit of short interaction times, the environment creates an effective interaction Hamiltonian between the two systems. This interaction Hamiltonian is explicitly computed and we show that it keeps track of the order of the successive interactions with $\mathcal H_S^A$ and $\mathcal H_S^B$. Particular physical models are studied, where the evolution of the entanglement can be explicitly computed. We also show the property of return of equilibrium and thermalization for a family of examples.

id: 1312.3741
title: Sensitivity limits of a Raman atom interferometer as a gravity gradiometer
authors: F. Sorrentino, Q. Bodart, L. Cacciapuoti, Y.-H. Lien, M. Prevedelli, G. Rosi, L. Salvi, G. M. Tino
comments: 19 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3741
abstract: We evaluate the sensitivity of a dual cloud atom interferometer to the measurement of vertical gravity gradient. We study the influence of most relevant experimental parameters on noise and long-term drifts. Results are also applied to the case of doubly differential measurements of the gravitational signal from local source masses. We achieve a short term sensitivity of 3*10^(-9) g/Hz^(-1/2) to differential gravity acceleration, limited by the quantum projection noise of the instrument. Active control of the most critical parameters allows to reach a resolution of 5*10^(-11) g after 8000 s on the measurement of differential gravity acceleration. The long term stability is compatible with a measurement of the gravitational constant G at the level of 10^(-4) after an integration time of about 100 hours.

id: 1312.3743
title: Spin Squeezing of One-Axis Twisting Model in The Presence of Phase Dephasing
authors: C. G. Ji, Y. C. Liu, G. R. Jin
comments: 14.2pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 13, No. 3&4 (2013) 0266-0280
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3743
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of spin squeezing of the one-axis twisting model with a many-body phase dephasing, which is induced by external field fluctuation in a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensates. Even in the presence of the dephasing, our analytical results show that the optimal initial state corresponds to a coherent spin state $|\theta_{0}, \phi_0\rangle$ with the polar angle $\theta_0=\pi/2$. If the dephasing rate $\gamma\ll S^{-1/3}$, where $S$ is total atomic spin, we find that the smallest value of squeezing parameter (i.e., the strongest squeezing) obeys the same scaling with the ideal one-axis twisting case, namely $\xi^2\propto S^{-2/3}$. While for a moderate dephasing, the achievable squeezing obeys the power rule $S^{-2/5}$, which is slightly worse than the ideal case. When the dephasing rate $\gamma>S^{1/2}$, we show that the squeezing is weak and neglectable.

id: 1312.3775
title: Observation of a quantum Cheshire Cat in a matter wave interferometer experiment
authors: Tobias Denkmayr, Hermann Geppert, Stephan Sponar, Hartmut Lemmel, Alexandre Matzkin, Jeff Tollaksen, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures and 1 table
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 4492 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3775
abstract: From its very beginning quantum theory has been revealing extraordinary and counter-intuitive phenomena, such as wave-particle duality, Schr\"odinger cats and quantum non-locality. In the study of quantum measurement, a process involving pre- and postselection of quantum ensembles in combination with a weak interaction was found to yield unexpected outcomes. This scheme, usually referred to as "weak measurements", can not only be used as an amplification technique and for minimal disturbing measurements, but also for the exploration of quantum paradoxes. Recently the quantum Cheshire Cat has attracted attention: a quantum system can behave as if a particle and its property (e.g. its polarization) are spatially separated. Up to now most experiments studying weak measurements were done with photonic setups. To reveal the peculiarities of a quantum Cheshire Cat the use of non-zero mass particles is most appealing, since no classical description is possible. Here, we report an experiment using a neutron interferometer to create and observe a purely quantum mechanical Cheshire Cat. The experimental results suggest that the system behaves as if the neutrons went through one beam path, while their spin travelled along the other.

id: 1312.3822
title: Quantum Achievability Proof via Collision Relative Entropy
authors: Salman Beigi, Amin Gohari
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3822
abstract: In this paper, we provide a simple framework for deriving one-shot achievable bounds for some problems in quantum information theory. Our framework is based on the joint convexity of the exponential of the collision relative entropy, and is a (partial) quantum generalization of the technique of Yassaee et al. (2013) from classical information theory. Based on this framework, we derive one-shot achievable bounds for the problems of communication over classical-quantum channels, quantum hypothesis testing, and classical data compression with quantum side information. We argue that our one-shot achievable bounds are strong enough to give the asymptotic achievable rates of these problems even up to the second order.

id: 1312.3832
title: Narrowband Photon Pair Source for Quantum Networks
authors: F. Monteiro, A. Martin, B. Sanguinetti, H. Zbinden, R. T. Thew
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3832
abstract: We demonstrate a compact photon pair source based on a periodically poled lithium niobate nonlinear crystal in a cavity. The cavity parameters are chosen such that the emitted photon pair modes can be matched in the region of telecom ultra dense wavelength division multiplexing (U-DWDM) channel spacings. This approach provides efficient, low-loss, mode selection that is compatible with standard telecommunication networks. Photons with a coherence time of 8.6 ns (116 MHz) are produced and their purity is demonstrated. A source brightness of 134 pairs(s.mW.MHz)$^{-1}$ is reported. The high level of purity and compatibility with standard telecom networks is of great importance for complex quantum communication networks.

id: 1312.3852
title: Quantum search on graphene lattices
authors: Iain Foulger, Sven Gnutzmann, Gregor Tanner
comments: 8 pages including supplement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3852
abstract: We present a continuous-time quantum search algorithm on a graphene lattice. This provides the sought-after implementation of an efficient continuous-time quantum search on a two-dimensional lattice. The search uses the linearity of the dispersion relation near the Dirac point and can find a marked site on a graphene lattice faster than the corresponding classical search. The algorithm can also be used for state transfer and communication.

id: 1312.3920
title: Non-Markovianity of a quantum emitter in front of a mirror
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, M. S. Kim, Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Fig. 3 featured in Phys. Rev. A Kaleidoscope Images: July 2014
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3920
abstract: We consider a quantum emitter ("atom") radiating in a one-dimensional (1D) photonic waveguide in the presence of a single mirror, resulting in a delay differential equation for the atomic amplitude. We carry out a systematic analysis of the non-Markovian (NM) character of the atomic dynamics in terms of refined, recently developed notions of quantum non-Markovianity such as indivisibility and information back-flow. NM effects are quantified as a function of the round-trip time and phase shift associated with the atom-mirror optical path. We find, in particular, that unless an atom-photon bound state is formed a finite time delay is always required in order for NM effects to be exhibited. This identifies a finite threshold in the parameter space, which separates the Markovian and non-Markovian regimes.

id: 1312.3931
title: Reversible Dynamics in Strongly Non-Local Boxworld Systems
authors: Sabri W. Al-Safi, Anthony J. Short
comments: 5 pages + appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3931
abstract: In order to better understand the structure of quantum theory, or speculate about theories that may supercede it, it can be helpful to consider alternative physical theories. ``Boxworld'' describes one such theory, in which all non-signaling correlations are achievable. In a limited class of multipartite Boxworld systems - wherein all subsystems are identical and all measurements have the same number of outcomes - it has been demonstrated that the set of reversible dynamics is `trivial', generated solely by local relabellings and permutations of subsystems. We develop the convex formalism of Boxworld to give an alternative proof of this result, then extend this proof to all multipartite Boxworld systems, and discuss the potential relevance to other theories. These results lend further support to the idea that the rich reversible dynamics in quantum theory may be the key to understanding its structure and its informational capabilities.

id: 1312.3933
title: Proposal for demonstrating the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect with matter waves
authors: R. J. Lewis-Swan, K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: Essentially the same version as v2, except in Nature Communications style; for Supplementary Information see the source file
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3752 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3933
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) effect is a striking demonstration of destructive quantum interference between pairs of indistinguishable bosons, realised so far only with massless photons. Here we propose an experiment which can realise this effect in the matter-wave regime using pair-correlated atoms produced via a collision of two Bose-Einstein condensates and subjected to two laser induced Bragg pulses. We formulate a novel measurement protocol appropriate for the multimode matter-wave field, which---unlike the typical two-mode optical case---bypasses the need for repeated measurements under different displacement settings of the beam-splitter, thus dramatically reducing the number of experimental runs required to map out the interference visibility. The protocol can be utilised in related matter-wave schemes; here we focus on condensate collisions and by simulating the entire experiment we predict a HOM-dip visibility of ~69%. By being larger than 50%, such a visibility highlights strong quantum correlations between the atoms and paves the way for a possible demonstration of a Bell inequality violation with massive particles in a related Rarity-Tapster setup.

id: 1312.3995
title: Non-Hermitian quantum dynamics and entanglement of coupled nonlinear resonators
authors: Evren Karakaya, Ferdi Altintas, Kaan G¨¹ven, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu
comments: 
journal: EPL 105 (2014) 40001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3995
abstract: We consider a generalization of recently proposed non-Hermitian model for resonant cavities coupled by a chiral mirror by taking into account number non-conservation and nonlinear interactions. We analyze non-Hermitian quantum dynamics of populations and entanglement of the cavity modes. We find that an interplay of initial coherence and non-Hermitian coupling leads to a counterintuitive population transfer. While an initially coherent cavity mode is depleted, the other empty cavity can be populated more or less than the initially filled one. Moreover, presence of nonlinearity yields population collapse and revival as well as bipartite entanglement of the cavity modes. In addition to coupled cavities, we point out that similar models can be found in $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric Bose-Hubbard dimers of Bose-Einstein condensates or in coupled soliton-plasmon waveguides. We specifically illustrate quantum dynamics of populations and entanglement in a heuristic model that we propose for a soliton-plasmon system with soliton amplitude dependent asymmetric interaction. Degree of asymmetry, nonlinearity and coherence are examined to control plasmon excitations and soliton-plasmon entanglement. Relations to $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric lasers and Jahn-Teller systems are pointed out.

id: 1312.4000
title: Average clock times for scattering through asymmetric barriers
authors: Bryce A. Frentz, Jos¨¦ T. Lunardi, Luiz A. Manzoni
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures. Accepted for publication in European Physical Journal Plus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4000
abstract: The reflection and transmission Salecker-Wigner-Peres clock times averaged over the post-selected reflected and transmitted sub-ensembles, respectively, are investigated for the one dimensional scattering of a localized wave packet through an asymmetric barrier. The dwell time averaged over the same post-selected sub-ensembles is also considered. The emergence of negative average reflection times is examined and we show that while the average over the reflected sub-ensemble eliminates the negative peaks at resonance for the clock time, it still allows negative values for transparent barriers. The saturation of the average times with the barrier width (Hartman effect) is also addressed.

id: 1312.4007
title: On Real and Virtual Photons in the Davies Theory of Time-Symmetric Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Forthcoming in Electronic Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4007
abstract: This paper explores the distinction between virtual and real photons in the context of the Davies quantum relativistic extension of the Wheeler-Feynman classical electromagnetic theory. An alternative way of understanding this distinction is proposed, based on the transactional picture as first proposed by Cramer. It is noted that this proposed account of the relationship between virtual and real photons might have empirically detectable consequences.

id: 1312.4021
title: New approach to finding the maximum number of mutually unbiased bases in $\mathbb{C}^6$
authors: J. Batle
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0907.4097 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4021
abstract: There has been great interest in finding sets of $m$ mutually unbiased bases which are compatible with a given space $\mathbb{C}^d$, specially in physics due to their interesting applications in quantum information theory. Several general results have been obtained so far, but surprising results may occur for definite $(m,d)$-values. One such case that has remained an open question (the simplest case) is the one regarding the existence of $m=4$ mutually orthogonal bases for $d=6$. In the present work we introduce a new approach to the problem by translating it into an optimization procedure for a given pair $(m,d)$.

id: 1312.4084
title: Mechanically Detecting and Avoiding the Quantum Fluctuations of a Microwave Field
authors: J. Suh, A. J. Weinstein, C. U. Lei, E. E. Wollman, S. K. Steinke, P. Meystre, A. A. Clerk, K. C. Schwab
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4084
abstract: During the theoretical investigation of the ultimate sensitivity of gravitational wave detectors through the 1970's and '80's, it was debated whether quantum fluctuations of the light field used for detection, also known as photon shot noise, would ultimately produce a force noise which would disturb the detector and limit the sensitivity. Carlton Caves famously answered this question with "They do." With this understanding came ideas how to avoid this limitation by giving up complete knowledge of the detector's motion. In these back-action evading (BAE) or quantum non-demolition (QND) schemes, one manipulates the required quantum measurement back-action by placing it into a component of the motion which is unobserved and dynamically isolated. Using a superconducting, electro-mechanical device, we realize a sensitive measurement of a single motional quadrature with imprecision below the zero-point fluctuations of motion, detect both the classical and quantum measurement back-action, and demonstrate BAE avoiding the quantum back-action from the microwave photons by 9 dB. Further improvements of these techniques are expected to provide a practical route to manipulate and prepare a squeezed state of motion with mechanical fluctuations below the quantum zero-point level, which is of interest both fundamentally and for the detection of very weak forces.

id: 1312.4104
title: High-rate quantum cryptography in untrusted networks
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Carlo Ottaviani, Gaetana Spedalieri, Christian Weedbrook, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd, Tobias Gehring, Christian S. Jacobsen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: Theory and Experiment. Main article (6 pages) plus Supplementary Information (additional 13 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4104
abstract: We extend the field of continuous-variable quantum cryptography to a network formulation where two honest parties connect to an untrusted relay by insecure quantum links. To generate secret correlations, they transmit coherent states to the relay where a continuous-variable Bell detection is performed and the outcome broadcast. Even though the detection could be fully corrupted and the links subject to optimal coherent attacks, the honest parties can still extract a secret key, achieving high rates when the relay is proximal to one party, as typical in public networks with access points or proxy servers. Our theory is confirmed by an experiment generating key-rates which are orders of magnitude higher than those achievable with discrete-variable protocols. Thus, using the cheapest possible quantum resources, we experimentally show the possibility of high-rate quantum key distribution in network topologies where direct links are missing between end-users and intermediate relays cannot be trusted.

id: 1312.4116
title: Quantum Algorithm to Solve a Maze: Converting the Maze Problem into a Search Problem
authors: Niraj Kumar, Debabrata Goswami
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures,Appeared in Asian Quantum Information Science(AQIS'13) Conference, Chennai, India, August 2013. this http URL aqis13/submissions/
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4116
abstract: We propose a different methodology towards approaching a Maze problem. We convert the problem into a Quantum Search Problem (QSP), and its solutions are sought for using the iterative Grover's Search Algorithm. Though the category of mazes we are looking at are of the NP complete class, we have redirected such a NP complete problem into a QSP. Our solution deals with two dimensional perfect mazes with no closed loops. We encode all possible individual paths from the starting point of the maze into a quantum register. A quantum fitness operator applied on the register encodes each individual with its fitness value. We propose an oracle design which marks all the individuals above a certain fitness value and use the Grover search algorithm to find one of the marked states. Iterating over this method, we approach towards the optimum solution.

id: 1312.4156
title: Controlling the transport of an ion: Classical and quantum mechanical solutions
authors: H. A. F¨¹rst, M. H. Goerz, U. G. Poschinger, M. Murphy, S. Montangero, T. Calarco, F. Schmidt-Kaler, K. Singer, C. P. Koch
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 075007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4156
abstract: We investigate the performance of different control techniques for ion transport in state-of-the-art segmented miniaturized ion traps. We employ numerical optimization of classical trajectories and quantum wavepacket propagation as well as analytical solutions derived from invariant based inverse engineering and geometric optimal control. We find that accurate shuttling can be performed with operation times below the trap oscillation period. The maximum speed is limited by the maximum acceleration that can be exerted on the ion. When using controls obtained from classical dynamics for wavepacket propagation, wavepacket squeezing is the only quantum effect that comes into play for a large range of trapping parameters. We show that this can be corrected by a compensating force derived from invariant based inverse engineering, without a significant increase in the operation time.

id: 1312.4191
title: Quantum F_un: the q=1 Limit of Galois Field Quantum Mechanics, Projective Geometry, and the Field with One Element
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 18 pages, uses ws-mplb.cls, updated sections 2.4, 3.2, and bibliography. Footnotes added in various sections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 405304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4191
abstract: We argue that the q=1 limit of Galois Field Quantum Mechanics, which was constructed on a vector space over the Galois Field F_q=GF(q), corresponds to its `classical limit,' where superposition of states is disallowed. The limit preserves the projective geometry nature of the state space, and can be understood as being constructed on an appropriately defined analogue of a `vector' space over the `field with one element' F_1.

id: 1312.4197
title: Direct high-resolution characterization of quantum correlations via classical measurements
authors: Andreas Eckstein, Guillaume Boucher, Aristide Lema?tre, Pascal Filloux, Ivan Favero, Giuseppe Leo, John E. Sipe, Marco Liscidini, Sara Ducci
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Laser Photonics Rev. 8, No. 5, L76-L80 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4197
abstract: Quantum optics plays a central role in the study of fundamental concepts in quantum mechanics, and in the development of new technological applications. Typical experiments employ non-classical light, such as entangled photons, generated by parametric processes. The standard characterization of the sources by quantum tomography, which relies on detecting the pairs themselves and thus requires single photon detectors, limits both measurement speed and accuracy. Here we show that the spectral characterization of the quantum correlations generated by two-photon sources can be directly performed classically with an unprecedented spectral resolution. This streamlined technique has the potential to speed up design and testing of massively parallel integrated sources by providing a fast and reliable quality control procedure. Adapting our method to explore other degrees of freedom would allow the complete characterization of biphoton states generated by parametric processes.

id: 1312.4218
title: Unextendible Product Basis for Fermionic Systems
authors: Jianxin Chen, Lin Chen, Bei Zeng
comments: 17 pages, no figure. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4218
abstract: We discuss the concept of unextendible product basis (UPB) and generalized UPB for fermionic systems, using Slater determinants as an analogue of product states, in the antisymmetric subspace $\wedge^ N \bC^M$. We construct an explicit example of generalized fermionic unextendible product basis (FUPB) of minimum cardinality $N(M-N)+1$ for any $N\ge2,M\ge4$. We also show that any bipartite antisymmetric space $\wedge^ 2 \bC^M$ of codimension two is spanned by Slater determinants, and the spaces of higher codimension may not be spanned by Slater determinants. Furthermore, we construct an example of complex FUPB of $N=2,M=4$ with minimum cardinality $5$. In contrast, we show that a real FUPB does not exist for $N=2,M=4$ . Finally we provide a systematic construction for FUPBs of higher dimensions using FUPBs and UPBs of lower dimensions.

id: 1312.4240
title: Direct observation of any two-point quantum correlation function
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Michele Dall'Arno, Masanao Ozawa, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 + 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4240
abstract: The existence of noncompatible observables in quantum theory makes a direct operational interpretation of two-point correlation functions problematic. Here we challenge such a view by explicitly constructing a measuring scheme that, independently of the input state $\rho$ and observables $A$ and $B$, performs an unbiased optimal estimation of the two-point correlation function $\operatorname{Tr}[A \ \rho \ B]$. This shows that, also in quantum theory, two-point correlation functions are as operational as any other expectation value. A very simple probabilistic implementation of our proposal is presented.

id: 1312.4266
title: Interference of Identical Particles from Entanglement to Boson-Sampling
authors: Malte C. Tichy
comments: tutorial/pedagogic review, minor changes, new references, accepted version, 47 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 103001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4266
abstract: Progress in the reliable preparation, coherent propagation and efficient detection of many-body states has recently brought collective quantum phenomena of many identical particles into the spotlight. This tutorial introduces the physics of many-boson and many-fermion interference required for the description of current experiments and for the understanding of novel approaches to quantum computing. The field is motivated via the two-particle case, for which the uncorrelated, classical dynamics of distinguishable particles is compared to the quantum behaviour of identical bosons and fermions. Bunching of bosons is opposed to anti-bunching of fermions, while both species constitute equivalent sources of bipartite two-level entanglement. The realms of indistinguishable and distinguishable particles are connected by a monotonic transition, on a scale defined by the coherence length of the interfering particles. As we move to larger systems, any attempt to understand many particles via the two-particle paradigm fails: In contrast to two-particle bunching and anti-bunching, the very same signatures can be exhibited by bosons and fermions, and coherent effects dominate over statistical behaviour. The simulation of many-boson interference, termed Boson-Sampling, entails a qualitatively superior computational complexity when compared to fermions. The hierarchy between bosons and fermions also characterises multipartite entanglement generation, for which bosons again clearly outmatch fermions. Finally, the quantum-to-classical transition between many indistinguishable and many distinguishable particles features non-monotonic structures. While the same physical principles govern small and large systems, the deployment of the intrinsic complexity of collective many-body interference makes more particles behave differently.

id: 1312.4286
title: Comment on `Energy transfer, entanglement and decoherence in a molecular dimer interacting with a phonon bath'
authors: James Lim, Mark Tame, Ki Hyuk Yee, Joong-Sung Lee, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 018001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4286
abstract: We show that the influence of the shared phonon bath considered in H. Hossein-Nejad and G. D. Scholes, New J. Phys. 12, 065045 (2010) on the exciton transfer in a two-molecule system can be reproduced by that of an independent bath model.

id: 1312.4303
title: Heralded single phonon preparation, storage and readout in cavity optomechanics
authors: Christophe Galland, Nicolas Sangouard, Nicolas Piro, Nicolas Gisin, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters. Added References 42,43
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 143602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4303
abstract: We analyze theoretically how to use the radiation pressure coupling between a mechanical oscillator and an optical cavity field to generate in a heralded way a single quantum of mechanical motion (a Fock state), and release on-demand the stored excitation as a single photon. Starting with the oscillator close to its ground state, a laser pumping the upper motional sideband leads to dynamical backaction amplification and to the creation of correlated photon-phonon pairs. The detection of one Stokes photon thus projects the macroscopic oscillator into a single-phonon Fock state. The non-classical nature of this mechanical state can be demonstrated by applying a readout laser on the lower sideband (i.e. optical cooling) to map the phononic state to a photonic mode, and by performing an autocorrelation measurement on the anti-Stokes photons. We discuss the relevance of our proposal for the future of cavity optomechanics as an enabling quantum technology.

id: 1312.4311
title: Extracting entanglement from identical particles
authors: N. Killoran, M. Cramer, M. B. Plenio
comments: v2: minor clarifications added, content unchanged; matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 150501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4311
abstract: Identical particles and entanglement are both fundamental components of quantum mechanics. However, when identical particles are condensed in a single spatial mode, the standard notions of entanglement, based on clearly identifiable subsystems, break down. This has led many to conclude that such systems have limited value for quantum information tasks, compared to distinguishable particle systems. To the contrary, we show that any entanglement formally appearing amongst the identical particles, including entanglement due purely to symmetrization, can be extracted into an entangled state of independent modes, which can then be applied to any task. In fact, the entanglement of the mode system is in one-to-one correspondence with the entanglement between the inaccessible identical particles. This settles the long-standing debate about the resource capabilities of such states, in particular spin-squeezed states of Bose-Einstein condensates, while also revealing a new perspective on how and when entanglement is generated in passive optical networks. Our results thus reveal new fundamental connections between entanglement, squeezing, and indistinguishability.

id: 1312.4319
title: Non-adiabatic effect on the quantum heat flux control
authors: Chikako Uchiyama
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; mistypes are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 052108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4319
abstract: We provide a general formula of quantum transfer that includes the non-adiabatic effect under periodic environmental modulation by using full counting statistics in Hilbert-Schmidt space. Applying the formula to an anharmonic junction model that interacts with two bosonic environments within the Markovian approximation, we find that the quantum transfer is divided into the adiabatic (dynamical and geometrical phases) and non-adiabatic contributions. This extension shows the dependence of quantum transfer on the initial condition of the anharmonic junction just before the modulation, as well as the characteristic environmental parameters such as interaction strength and cut-off frequency of spectral density. We show that the non-adiabatic contribution represents the reminiscent effect of past modulation including the transition from the initial condition of the anharmonic junction to a steady state determined by the very beginning of the modulation. This enables us to tune the frequency range of modulation, whereby we can obtain the quantum flux corresponding to the geometrical phase by setting the initial condition of the anharmonic junction.

id: 1312.4365
title: Manipulating Transverse Modes of Photons for Quantum Cryptography
authors: Marcelo Alejandro Luda, Miguel Antonio Larotonda, Juan Pablo Paz, Christian Tom¨¢s Schmiegelow
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4365
abstract: Several schemes have been proposed to extend Quantum Key Distribution protocols aiming at improving their security or at providing new physical substrates for qubit implementation. We present a toolbox to jointly create, manipulate and measure qubits stored in polarization and transverse-modes degrees of freedom of single photons. The toolbox includes local operations on single qubits, controlled operations between the two qubits and projective measurements over a wide variety of non-local bases in the four dimensional space of states. We describe how to implement the toolbox to perform an extended version of the BB84 protocol for this Hilbert space (ideally transmitting two key bits per photon). We present the experimental implementation of the measurement scheme both in the regimes of intense light beams and with single photons. Thus, we show the feasibility of implementing the protocol providing an interesting example of a new method for quantum information processing using the polarization and transverse modes of light as qubits.

id: 1312.4392
title: Measurement uncertainty relations
authors: Paul Busch, Pekka Lahti, Reinhard F Werner
comments: This version 2 contains minor corrections and reformulations
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 042111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4392
abstract: Measurement uncertainty relations are quantitative bounds on the errors in an approximate joint measurement of two observables. They can be seen as a generalization of the error/disturbance tradeoff first discussed heuristically by Heisenberg. Here we prove such relations for the case of two canonically conjugate observables like position and momentum, and establish a close connection with the more familiar preparation uncertainty relations constraining the sharpness of the distributions of the two observables in the same state. Both sets of relations are generalized to means of order $\alpha$ rather than the usual quadratic means, and we show that the optimal constants are the same for preparation and for measurement uncertainty. The constants are determined numerically and compared with some bounds in the literature. In both cases the near-saturation of the inequalities entails that the state (resp. observable) is uniformly close to a minimizing one.

id: 1312.4393
title: Quantum root-mean-square error and measurement uncertainty relations
authors: Paul Busch, Pekka Lahti, Reinhard F Werner
comments: This second version has been substantially edited to ensure a balanced comparison of the two proposed quantum generalizations of the Gauss rms error concept. The limitations of the noise-operator based measure are highlighted more sharply with additional examples
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 1261 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4393
abstract: Recent years have witnessed a controversy over Heisenberg's famous error-disturbance relation. Here we resolve the conflict by way of an analysis of the possible conceptualizations of measurement error and disturbance in quantum mechanics. We discuss two approaches to adapting the classic notion of root-mean-square error to quantum measurements. One is based on the concept of noise operator; its natural operational content is that of a mean deviation of the values of two observables measured jointly, and thus its applicability is limited to cases where such joint measurements are available. The second error measure quantifies the differences between two probability distributions obtained in separate runs of measurements and is of unrestricted applicability. We show that there are no nontrivial unconditional joint-measurement bounds for {\em state-dependent} errors in the conceptual framework discussed here, while Heisenberg-type measurement uncertainty relations for {\em state-independent} errors have been proven.

id: 1312.4431
title: Maximally strong entropic uncertainty relations and gauge invariance
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Seth Lloyd
comments: Paper withdrawn by the authors. We became aware of a flaw in the proof that invalidates the result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4431
abstract: Uncertainty relations are among the unique fingerprints of quantum physics, being direct expression of non-commutativity and complementarity. Entropic uncertainty relations arise in quantum information theory as the most natural expression of the uncertainty principle and have proven themselves important tools for cryptographic security proofs. An open question has been how strong entropic uncertainty relations can be. Here we answer this question by showing that there exist observables that obey maximally strong entropic uncertainty relations in high dimensional Hilbert spaces. Actually, we show that maximally strong uncertainty relations are typically verified if the observables are distributed somehow uniformly. In particular, we show that phase randomness in a mutually unbiased basis is sufficient, providing a link between uncertainty relations and local gauge invariance. For quantum systems of finite dimensions our approach provides an explicit relation between the strength of the uncertainty and its probability.

id: 1312.4455
title: The universe as quantum computer
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 16 pages, LaTex
journal: Chapter for A Computable Universe: Understanding and exploring Nature as computation, H. Zenil ed., World Scientific, Singapore, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4455
abstract: This article reviews the history of digital computation, and investigates just how far the concept of computation can be taken. In particular, I address the question of whether the universe itself is in fact a giant computer, and if so, just what kind of computer it is. I will show that the universe can be regarded as a giant quantum computer. The quantum computational model of the universe explains a variety of observed phenomena not encompassed by the ordinary laws of physics. In particular, the model shows that the the quantum computational universe automatically gives rise to a mix of randomness and order, and to both simple and complex systems.

id: 1312.4456
title: Uncomputability and physical law
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 12 pages, plain TeX, to appear in The Incomputable, B. Sanders, ed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4456
abstract: This article addresses the question of when physical laws and their consequences can be computed. If a physical system is capable of universal computation, then its energy gap can't be computed. At an even more fundamental level, the most concise, simply applicable formulation of the underlying laws of physics is uncomputable. That is, physicists are in the same boat as mathematicians: many quantities of interest can be computed, but not all.

id: 1312.4462
title: Inseparability criteria based on bipartitions of $N$-spin systems
authors: Asoka Biswas
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4462
abstract: We present a new set of inseparabilty inequalities to detect entanglement in $N$-spin states. These are based on negative partial transposition and involve collective spin-spin correlations of any two partitions of the entire system. They also reveal the rich texture of partial separability for different partition and can discriminate between GHZ-type and W-type entanglement, as well. We introduce a new concept of relative entanglement of two different systems and two different partitions in a spin-ensemble. These criteria can be applicable to non-symmetric states and states with odd or even $N$.

id: 1312.4469
title: Measurement of sub-pulse-width temporal delays via spectral interference induced by weak value amplification
authors: Luis Jose Salazar-Serrano, Davide Janner, Nicolas Brunner, Valerio Pruneri, Juan P. Torres
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012126, 27 January 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4469
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a scheme to measure small temporal delays, much smaller than the pulse width, between optical pulses. Specifically, we observe an interference effect, based on the concepts of quantum weak measurements and weak value amplification, through which a sub-pulsewidth temporal delay between two femtosecond pulses induces a measurable shift of the central frequency of the pulse. The amount of frequency shift, and the accompanying losses of the measurement, can be tailored by post-selecting different states of polarization. Our scheme requires only spectrum measurements and linear optics elements, hence greatly facilitating its implementation. Thus it appears as a promising technique for measuring small and rapidly varying temporal delays.

id: 1312.4575
title: Branching MERA codes: a natural extension of polar codes
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4575
abstract: We introduce a new class of circuits for constructing efficiently decodable error-correction codes, based on a recently discovered contractible tensor network. We perform an in-depth study of a particular example that can be thought of as an extension to Arikan's polar code. Notably, our numerical simulation show that this code polarizes the logical channels more strongly while retaining the log-linear decoding complexity using the successive cancellation decoder. These codes also display improved error-correcting capability with only a minor impact on decoding complexity. Efficient decoding is realized using powerful graphical calculus tools developed in the field of quantum many-body physics. In a companion paper, we generalize our construction to the quantum setting and describe more in-depth the relation between classical and quantum error correction and the graphical calculus of tensor networks.

id: 1312.4578
title: Tensor Networks and Quantum Error Correction
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, David Poulin
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett. 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 030501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4578
abstract: We establish several relations between quantum error correction (QEC) and tensor network (TN) methods of quantum many-body physics. We exhibit correspondences between well-known families of QEC codes and TNs, and demonstrate a formal equivalence between decoding a QEC code and contracting a TN. We build on this equivalence to propose a new family of quantum codes and decoding algorithms that generalize and improve upon quantum polar codes and successive cancellation decoding in a natural way.

id: 1312.4606
title: A Non-existence Proof of Quantum Phase Transition in Spin-Boson Model
authors: Tao Liu, Zexian Cao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4606
abstract: Quantum phase transition in the spin-boson model was claimed on the basis of various numerical studies, but not strictly proven. Here by using a unitary transformation to decompose the Hamiltonian into two branches of odd and even parity we obtained the necessary and sufficient condition for degeneracy to occur between states of opposite parity in the spin-boson model, and the analytical expression for such degenerate energies. It can be strictly proven that the ground state of spin-boson model with non-vanishing tunneling amplitude must have an energy lower than the lowest possible such degenerate energy, and have definite parity. Starting from the invariancy of the parity operator we show that finite expansion by numerical calculation induces the breaking of parity symmetry responsible for the phase transition. The critical dissipation parameter we obtained for parity-symmetry breaking, as a logarithmic function of summed diagonal matrix elements in the finite expansion for the bosonic part of the parity operator, can reproduce the phase diagram derived with quantum Monte Carlo method and logarithmically discretized numberical renormalization group approach. It reveals that the quantum phase transition in spin-boson model claimed by numerical procedures arises from symmetry breaking caused by finite expansion in practical calculation. The method we developed here may also be applicable to the discussion of quantum chaos and other similar problems.

id: 1312.4647
title: High-fidelity adiabatic inversion of a $^{31}\mathrm{P}$ electron spin qubit in natural silicon
authors: Arne Laucht, Rachpon Kalra, Juha T. Muhonen, Juan P. Dehollain, Fahd A. Mohiyaddin, Fay Hudson, Jeffrey C. McCallum, David N. Jamieson, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4647
abstract: The main limitation to the high-fidelity quantum control of spins in semiconductors is the presence of strongly fluctuating fields arising from the nuclear spin bath of the host material. We demonstrate here a substantial improvement in single-qubit gate fidelities for an electron spin qubit bound to a $^{31}$P atom in natural silicon, by applying adiabatic inversion instead of narrow-band pulses. We achieve an inversion fidelity of 97%, and we observe signatures in the spin resonance spectra and the spin coherence time that are consistent with the presence of an additional exchange-coupled donor. This work highlights the effectiveness of adiabatic inversion techniques for spin control in fluctuating environments.

id: 1312.4648
title: Classification of no-signaling correlations and the guess your neighbor's input game
authors: He-Ming Wang, Heng-Yun Zhou, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages of article (including appendix), 4 figures; major revision; accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4648
abstract: We formulate a series of non-trivial equalities which are satisfied by all no-signaling correlations, meaning that no faster-than-light communication is allowed with the resource of these correlations. All quantum and classical correlations satisfy these equalities since they are no-signaling. By applying these equalities, we provide a general framework for solving the multipartite "guess your neighbor's input" (GYNI) game, which is naturally no-signaling but shows conversely that general no-signaling correlations are actually more non-local than those allowed by quantum mechanics. We confirm the validity of our method for number of players from 3 up to 19, thus providing convincing evidence that it works for the general case. In addition, we solve analytically the tripartite GYNI and obtain a computable measure of supra-quantum correlations. This result simplifies the defined optimization procedure to an analytic formula, thus characterizing explicitly the boundary between quantum and supra-quantum correlations. In addition, we show that the gap between quantum and no-signaling boundaries containing supra-quantum correlations can be closed by local orthogonality conditions in the tripartite case. Our results provide a computable classification of no-signaling correlations.

id: 1312.4655
title: Continuous-Variable Measurement-Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Zhengyu Li, Yi-Chen Zhang, Feihu Xu, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4655
abstract: We propose a continuous-variable measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (CV-MDI QKD) protocol, in which detection is conducted by an untrusted third party. Our protocol can defend all detector side channels, which seriously threaten the security of a practical CV QKD system. Its security analysis against arbitrary collective attacks is derived based on the fact that the entanglement-based scheme of CV-MDI QKD is equivalent to the conventional CV QKD with coherent states and heterodyne detection. We find that the maximal total transmission distance is achieved by setting the untrusted third party close to one of the legitimate users. Furthermore, an alternate detection scheme, a special application of CV-MDI QKD, is proposed to enhance the security of the standard CV QKD system.

id: 1312.4667
title: Tunneling, self-trapping and manipulation of higher modes of a BEC in a double well
authors: J. Gillet, M. A. Garcia-March, Th. Busch, F. Sols
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023614 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4667
abstract: We consider an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a symmetric one-dimensional double well potential in the four-mode approximation and show that the semiclassical dynamics of the two ground state modes can be strongly influenced by a macroscopic occupation of the two excited modes. In particular, the addition of the two excited modes already unveils features related to the effect of dissipation on the condensate. In general, we find a rich dynamics that includes Rabi oscillations, a mixed Josephson-Rabi regime, self-trapping, chaotic behavior, and the existence of fixed points. We investigate how the dynamics of the atoms in the excited modes can be manipulated by controlling the atomic populations of the ground states.

id: 1312.4671
title: Goos-Hanchen-like shift of three-level matter wave incident on Raman beams
authors: Zhenglu Duan, Liyun Hu, XueXiang Xu, Cunjin Liu
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Zhenglu Duan, Liyun Hu, XueXiang Xu, and Cunjin Liu, "Goos-H\"anchen-like shift of three-level matter wave incident on Raman beams," Opt. Express 22, 17679-17690 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4671
abstract: When a three-level atomic wavepacket is obliquely incident on a "edium slab" consisting of two far-detuned laser beams, there exists lateral shift between reflection and incident points at the surface of a "medium slab", analogous to optical Goos-Hanchen effect. We evaluate lateral shifts for reflected and transmitted waves via expansion of reflection and transmission coefficients, in contrast to the stationary phase method. Results show that lateral shifts can be either positive or negative dependent on the incident angle and the atomic internal state. Interestingly, a giant lateral shift of transmitted wave with high transmission probability is observed, which is helpful to observe such lateral shifts experimentally. Different from the two-level atomic wave case, we find that quantum interference between different atomic states plays crucial role on the transmission intensity and corresponding lateral shifts.

id: 1312.4673
title: Generalized Quantum Arthur-Merlin Games
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura
comments: 31 pages + cover page, the proof of Lemma 27 (Lemma 24 in v1) is corrected, and a new completeness result is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4673
abstract: This paper investigates the role of interaction and coins in public-coin quantum interactive proof systems (also called quantum Arthur-Merlin games). While prior works focused on classical public coins even in the quantum setting, the present work introduces a generalized version of quantum Arthur-Merlin games where the public coins can be quantum as well: the verifier can send not only random bits, but also halves of EPR pairs. First, it is proved that the class of two-turn quantum Arthur-Merlin games with quantum public coins, denoted qq-QAM in this paper, does not change by adding a constant number of turns of classical interactions prior to the communications of the qq-QAM proof systems. This can be viewed as a quantum analogue of the celebrated collapse theorem for AM due to Babai. To prove this collapse theorem, this paper provides a natural complete problem for qq-QAM: deciding whether the output of a given quantum circuit is close to a totally mixed state. This complete problem is on the very line of the previous studies investigating the hardness of checking the properties related to quantum circuits, and is of independent interest. It is further proved that the class qq-QAM_1 of two-turn quantum-public-coin quantum Arthur-Merlin proof systems with perfect completeness gives new bounds for standard well-studied classes of two-turn interactive proof systems. Finally, the collapse theorem above is extended to comprehensively classify the role of interaction and public coins in quantum Arthur-Merlin games: it is proved that, for any constant m>1, the class of problems having an m-turn quantum Arthur-Merlin proof system is either equal to PSPACE or equal to the class of problems having a two-turn quantum Arthur-Merlin game of a specific type, which provides a complete set of quantum analogues of Babai's collapse theorem.

id: 1312.4693
title: Non-Hermitian quantum rings
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; to appear in the Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4693
abstract: We investigate the spectral and dynamical properties of a quantum particle constrained on a ring threaded by a magnetic flux in presence of a complex (non-Hermitian) potential. For a static magnetic flux, the quantum states of the particle on the ring can be mapped into the Bloch states of a complex crystal, and magnetic flux tuning enables to probe the spectral features of the complex crystal, including the appearance of exceptional points. For a time-varying (linearly-ramped) magnetic flux, Zener tunneling among energy states is realized owing to the induced electromotive force. As compared to the Hermitian case, striking effects are observed in the non-Hermitian case, such as a highly asymmetric behavior of particle motion when reversing the direction of the magnetic flux and field-induced delayed transparency.

id: 1312.4732
title: Detection methods to rule out completely co-positive and bi-entangling operations
authors: C. Macchiavello, M. Rossi
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 470, 012005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4732
abstract: In this work we extend the quantum channel detection method developed in [Phys. Rev. A 88, 042335 (2013)] and [Phys. Script. T153, 014044 (2013)] in order to detect other interesting convex sets of quantum channels. First we work out a procedure to detect non completely co-positive maps. Then we focus on the set of so-called bi-entangling operations and show how a map outside this set can be revealed. In both cases we provide explicit examples showing the theoretical technique and the corresponding experimental procedure.

id: 1312.4751
title: New Modal Quantum Mechanics
authors: Timothy J. Hollowood
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4751
abstract: We describe an interpretation of quantum mechanics based on reduced density matrices of sub-systems from which the standard Copenhagen interpretation emerges as an effective description for macro-systems. The interpretation is a modal one, but does not suffer from the range of problems that plague other modal interpretations. The key feature is that quantum states carry an additional property assignment in the form of one the eigenvectors of the reduced density matrix which evolves evolves according to a stochastic process driven by the unmodified Schrodinger equation, but it is usually hidden from the emergent classical description due to the ergodic nature of its dynamics. However, during a quantum measurement, ergodicity is broken by decoherence and definite outcomes occur with probabilities that agree with the Born rule.

id: 1312.4758
title: On physical problems that are slightly more difficult than QMA
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 25 pages, v2 various small changes, to appear in CCC'2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4758
abstract: We study the complexity of computational problems from quantum physics. Typically, they are studied using the complexity class QMA (quantum counterpart of NP) but some natural computational problems appear to be slightly harder than QMA. We introduce new complexity classes consisting of problems that are solvable with a small number of queries to a QMA oracle and use these complexity classes to quantify the complexity of several natural computational problems (for example, the complexity of estimating the spectral gap of a Hamiltonian).

id: 1312.4780
title: Relativistic quantum information theory and quantum reference frames
authors: Matthew C Palmer
comments: PhD thesis containing work found in the quant-ph arXiv preprints 1108.3896, 1208.6434, and 1307.6597, with corrections and additions (see note pg.iv). 99 pages main text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4780
abstract: This thesis is a compilation of research in relativistic quantum information theory, and research in quantum reference frames. The research in the former category provides a fundamental construction of quantum information theory of localised qubits in curved spacetimes. For example, this concerns quantum experiments on free-space photons and electrons in the vicinity of the Earth. From field theory a description of localised qubits that traverse classical trajectories in curved spacetimes is obtained, for photons and massive spin-1/2 fermions. The equations governing the evolution of the two-dimensional quantum state and its absolute phase are determined. Quantum information theory of these qubits is then developed. The Stern-Gerlach measurement formalism for massive spin-1/2 fermions is also derived from field theory. In the latter category of research, the process of changing reference frames is considered for the case where the reference frames are quantum systems. As part of this process, it is shown that decoherence is necessarily induced on any quantum system described relative to these frames. This process is explored using examples involving quantum reference frames for phase and orientation. Quantifying the effect of changing quantum reference frames provides a theoretical description for this process in quantum experiments, and serves as a first step in developing a relativity principle for theories in which all objects including reference frames are necessarily quantum.

id: 1312.4787
title: Fisher Information and Atomic Structure
authors: K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, S.T. Tserkis, C.P. Panos, Ch.C. Moustakidis
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4787
abstract: We present a comparative study of several information and statistical complexity measures in order to examine a possible correlation with certain experimental properties of atomic structure. Comparisons are also carried out quantitatively using Pearson correlation coefficient. In particular, we show that Fisher information in momentum space is very sensitive to shell effects, and is directly associated with some of the most characteristic atomic properties, such as atomic radius, ionization energy, electronegativity, and atomic dipole polarizability. Finally we present a relation that emerges between Fisher information and the second moment of the probability distribution in momentum space i.e. an energy functional of interest in (e,2e) experiments.

id: 1312.4810
title: Experimental violation of multipartite Bell inequalities with trapped ions
authors: B. P. Lanyon, M. Zwerger, P. Jurcevic, C. Hempel, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: Significantly extended split off of arXiv:1308.5102
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 100403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4810
abstract: We report on the experimental violation of multipartite Bell inequalities by entangled states of trapped ions. First we consider resource states for measurement-based quantum computation of between 3 and 7 ions and show that all strongly violate a Bell-type inequality for graph states, where the criterion for violation is a sufficiently high fidelity. Second we analyze GHZ states of up to 14 ions generated in a previous experiment using stronger Mermin-Klyshko inequalities, and show that in this case the violation of local realism increases exponentially with system size. These experiments represent a violation of multipartite Bell-type inequalities of deterministically prepared entangled states. In addition, the detection loophole is closed.

id: 1312.4881
title: Measurement of the magnetic interaction between two electrons
authors: Shlomi Kotler, Nitzan Akerman, Nir Navon, Yinnon Glickman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 4 figures
journal: Nature 510, 376 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4881
abstract: Electrons have an intrinsic, indivisible, magnetic dipole aligned with their internal angular momentum (spin). The magnetic interaction between two electrons can therefore impose a change in their spin orientation. This process, however, was never observed in experiment. The challenge is two-fold. At the atomic scale, where the coupling is relatively large, the magnetic interaction is often overshadowed by the much larger coulomb exchange counterpart. In typical situations where exchange is negligible, magnetic interactions are also very weak and well below ambient magnetic noise. Here we report on the first measurement of the magnetic interaction between two electronic spins. To this end, we used the ground state valence electrons of two $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ions, co-trapped in an electric Paul trap and separated by more than two micrometers. We measured the weak, millihertz scale (alternatively $10^{-18}$ eV or $10^{-14}$ K), magnetic interaction between their electronic spins. This, in the presence of magnetic noise that was six orders of magnitude larger than the respective magnetic fields the electrons apply on each other. Cooperative spin dynamics was kept coherent for 15 s during which spin-entanglement was generated. The sensitivity necessary for this measurement was provided by restricting the spin evolution to a Decoherence-Free Subspace (DFS) which is immune to collective magnetic field noise. Finally, by varying the separation between the two ions, we were able to recover the inverse cubic distance dependence of the interaction. The reported method suggests an alternative route to the search of long-range anomalous spin-spin forces and can be generalized to include Quantum Error Correction codes for other cases of extremely weak signal detection.

id: 1312.4896
title: Optically Measuring Force near the Standard Quantum Limit
authors: Sydney Schreppler, Nicolas Spethmann, Nathan Brahms, Thierry Botter, Maryrose Barrios, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 344 (2014) 1486-1489
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4896
abstract: The Heisenberg uncertainty principle sets a lower bound on the sensitivity of continuous optical measurements of force. This bound, the standard quantum limit, can only be reached when a mechanical oscillator subjected to the force is unperturbed by its environment, and when measurement imprecision from photon shot-noise is balanced against disturbance from measurement backaction. We apply an external force to the center-of-mass motion of an ultracold atom cloud in a high-finesse optical cavity. The optomechanically transduced response clearly demonstrates the trade-off between measurement imprecision and back-action noise. We achieve a sensitivity that is consistent with theoretical predictions for the quantum limit given the atoms' slight residual thermal disturbance and the photodetection quantum efficiency, and is a factor of 4 above the absolute standard quantum limit.

id: 1312.4989
title: Maximal Privacy Without Coherence
authors: Debbie Leung, Ke Li, Graeme Smith, John Smolin
comments: 6 pages. Proof of Eq.(13) slightly revised
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 030502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4989
abstract: Privacy lies at the fundament of quantum mechanics. A coherently transmitted quantum state is inherently private. Remarkably, coherent quantum communication is not a prerequisite for privacy: there are quantum channels that are too noisy to transmit any quantum information reliably that can nevertheless send private classical information. Here, we ask how much private classical information a channel can transmit if it has little quantum capacity. We present a class of channels N_d with input dimension d^2, quantum capacity Q(N_d) <= 1, and private capacity P(N_d) = log d. These channels asymptotically saturate an interesting inequality P(N) <= (log d_A + Q(N))/2 for any channel N with input dimension d_A, and capture the essence of privacy stripped of the confounding influence of coherence.

id: 1312.5014
title: Control protocol of finite dimensional quantum systems using alternating square pulse
authors: Jianju Tang, H. C. Fu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5014
abstract: Control protocol to drive finite dimensional quantum systems to an arbitrary target state using square pulses is proposed explicitly. It is a multi-cycle control process and in each cycle we apply square pulses to cause single or a few transitions between energy levels. Systems with equal energy gaps except the first one, four dimensional system with equal first and third energy gaps and different second energy gap, and systems with all equal energy gaps of dimension three, are investigated in detail. The control parameters, the interaction time between systems and control fields and free evolution times between cycles, are connected with the probability amplitudes of target states via trigonometric functions and are determined analytically.

id: 1312.5025
title: Gaussian-modulated coherent-state measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Xiang-Chun Ma, Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Ming Gui, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: The analysis of asymmetric channel case has been included and an error of program used to plot Fig.4 has been corrected. 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042335 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5025
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD), leaving the detection procedure to the third partner and thus being immune to all detector side-channel attacks, is very promising for the construction of high-security quantum information networks. We propose a scheme to implement MDI-QKD, but with continuous variables instead of discrete ones, i.e., with the source of Gaussian-modulated coherent states, based on the principle of continuous-variable entanglement swapping. This protocol not only can be implemented with current telecom components but also has high key rates compared to its discrete counterpart; thus it will be highly compatible with quantum networks.

id: 1312.5031
title: 5-mg suspended mirror driven by measurement-induced back-action
authors: Nobuyuki Matsumoto, Kentaro Komori, Yuta Michimura, Gen Hayase, Yoichi Aso, Kimio Tsubono
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5031
abstract: Quantum mechanics predicts superposition of position states even for macroscopic objects. Recently, the use of a quasi-freely suspended mirror combined with laser was proposed to prepare such states, by M\"uller-Ebhardt et al. [Phys.Rev.Lett.100, 013601 (2008)]. One of the key milestones towards this goal is the preparation of the mechanical oscillator mainly driven by quantum back-action, which identifies the connection between the object and quantumness of the light. Here, we describe development of a suspended 5-mg mirror driven by quantum back-action larger than thermal fluctuating force by a factor of 1.4$\pm$0.2 at 325 Hz,which is confirmed by using a triangular optical cavity.

id: 1312.5071
title: Quantum speed limit for arbitrary initial states
authors: Yingjie Zhang, Wei Han, Yunjie Xia, Junpeng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages of article, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports, 4: 4890, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5071
abstract: We investigate the generic bound on the minimal evolution time of the open dynamical quantum system. This quantum speed limit time is applicable to both mixed and pure initial states. We then apply this result to the damped Jaynes-Cummings model and the Ohimc-like dephasing model starting from a general time-evolution state. The bound of this time-dependent state at any point in time can be found. For the damped Jaynes-Cummings model, the corresponding bound first decreases and then increases in the Markovian dynamics. While in the non-Markovian regime, the speed limit time shows an interesting periodic oscillatory behavior. For the case of Ohimc-like dephasing model, this bound would be gradually trapped to a fixed value. In addition, the roles of the relativistic effects on the speed limit time for the observer in non-inertial frames are discussed.

id: 1312.5072
title: Trading Permutation Invariance for Communication in Multi-Party Non-Locality Distillation
authors: Helen Ebbe, Stefan Wolf
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, for a conference
journal: Proceedings of International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) 2014, 1479-1483, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5072
abstract: Quantum theory puts forward phenomena unexplainable by classical physics - or information, for that matter. A prominent example is non-locality. Non-local correlations cannot be explained, in classical terms, by shared information but only by communication. On the other hand, the phenomenon does not allow for (potentially faster-than-light) message transmission. The fact that some non-local and non-signaling correlations are predicted by quantum theory, whereas others fail to be, asks for a criterion, as simple as possible, that characterizes which joint input-output behaviors are ``quantum'' and which are not. In the context of the derivation of such criteria, it is of central importance to understand when non-local correlations can be amplified by a non-interactive protocol, i.e., whether some types of weak non-locality can be distilled into stronger by local operations. Since it has been recognized that the searched-for criteria must inherently be multi-partite, the question of distillation, extensively studied and understood two-party scenarios, should be adressed in the multi-user setting, where much less is known. Considering the space of intrinsically n-partite correlations, we show the possibility of distilling weak non-local boxes to the algebraically maximal ones without any communication. Our protocols improve on previously known methods which still required partial communication. The price we have to pay for dropping the need for communication entirely is the assumption of permutation invariance: Any correlation that can be realized between some set of players is possible between any such set. This assumption is very natural since the laws of physics are invariant under spacial translation.

id: 1312.5117
title: Comparison of two semiclassical expansions for a family of PT-symmetric oscillators
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5117
abstract: We show that a recently developed semiclassical expansion for the eigenvalues of PT-symmetric oscillators of the form $V(x)=(ix)^{2N+1}+bix$ does not agree with an earlier WKB expression for $V(x)=-(ix)^{2N+1}$ the case $b=0$. The reason is due to the choice of different paths in the complex plane for the calculation of the WKB integrals. We compare the Stokes and anti-Stokes lines that apply to each case for the quintic oscillator and derive a general WKB expression that contains the two earlier ones.

id: 1312.5121
title: Oscillator tunneling dynamics in the Rabi model
authors: E. K. Irish, J. Gea-Banacloche
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures, preprint format
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 085421 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5121
abstract: The familiar Rabi model, comprising a two-level system coupled to a quantum harmonic oscillator, continues to produce rich and surprising physics when the coupling strength becomes comparable to the individual subsystem frequencies. We construct approximate solutions for the regime in which the oscillator frequency is small compared to that of the two-level system and the coupling strength matches or exceeds the oscillator frequency. Relating our fully quantum calculation to a previous semi-classical approximation, we find that the dynamics of the oscillator can be considered to a good approximation as that of a particle tunneling in a classical double-well potential, despite the fundamentally entangled nature of the joint system. We assess the prospects for observation of oscillator tunneling in the context of nano- or micro-mechanical experiments and find that it should be possible if suitably high coupling strengths can be engineered.

id: 1312.5174
title: Temperature Dependence of the Casimir Force
authors: Iver Brevik, Johan S. H?ye
comments: 10 pages latex, 3 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 35(2014)015012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5174
abstract: The Casimir force - at first a rather unexpected consequence of quantum electrodynamics - was discovered by Hendrik Casimir in Eindhoven in 1948. It predicts that two uncharged metal plates experience an attractive force because of the zero-point fluctuations of the electromagnetic field. The idea was tested experimentally in the 1950's and 1960's, but the results were not so accurate that one could make a definite conclusion regarding the existence of the effect. Evgeny Lifshitz expanded the theory in 1955 so as to deal with general dielectric media. Much experimental work has later been done to test the theory's predictions, especially with regards to the temperature dependence of the effect. The existence of the effect itself was verified beyond doubt by Sabisky and Anderson in 1973. Another quarter century had to pass before Lamoreaux and collaborators were able to confirm - or at least make plausible - the temperature dependence predicted by Lifshitz formula in combination with reasonable input data for the material's dispersive properties. The situation is not yet clear-cut, however; there are recent experiments indicating results in disagreement with those of Lamoreaux. In the present paper a brief review is given of the status of this research field.

id: 1312.5205
title: Minimum-cost quantum measurements for quantum information
authors: Petros Wallden, Vedran Dunjko, Erika Andersson
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 125303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5205
abstract: Knowing about optimal quantum measurements is important for many applications in quantum information and quantum communication. However, deriving optimal quantum measurements is often difficult. We present a collection of results for minimum-cost quantum measurements, and give examples of how they can be used. Among other results, we show that a minimum-cost measurement for a set of given pure states is formally equivalent to a minimum-error measurement for mixed states of those same pure states. For pure symmetric states it turns out that for a certain class of cost matrices, the minimum-cost measurement is the square-root measurement. That is, the optimal minimum-cost measurement is in this case the same as the minimum-error measurement. Finally, we consider sequences of individual ``local" systems, and examine when the global minimum-cost measurement is a sequence of optimal local measurements. We also consider an example where the global minimum-cost measurement is, perhaps counter-intuitively, not a sequence of local measurements, and discuss how this is related to related to the Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph argument for the nature of the wave function.

id: 1312.5213
title: Logical Error Rate Scaling of the Toric Code
authors: Fern H.E. Watson, Sean D. Barrett
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 093045 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5213
abstract: To date, a great deal of attention has focused on characterizing the performance of quantum error correcting codes via their thresholds, the maximum correctable physical error rate for a given noise model and decoding strategy. Practical quantum computers will necessarily operate below these thresholds meaning that other performance indicators become important. In this work we consider the scaling of the logical error rate of the toric code and demonstrate how, in turn, this may be used to calculate a key performance indicator. We use a perfect matching decoding algorithm to find the scaling of the logical error rate and find two distinct operating regimes. The first regime admits a universal scaling analysis due to a mapping to a statistical physics model. The second regime characterizes the behavior in the limit of small physical error rate and can be understood by counting the error configurations leading to the failure of the decoder. We present a conjecture for the ranges of validity of these two regimes and use them to quantify the overhead -- the total number of physical qubits required to perform error correction.

id: 1312.5217
title: Photon correlations for colloidal nanocrystals and their clusters
authors: O. A. Shcherbina, G. A. Shcherbina, M. Manceau, S. Vezzoli, L. Carbone, M. De Vittorio, A. Bramati, E. Giacobino, M. V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 1791 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5217
abstract: Images of semiconductor `dot in rods' and their small clusters are studied by measuring the second-order correlation function with a spatially resolving ICCD camera. This measurement allows one to distinguish between a single dot and a cluster and, to a certain extent, to estimate the number of dots in a cluster. A more advanced measurement is proposed, based on higher-order correlations, enabling more accurate determination of the number of dots in a small cluster. Nonclassical features of the light emitted by such a cluster are analyzed.

id: 1312.5237
title: Quantum and classical capacity boosted by a Lorentz transformation
authors: Kamil Bradler, Esteban Castro-Ruiz, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: typos fixed; to appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 90, 022308, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5237
abstract: In this paper we show that the quantum channel between two inertial observers who transmit quantum information by sending realistic photonic wave packets is a well-studied channel in quantum Shannon theory -- the Pauli channel. The parameters of the Pauli channel and therefore its classical and quantum capacity depend on the magnitude of the Lorentz boost relating the two observers. The most striking consequence is that two inertial observers whose Pauli channel has initially zero quantum capacity can achieve nonzero quantum communication rates (reaching in principle its maximal value equal to one) by applying a boost in the right direction. This points to a fundamental connection between quantum channel capacities and special relativity.

id: 1312.5251
title: Quantum phase transition in the chirality of the (2+1)-dimensional Dirac oscillator
authors: C. Quimbay, P. Strange
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5251
abstract: We study the (2+1)-dimensional Dirac oscillator in the presence of an external uniform magnetic field ($B$). We show how the change of the strength of $B$ leads to the existence of a quantum phase transition in the chirality of the system. A critical value of the strength of the external magnetic field ($B_c$) can be naturally defined in terms of physical parameters of the system. While for $B=B_c$ the fermion can be considered as a free particle without defined chirality, for $B<B_c$ ($B>B_c$) the chirality is left (right) and there exist a net potential acting on the fermion. For the three regimes defined in the quantum phase transition of chirality, we observe that the energy spectra for each regime is drastically different. Then, we consider the $z$-component of the orbital angular momentum as an order parameter that characterizes the quantum phase transition.

id: 1312.5263
title: Cryptographic security of the quantum key distribution from the triangle inequality
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Marcin Markiewicz, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to an error in the calculation that invalidates the main result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5263
abstract: We show that the Csiszar-Korner sufficient condition for secure cryptographic key generation with the help of quantum theory can be easily derived using the triangle inequality for an information-theoretic distance.

id: 1312.5286
title: Comment on "General Non-Markovian Dynamics of Open Quantum Systems"
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto. J. Roncaglia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5286
abstract: The existence of a "non-Markovian dissipationless" regime, characterized by long lived oscillations, was recently reported for a class of quantum open systems (Zhang et al, PRL, 109, 170402, (2012)). It is claimed this could happen in the strong coupling regime, a surprising result which has attracted some attention. We show that this regime exists if and only if the total Hamiltonian is unbounded from below, casting serious doubts on the usefulness of this result.

id: 1312.5288
title: New dynamical scaling universality for quantum networks across adiabatic quantum phase transitions
authors: O. L. Acevedo, L. Quiroga, F. J. Rodr¨ªguez, N. F. Johnson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, plus supplementary material (6 pages, 1 figure)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 030403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5288
abstract: We reveal universal dynamical scaling behavior across adiabatic quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in networks ranging from traditional spatial systems (Ising model) to fully connected ones (Dicke and Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick models). Our findings, which lie beyond traditional critical exponent analysis and adiabatic perturbation approximations, are applicable even where excitations have not yet stabilized and hence provide a time-resolved understanding of QPTs encompassing a wide range of adiabatic regimes. We show explicitly that even though two systems may traditionally belong to the same universality class, they can have very different adiabatic evolutions. This implies more stringent conditions need to be imposed than at present, both for quantum simulations where one system is used to simulate the other, and for adiabatic quantum computing schemes.

id: 1312.5303
title: Reconfigurable long-range phonon dynamics in optomechanical arrays
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Claudiu Genes, Guido Pupillo, Mauro Paternostro, Aur¨¦lien Dantan
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 133604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5303
abstract: We investigate periodic optomechanical arrays as reconfigurable platforms for engineering the coupling between multiple mechanical and electromagnetic modes and for exploring many-body phonon dynamics. Exploiting structural resonances in the coupling between light fields and collective motional modes of the array, we show that tunable effective long-range interactions between mechanical modes can be achieved. This paves the way towards the implementation of controlled phononic walks and heat transfer on densely-connected graphs as well as the coherent transfer of excitations between distant elements of optomechanical arrays.

id: 1312.5342
title: Raman quantum memory based on an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a microcavity
authors: Khabat Heshami, Charles Santori, Behzad Khanaliloo, Chris Healey, Victor M. Acosta, Paul E. Barclay, Christoph Simon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 040301(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5342
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize optical quantum memories in an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond that are coupled to a micro-cavity. The scheme is based on off-resonant Raman coupling, which allows one to circumvent optical inhomogeneous broadening and store optical photons in the electronic spin coherence. This approach promises a storage time of order one second and a time-bandwidth product of order 10$^7$. We include all possible optical transitions in a 9-level configuration, numerically evaluate the efficiencies and discuss the requirements for achieving high efficiency and fidelity.

id: 1312.5350
title: When asymptotic LOCC offers no advantage over finite LOCC
authors: Honghao Fu, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5350
abstract: We consider bipartite LOCC, the class of operations implementable by local quantum operations and classical communication between two parties. Surprisingly, there are operations that cannot be implemented with finitely many messages but can be approximated to arbitrary precision with more and more messages. This significantly complicates the analysis of what can or cannot be approximated with LOCC. Towards alleviating this problem, we exhibit two scenarios in which allowing vanishing error does not help. The first scenario involves implementation of measurements with projective product measurement operators. The second scenario is the discrimination of unextendible product bases on two 3-dimensional systems.

id: 1312.5373
title: Amplification, Redundancy, and the Quantum Chernoff Information
authors: Michael Zwolak, C. Jess Riedel, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5373
abstract: Amplification was regarded, since the early days of quantum theory, as a mysterious ingredient that endows quantum microstates with macroscopic consequences, key to the "collapse of the wavepacket", and a way to avoid embarrassing problems exemplified by Schr\"odinger's cat. Such a bridge between the quantum microworld and the classical world of our experience was postulated ad hoc in the Copenhagen Interpretation. Quantum Darwinism views amplification as replication, in many copies, of the information about quantum states. We show that such amplification is a natural consequence of a broad class of models of decoherence, including the photon environment we use to obtain most of our information. This leads to objective reality via the presence of robust and widely accessible records of selected quantum states. The resulting redundancy (the number of copies deposited in the environment) follows from the Quantum Chernoff Information that quantifies the information transmitted by a typical elementary subsystem of the environment.

id: 1312.5433
title: Orbital angular momentum from marginals of quadrature distributions
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, P. de la Hoz, I. Rigas, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, G. Leuchs
comments: 7 pages, 2 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053839 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5433
abstract: We set forth a method to analyze the orbital angular momentum of a light field. Instead of using the canonical formalism for the conjugate pair angle-angular momentum, we model this latter variable by the superposition of two independent harmonic oscillators along two orthogonal axes. By describing each oscillator by a standard Wigner function, we derive, via a consistent change of variables, a comprehensive picture of the orbital angular momentum. We compare with previous approaches and show how this method works in some relevant examples.

id: 1312.5452
title: Observation and measurement of an extra phase shift created by optically detuned light storage in metastable helium
authors: M.-A. Maynard, T. Labidi, M. Mukhtar, S. Kumar, R. Ghosh, F. Bretenaker, F. Goldfarb
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: EuroPhysics Letters 105 44002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5452
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in metastable helium at room temperature is experimentally shown to exhibit light storage capabilities for intermediate values of the detuning between the coupling and probe beams and the center of the atomic Doppler profiles. An additional phase shift is shown to be imposed to the retrieved pulse of light when the EIT protocol is performed at non-zero optical detunings. The value of this phase shift is measured for different optical detunings between 0 and 2 GHz, and its origin is discussed.

id: 1312.5534
title: Shaping the distribution of vertical velocities of antihydrogen in GBAR
authors: Gabriel Dufour, Pascal Debu, Astrid Lambrecht, Valery Nesvizhevsky, Serge Reynaud, Alexei Voronin
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal C: Particles and Fields 74 (2014) 2731
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5534
abstract: GBAR is a project aiming at measuring the free fall acceleration of gravity for antimatter, namely antihydrogen atoms ($\overline{\mathrm{H}}$). Precision of this timing experiment depends crucially on the dispersion of initial vertical velocities of the atoms as well as on the reliable control of their distribution. We propose to use a new method for shaping the distribution of vertical velocities of $\overline{\mathrm{H}}$, which improves these factors simultaneously. The method is based on quantum reflection of elastically and specularly bouncing $\overline{\mathrm{H}}$ with small initial vertical velocity on a bottom mirror disk, and absorption of atoms with large initial vertical velocities on a top rough disk. We estimate statistical and systematic uncertainties, and show that the accuracy for measuring the free fall acceleration $\overline{g}$ of $\overline{\mathrm{H}}$ could be pushed below $10^{-3}$ under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1312.5538
title: Quantum simulation of bosonic-fermionic non-interacting particles in disordered systems via quantum walk
authors: Francesco De Nicola, Linda Sansoni, Andrea Crespi, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Paolo Mataloni, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1101.2638 by other authors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5538
abstract: We report on the theoretical analysis of bosonic and fermionic non-interacting systems in a discrete two-particle quantum walk affected by different kinds of disorder. We considered up to 100-step QWs with a spatial, temporal and space-temporal disorder observing how the randomness and the wavefunction symmetry non-trivially affect the final spatial probability distribution, the transport properties and the Shannon entropy of the walkers.

id: 1312.5562
title: Same Initial States Attack in Yang et al.'s Quantum Private Comparison Protocol and the Improvement
authors: Wen-Jie Liu, Chao Liu, Zhi-Hao Liu, Jing-Fa Liu, Huan-Tong Geng
comments: 7pages,1 figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2013) doi:10.1007/s10773-013-1807-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5562
abstract: In Yang et al.'s literatures (J. Phys. A: Math. 42, 055305, 2009; J. Phys. A:Math. 43, 209801, 2010), a quantum private comparison protocol based on Bell states and hash function is proposed, which aims to securely compare the equality of two participants' information with the help of a dishonest third party (TP). However, this study will point out their protocol cannot resist a special kind of attack, TP's same initial states attack, which is presented in this paper. That is, the dishonest TP can disturb the comparison result without being detected through preparing the same initial states. Finally, a simple improvement is given to avoid the attack.

id: 1312.5577
title: Secure Quantum Private Comparison of Equality Based on Asymmetric W State
authors: Wen-Jie Liu, Chao Liu, Hai-bin Wang, Jing-Fa Liu, Fang Wang, Xiao-Min Yuan
comments: submitted to International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5577
abstract: Recently, Liu et al. [Opt. Commun. 284, 3160, 2011] proposed a protocol for quantum private comparison of equality (QPCE) based on sym- metric W state. However, Li et al. [Eur. Phys. J. D. 66, 110, 2012] pointed out that there is a flaw of information leak, and they proposed a new protocol based on EPR pairs. While examining these two protocols, we find that there exists a same flaw: the third party (TP) can know the comparison result. In this paper, through introducing and constructing a special class of asymmet- ric W state, a secure QPCE protocol based on this asymmetric W state is presented. Analysis shows the present protocol can not only effectively avoid the information leak found by Li et al, but also ensure TP would not get any information about the comparison result.

id: 1312.5645
title: Pulsed force sequences for fast phase-insensitive quantum gates in trapped ions
authors: A M Steane, G Imreh, J P Home, D. Leibfried
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5645
abstract: We show how to create quantum gates of arbitrary speed between trapped ions, using a laser walking wave, with complete insensitivity to drift of the optical phase, and requiring cooling only to the Lamb-Dicke regime. We present pulse sequences that satisfy the requirements and are easy to produce in the laboratory.

id: 1312.5665
title: Implementing a Quantum CNOT and Quantum Memory Using a Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata Array
authors: Seyed Arash Sheikholeslam, Konrad Walus
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5665
abstract: In this work, we develop a method to use Quantum- Dot Cellular Automata (QCA) for universal quantum computing. This method is based conceptually on refocusing in NMR systems. We show how an array of QCA cells can be used for isolated single qubit, as well as multi-qubit operations, such as the CNOT, by dividing the cells into active and passive sets such that the active cells undergo the transform while passive cells hold their quantum states. The same technique is used for developing a multi-qubit quantum memory. The effect of imperfect control parameters is discussed and the total time for a typical quantum operation is given. Using this approach, different quantum gates are implemented using pulse sequences applied to the QCA cells via control fields and potentials, while the layout remains the same.

id: 1312.5707
title: Quantum metrology for relativistic quantum fields
authors: Mehdi Ahmadi, David Edward Bruschi, Ivette Fuentes
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 065028 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5707
abstract: In quantum metrology quantum properties such as squeezing and entanglement are exploited in the design of a new generation of clocks, sensors and other measurement devices that can outperform their classical counterparts. Applications of great technological relevance lie in the precise measurement of parameters which play a central role in relativity, such as proper accelerations, relative distances, time and gravitational field strengths. In this paper we generalise recently introduced techniques to estimate physical quantities within quantum field theory in flat and curved space-time. We consider a bosonic quantum field that undergoes a generic transformation, which encodes the parameter to be estimated. We present analytical formulas for optimal precision bounds on the estimation of small parameters in terms of Bogoliubov coefficients for single mode and two-mode Gaussian channels.

id: 1312.5724
title: Witnessing quantum coherence in the presence of noise
authors: Alex Monras, Agata Ch?ci¨½ska, Artur Ekert
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5724
abstract: We address the problem of assessing the coherent character of physical evolution. We take the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) as a characteristic trait of quantum dynamics, and derive relations among transfer rates as a function of the strength of a measurement. These relations support the intuition that only quantum dynamics is susceptible to QZE. With the derived bounds on the magnitude of coherent dynamics, we propose an experimentally accessible coherence witness. Our results have potential application in assessing coherence of quantum transport in biological and other complex many-body systems.

id: 1312.5733
title: A heat bath can generate all classes of three-qubit entanglement
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Daniel Braun, Jens Siewert
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5733
abstract: It is common knowledge that coupling to a heat bath, in general, tends to reduce the entanglement in a quantum system. In recent years, increasing interest has been devoted to the opposite situation where thermal or specifically tailored environments may stabilize or even generate entanglement. We prove the universality of this phenomenon for multipartite entanglement in the frame of an exactly solvable dephasing model. We show by evaluating analytical lower bounds for the appropriate entanglement measures that a common thermal environment can dynamically generate all entanglement classes of three qubits for almost any initial product state. For sufficiently weak dissipation this entanglement may persist up to arbitrarily large times.

id: 1312.5786
title: Energy Transport in Trapped Ion Chains
authors: Michael Ramm, Thaned Pruttivarasin, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. (16) 063062, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5786
abstract: We experimentally study energy transport in chains of trapped ions. We use a pulsed excitation scheme to rapidly add energy to the local motional mode of one of the ions in the chain. Subsequent energy readout allows us to determine how the excitation has propagated throughout the chain. We observe energy revivals that persist for many cycles. We study the behavior with an increasing number of ions of up to 37 in the chain, including a zig-zag configuration. The experimental results agree well with the theory of normal mode evolution. The described system provides an experimental toolbox for the study of thermodynamics of closed systems and energy transport in both classical and quantum regimes.

id: 1312.5827
title: A Hidden Markov Model of atomic quantum jump dynamics in an optically probed cavity
authors: S. Gammelmark, W. Alt, T. Kampschulte, D. Meschede, K. Molmer
comments: 10 pages, figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043839 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5827
abstract: We analyze the quantum jumps of an atom interacting with a cavity field. The strong atom- field interaction makes the cavity transmission depend on the time dependent atomic state, and we present a Hidden Markov Model description of the atomic state dynamics which is conditioned in a Bayesian manner on the detected signal. We suggest that small variations in the observed signal may be due to spatial motion of the atom within the cavity, and we represent the atomic system by a number of hidden states to account for both the small variations and the internal state jump dynamics. In our theory, the atomic state is determined in a Bayesian manner from the measurement data, and we present an iterative protocol, which determines both the atomic state and the model parameters. As a new element in the treatment of observed quantum systems, we employ a Bayesian approach that conditions the atomic state at time t on the data acquired both before and after t and we show that the state assignment by this approach is more decisive than the usual conditional quantum states, based on only earlier measurement data.

id: 1312.5833
title: Single and double changes of Entanglement
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am B Vol 33 No. 4 pages 691-696 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5833
abstract: Entanglement behavior for different classes of two qubit systems passing through a generalized amplitude damping channel is discussed. The phenomena of sudden single, double changes and the sudden death of entanglement are reported for correlated and non- correlated noise. It is shown that, for less entangled states, these phenomena appear for small values of channel strength. The effect of the channel can be frozen for these classes as one increases the channel strength. Maximum entangled states are more fragile than partial entangled states, where the entanglement decays very fast. However, one can not freeze the effect of the noise channel for systems initially prepared in maximum entangled states. The decay rate of entanglement for systems affected by non-correlated noise is much larger than that affected by correlated noise.

id: 1312.5863
title: Quantized resonator field coupled to a current-biased Josephson junction in circuit QED
authors: Christian Kraglund Andersen, Gregor Oelsner, Evgeni Il'ichev, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033853 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5863
abstract: A Lagrangian formalism is used to derive the Hamiltonian for a $\lambda$/4 resonator shunted by a current-biased Josephson junction. The eigenstates and the quantum dynamics of the system are analyzed numerically, and we show that the system can function as an efficient detector of weak incident microwave fields.

id: 1312.5867
title: Quantum-limited amplification and parametric instability in the reversed dissipation regime of cavity optomechanics
authors: A. Nunnenkamp, V. Sudhir, A. K. Feofanov, A. Roulet, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 5+3 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 023604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5867
abstract: Cavity optomechanical phenomena, such as cooling, amplification or optomechanically induced transparency, emerge due to a strong imbalance in the dissipation rates of the parametrically coupled electromagnetic and mechanical resonators. Here we analyze the reversed dissipation regime where the mechanical energy relaxation rate exceeds the energy decay rate of the electromagnetic cavity. We demonstrate that this regime allows for mechanically-induced amplification (or cooling) of the electromagnetic mode. Gain, bandwidth, and added noise of this electromagnetic amplifier are derived and compared to amplification in the normal dissipation regime. In addition, we analyze the parametric instability, i.e. optomechanical Brillouin lasing, and contrast it to conventional optomechanical phonon lasing. Finally, we propose an experimental scheme that realizes the reversed dissipation regime using parametric coupling and optomechanical cooling with a second electromagnetic mode enabling quantum-limited amplification. Recent advances in high-Q superconducting microwave resonators make the reversed dissipation regime experimentally realizable.

id: 1312.5900
title: The generalized pseudospectral approach to the bound states of Hulthen and Yukawa potentials
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 
journal: Pramana-Journal of Physics, 65, 1 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5900
abstract: The generalized pseudospectral method is employed to calculate the bound states of Hulth\'en and Yukawa potentials in quantum mechanics, with special emphases on higher excited states and stronger couplings. Accurate energy eigenvalues, expectation values and radial probability densities are obtained through a nonuniform and optimal spatial discretization of the radial Schr\"odinger equation. Results accurate up to thirteen to fourteen significant figures are reported for all the 55 eigenstates of both these potentials with $n\leq$10 for arbitrary values of the screening parameters covering a wide range of interaction. Furthermore, excited states as high as up to $n=17$ have been computed with good accuracy for both these potentials. Excellent agreement with the available literature data has been observed in all cases. The $n>6$ states of Yukawa potential has been considerably improved over all other existing results currently available, while the same for Hulth\'en potential are reported here for the first time. Excepting the $1s$ and $2s$ states of Yukawa potential, the present method surpasses in accuracy all other existing results in the stronger coupling region for all other states of both these systems. This offers a simple and efficient scheme for the accurate calculation of these and other screened Coulomb potentials.

id: 1312.5915
title: Tightened estimation can improve the key rate of MDI-QKD by more than $100\%$
authors: Y.H. Zhou, Z.W. Yu, X.B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5915
abstract: We present formulas to tightly upper bound the phase-flip errors in decoy state method by using 4 intensities. Our result compressed the bound to about a quarter of known result for MDI-QKD. Based on this, we find that the key rate is improved by more than $100\%$ given weak coherent state sources (WCS), and even more than $200\%$ with the heralded single-photon sources (HSPS).

id: 1312.5916
title: Perfect signaling among three parties violating predefined causal order
authors: ?min Baumeler, Stefan Wolf
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, references added
journal: Proceedings of International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) 2014, 526-530, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5916
abstract: The paradigmatic view where information is seen as a more fundamental concept than the laws of physics leads to a different understanding of spacetime where the causal order of events emerges from correlations between random variables representing physical quantities. In particular, such an information-theoretic approach does not enforce a global spacetime structure. By following this path, we conclude that perfect signaling correlations among three parties are possible which do not obey the restrictions imposed by global spacetime. We show this using a recent framework based on the sole assumptions that locally, quantum theory is valid and random variables can be described by probability distributions. Our result is of zero-error type and is an analog to a tripartite appearance of quantum non-locality which manifests itself by satisfying a condition with certainty whereas the same is impossible for any local theory.

id: 1312.5923
title: Quantum time of arrival distribution in a simple lattice model
authors: Shrabanti Dhar, Subinay Dasgupta, Abhishek Dhar
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 115304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5923
abstract: Imagine an experiment where a quantum particle inside a box is released at some time in some initial state. A detector is placed at a fixed location inside the box and its clicking signifies arrival of the particle at the detector. What is the \emph{time of arrival} (TOA) of the particle at the detector ? Within the paradigm of the measurement postulate of quantum mechanics, one can use the idea of projective measurements to define the TOA. We consider the setup where a detector keeps making instantaneous measurements at regular finite time intervals {\emph{till}} it detects the particle at some time $t$, which is defined as the TOA. This is a stochastic variable and, for a simple lattice model of a free particle in a one-dimensional box, we find interesting features such as power-law tails in its distribution and in the probability of survival (non-detection). We propose a perturbative calculational approach which yields results that compare very well with exact numerics.

id: 1312.5933
title: Cooperative Lamb shift in a quantum emitter array
authors: Ziv Meir, Osip Schwartz, Ephraim Shahmoon, Dan Oron, Roee Ozeri
comments: (*) Equal contribution. 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 193002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5933
abstract: Whenever several quantum light emitters are brought in proximity with one another, their interaction with common electromagnetic fields couples them, giving rise to cooperative shifts in their resonance frequency. Such collective line shifts are central to modern atomic physics, being closely related to superradiance on one hand and the Lamb shift on the other. Although collective shifts have been theoretically predicted more than fifty years ago, the effect has not been observed yet in a controllable system of a few isolated emitters. Here, we report a direct spectroscopic observation of the cooperative shift of an optical electric dipole transition in a system of up to eight Sr ions suspended in a Paul trap. We study collective resonance shift in the previously unexplored regime of far-field coupling, and provide the first observation of cooperative effects in an array of quantum emitters. These results pave the way towards experimental exploration of cooperative emission phenomena in mesoscopic systems.

id: 1312.5977
title: Asymmetric random walks in a discrete spacetime as a model for quantum mechanics
authors: Antonio Sciarretta
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures, improved version; arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0709.2426
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5977
abstract: This paper presents a simple model that mimics quantum mechanics (QM) results in terms of probability fields of free particles subject to self-interference, without using Schr\"{o}dinger equation or wavefunctions. Unlike the standard QM picture, the proposed model only uses integer-valued quantities and arithmetic operations. In particular, it assumes a discrete spacetime under the form of an euclidean lattice. The proposed approach describes individual particle trajectories as random walks. Transition probabilities are simple functions of a few quantities that are either randomly associated to the particles during their preparation, or stored in the lattice sites they visit during the walk. Non-relativistic QM predictions, particularly self-interference, are retrieved as probability distributions of similarly-prepared ensembles of particles. Extension to interacting particles is discussed but not detailed in this paper.

id: 1312.5980
title: STE-QUEST - Test of the Universality of Free Fall Using Cold Atom Interferometry
authors: D. Aguilera, H. Ahlers, B. Battelier, A. Bawamia, A. Bertoldi, R. Bondarescu, K. Bongs, P. Bouyer, C. Braxmaier, L. Cacciapuoti, C. Chaloner, M. Chwalla, W. Ertmer, M. Franz, N. Gaaloul, M. Gehler, D. Gerardi, L. Gesa, N. G¨¹rlebeck, J. Hartwig, M. Hauth, O. Hellmig, W. Herr, S. Herrmann, A. Heske, A. Hinton, P. Ireland, P. Jetzer, U. Johann, M. Krutzik, A. Kubelka, C. L?mmerzahl, A. Landragin, I. Lloro, D. Massonnet, I. Mateos, A. Milke, M. Nofrarias, M. Oswald, A. Peters, K. Posso-Trujillo, E. Rasel, E. Rocco, A. Roura, J. Rudolph, W. Schleich, C. Schubert, T. Schuldt, S. Seidel, K. Sengstock, C. F. Sopuerta, F. Sorrentino, D. Summers, G. M. Tino, C. Trenkel, N. Uzunoglu, W. von Klitzing, R. Walser, T. Wendrich, A. Wenzlawski, P. We?els, A. Wicht, E. Wille, M. Williams, P. Windpassinger, N. Zahzam, et al. (1 additional author not shown)
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5980
abstract: The theory of general relativity describes macroscopic phenomena driven by the influence of gravity while quantum mechanics brilliantly accounts for microscopic effects. Despite their tremendous individual success, a complete unification of fundamental interactions is missing and remains one of the most challenging and important quests in modern theoretical physics. The STE-QUEST satellite mission, proposed as a medium-size mission within the Cosmic Vision program of the European Space Agency (ESA), aims for testing general relativity with high precision in two experiments by performing a measurement of the gravitational redshift of the Sun and the Moon by comparing terrestrial clocks, and by performing a test of the Universality of Free Fall of matter waves in the gravitational field of Earth comparing the trajectory of two Bose-Einstein condensates of Rb85 and Rb87. The two ultracold atom clouds are monitored very precisely thanks to techniques of atom interferometry. This allows to reach down to an uncertainty in the E\"otv\"os parameter of at least 2x10E-15. In this paper, we report about the results of the phase A mission study of the atom interferometer instrument covering the description of the main payload elements, the atomic source concept, and the systematic error sources.

id: 1312.5992
title: Feedback-Induced Steady-State Light Bunching Above the Lasing Threshold
authors: Franz Schulze, Benjamin Lingnau, Sven Moritz Hein, Alexander Carmele, Eckehard Sch?ll, Kathy L¨¹dge, Andreas Knorr
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5992
abstract: We develop a full quantum-optical approach for optical self-feedback of a microcavity laser. These miniaturized devices work in a regime between the quantum and classical limit and are test-beds for the differences between a quantized theory of optical self-feedback and the corresponding semiclassical theory. The light intensity and photon statistics are investigated with and without an external feedback: We show that in the low-gain limit, where relaxation oscillations do not appear, the recently observed photon bunching in a quantum dot microcavity laser with optical feedback can be accounted for only by the fully quantized model. By providing a description of laser devices with feedback in the quantum limit we reveal novel insights into the origin of bunching in quantized and semiclassical models.

id: 1312.5995
title: Experimental protocol for high-fidelity heralded photon-to-atom quantum state transfer
authors: Christoph Kurz, Michael Schug, Pascal Eich, Jan Huwer, Philipp M¨¹ller, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 5527 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5995
abstract: A quantum network combines the benefits of quantum systems regarding secure information transmission and calculational speed-up by employing quantum coherence and entanglement to store, transmit, and process information. A promising platform for implementing such a network are atom-based quantum memories and processors, interconnected by photonic quantum channels. A crucial building block in this scenario is the conversion of quantum states between single photons and single atoms through controlled emission and absorption. Here we present an experimental protocol for photon-to-atom quantum state conversion, whereby the polarization state of an absorbed photon is mapped onto the spin state of a single absorbing atom with >95% fidelity, while successful conversion is heralded by a single emitted photon. Heralded high-fidelity conversion without affecting the converted state is a main experimental challenge, in order to make the transferred information reliably available for further operations. We record >80/s successful state transfer events out of 18,000/s repetitions.

id: 1312.6007
title: A quantum information approach to statistical mechanics
authors: Gemma De las Cuevas
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 243001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6007
abstract: We review some connections between quantum information and statistical mechanics. We focus on three sets of results for classical spin models. First, we show that the partition function of all classical spin models (including models in different dimensions, different types of many-body interactions, different symmetries, etc) can be mapped to the partition function of a single model. Second, we give efficient quantum algorithms to estimate the partition function of various classical spin models, such as the Ising or the Potts model. The proofs of these two results are based on a mapping from partition functions to quantum states and to quantum circuits, respectively. Finally, we show how classical spin models can be used to describe certain fluctuating lattices appearing in models of discrete quantum gravity.

id: 1312.6018
title: Quantum Reflection of Antihydrogen in the GBAR Experiment
authors: Gabriel Dufour, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Astrid Lambrecht, Valery Nesvizhevsky, Serge Reynaud, Alexei Voronin
comments: Workshop on Antimatter and Gravity Bern 2013 Proceedings
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. Conf. Ser. 30, 1460265 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6018
abstract: In the GBAR experiment, cold antihydrogen atoms will be left to fall on an annihilation plate with the aim of measuring the gravitational acceleration of antimatter. Here, we study the quantum reflection of these antiatoms due to the Casimir-Polder potential above the plate. We give realistic estimates of the potential and quantum reflection amplitudes, taking into account the specificities of antihydrogen and the optical properties of the plate. We find that quantum reflection is enhanced for weaker potentials, for example above thin slabs, graphene and nanoporous media.

id: 1312.6075
title: Quantum graph vertices with minimal number of passbands
authors: Sergey S. Poghosyan, Taksu Cheon
comments: 14 Pages, 4 figures, New references added
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 83 (2014) 044004 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6075
abstract: We study a set of scattering matrices of quantum graphs containing minimal number of passbands, i.e., maximal number of zero elements. The cases of even and odd vertex degree are considered. Using a solution of inverse scattering problem, we reconstruct boundary conditions of scale-invariant vertex couplings. Potential-controlled universal flat filtering properties are found for considered types of vertex couplings. Obtained boundary conditions are approximated by simple graphs carrying only $\delta$ potentials and inner magnetic field.

id: 1312.6107
title: Spectroscopy for a Few Atoms Harmonically-Trapped in One Dimension
authors: N.L. Harshman
comments: version 3: 11 pages, 1 figure, 16 tables. Few corrections of v2 to match published form
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033633 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6107
abstract: Spectroscopic labels for a few particles with spin that are harmonically trapped in one-dimension with effectively zero-range interactions are provided by quantum numbers that characterize the symmetries of the Hamiltonian: permutations of identical particles, parity inversion, and the separability of the center-of-mass. The exact solutions for the non-interacting and infinitely repulsive cases are reduced with respect to these symmetries. This reduction explains how states of single-component and multi-component fermions and bosons transform under adiabatic evolution from non-interacting to strong hard-core repulsion. These spectroscopic methods also clarify previous analytic and numerical results for intermediate values of interaction strength. Several examples, including adiabatic mapping for two-component fermionic states in the cases $N=3-5$, are provided.

id: 1312.6137
title: An electrically injected photon-pair source at room temperature
authors: Fabien Boitier, Adeline Orieux, Claire Autebert, Aristide Lema?tre, Elisabeth Galopin, Christophe Manquest, Carlo Sirtori, Ivan Favero, Giuseppe Leo, Sara Ducci
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 112 p,183901 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6137
abstract: One of the main challenges for future quantum information technologies is miniaturization and integration of high performance components in a single chip. In this context, electrically driven sources of non-classical states of light have a clear advantage over optically driven ones. Here we demonstrate the first electrically driven semiconductor source of photon pairs working at room temperature and telecom wavelength. The device is based on type-II intracavity Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion in an AlGaAs laser diode and generates pairs at 1.57 $\mu$m. Time-correlation measurements of the emitted pairs give an internal generation efficiency of $7 \times 10^{-11}$ pairs/injected electron. The capability of our platform to support generation, manipulation and detection of photons opens the way to the demonstration of massively parallel systems for complex quantum operations.

id: 1312.6152
title: A superconducting circuit microscope for analog quantum simulators
authors: Liang-Hui Du, J. Q. You, Lin Tian
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6152
abstract: Analog quantum simulators can be used to explore novel quantum correlation in many-body systems by emulating the Hamiltonian of these systems. One essential question in quantum simulation is how to probe the properties of an emulated many-body system, such as the correlation in its ground state and the spectrum of the elementary excitations. Here we present a circuit QED scheme for probing such many-body properties by measuring the correlation spectrum of a superconducting resonator coupled to a quantum simulator. We develop a general framework for the scheme and derive the correlation spectrum of the resonator by solving the Heisenberg-Langevin equation. The correlation spectrum contains contributions of the correlation function of the simulator, and hence bears distinct features of the many-body phases. For illustration, we apply this scheme to a quantum simulator for the transverse field Ising model that couples to a superconducting resonator. The simulator can be implemented with an array of superconducting flux qubits. We calculate the correlation spectrum of the resonator when the simulator is under periodic and open boundary conditions, and also consider the spatial dependence of the microwave field in the resonator. Our results show that the resonance peaks in the correlation spectrum can be exactly mapped to the elementary excitations of the simulator. The effects of resonator damping and qubit decoherence at finite temperature are also discussed.

id: 1312.6160
title: Purity and Covariance Matrix
authors: T. Golubeva, Yu. Golubev
comments: 7 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Volume 35, Number 1, January, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6160
abstract: Basing on the simplest single-mode field source, we investigate the role of the various covariance matrices for reconstructing the field state and describing its quantum statistical properties. In spite of the fact that the intracavity field is a single-mode field, we take into account the natural multimode structure arising in the field, when it leaves the cavity for the free-space propagation. We show how the purity of the field state can be calculated using the different covariance matrices.

id: 1312.6188
title: Comment on "Towards universal quantum computation through relativistic motion"
authors: Rafael N. Alexander, Natasha C. Gabay, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6188
abstract: The work reported in arXiv:1311.5619v1 proposes to produce continuous-variable cluster states through relativistic motion of cavities. This proposal does not produce the states claimed by the authors. The states actually produced are in general not known to be useful for measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1312.6225
title: Ultimate communication capacity of quantum optical channels by solving the Gaussian minimum-entropy conjecture
authors: V. Giovannetti, R. Garcia-Patron, N. J. Cerf, A. S. Holevo
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 796-800 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6225
abstract: Optical channels, such as fibers or free-space links, are ubiquitous in today's telecommunication networks. They rely on the electromagnetic field associated with photons to carry information from one point to another in space. As a result, a complete physical model of these channels must necessarily take quantum effects into account in order to determine their ultimate performances. Specifically, Gaussian photonic (or bosonic) quantum channels have been extensively studied over the past decades given their importance for practical purposes. In spite of this, a longstanding conjecture on the optimality of Gaussian encodings has yet prevented finding their communication capacity. Here, this conjecture is solved by proving that the vacuum state achieves the minimum output entropy of a generic Gaussian bosonic channel. This establishes the ultimate achievable bit rate under an energy constraint, as well as the long awaited proof that the single-letter classical capacity of these channels is additive. Beyond capacities, it also has broad consequences in quantum information sciences.

id: 1312.6226
title: Generating continuous variable entangled states for quantum teleportation using a superposition of number-conserving operations
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Arpita Chatterjee, Rupamanjari Ghosh
comments: 10 figures, 17 pages, REVTeX 4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6226
abstract: We investigate the states generated in continuous variable (CV) optical fields on operating it with a number-conserving operator formed by the generalized superposition of products of field annihilation ($\hat{a}$) and creation ($\hat{a}^\dag$) operators, of the type $s\hat{a}\hat{a}^\dag + t\hat{a}^\dag\hat{a}$, with $s^2+t^2=1$. Such an operator is experimentally realizable and can be suitably manipulated to generate nonclassicality. We generate mode-entangled discrete bipartite states at low field intensities by applying the operation on single- and two-mode coherent, thermal and squeezed input states, and convert the nonclassicality into bipartite entanglement between the modes using a linear optical device. These operated nonclassical two-mode states can be used as quantum channels in CV quantum teleportation of single-mode coherent and squeezed states. The success of the teleportation under Braunstein and Kimble protocol is measured using the average fidelity of teleportation. We show that the operation reduces classical fidelity while enhancing quantum fidelity of CV teleportation in the sense that the teleportation fidelity of highly Einstein-Podolosky-Rosen (EPR) correlated two-mode squeezed states gets enhanced and those of the EPR non-correlated thermal and coherent channels get reduced. This investigation could prove useful in efficient implementation of noisy non-Gaussian channels, formed by linear operations, in future teleportation protocols.

id: 1312.6253
title: Interaction between a moving electron and magnetic flux in Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Wang Rui-Feng
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0705.4011 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6253
abstract: The back-action exerted by the moving electron on the magnetic flux in the A-B effect is analyzed. It is emphasized that a reasonable interpretation on the A-B effect should be consistent with the uncertain principle. If the back-action on the magnetic flux is reduced to zero, the A-B effect should not be observed, even through the vector potential still exists in space. To verify this interpretation, a new experimental scheme is proposed in this paper.

id: 1312.6256
title: Symplectic approach to the amplification process in a nonlinear fiber
authors: G. Ferrini, I. Fsaifes, T. Labidi, F. Goldfarb, N. Treps, F. Bretenaker
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6256
abstract: We analyze the amplification processes occurring in a nonlinear fiber, either driven with one or two pumps. After determining the solution for the signal and idler fields resulting from these amplification processes, we analyze the physical transformations that these fields undergo. To this aim, we use a Bloch-Messiah decomposition for the symplectic transformation governing the fields evolution. Although conceptually equivalent to other works in this area [McKinstrie and Karlsson, Opt. Expr. 21, 1374 (2013)], this analysis is intended to be particularly simple, gathering results spread in the literature, which is useful for guiding practical implementations. Furthermore, we present a study of the correlations of the signal-idler fields at the amplifier output. We show that these fields are correlated, study their correlations as a function of the pump power, and stress the impact of these correlations on the amplifier noise figure. Finally, we address the effect of losses. We determine whether it is advantageous to consider a link consisting in an amplifying non-linear fiber, followed by a standard fiber based lossy transmission line, or whether the two elements should be reversed, by comparing the respective noise figures.

id: 1312.6268
title: Quantum speed limits and optimal Hamiltonians for driven systems in mixed states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 215301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6268
abstract: Inequalities of Mandelstam-Tamm and Margolus-Levitin type provide lower bounds on the time it takes for a quantum system to evolve from one state into another. Knowledge of such bounds, called quantum speed limits, is of utmost importance in virtually all areas of physics, where determination of the minimum time required for a quantum process is of interest. Most Mandelstam-Tamm and Margolus-Levitin inequalities found in the literature have been derived from growth estimates for the Bures length, which is a statistical distance measure. In this paper we derive such inequalities by differential geometric methods, and we compare the obtained quantum speed limits with those involving the Bures length. We also characterize the Hamiltonians which optimize the evolution time for generic finite-level quantum systems.

id: 1312.6290
title: Information-based measure of nonlocality
authors: Alberto Montina, Stefan Wolf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6290
abstract: Quantum nonlocality concerns correlations among spatially separated systems that cannot be classically explained without post-measurement communication among the parties. Thus, a natural measure of nonlocal correlations is provided by the minimal amount of communication required for classically simulating them. In this paper, we present a method to compute the minimal communication cost, which we call nonlocal capacity, for any general nonsignaling correlations. This measure turns out to have an important role in communication complexity and can be used to discriminate between local and nonlocal correlations, as an alternative to the violation of Bell's inequalities.

id: 1312.6315
title: Exotic States in the Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Stefano Siccardi, Giuliano Strini
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 68, 139 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6315
abstract: We consider the interaction of a qubit with a single mode of the quantized electromagnetic field and show that, in the ultrastrong coupling regime and when the qubit-field interaction is switched on abruptly, the dynamical Casimir effect leads to the generation of a variety of exotic states of the field, which cannot be simply described as squeezed states. Such effect also appears when initially both the qubit and the field are in their ground state. The non-classicality of the obtained exotic states is characterized by means of a parameter based on the volume of the negative part of the Wigner function. A transition to non-classical states is observed by changing either the interaction strength or the interaction time. The observed phenomena appear as a general feature of nonadiabatic quantum gates, so that the dynamical Casimir effect can be the origin of a fundamental upper limit to the maximum speed of quantum computation and communication protocols.

id: 1312.6344
title: Relation Between Surface Codes and Hypermap-Homology Quantum Codes
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX. Revised title, abstract and introduction. Minor changes in presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6344
abstract: Recently, a new class of quantum codes based on hypermaps were proposed. These codes are obtained from embeddings of hypergraphs as opposed to surface codes which are obtained from the embeddings of graphs. It is natural to compare these two classes of codes and their relation to each other. In this context two related questions are addressed in this paper: Can the parameters of hypermap-homology codes be superior to those of surface codes and what is precisely the relation between these two classes of quantum codes? We show that a canonical hypermap code is identical to a surface code while a noncanonical hypermap code can be transformed to a surface code by CNOT gates alone. Our approach is constructive; we construct the related surface code and the transformation involving CNOT gates.

id: 1312.6357
title: Nonclassical effects in two-photon interference experiments: event-by-event simulations
authors: K. Michielsen, F. Jin, H. De Raedt
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.2368, arXiv:1006.1728
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8832, 88321L, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6357
abstract: It is shown that both the visibility ${\cal V} = 1/2$ predicted for two-photon interference experiments with two independent sources\textcolor{black}{, like the Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiment,} and the visibility ${\cal V} = 1$ predicted for two-photon interference experiments with a parametric down-conversion source\textcolor{black}{, like the Ghosh-Mandel experiment,} can be explained \textcolor{black}{by a discrete event simulation. This simulation approach reproduces the statistical distributions of wave theory not by requiring the knowledge of the solution of the wave equation of the whole system but by generating detection events one-by-one according to an unknown distribution.} There is thus no need to invoke quantum theory to explain the so-called nonclassical effects in the interference of signal and idler photons in parametric down conversion. Hence, a revision of the commonly accepted criterion of the nonclassical nature of light\textcolor{black}{, ${\cal V} > 1/2$,} is called for.

id: 1312.6360
title: Event-by-event simulation of experiments to create entanglement and violate Bell inequalities
authors: K. Michielsen, H. De Raedt
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.2365
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8832, 88321M, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6360
abstract: We discuss a discrete-event, particle-based simulation approach which reproduces the statistical distributions of Maxwell's theory and quantum theory by generating detection events one-by-one. This event-based approach gives a unified cause-and-effect description of quantum optics experiments such as single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer, Wheeler's delayed choice, quantum eraser, double-slit, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm and Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiments, and various neutron interferometry experiments at a level of detail which is not covered by conventional quantum theoretical descriptions. We illustrate the approach by application to single-photon Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments and single-neutron interferometry experiments that violate a Bell inequality.

id: 1312.6361
title: Data analysis of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm laboratory experiments
authors: H. De Raedt, F. Jin, K. Michielsen
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1112.2629
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8832 88321N, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6361
abstract: Data sets produced by three different Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPRB) experiments are tested against the hypothesis that the statistics of this data is described by quantum theory. Although these experiments generate data that violate Bell inequalities for suitable choices of the time-coincidence window, the analysis shows that it is highly unlikely that these data sets are compatible with the quantum theoretical description of the EPRB experiment, suggesting that the popular statements that EPRB experiments agree with quantum theory lack a solid scientific basis and that more precise experiments are called for.

id: 1312.6368
title: One-step achievement of robust multipartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and controlled-phase gate via Rydberg interaction
authors: Xiao-Qiang Shao, Tai-Yu Zheng, C. H. Oh, Shou Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 827-832 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6368
abstract: We present a proposal for generation of a robust tripartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state among three-individual neutral Rydberg atoms. By modulating the relation between two-photon detuning and Rydberg interaction strength $U_{ij}(r)$, an effective Raman coupling is obtained between the hyperfine ground states $|F=2,M=2\rangle$ of three $^{87}$Rb atoms and the Rydberg states $|rrr\rangle$ via the third-order perturbation theory. This method is also capable of implementing a three-qubit controlled-phase gate with each qubit encoded into the hyperfine ground states $|F=1,M=1\rangle$ and $|F=2,M=2\rangle$. As an extension, we generalize our scheme to the case of multipartite GHZ state and quantum gate in virtue of high-order perturbation theory.

id: 1312.6372
title: Phase Space Distribution Near Self-Excited Oscillation Threshold
authors: Yuvaraj Dhayalan, Ilya Baskin, Keren Shlomi, Eyal Buks
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1210.7327
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6372
abstract: We study phase space distribution of an optomechanical cavity near the threshold of self-excited oscillation. A fully on-fiber optomechanical cavity is fabricated by patterning a suspended metallic mirror on the tip of the fiber. Optically induced self-excited oscillation of the suspended mirror is observed above a threshold value of the injected laser power. A theoretical analysis based on Fokker-Planck equation evaluates the expected phase space distribution near threshold. A tomography technique is employed for extracting phase space distribution from the measured reflected optical power vs. time in steady state. Comparison between theory and experimental results allows the extraction of device's parameters.

id: 1312.6398
title: Entanglement Swapping in the Transactional Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Minor clarifications, references added, forthcoming in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6398
abstract: The transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics, which uses retarded and advanced solutions of the Schrodinger equation and its complex conjugate, offers an original way to visualize and understand quantum processes. After a brief review, we show how it can be applied to different quantum situations, emphasizing the importance of specifying a complete configuration of absorbers. We consider in more detail the phenomenon of entanglement swapping, and see how the apparent retroactive enforcement of entanglement can be understood in the transactional interpretation.

id: 1312.6403
title: The triangle wave versus the cosine (how to optimally approximate EPR-B Correlations by classical systems)
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: v2: changed title (saw tooth became triangle)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6403
abstract: The famous singlet correlations of a composite quantum system consisting of two spatially separated components exhibit notable features of two kinds. The first kind are striking certainty relations: perfect correlation and perfect anti-correlation in certain settings. The second kind are a number of symmetries, in particular, invariance under rotation, as well as invariance under exchange of components, parity, or chirality. In this note I investigate the class of correlation functions that can be generated by classical composite physical systems when we restrict attention to systems which reproduce the certainty relations exactly, and for which the rotational invariance of the correlation function is the manifestation of rotational invariance of the underlying classical physics. I call such correlation functions classical EPR-B correlations. It turns out that the other three (binary) symmetries can then be obtained for free: they are exhibited by the correlation function, and can be imposed on the underlying physics by adding an underlying randomisation level. We end up with a simple probabilistic description of all possible classical EPR-B correlations in terms of a ``spinning coloured disk'' model, and a research programme: describe these functions in a concise analytic way.

id: 1312.6404
title: Newton force from wave function collapse: speculation and test
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 7pp, 7figs, based on talk at Int. Symp. on Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Vienna, Oct 3-6, 2013)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 504 (2014) 012020-(7)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6404
abstract: The Diosi-Penrose model of quantum-classical boundary postulates gravity-related spontaneous wave function collapse of massive degrees of freedom. The decoherence effects of the collapses are in principle detectable if not masked by the overwhelming environmental decoherence. But the DP (or any other, like GRW, CSL) spontaneous collapses are not detectable themselves, they are merely the redundant formalism of spontaneous decoherence. To let DP collapses become testable physics, recently we extended the DP model and proposed that DP collapses are responsible for the emergence of the Newton gravitational force between massive objects. We identified the collapse rate, possibly of the order of 1/ms, with the rate of emergence of the Newton force. A simple heuristic emergence (delay) time was added to the Newton law of gravity. This non-relativistic delay is in peaceful coexistence with Einstein's relativistic theory of gravitation, at least no experimental evidence has so far surfaced against it. We derive new predictions of such a `lazy' Newton law that will enable decisive laboratory tests with available technologies. The simple equation of 'lazy' Newton law deserves theoretical and experimental studies in itself, independently of the underlying quantum foundational considerations.

id: 1312.6437
title: Pressure Excitation and Ionisation:a Simple One-Dimensional Example
authors: V.Celebonovic Belgrade
comments: plain LaTeX,no figures
journal: Phys.Low-Dim.Struct.,{\bf7/8},pp.127-132 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6437
abstract: In interiors of celestial objects matter is subdued to extremely high values of pressure.Theoretical analysis of the behaviour of atoms and molecules under high pressure is a complex quantum mechanical and statistical problem. The aim of the present letter is to demonstrate, on a known one-dimensional quantum mechanical system, the reality of excitation and ultimately ionisation of atoms and/or molecules under the influence of high external pressure.

id: 1312.6449
title: Quantum mechanics, matter waves, and moving clocks
authors: Holger Mueller
comments: 74 pages. To be published in the proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi" 2013, Course 188 - Atom Interferometry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6449
abstract: This paper is divided into three parts. In the first (section 1), we demonstrate that all of quantum mechanics can be derived from the fundamental property that the propagation of a matter wave packet is described by the same gravitational and kinematic time dilation that applies to a clock. We will do so in several steps, first deriving the Schroedinger equation for a nonrelativistic particle without spin in a weak gravitational potential, and eventually the Dirac equation in curved space-time describing the propagation of a relativistic particle with spin in strong gravity. In the second part (sections 2-4), we present interesting consequences of the above quantum mechanics: that it is possible to use wave packets as a reference for a clock, to test general relativity, and to realize a mass standard based on a proposed redefinition of the international system of units, wherein the Planck constant would be assigned a fixed value. The clock achieved an absolute accuracy of 4 parts per billion (ppb). The experiment yields the fine structure constant $\alpha = 7.297\,352\,589(15) \times 10^{-3}$ with 2.0 ppb accuracy. We present improvements that have reduced the leading systematic error about 8-fold and improved the statistical uncertainty to 0.33 ppb in 6 hours of integration time, referred to $\alpha$. In the third part (sections 5-7), we present possible future experiments with atom interferometry: A gravitational Aharonov-Bohm experiment and its application as a measurement of Newton's gravitational constant, antimatter interferometry, interferometry with charged particles, and interferometry in space. We will give a review of previously published material when appropriate, but will focus on new aspects that haven't been published before.

id: 1312.6470
title: Quantum contextuality and joint measurement of three observables of a qubit
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 8 pages and 2 figures, Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6470
abstract: Whereas complementarity manifests itself via two incompatible observables, quantum contextuality can only be revealed via the joint measurements among at least three observables. By incorporating unsharp measurements and joint measurements into a realistic model, we reestablish an inequality due to Liang, Spekkens, and Wiseman rigorously based on the assumption of noncontextuality alone. Its violation therefore unambiguously pinpoints the quantum contextuality of a two-level system. The maximal violation is attained by three triplewise jointly measurable observables that are pairwise jointly measured in an incompatible way. We also present the necessary and sufficient condition of triplewise joint measurability of three unbiased observables of a qubit.

id: 1312.6474
title: Scalable quantum simulation of pulsed entanglement and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering in optomechanics
authors: S. Kiesewetter, Q. Y. He, P. D. Drummond, M. D. Reid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6474
abstract: We demonstrate a complete, probabilistic quantum dynamical simulation of the standard nonlinear Hamiltonian of optomechanics, including decoherence at finite temperatures. Robust entanglement of an optical pulse with the oscillator is predicted, as well as strong quantum steering between the optical and mechanical systems. Importantly, our probabilistic quantum simulation method uses the positive-P technique, which is scalable to large Hilbert spaces.

id: 1312.6543
title: Translating Concepts of State Transfer to Spin-1 Chains
authors: Marcin Wiesniak, Arijit Dutta, Jeonghee Ryu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6543
abstract: State transfer is a well-known routine for various systems of spins-$\frac{1}2$. Still, it is not well studied for chains of spins of larger magnitudes. In this contribution we argue that while perfect state transfer may seem unnatural in spin-1 systems, it is still feasible for arrays of V-type three-level atoms. Tomography of such 1D array is also shown to be possible by acting on one atom from such an array.

id: 1312.6551
title: Opto-Nanomechanics Strongly Coupled to a Rydberg Superatom: Coherent vs. Incoherent Dynamics
authors: A. Carmele, B. Vogell, K. Stannigel, P. Zoller
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6551
abstract: We propose a hybrid optomechanical quantum system consisting of a moving membrane strongly coupled to an ensemble of N atoms with a Rydberg state. Due to the strong van-der-Waals interaction between the atoms, the ensemble forms an effective two-level system, a Rydberg superatom, with a collectively enhanced atom-light coupling. Using this superatom imposed collective enhancement strong coupling between membrane and superatom is feasible for parameters within the range of current experiments. The quantum interface to couple the membrane and the superatom can be a pumped single mode cavity, or a laser field in free space, where the Rydberg superatom and the membrane are spatially separated. In addition to the coherent dynamics, we study in detail the impact of the typical dissipation processes, in particular the radiative decay as a source for incoherent superpositions of atomic excitations. We identify the conditions to suppress these incoherent dynamics and thereby a parameter regime for strong coupling. The Rydberg superatom in this hybrid system serves as a toolbox for the nanomechanical resonator allowing for a wide range of applications such as state transfer, sympathetic cooling and non-classical state preparation. As an illustration, we show that a thermally occupied membrane can be prepared in a non-classical state without the necessity of ground state cooling.

id: 1312.6583
title: Hybrid Topological Quantum Computation with Majorana Fermions: A Cold Atom Setup
authors: C. Laflamme, M. A. Baranov, P. Zoller, C. V. Kraus
comments: 16 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6583
abstract: In this paper we present a hybrid scheme for topological quantum computation in a system of cold atoms trapped in an atomic lattice. A topological qubit subspace is defined using Majorana fermions which emerge in a network of atomic Kitaev one-dimensional wires. We show how braiding can be efficiently implemented in this setup and propose a direct way to demonstrate the non-Abelian nature of Majorana fermions via a single parity measurement. We then introduce a proposal for the efficient, robust and reversible mapping of the topological qubits to a conventional qubit stored in a single atom. There, well-controlled standard techniques can be used to implement the missing gates required for universal computation. Our setup is complemented with an efficient non-destructive protocol to check for errors in the mapping.

id: 1312.6584
title: Remarks on Matsumoto and Amano's normal form for single-qubit Clifford+T operators
authors: Brett Giles, Peter Selinger
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6584
abstract: Matsumoto and Amano (2008) showed that every single-qubit Clifford+T operator can be uniquely written of a particular form, which we call the Matsumoto-Amano normal form. In this mostly expository paper, we give a detailed and streamlined presentation of Matsumoto and Amano's results, simplifying some proofs along the way. We also point out some corollaries to Matsumoto and Amano's work, including an intrinsic characterization of the Clifford+T subgroup of SO(3), which also yields an efficient T-optimal exact single-qubit synthesis algorithm. Interestingly, this also gives an alternative proof of Kliuchnikov, Maslov, and Mosca's exact synthesis result for the Clifford+T subgroup of U(2).

id: 1312.6588
title: Quantum origins of objectivity
authors: R. Horodecki, J. K. Korbicz, P. Horodecki
comments: An extended and refined version of parts of arXiv:1305.3247; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032122 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6588
abstract: In spite of all of its successes, quantum mechanics leaves us with a central problem: How does Nature create a "foot-bridge" from fragile quanta to the objective world of everyday experience? Here we identify within quantum mechanics a fundamental process leading to the perceived objectivity and called state information broadcasting. This is the trick that Nature uses instead of a simple cloning. We uncover it basing on minimal assumptions, without referring to any dynamical details or a concrete model. More specifically, we show how a crucial for quantum mechanics notion of non-disturbance due to Bohr and a natural definition of objectivity lead to a canonical structure of a quantum system-environment state, reflecting objective information records about the system stored in the environment.

id: 1312.6640
title: Do Large Number of Parties Enforce Monogamy in All Quantum Correlations?
authors: Asutosh Kumar, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 9 pages, 4 figs, RevTeX4.1; v2: slight changes in presentation, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012341 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6640
abstract: Monogamy is a non-classical property that restricts the sharability of quantum correlation among the constituents of a multipartite quantum system. Quantum correlations may satisfy or violate monogamy for quantum states. Here we provide evidence that almost all pure quantum states of systems consisting of a large number of subsystems are monogamous with respect to all quantum correlation measures of both the entanglement-separability and the information-theoretic paradigms, indicating that the volume of the monogamous pure quantum states increases with an increasing number of parties. Nonetheless, we identify important classes of pure states that remain non-monogamous with respect to quantum discord and quantum work-deficit, irrespective of the number of qubits. We find conditions for which a given quantum correlation measure satisfies vis-\`a-vis violates monogamy.

id: 1312.6644
title: Heat transport through ion crystals
authors: Nahuel Freitas, Esteban Martinez, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because Eqs. (7) and (8) are not correct. An update with corrected expressions and plots will follow soon
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6644
abstract: We study the thermodynamical properties of crystals of trapped ions which are laser cooled to two different temperatures in two separate regions. We show that these properties strongly depend on the structure of the ion crystal. Such structure can be changed by varying the trap parameters and undergoes a series of phase transitions from linear to zig-zag or helicoidal configurations. Thus, we show that these systems are ideal candidates to observe and control the transition from anomalous to normal heat transport. All structures behave as `heat superconductors', with a thermal conductivity increasing linearly with system size and a vanishing thermal gradient inside the system. However, zig-zag and helicoidal crystals turn out to be hyper sensitive to disorder having a linear temperature profile and a length independent conductivity. Interestingly, disordered 2D ion crystals are heat insulators. Sensitivity to disorder is much smaller in the 1D case.

id: 1312.6655
title: An application of two-spinors calculus to quantum field and quantum mechanics problems
authors: D. S. Kulyabov, A. G. Ulyanova
comments: in Russian, in English
journal: Physics of Particles and Nuclei Letters, 6 (7): 546-549, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6655
abstract: This paper describes the Lorentz two-spinors proposing to use them instead of Dirac four-spinors and quaternions.

id: 1312.6719
title: Photonic tuning of quasi-particle decay in a superfluid
authors: G. Konya, G. Szirmai, D. Nagy, P. Domokos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 051601(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6719
abstract: We show that the damping rate of elementary excitations of hybrid systems close to a phase transition can undergo a remarkable resonance like enhancement before mode softening takes place. In particular, we consider the friction of a collective density wave in a homogeneous superfluid of weakly interacting bosonic atoms coupled to the electromagnetic field of a single mode optical resonator. Here the Beliaev damping can thus be controlled by an external laser drive and be enhanced by several orders of magnitude.

id: 1312.6725
title: Detecting faked continuous variable entanglement using one-sided device-independent entanglement witnesses
authors: Bogdan Opanchuk, Ludovic Arnaud, Margaret D. Reid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6725
abstract: We demonstrate the principle of one-sided device-independent continuous variable (CV) quantum information. In situations of no trust, we show by enactment how the use of standard CV entanglement criteria can mislead Charlie into thinking Alice and Bob share entanglement, when the data is actually generated classically using a Local Hidden Variable theory based on the Wigner function. We distinguish between criteria that demonstrate CV entanglement, and criteria that demonstrate the CV Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering paradox. We show that the latter, but not the former, are necessarily one-sided device-independent entanglement witnesses, and can be used by Charlie to signify genuine EPR entanglement, if he trusts only Alice. A monogamy result for the EPR steering paradox confirms security of the shared amplitude values in that case.

id: 1312.6739
title: Controlling a whispering gallery doublet mode avoided frequency crossing: Strong coupling between photon bosonic and spin degrees of freedom
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Warrick G. Farr, Daniel L. Creedon, Michael E. Tobar
comments: Phys. Rev. A, 2014
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6739
abstract: A combination of electron spin interactions in a magnetic field allows us to control the resonance frequencies of a high-Q Whispering Gallery (WG) cavity mode doublet, resulting in precise measurements of an avoided crossing between the two modes comprising the doublet. We show that the resonant photons effectively behave as spin--$\frac{1}{2}$ particles and that the physical origins of the doublet phenomenon arise from an energy splitting between the states of photon spin angular momentum. The exclusive role of the photon spin in splitting the mode frequency is emphasized, and we demonstrate that the gyrotropic and anisotropic properties of the crystalline media supporting the WG mode lead to strong coupling between the bosonic and spin degrees of freedom of cavity photons. Despite the demonstrated similarities with Jaynes-Cummings type systems, the mode doublet system exhibits a significant difference due to its linearity. Unlike traditional experiments dealing with interactions between fields and matter, here the crystalline medium plays a role of macroscopic symmetry breaking, assisting in the strong coupling between these photon degrees of freedom. Such a regime is demonstrated experimentally with a method to effectively control the photon spin state. Our experiments demonstrate for the first time, controllable time-reversal symmetry breaking in a high-$Q$ cavity.

id: 1312.6744
title: The fine-grained uncertainty relation for mutually unbaised bases
authors: Li-Hang Ren, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6744
abstract: We investigate the fine-grained uncertainty relations for qubit system by measurements corresponding to two and three spin operators. Then we derive the general bound for a combination of two probabilities of projective measurements in mutually unbiased bases in $d$-dimensional Hilbert space ($d$ is prime). Those uncertainty inequalities can be applied to construct different thermodynamic cycles which all imply the second law of thermodynamics.

id: 1312.6772
title: The 2nd order coherence of superradiance from a Bose--Einstein condensate
authors: Raphael Lopes, Almazbek Imanaliev, Marie Bonneau, Josselin Ruaudel, Marc Cheneau, Denis Boiron, Christoph I Westbrook
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6772
abstract: We have measured the 2-particle correlation function of atoms from a Bose--Einstein condensate participating in a superradiance process, which directly reflects the 2nd order coherence of the emitted light. We compare this correlation function with that of atoms undergoing stimulated emission. Whereas the stimulated process produces correlations resembling those of a coherent state, we find that superradiance, even in the presence of strong gain, shows a correlation function close to that of a thermal state, just as for ordinary spontaneous emission.

id: 1312.6806
title: Quantum Plasmonics
authors: M. S. Tame, K. R. McEnery, S. K. Ozdemir, J. Lee, S. A. Maier, M. S. Kim
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6806
abstract: Quantum plasmonics is a rapidly growing field of research that involves the study of the quantum properties of light and its interaction with matter at the nanoscale. Here, surface plasmons - electromagnetic excitations coupled to electron charge density waves on metal-dielectric interfaces or localized on metallic nanostructures - enable the confinement of light to scales far below that of conventional optics. In this article we review recent progress in the experimental and theoretical investigation of the quantum properties of surface plasmons, their role in controlling light-matter interactions at the quantum level and potential applications. Quantum plasmonics opens up a new frontier in the study of the fundamental physics of surface plasmons and the realization of quantum-controlled devices, including single-photon sources, transistors and ultra-compact circuitry at the nanoscale.

id: 1312.6846
title: Beat note stabilization of mode-locked lasers for quantum information processing
authors: R. Islam, W. C. Campbell, T. Choi, S. M. Clark, S. Debnath, E. E. Edwards, B. Fields, D. Hayes, D. Hucul, I. V. Inlek, K. G. Johnson, S. Korenblit, A. Lee, K. W. Lee, T. A. Manning, D. N. Matsukevich, J. Mizrahi, Q. Quraishi, C. Senko, J. Smith, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6846
abstract: We stabilize a chosen radiofrequency beat note between two optical fields derived from the same mode-locked laser pulse train, in order to coherently manipulate quantum information. This scheme does not require access or active stabilization of the laser repetition rate. We implement and characterize this external lock, in the context of two-photon stimulated Raman transitions between the hyperfine ground states of trapped 171-Yb+ quantum bits.

id: 1312.6848
title: Wigner functions and spin tomograms for qubit states
authors: Peter Adam, Vladimir A. Andreev, Iulia Ghiu, Aurelian Isar, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research (Springer, New York, 2014, issue 1)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6848
abstract: We establish the relation of the spin tomogram to the Wigner function on a discrete phase space of qubits. We use the quantizers and dequantizers of the spin tomographic star-product scheme for qubits to derive the expression for the kernel connecting Wigner symbols on the discrete phase space with the tomographic symbols.

id: 1312.6866
title: Excitation spectrum as a resource for efficient two-qubit entangling gates
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Sophia E. Economou, Thomas L. Reinecke
comments: 19 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 155404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6866
abstract: Physical systems representing qubits typically have one or more accessible quantum states in addition to the two states that encode the qubit. We demonstrate that active involvement of such auxiliary states can be beneficial in constructing entangling two-qubit operations. We investigate the general case of two multi-state quantum systems coupled via a quantum resonator. The approach is illustrated with the examples of three systems: self-assembled InAs/GaAs quantum dots, NV-centers in diamond, and superconducting transmon qubits. Fidelities of the gate operations are calculated based on numerical simulations of each system.

id: 1312.6883
title: Two driven coupled qubits in a time varying magnetic field: exact and approximate solutions
authors: E. I. Lashin, Gehad Sadiek, M. Sebaweh Abdullah, Elham Aldufeery
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6883
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-qubit system coupled through time dependent anisotropic $XYZ$ Heisenberg interaction in presence of a time varying non-uniform external magnetic field. Exact results are presented for the time evolution of the system under certain integrability conditions. Furthermore, the corresponding entanglement of the system is studied for different values of the involved parameters. We found that the time evolution and different properties of entanglement such as amplitude, frequency and profile can be finely tuned by the interplay of the characteristics of the time-dependent magnetic field and exchange coupling. Also we show how the discrete symmetries of the system Hamiltonian, which splits its Hilbert space into two distinct subspaces, can be utilized to deduce the dynamics in one of its two distinct subspaces from the other one. Moreover, approximate results for the time evolution are provided utilizing the rotating wave as well as the perturbation approximations for the special case of either static magnetic field or exchange coupling. We compare the range of validity of the two approximation methods and their effectiveness in treating the considered system and determine their critical parameters.

id: 1312.6907
title: Measurement and Ergodicity in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mariano Bauer, Pier A. Mello
comments: In press in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6907
abstract: The experimental realization of successive non-demolition measurements on single microscopic systems brings up the question of ergodicity in Quantum Mechanics (QM). We investigate whether time averages over one realization of a single system are related to QM averages over an ensemble of similarly prepared systems. We adopt a generalization of von Neumann model of measurement, coupling the system to $N$ "probes" --with a strength that is at our disposal-- and detecting the latter. The model parallels the procedure followed in experiments on Quantum Electrodynamic cavities. The modification of the probability of the observable eigenvalues due to the coupling to the probes can be computed analytically and the results compare qualitatively well with those obtained numerically by the experimental groups. We find that the problem is not ergodic, except in the case of an eigenstate of the observable being studied.

id: 1312.6910
title: Quantum Fisher information for density matrices with arbitrary ranks
authors: Jing Liu, Xiao-Xing Jing, Wei Zhong, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 61(01), 45-50 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6910
abstract: We provide a new expression of the quantum Fisher information(QFI) for a general system. Utilizing this expression, the QFI for a non-full rank density matrix is only determined by its support. This expression can bring convenience for a infinite dimensional density matrix with a finite support. Besides, a matrix representation of the QFI is also given.

id: 1312.6913
title: Indirect controllability of degenerate quantum systems with quantum accessor
authors: Si Li, Z. F. Jiang, H. C. Fu
comments: 11pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6913
abstract: Complete controllability of degenerate quantum system using quantum accessor modeled as a qubit chain with nearest neighborhood coupling is investigated. Sufficient conditions on the length of accessor and the way of coupling between controlled system and accessor are obtained. General approach to arbitrary finite system is presented and two and three level degenerate systems are investigated in detail.

id: 1312.6938
title: Superradiance transition in a system with a single qubit and a single oscillator
authors: S. Ashhab
comments: 7 pages (two-column), 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013826 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6938
abstract: We consider the phase-transition-like behaviour in the Rabi model containing a single two-level system, or qubit, and a single harmonic oscillator. The system experiences a sudden transition from an uncorrelated state to an increasingly correlated one as the qubit-oscillator coupling strength is varied and increased past a critical point. This singular behaviour occurs in the limit where the oscillator's frequency is much lower than the qubit's frequency; away from this limit one obtains a finite-width transition region. By analyzing the energy-level structure, the value of the oscillator field and its squeezing and the qubit-oscillator correlation, we gain insight into the nature of the transition and the associated critical behaviour.

id: 1312.6942
title: Event-based simulation of quantum physics experiments
authors: Kristel Michielsen, Hans De Raedt
comments: Lectures notes of the Advanced School on Quantum Foundations and Open Quantum Systems, Jo\~ao Pessoa, Brazil, July 2012, edited by T. M. Nieuwenhuizen et al, World Scientific, to appear
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C Vol. 25, No. 8 (2014) 1430003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6942
abstract: We review an event-based simulation approach which reproduces the statistical distributions of wave theory not by requiring the knowledge of the solution of the wave equation of the whole system but by generating detection events one-by-one according to an unknown distribution. We illustrate its applicability to various single photon and single neutron interferometry experiments and to two Bell test experiments, a single-photon Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment employing post-selection for photon pair identification and a single-neutron Bell test interferometry experiment with nearly $100\%$ detection efficiency.

id: 1312.6945
title: Quantum Ensemble Classification: A Sampling-based Learning Control Approach
authors: Chunlin Chen, Daoyi Dong, Bo Qi, Ian R. Petersen, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 32 pages, 15 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6945
abstract: Quantum ensemble classification has significant applications in discrimination of atoms (or molecules), separation of isotopic molecules and quantum information extraction. However, quantum mechanics forbids deterministic discrimination among nonorthogonal states. The classification of inhomogeneous quantum ensembles is very challenging since there exist variations in the parameters characterizing the members within different classes. In this paper, we recast quantum ensemble classification as a supervised quantum learning problem. A systematic classification methodology is presented by using a sampling-based learning control (SLC) approach for quantum discrimination. The classification task is accomplished via simultaneously steering members belonging to different classes to their corresponding target states (e.g., mutually orthogonal states). Firstly a new discrimination method is proposed for two similar quantum systems. Then an SLC method is presented for quantum ensemble classification. Numerical results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach for the binary classification of two-level quantum ensembles and the multiclass classification of multilevel quantum ensembles.

id: 1312.6988
title: Quantum strong subadditivity condition for systems without subsystems
authors: Margarita A Man'ko, Vladimir I Man'ko
comments: 9 pages, submitted to Journal of Physics: Conference Series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6988
abstract: The strong subadditivity condition for the density matrix of a quantum system, which does not contain subsystems, is derived using the qudit-portrait method. An example of the qudit state in the seven-dimensional Hilbert space corresponding to spin j = 3 is presented in detail. New entropic inequalities in the form of subadditivity condition and strong subadditivity condition for spin tomograms determining the qudit states are obtained and given on examples of j = 2 and 3.

id: 1312.6989
title: Disorder-assisted quantum transport in suboptimal decoherence regimes
authors: Leonardo Novo, Masoud Mohseni, Yasser Omar
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures. Updated version with some clarifications and added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6989
abstract: We investigate quantum transport in binary tree structures and in hypercubes for the disordered Frenkel-exciton Hamiltonian under pure dephasing noise. We compute the energy transport efficiency as a function of disorder and dephasing rates. We demonstrate that dephasing improves transport efficiency not only in the disordered case, but also in the ordered one. The maximal transport efficiency is obtained when the dephasing timescale matches the hopping timescale, which represent new examples of the Goldilocks principle at the quantum scale. Remarkably, we find that in weak dephasing regimes, away from optimal levels of environmental fluctuations, the average effect of increasing disorder is to improve the transport efficiency until an optimal value for disorder is reached. Our results suggest that rational design of the site energies statistical distributions could lead to better performances in transport systems at nanoscale when their natural environments are far from the optimal dephasing regime.

id: 1312.7146
title: Quantum H-theorem and irreversibility in quantum mechanics
authors: G.B. Lesovik, I.A. Sadovskyy, A.V. Lebedev, M.V. Suslov, V.M. Vinokur
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7146
abstract: We investigate temporal evolution of von Neumann's entropy in exemplary quantum mechanical systems and show that it grows in systems evolving with incrementally increasing decoherence during scattering processes. We demonstrate that the origin of irreversibility lies in complexity of preparing time-reversed quantum states due to entanglement and in partitioning of the wave function of the evolving system.

id: 1312.7153
title: Stable optical spring in aLIGO detector with unbalanced arms and in Michelson-Sagnac interferometer
authors: Nikita Vostrosablin, Sergey Vyatchanin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 062005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7153
abstract: Optical rigidity in aLIGO gravitational-wave detector, operated on dark port regime, is unstable. We show that the same interferometer with excluded symmetric mechanical mode but with unbalanced arms allows to get stable optical spring for antisymmetric mechanical mode. Arm detuning necessary to get stability is shown to be a small one - it corresponds to small power in signal port. We show that stable optical spring may be also obtained in Michelson-Sagnac interferometer with both power and signal recycling mirrors and unbalanced arms.

id: 1312.7178
title: Generation of multi-photon entanglement
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 5pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7178
abstract: We propose a new scheme to generate the multi-photon entanglement via two steps, that is, first to utilize the superconductor to create the multi-quantum-dot entanglement, and then to use the input photon to transfer it into the multi-photon entanglement. Moreover, the maximum probability for the swap of photon and quantum-dot qubits is close to unit for a single input Gaussian photon. More importantly, by mapping the multi-quantum-dot state into the coherent states of oscillators, such as cavity modes, the multi-quantum-dot entanglement in our scheme can be protected from the decoherence induced by the noise. Thus, it is possible to generate more than eight spatially separated entangled photons in the realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1312.7196
title: Strong polygamy of quantum correlations in multi-party quantum systems
authors: Jeong San Kim
comments: 5 pages
journal: European Physical Journal D 68, 324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7196
abstract: We propose a new type of polygamy inequality for multi-party quantum entanglement. We first consider the possible amount of bipartite entanglement distributed between a fixed party and any subset of the rest parties in a multi-party quantum system. By using the summation of these distributed entanglements, we provide an upper bound of the distributed entanglement between a party and the rest in multi-party quantum systems. We then show that this upper bound also plays as a lower bound of the usual polygamy inequality, therefore the strong polygamy of multi-party quantum entanglement. For the case of multi-party pure states, we further show that the strong polygamy of entanglement implies the strong polygamy of quantum discord.

id: 1312.7208
title: High Precision Inertial Rotation Rate and Magnetic Field Estimate via Extended Kalman Filter
authors: Lijun Liu, Bo Qi, Shuming Cheng, Zairong Xi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to an error in the model (equation 1)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7208
abstract: Recent developments of technology have enabled atomic spins as the most sensitive inertial and magnetic sensors. Atomic spin gyroscope (magnetometer) essentially outputs the estimate of the inertial rotation rate (magnetic filed) to be measured. Conventional methods for estimating a static or quasi-static inertial rotation rate (magnetic field) employ the dependency relationship between the steady state signal and the input rotation rate (magnetic field). In this paper we present an extended Kalman filter (EKF) method for the atomic spin gyroscope and magnetometer. It is demonstrated that the EKF method is much more accurate and faster than the conventional steady state estimation method.

id: 1312.7220
title: Cooling a two-level emitter in photonic crystal environments
authors: Marcela Cerbu, Mihai A. Macovei, Gao-xiang Li
comments: 5 pages, 4 fugures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013837 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7220
abstract: We investigate the resonant cooling phenomena of a driven two-level radiator embedded in a photonic crystal structure. We find that cooling occurs even at laser-atom-frequency resonance. This happens due to the atomic dressed-states coupling with different strengths resulting in population redistribution and cooling. Furthermore, for off-resonant driving the two-level particle can be in either ground or excited bare-state, respectively. This may help in engineering of novel amplified optical devices as well as highly coherent light sources.

id: 1312.7222
title: The Garden Hose Complexity for the Equality Function
authors: Well Y. Chiu, Mario Szegedy, Chengu Wang, Yixin Xu
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7222
abstract: The garden hose complexity is a new communication complexity introduced by H. Buhrman, S. Fehr, C. Schaffner and F. Speelman [BFSS13] to analyze position-based cryptography protocols in the quantum setting. We focus on the garden hose complexity of the equality function, and improve on the bounds of O. Margalit and A. Matsliah[MM12] with the help of a new approach and of our handmade simulated annealing based solver. We have also found beautiful symmetries of the solutions that have lead us to develop the notion of garden hose permutation groups. Then, exploiting this new concept, we get even further, although several interesting open problems remain.

id: 1312.7254
title: Exact Nonadiabatic Holonomic Transformations of Spin-Orbit Qubits
authors: T. Cadez, J. H. Jefferson, A. Ramsak
comments: 5+4 pages, 1+6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 150402, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7254
abstract: An exact analytical solution is derived for the wavefunction of an electron in a one-dimensional moving quantum dot in a nanowire, in the presence of time-dependent spin-orbit coupling. For cyclic evolutions we show that the spin of the electron is rotated by an angle proportional to the area of a closed loop in the parameter space of the time-dependent quantum dot position and the amplitude of a fictitious classical oscillator driven by the time-dependent spin-orbit coupling. By appropriate choice of parameters, we show that arbitrary spin rotations may be performed on the Bloch sphere. Exact expressions for dynamical and geometrical phases are also derived.

id: 1312.7261
title: A thermal coherent state defined with the Lie-Trotter product formula
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: 28 pages, 10 eps figures, latex2e; v2: 19 pages, 6 eps figures, a shortened version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7261
abstract: In this paper, we investigate a thermal coherent state defined with the Lie-Trotter product formula under the formalism of the thermo field dynamics. In the definition of our thermal coherent state, we treat the thermalizing operator and the displacement operator symmetrically. We examine its uncertainty relation and quasiprobability distributions. Although this thermal coherent state is equivalent to the conventional ones except for different parameterizations and a phase factor, it is convenient for describing an experimental setup of the optical parametric oscillator (OPO) laser.

id: 1312.7287
title: Monogamy of entanglement of formation
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira, Marcio F. Cornelio, Felipe F. Fanchini
comments: Published version: small corrections to improve the text and changed the title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 034303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7287
abstract: It is well known that a particle cannot freely share entanglement with two or more particles. This restriction is generally called monogamy. However the formal quantification of such restriction is only known for some measures of entanglement and for two-level systems. The first and broadly known monogamy relation was established by Coffman, Kundu, and Wootters for the square of the concurrence. Since then, it is usually said that the entanglement of formation is not monogamous, as it does not obey the same relation. We show here that despite that, the entanglement of formation cannot be freely shared and therefore should be said to be monogamous. Furthermore, the square of the entanglement of formation does obey the same relation of the squared concurrence, a fact recently noted for three particles and extended here for N particles. Therefore the entanglement of formation is as monogamous as the concurrence. We also numerically study how the entanglement is distributed in pure states of three qubits and the relation between the sum of the bipartite entanglement and the classical correlation.

id: 1312.7321
title: Detecting Wave Function Collapse Without Prior Knowledge
authors: Charles Wesley Cowan, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 15 pages LaTeX, 1 figure. A previous version of this paper was included as chapters 6 and 7 in arXiv:1307.0810v1, but it will not be contained in subsequent, revised versions of arXiv:1307.0810
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7321
abstract: We are concerned with the problem of detecting with high probability whether a wave function has collapsed or not, in the following framework: A quantum system with a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space is initially in state $\psi$; with probability $0<p<1$, the state collapses relative to the orthonormal basis $b_1,...,b_d$. That is, the final state $\psi'$ is random; it is $\psi$ with probability $1-p$ and $b_k$ (up to a phase) with $p$ times Born's probability $|\langle b_k|\psi \rangle|^2$. Now an experiment on the system in state $\psi'$ is desired that provides information about whether or not a collapse has occurred. Elsewhere, we identify and discuss the optimal experiment in case that $\psi$ is either known or random with a known probability distribution. Here we present results about the case that no a priori information about $\psi$ is available, while we regard $p$ and $b_1,...,b_d$ as known. For certain values of $p$, we show that the set of $\psi$s for which any experiment E is more reliable than blind guessing is at most half the unit sphere; thus, in this regime, any experiment is of questionable use, if any at all. Remarkably, however, there are other values of $p$ and experiments E such that the set of $\psi$s for which E is more reliable than blind guessing has measure greater than half the sphere, though with a conjectured maximum of 64% of the sphere.

id: 1312.7322
title: Representing Quantum Superpositions: Powers, Potentia and Potential Effectuations
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: 28 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7322
abstract: In this paper we attempt to provide a physical representation of quantum superpositions. For this purpose we discuss the constraints of the quantum formalism to the notion of possibility and the necessity to consider a potential realm independent of actuality. Taking these insights into account and from the basic principles of quantum mechanics itself we advance towards the definition of the notions of power and potentia. Assuming these notions as a standpoint we analyze the meaning of 'observation' and 'interaction'. As a conclusion we provide a set of axioms which comprise our interpretation of quantum mechanics and argue in favor of a redefinition of the orthodox problems discussed in the literature.

id: 1312.7353
title: A system's wave function is uniquely determined by its underlying physical state
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 5+3 pages, 2 figures. This work is related to arXiv:1111.6597, but the argument is simplified and based on fewer assumptions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7353
abstract: We address the question of whether the quantum-mechanical wave function $\Psi$ of a system is uniquely determined by any complete description $\Lambda$ of the system's physical state. We show that this is the case if the latter satisfies a notion of "free choice". This notion requires that certain experimental parameters, which according to quantum theory can be chosen independently of other variables, retain this property in the presence of $\Lambda$. An implication of this result is that, among all possible descriptions $\Lambda$ of a system's state compatible with free choice, the wave function $\Psi$ is as objective as $\Lambda$.

id: 1312.7359
title: Fraction of isospectral states exhibiting quantum correlations
authors: Micha? Oszmaniec, Marek Ku?
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, title changed, abstract and introduction rewritten, one reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 010302(R) 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7359
abstract: For several types of correlations: mixed-state entanglement in systems of distinguishable particles, particle entanglement in systems of indistinguishable bosons and fermions and non-Gaussian correlations in fermionic systems we estimate the fraction of non-correlated states among the density matrices with the same spectra. We prove that for the purity exceeding some critical value (depending on the considered problem) fraction of non-correlated states tends to zero exponentially fast with the dimension of the relevant Hilbert space. As a consequence a state randomly chosen from the set of density matrices possessing the same spectra is asymptotically a correlated one. To prove this we developed a systematic framework for detection of correlations via nonlinear witnesses.

id: 1312.7370
title: Global thermal entanglement in n-qubit systems
authors: R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 012335 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7370
abstract: We examine the entanglement of thermal states of n spins interacting through different types of XY couplings in the presence of a magnetic field, by evaluating the negativities of all possible bipartite partitions of the whole system and of subsystems. We consider both the case where every qubit interacts with all others and where just nearest neighbors interact in a one-dimensional chain. Limit temperatures for non-zero negativities are also evaluated and compared with the mean field critical temperature. It is shown that limit temperatures of global negativities are strictly independent of the magnetic field in all XXZ models, in spite of the quantum transitions that these models may exhibit at zero temperature, while in anisotropic models they always increase for sufficiently large fields. Results also show that these temperatures are higher than those limiting pairwise entanglement.

id: 1312.7383
title: Passive decoy-state quantum key distribution for the weak coherent photon source with intensity fluctuations
authors: Yuan Li, Wan-su Bao, Hong-wei Li, Chun Zhou, Yang Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7383
abstract: Passive decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) systems, proven to be more desirable than active ones in some scenarios, also have the problem of device imperfections like intensity fluctuations. In this paper the formular of key generation rate of the passive decoy-state protocol using transformed weak coherent pulse (WCP) source with intensity fluctuation is given, and then the influence of intensity fluctuations on the performance of passive decoy-state protocol is rigorously characterized. From numerical simulations, it can be easily seen that intensity fluctuations have unignorable influence on performance of the passive decoy-state QKD protocol with WCP source. Most importantly, our simulations show that, under the same deviation of intensity fluctuations, the passive decoy-state method performs better than the active two-intensity decoy-state method and close to active three-intensity decoy-state method.

id: 1312.7392
title: Quantum States of an Electron Interacting with Various Dielectric Plate Geometries
authors: Srihari Sritharan
comments: 29 pages. Mentored by Prof. Nabil Lawandy (Brown University ENGN Dept.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7392
abstract: The tunability of binding energies is explored by modulating a finite dielectric slab width in a planar, three dielectric system. After verifying the equivalence of the field method and method of images, three different configurations are explored for possible control of electronic binding energy: A vacuum gap between a Schottky diode, noble gas layers on a metal wall, and an electron confined between two metal plates. In each, varying the width of the finite, middle dielectric was shown to provide control over the binding energy and Bohr radius of the electron. In the case of an electron confined between two plates, it was found that the bound states smoothly connect to the box states as the gap separation was varied. Lastly, forces on the two parallel plates were examined for a possible source of significant repulsion. All numerical calculations were done in MATLAB.

id: 1312.7420
title: Thermalization and canonical typicality in translation-invariant quantum lattice systems
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Emily Adlam, Lluis Masanes, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 46 pages, 10 figures. v3: added some clarifications and expanded the presentation; results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7420
abstract: It has previously been suggested that small subsystems of closed quantum systems thermalize under some assumptions; however, this has been rigorously shown so far only for systems with very weak interaction between subsystems. In this work, we give a rigorous analytic proof of thermalization for translation-invariant quantum lattice systems with finite-range interaction of arbitrary strength, in all cases where there is a unique equilibrium state at the corresponding temperature. We clarify the physical picture by showing that subsystems relax towards the reduction of the global Gibbs state, not the local Gibbs state. Moreover, we show that almost all pure states with support on a small energy window are locally thermal in the sense of canonical typicality. We derive our results from a statement on equivalence of ensembles generalizing earlier results by Lima, and give numerical and analytic finite-size bounds, relating the Ising model to the finite de Finetti theorem. Furthermore, we prove that global energy eigenstates are locally close to diagonal in the local energy eigenbasis, which constitutes a part of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis that is valid regardless of the integrability of the model.

id: 1312.7438
title: Interpreting a nested Mach-Zehnder interferometer with classical optics
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha
comments: v2: 5 pages, 3 figures. The title has changed. Some intermediate steps in the calculations were included. Some references were added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033825 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7438
abstract: In an recent work with the title "Asking Photons Where They Have Been", Danan et al. experimentally demonstrate an intriguing behavior of photons in an interferometer [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240402 (2013)]. In their words: "The photons tell us that they have been in the parts of the interferometer through which they could not pass." They interpret the results using the two-state vector formalism of quantum theory and say that, although an explanation of the experimental results in terms of classical electromagnetic waves in the interferometer is possible (and they provide a partial description), it is not so intuitive. Here we present a more detailed classical description of their experimental results, showing that it is actually intuitive. The same description is valid for the quantum wave function of the photons propagating in the interferometer. In particular, we show that it is essential that the wave propagates through all parts of the interferometer to describe the experimental results. We hope that our work helps to give a deeper understanding of these interesting experimental results.

id: 1312.7454
title: Adaptive Coarse Graining, Environment, Strong Decoherence, and Quasiclassical Realms
authors: Murray Gell-Mann, James B. Hartle
comments: 11 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7454
abstract: Three ideas are introduced that when brought together characterize the realistic quasiclassical realms of our quantum universe as particular kinds of sets of alternative coarse-grained histories defined by quasiclassical variables: (1) Branch dependent adaptive coarse grainings that can be close to maximally refined and can simplify calculation. (2) Narrative coarse grainings that describe how features of the universe change over time and allow the construction of an environment. (3) A notion of strong decoherence that characterizes realistic mechanisms of decoherence.

id: 1312.7455
title: On the Parallel Repetition of Multi-Player Games: The No-Signaling Case
authors: Harry Buhrman, Serge Fehr, Christian Schaffner
comments: 12 pages, v2: no technical changes, extended related work, added grant acknowledgments; to appear in Proceedings of TQC 2014
journal: 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2014), pages 24-35
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7455
abstract: We consider the natural extension of two-player nonlocal games to an arbitrary number of players. An important question for such nonlocal games is their behavior under parallel repetition. For two-player nonlocal games, it is known that both the classical and the non-signaling value of any game converges to zero exponentially fast under parallel repetition, given that the game is non-trivial to start with (i.e., has classical/non-signaling value <1). Very recent results show similar behavior for the quantum value of a two-player game under parallel repetition. For nonlocal games with three or more players, very little is known up to present on their behavior under parallel repetition; this is true for the classical, the quantum and the non-signaling value. In this work, we show a parallel repetition theorem for the non-signaling value of a large class of multi-player games, for an arbitrary number of players. Our result applies to all multi-player games for which all possible combinations of questions have positive probability; this class in particular includes all free games, in which the questions to the players are chosen independently. Specifically, we prove that if the original game has a non-signaling value smaller than 1, then the non-signaling value of the $n$-fold parallel repetition is exponentially small in $n$. Our parallel repetition theorem for multi-player games is weaker than the known parallel repetition results for two-player games in that the rate at which the non-signaling value of the game decreases not only depends on the non-signaling value of the original game (and the number of possible responses), but on the complete description of the game. Nevertheless, we feel that our result is a first step towards a better understanding of the parallel repetition of nonlocal games with more than two players.

id: 1312.7504
title: Multi-channel scattering problems with arbitrary coupling: Analytical approach for exact solution using Green's functions
authors: Diwaker, Anirudhha Chakraborty
comments: Manuscript consists of 9 pages and 35 equations in total. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1308.0804
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7504
abstract: We have proposed an analytical approach for exact solution of multi-channel scattering problems, in presence of arbitrary coupling. Our solution is quite general and is valid for any set of potentials, if the Green's functions of the uncoupled potentials are known in the range of coordinate where coupling is non-zero. In this paper, it is shown that using our model, it is possible to express N-channel problem by N independent `single' channel problems and hence one can have a realistic solution of multi-channel scattering problem with arbitrary coupling. In this paper we have shown that transition probability from first diabatic potential to any other potential can be easilty calculated using a very simple analytical formula - which only require values of eigenfunction of first uncoupled potential and values of Green's function of other uncoupled potential, in the range of coordinate where coupling is non-zero.

id: 1312.7530
title: Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation Revisited
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, Invited talk given at the Conference in Honour of the 90th Birthday of Freeman Dyson, August 26-29, 2013, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. Some of the statements made more precise and references specified in more detail. Journal reference added
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A29 (2014) 1450016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7530
abstract: It is shown that all the known uncertainty relations are the secondary consequences of Robertson's relation. The basic idea is to use the Heisenberg picture so that the time development of quantum mechanical operators incorporate the effects of the measurement interaction. A suitable use of triangle inequalities then gives rise to various forms of uncertainty relations. The assumptions of unbiased measurement and unbiased disturbance are important to simplify the resulting uncertainty relations and to give the familiar uncertainty relations such as a naive Heisenberg error-disturbance relation. These simplified uncertainty relations are however valid only conditionally. Quite independently of uncertainty relations, it is shown that the notion of precise measurement is incompatible with the assumptions of unbiased measurement and unbiased disturbance. We can thus naturally understand the failure of the naive Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation, as was demonstrated by the recent spin-measurement by J. Erhart, et al..

id: 1312.7535
title: Anomalous decoherence effects in driven coupled quantum spin systems
authors: Chuan-Jia Shan, Pan-Pan Wu, Wei-Wen Cheng, Ji-Bing Liu, Tang-Kun Liu
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7535
abstract: We discuss anomalous decoherence effects at zero and finite temperatures in driven coupled quantum spin systems. By numerical simulations of the quantum master equation, it is found that the entanglement of two coupled spin qubits exhibits a non-monotonic behaviour as a function of the noise strength. The effects of noise strength, the detuning and finite temperature of independent environments on the steady state entanglement are addressed in detail. Pumped by an external field drive, non-trivial steady states can be found, the steady state entanglement increases monotonically up to a maximum at certain optimal noise strength and decreases steadily for higher values. Furthermore, increasing the detuning can not only induce but also suppress steady state entanglement, which depends on the value of noise strength. At last, we delimit the border between presence or absence of steady state entanglement and discuss the related experimental temperatures where typical biomolecular systems exhibit long-lived coherences and quantum entanglement in photosynthetic light-harvesting complexes.

id: 1312.7566
title: Tracing the past of a quantum particle
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Title changed,to be published in PRA, reference corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7566
abstract: The question: "Where was a quantum particle between pre- and postselection measurements?" is analyzed in view of a recent proposal that it was in the overlap of the forward and backward evolving wave functions. It is argued that this proposal corresponds not only to the criterion of where the particle leaves a weak trace, but also where the local interactions can affect the probability of postselection and where finding the particle in a strong nondemolition measurement is possible. The concept of a "secondary presence" of a pre- and postselected particle where local interactions affect the weak trace in the overlap region is introduced.

id: 1312.7568
title: Local relaxation and light-cone-like propagation of correlations in a trapped one-dimensional Bose gas
authors: Remi Geiger, Tim Langen, Igor Mazets, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: New. Jour. of Physics 16, 053034 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7568
abstract: We describe the relaxation dynamics of a coherently split one-dimensional (1D) Bose gas in the harmonic approximation. A dephased, prethermalized state emerges in a light-cone-like evolution which is connected to the spreading of correlations with a characteristic velocity. In our description we put special emphasis on the influence of the longitudinal trapping potential and the finite size of the system, both of which are highly relevant in experiments. In particular, we quantify their influence on the phase correlation properties and the characteristic velocity with which the prethermalized state is established. Finally, we show that the trapping potential has an important effect on the recurrences of coherence which are expected to appear in a finite size system.

id: 1312.7610
title: Regular and exceptional spectra of the two-qubit quantum Rabi model
authors: Jie Peng, Zhongzhou Ren, Daniel Braak, Guangjie Guo, Guoxing Ju, Xin Zhang, Xiaoyong Guo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 265303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7610
abstract: Two-qubit system is the foundation of constructing the universal quantum gate. We have studied the two-qubit Rabi model for the general case and its generalizations with dipole, XXX and XYZ Heisenberg qubit-qubit interactions, which are commonly used in quantum computation. Their solutions are presented analytically with eigenstates can be obtained in terms of extended coherent states or Fock states and applied to the construction of the ultrafast two-qubit quantum gate in circuit QED and quantum state storage and transfer. Some novel kinds of quasi-exact solutions are found for specific sets of parameters, causing level crossings within the same parity subspace, which do not appear in the regular spectrum, indicating its non-integrability. These eigenstates are very interesting for quantum computing and single photon experiments because they are formed by just a few Fock states, and in some cases, with at most one photon. They are also easy to prepare, since they exist for all qubit-photon coupling values with constant eigenenergy and the qubit energy splittings can be fine tuned in the experiment in contrast to the coupling.

id: 1312.7612
title: Photon emission via vacuum-dressed intermediate states under ultrastrong coupling
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, C. K. Law
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033827 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7612
abstract: We investigate theoretically quantum effects of a cavity-atom system in which the upper two levels of a cascade-type three-level atom interact with a cavity field mode in the ultrastrong coupling regime. By exploiting the virtual photons carried by atom-cavity dressed states, we indicate how two external driving fields induce Raman transitions such that a continuous conversion of virtual photons into real photons can be achieved with a high probability. We present analytical and numerical solutions of the system. In addition, we show that the converted photons exhibit a bunching behavior in the steady state. Our scheme demonstrates that atom-cavity dressed states in the ultrastrong coupling regime can serve as intermediate states to invoke nonlinear optical processes.

id: 1312.7642
title: On simultaneous min-entropy smoothing
authors: Lukas Drescher, Omar Fawzi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Proceedings of ISIT 2013, pages 161 - 165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7642
abstract: In the context of network information theory, one often needs a multiparty probability distribution to be typical in several ways simultaneously. When considering quantum states instead of classical ones, it is in general difficult to prove the existence of a state that is jointly typical. Such a difficulty was recently emphasized and conjectures on the existence of such states were formulated. In this paper, we consider a one-shot multiparty typicality conjecture. The question can then be stated easily: is it possible to smooth the largest eigenvalues of all the marginals of a multipartite state {\rho} simultaneously while staying close to {\rho}? We prove the answer is yes whenever the marginals of the state commute. In the general quantum case, we prove that simultaneous smoothing is possible if the number of parties is two or more generally if the marginals to optimize satisfy some non-overlap property.

id: 1312.7646
title: Short random circuits define good quantum error correcting codes
authors: Winton Brown, Omar Fawzi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Proceedings of ISIT 2013, pages 346 - 350
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7646
abstract: We study the encoding complexity for quantum error correcting codes with large rate and distance. We prove that random Clifford circuits with $O(n \log^2 n)$ gates can be used to encode $k$ qubits in $n$ qubits with a distance $d$ provided $\frac{k}{n} < 1 - \frac{d}{n} \log_2 3 - h(\frac{d}{n})$. In addition, we prove that such circuits typically have a depth of $O( \log^3 n)$.

id: 1312.7676
title: A pedagogical overview of quantum discord
authors: Kavan Modi
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, to appear in special OSID volume of on open systems
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn., 21, 1440006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7676
abstract: Recent measures of nonclassical correlations are motivated by different notions of classicality and operational means. Quantum discord has received a great deal of attention in studies involving quantum computation, metrology, dynamics, many-body physics, and thermodynamics. In this article I show how quantum discord is different from quantum entanglement from a pedagogical point of view. I begin with a pedagogical introduction to quantum entanglement and quantum discord, followed by a historical review of quantum discord. Next, I give a novel definition of quantum discord in terms of any classically extractable information, a approach that is fitting for the current avenues of research. Lastly, I put forth several arguments for why discord is an interesting quantity to study and why it is of interest to so many researchers in the community.

id: 1312.7708
title: Transient coherence of an EIT media under strong phase modulation
authors: David Shwa, Nadav Katz
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures including supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7708
abstract: A strong phase modulated coupling field leads to an amplitude modulation of a probe field in an electromagnetically induced transparency process. Time vs. detuning plots for different modulation frequencies reveals a transition between an adiabatic regime where a series of smooth pulses are created with a global phase dependent upon the detuning, and a non-adiabatic regime where a strong transient oscillating response is added to these pulses. In the extreme non-adiabatic regime, where the modulation frequency is higher than the transient decay time, a coherent interference pattern is revealed. Adding a magnetic field lifts the hyperfine level degeneracy, resulting in a separation of the original pulse to three pulses. Every pulse has now a different phase dependent upon the magnetic field causing an interference effect between the different magnetic level transients. We explore the dynamics of the magnetic and non magnetic cases and show its resemblance to the Landau-Zener theory. We also show that combining the global phase of the pulses with the transient interference allows for a wide magnetic sensing range without loosing the sensitivity of a single EIT line.

id: 1312.7738
title: $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics is a Hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: Sungwook Lee
comments: 19 pages, REVTex, no figures, an appendix added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7738
abstract: The author discusses a different kind of Hermitian quantum mechanics, called $J$-Hermitian quantum mechanics. He shows that $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics is indeed $J$-Hermitian quantum mechanics, and that time evolution (in the Krein space of states) is unitary if and only if Hamiltonian is $J$-Hermitian (or equivalently $PT$-symmetric). An issue with unitarity comes up when time evolution is considered in the Hilbert space of states rather than in the Krein space of states. The author offers possible scenarios with this issue.

id: 1312.7746
title: Concept of Classical and Quantum Free Acoustic Field
authors: Dmitri Yerchuck, Felix Borovik, Alla Dovlatova, Andrey Alexandrov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7746
abstract: The concept of classical and quantum free acoustic (FA) field is theoretically considered. The equations of the free acoustic field are derived. They coincide in the mathematical form with Maxwell equations for the free electromagnetic (EM) field. It is accentuated, that the equations in the mathematical form of Maxwell equations for the free EM-field are universal equations of the Nature. They describe any free complex-vector physical field, vector-functions of which are analytical functions. In the case of a free acoustic field, it seems to be the strong indication taking into account the quantum Fermi liquid model of EM-field leading to the existence of phonons, accompanying the process of a photon formation, that FA-field and free EM-field are the display of the single united field, both the components of which can propagate simultaneously [however, with different velocities], for instance, in weakly absorbing media. The theory proposed can be the theoretical basis for the practical realization of superconducting states at high temperature in the materials with the strong interaction of electrons with acoustic field phonons and with microwave photons in magnetic resonance conditions.

id: 1312.7754
title: Single-photon Sagnac interferometer
authors: Guillaume Bertocchi, Olivier Alibart, Daniel Barry Ostrowsky, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli, Pascal Baldi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 1011-1016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7754
abstract: We present the first experimental demonstration of the optical Sagnac effect at the single-photon level. Using a high quality guided-wave heralded single- photon source at 1550 nm and a fibre optics setup, we obtain an interference pattern with net visibilities up to (99.2 $\pm$ 0.4%). On the basis of this high visibility and the compactness of the setup, the interest of such a system for fibre optics gyroscope is discussed.

id: 1312.7825
title: QBism as CBism: Solving the Problem of "the Now"
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7825
abstract: The QBist view of science, first put forth to dispel the fog from quantum foundations, also clears up a longstanding puzzle in classical physics.

id: 1312.7835
title: Can we advance macroscopic quantum systems outside the framework of complex decoherence theory?
authors: Mark E. Brezinski, Maria Rupnick
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0403017 by other author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7835
abstract: Macroscopic quantum systems (MQS) are macroscopic systems driven by quantum rather than classical mechanics, a long studied area with minimal success till recently. Harnessing the benefits of quantum mechanics on a macroscopic level would revolutionize fields ranging from telecommunication to biology, the latter focused on here for reasons discussed. Contrary to misconceptions, there are no known physical laws that prevent the development of MQS. Instead, they are generally believed universally lost in complex systems from environmental entanglements (decoherence). But we argue success is achievable MQS with decoherence compensation developed, naturally or artificially, from top-down rather current reductionist approaches. This paper advances the MQS field by a complex systems approach to decoherence. First, why complex system decoherence approaches (top-down) are needed is discussed. Specifically, complex adaptive systems (CAS) are not amenable to reductionist models (and their master equations) because of emergent behavior, approximation failures, not accounting for quantum compensator mechanisms, ignoring path integrals, and the subentity problem. In addition, since MQS must exist within the context of the classical world, rapid decoherence and prolonged coherence are both needed. Nature has already demonstrated this for quantum subsystems such as photosynthesis and magnetoreception. Second, we perform a preliminary study that illustrates a top-down approach to potential MQS. In summary, reductionist arguments against MQS are not justifiable. It is more likely they are not easily detectable in large intact classical systems or has been destroyed by reductionist experimental set-ups. This complex systems decoherence approach, using top down investigations, is critical to paradigm shifts in MQS research both in biological and non-biological systems.

id: 1312.0036
title: Weak Parity
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andris Ambainis, Kaspars Balodis, Mohammad Bavarian
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0036
abstract: We study the query complexity of Weak Parity: the problem of computing the parity of an n-bit input string, where one only has to succeed on a 1/2+eps fraction of input strings, but must do so with high probability on those inputs where one does succeed. It is well-known that n randomized queries and n/2 quantum queries are needed to compute parity on all inputs. But surprisingly, we give a randomized algorithm for Weak Parity that makes only O(n/log^0.246(1/eps)) queries, as well as a quantum algorithm that makes only O(n/sqrt(log(1/eps))) queries. We also prove a lower bound of Omega(n/log(1/eps)) in both cases; and using extremal combinatorics, prove lower bounds of Omega(log n) in the randomized case and Omega(sqrt(log n)) in the quantum case for any eps>0. We show that improving our lower bounds is intimately related to two longstanding open problems about Boolean functions: the Sensitivity Conjecture, and the relationships between query complexity and polynomial degree.

id: 1312.0062
title: An account on statistical mechanics and thermodynamics of quantum isolated horizons
authors: Abhishek Majhi
comments: 11 pages, revtex style, the paper has been completely rewritten
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0062
abstract: This paper presents an extensive work on the study of thermodynamics of black holes in LQG framework, namely quantum isolated horizons(QIH). Having reviewed the derivation of the microcanonical entropy of a QIH, we proceed towards constructing the canonical and grand canonical partition functions for the QIH in the corresponding quantum mechanical ensembles. Some important issues regarding the conjugate parameter$(\mu)$ corresponding to the macroscopic variable $N$(number of punctures) are discussed in details, with possible explanations of the new physical consequences which can follow from its presence in the quantum theory and absence in the classical theory. The role of $\mu$ being dependent on the observer leads to interesting conclusions about the near horizon quantum phenomena, whereas the asymptotic physics remains unchanged. The extensive and detailed derivation of the canonical and grand canonical partition functions of the QIH lead to the effective `thermalized' forms of the partition functions which had been previously used in the literature to study the effects of thermal fluctuations of black holes. A comparative study of the present derivation with those previous approaches is made. The previous procedures were based on some heuristic models and quite expectedly plagued with some technical caveats, leaving those approaches prone to doubts of having any sort of relation to black hole thermodynamics. The novelty of this work is to eliminate those shortcomings of the earlier approaches and put the formalism of statistical mechanical approach to black hole thermodynamics on a more sound basis than ever by beginning from the very fundamental structures of the quantum theory leading to the {\it exact} derivation of the horizon partition function, without having to make any sort of assumption or approximation regarding area spectrum, etc.

id: 1312.0087
title: Energy spectra of Hartmann and ring-shaped oscillator potentials using the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism
authors: Abdelhakim Gharbi, Ahmed Bouda
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 88 (2013) 045007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0087
abstract: In the present work, we apply the exact quantization condition, introduced within the framework of Padgett and Leacock's quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism, to angular and radial quantum action variables in the context of the Hartmann and the ring-shaped oscillator potentials which are separable and non central. The energy spectra of the two systems are exactly obtained.

id: 1312.0097
title: Embedding Quantum into Classical: Contextualization vs Conditionalization
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: PLoS One 9(3): e92818 (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0097
abstract: We compare two approaches to embedding joint distributions of random variables recorded under different conditions (such as spins of entangled particles for different settings) into the framework of classical, Kolmogorovian probability theory. In the contextualization approach each random variable is "automatically" labeled by all conditions under which it is recorded, and the random variables across a set of mutually exclusive conditions are probabilistically coupled (imposed a joint distribution upon). Analysis of all possible probabilistic couplings for a given set of random variables allows one to characterize various relations between their separate distributions (such as Bell-type inequalities or quantum-mechanical constraints). In the conditionalization approach one considers the conditions under which the random variables are recorded as if they were values of another random variable, so that the observed distributions are interpreted as conditional ones. This approach is uninformative with respect to relations between the distributions observed under different conditions, because any set of such distributions is compatible with any distribution assigned to the conditions.

id: 1312.0230
title: Bethe free-energy approximations for disordered quantum systems
authors: I. Biazzo, A. Ramezanpour
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, 4 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 062137 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0230
abstract: Given a locally consistent set of reduced density matrices, we construct approximate density matrices which are globally consistent with the local density matrices we started from when the trial density matrix has a tree structure. We employ the cavity method of statistical physics to find the optimal density matrix representation by slowly decreasing the temperature in an annealing algorithm, or by minimizing an approximate Bethe free energy depending on the reduced density matrices and some cavity messages originated from the Bethe approximation of the entropy. We obtain the classical Bethe expression for the entropy within a naive (mean-field) approximation of the cavity messages, which is expected to work well at high temperatures. In the next order of the approximation, we obtain another expression for the Bethe entropy depending only on the diagonal elements of the reduced density matrices. In principle, we can improve the entropy approximation by considering more accurate cavity messages in the Bethe approximation of the entropy. We compare the annealing algorithm and the naive approximation of the Bethe entropy with exact and approximate numerical simulations for small and large samples of the random transverse Ising model on random regular graphs.

id: 1312.0279
title: Description of ion motion in a Paul trap immersed in a cold atomic gas
authors: Micha? Krych, Zbigniew Idziaszek
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, extended and substantially revised version of the article
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023430 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0279
abstract: We investigate the problem of a single ion in a radio-frequency trap and immersed in an ultracold Bose gas either in a condensed or a non-condensed phase. We develop master equation formalism describing the sympathetic cooling and we determine the cooling rates of ions. We show that cold atomic reservoir modifies the stability diagram of the ion in the Paul trap creating the regions where the ion is either cooled or heated due to the energy quanta exchanged with the time-dependent potential.

id: 1312.0588
title: Toeplitz Quantization without Measure or Inner Product
authors: Stephen Bruce Sontz
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0588
abstract: This note is a follow-up to a recent paper by the author. Most of that theory is now realized in a new setting where the vector space of symbols is not necessarily an algebra nor is it equipped with an inner product, although it does have a conjugation. As in the previous paper one does not need to put a measure on this vector space. A Toeplitz quantization is defined and shown to have most of the properties as in the previous paper, including creation and annihilation operators. As in the previous paper this theory is implemented by densely defined Toeplitz operators which act in a Hilbert space, where there is an inner product, of course. Planck's constant also plays a role in the canonical commutation relations of this theory.

id: 1312.0619
title: Non universality of entanglement convertibility
authors: Helena Braganca, Eduardo Mascarenhas, G. I. Luiz, C. Duarte, R. G. Pereira, M. F. Santos, M. C. O. Aguiar
comments: 5 pages + references, 4 figures - improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 235132 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0619
abstract: Recently, it has been suggested that operational properties connected to quantum computation can be alternative indicators of quantum phase transitions. In this work we systematically study these operational properties in 1D systems that present phase transitions of different orders. For this purpose, we evaluate the local convertibility between bipartite ground states. Our results suggest that the operational properties, related to non-analyticities of the entanglement spectrum, are good detectors of explicit symmetries of the model, but not necessarily of phase transitions. We also show that thermodynamically equivalent phases, such as Luttinger liquids, may display different convertibility properties depending on the underlying microscopic model.

id: 1312.0639
title: Singularity of type $D_4$ arising from four qubit systems
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Holweck, Jean-Gabriel Luque, Michel Planat
comments: 20 pages, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0639
abstract: An intriguing correspondence between four-qubit systems and simple singularity of type $D_4$ is established. We first consider an algebraic variety $X$ of separable states within the projective Hilbert space $\mathbb{P}(\mathcal{H})=\mathbb{P}^{15}$. Then, cutting $X$ with a specific hyperplane $H$, we prove that the $X$-hypersurface, defined from the section $X\cap H\subset X$, has an isolated singularity of type $D_4$; it is also shown that this is the "worst-possible" isolated singularity one can obtain by this construction. Moreover, it is demonstrated that this correspondence admits a dual version by proving that the equation of the dual variety of $X$, which is nothing but the Cayley hyperdeterminant of type $2\times 2\times 2\times 2$, can be expressed in terms of the SLOCC invariant polynomials as the discriminant of the miniversal deformation of the $D_4$-singularity.

id: 1312.0642
title: Dirac fermion time-Floquet crystal: manipulating Dirac points
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez, Joseph J.Betouras, Sergey E. Savel'ev
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, version that will appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 155132 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0642
abstract: We demonstrate how to control the spectra and current flow of Dirac electrons in both a graphene sheet and a topological insulator by applying either two linearly polarized laser fields with frequencies $\omega$ and $2\omega$ or a monochromatic (one-frequency) laser field together with a spatially periodic static potential(graphene/TI superlattice). Using the Floquet theory and the resonance approximation, we show that a Dirac point in the electron spectrum can be split into several Dirac points whose relative location in momentum space can be efficiently manipulated by changing the characteristics of the laser fields. In addition, the laser-field controlled Dirac fermion band structure -- Dirac fermion time-Floquet crystal -- allows the manipulation of the electron currents in graphene and topological insulators. Furthermore, the generation of dc currents of desirable intensity in a chosen direction occurs when applying the bi-harmonic laser field which can provide a straightforward experimental test of the predicted phenomena.

id: 1312.0682
title: A quantum measure of the multiverse
authors: Alexander Vilenkin
comments: 21 pages, no figures; references added in v.2
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0682
abstract: It has been recently suggested that probabilities of different events in the multiverse are given by the frequencies at which these events are encountered along the worldline of a geodesic observer (the "watcher"). Here I discuss an extension of this probability measure to quantum theory. The proposed extension is gauge-invariant, as is the classical version of this measure. Observations of the watcher are described by a reduced density matrix, and the frequencies of events can be found using the decoherent histories formalism of Quantum Mechanics (adapted to open systems). The quantum watcher measure makes predictions in agreement with the standard Born rule of QM.

id: 1312.0715
title: Quantum Computation and Non-Abelian Statistics in Chern-Simons-Higgs Theory
authors: J. C. Brozeguini, E. C. Marino
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0715
abstract: We naturally obtain the NOT and CNOT logic gates, which are key pieces of quantum computing algorithms, in the framework of the non-Abelian Chern-Simons-Higgs theory in two spatial dimensions. For that, we consider the anyonic quantum vortex topological excitations occurring in this system and show that self-adjoint (Majorana-like) combinations of these vortices and anti-vortices have in general non-Abelian statistics. The associated unitary monodromy braiding matrices become the required logic gates in the special case when the vortex spin is $s=1/4$. We explicitly construct the vortex field operators, show that they carry both magnetic flux and charge and obtain their euclidean correlation functions by using the method of quantization of topological excitations, which is based on the order-disorder duality. These correlators are in general multivalued, the number of sheets being determined by the vortex spin. This, by its turn, is proportional to the vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field and therefore can be tuned both by the free parameters of the Higgs potential and the temperature.

id: 1312.0733
title: Thermally driven continuous-wave and pulsed optical vortex
authors: Yitian Ding, Miaomiao Xu, Yongguang Zhao, Haohai Yu, Huaijin Zhang, Zhengping Wang, Jiyang Wang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0733
abstract: We demonstrated the continuous-wave (cw) and pulsed optical vortex with topological charges driven by heat generated during the lasing process without introducing the astigmatism effect and reducing lasing efficiency. During the lasing process, the topological charges were changeable by the thermal-induced lens and selected by the mode-matching between the pump and oscillating beams. With a graphene sample as the saturable absorber, the pulsed optical vortex was achieved at the wavelength of 1.36 {\mu}m, which identified that graphene could be used as a pulse modulator for the generation of pulsed optical vortex. It could be believed that the thermally driven cw and pulsed optical vortex should have various promising applications based on the compact structure, changeable topological charges and specific wavelength

id: 1312.0758
title: Quantum Torus symmetry of the KP, KdV and BKP hierarchies
authors: Chuanzhong Li, Jingsong He
comments: published in Lett. Math. Phys. online ahead of print 15 August 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0758
abstract: In this paper, we construct the quantum Torus symmetry of the KP hierarchy and further derive the quantum torus constraint on the tau function of the KP hierarchy. That means we give a nice representation of the quantum Torus Lie algebra in the KP system by acting on its tau function. Comparing to the $W_{\infty}$ symmetry, this quantum Torus symmetry has a nice algebraic structure with double indices. Further by reduction, we also construct the quantum Torus symmetries of the KdV and BKP hierarchies and further derive the quantum Torus constraints on their tau functions. These quantum Torus constraints might have applications in the quantum field theory, supersymmetric gauge theory and so on.

id: 1312.0810
title: Moving perturbation in a one-dimensional Fermi gas
authors: A.-M. Visuri, D.-H. Kim, J. J. Kinnunen, F. Massel, P. T?rm?
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 051603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0810
abstract: We simulate a balanced attractively interacting two-component Fermi gas in a one-dimensional lattice perturbed with a moving potential well or barrier. Using the time-evolving block decimation method, we study different velocities of the perturbation and distinguish two velocity regimes based on clear differences in the time evolution of particle densities and the pair correlation function. We show that, in the slow regime, the densities deform as particles are either attracted by the potential well or repelled by the barrier, and a wave front of hole or particle excitations propagates at the maximum group velocity. Simultaneously, the initial pair correlations are broken and coherence over different sites is lost. In contrast, in the fast regime, the densities are not considerably deformed and the pair correlations are preserved.

id: 1312.0814
title: Matrix Models and Large-N Behavior
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 16 pages, version accepted for publication
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0814
abstract: Following the procedures by which O(N)-invariant real vector models and their large-N behavior have previously been solved, we extend similar techniques to the study of real symmetric N x N-matrix models with O(N)-invariant interactions. Proper extensions to N equal infinity are also established. While no 1/N-expansions are involved in our analysis, a brief comparison of our procedures with traditional 1/N-expansion procedures is given.

id: 1312.0831
title: How to commute
authors: Andreas Aste, Won Sang Chung
comments: 6 pages, Latex, one new chapter and a new contributing author added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0831
abstract: A simple exposition of the rarely discussed fact that a set of free boson fields describing different, i.e. kinematically different particle types can be quantized with mutual anticommutation relations is given by the explicit construction of the Klein transformations changing anticommutation relations into commutation relations. The q-analog of the presented results is also treated. The analogous situation for two independent free fermion fields with mutual commutation or anticommutation relations is briefly investigated.

id: 1312.0862
title: Noise-induced quantum coherence in photosynthetic complexes with multiple energy transfer pathways
authors: Dmitri V. Voronine, Konstantin E. Dorfman, Bin Cao, Amitabh Joshi
comments: needs major revision
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0862
abstract: We theoretically investigate exciton relaxation dynamics in molecular aggregates based on model photosynthetic complexes under various conditions of incoherent excitation. We show that noise-induced quantum coherence is generated between spatially-separated exciton states which belong to the same or different energy transfer pathways, coupled via real and virtual transfer processes. Such quantum coherence effects may be used to improve light-harvesting efficiency and to reveal quantum phenomena in biology.

id: 1312.0887
title: Beyond the Spin Model Approximation for Ramsey Spectroscopy
authors: A. P. Koller, M. Beverland, A. V. Gorshkov, A. M. Rey
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 123001 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0887
abstract: Ramsey spectroscopy has become a powerful technique for probing non-equilibrium dynamics of internal (pseudospin) degrees of freedom of interacting systems. In many theoretical treatments, the key to understanding the dynamics has been to assume the external (motional) degrees of freedom are decoupled from the pseudospin degrees of freedom. Determining the validity of this approximation -- known as the spin model approximation -- is complicated, and has not been addressed in detail. Here we shed light in this direction by calculating Ramsey dynamics exactly for two interacting spin-1/2 particles in a harmonic trap. We focus on $s$-wave-interacting fermions in quasi-one and two-dimensional geometries. We find that in 1D the spin model assumption works well over a wide range of experimentally-relevant conditions, but can fail at time scales longer than those set by the mean interaction energy. Surprisingly, in 2D a modified version of the spin model is exact to first order in the interaction strength. This analysis is important for a correct interpretation of Ramsey spectroscopy and has broad applications ranging from precision measurements to quantum information and to fundamental probes of many-body systems.

id: 1312.0905
title: Quantum group spin nets: refinement limit and relation to spin foams
authors: Bianca Dittrich, Mercedes Martin-Benito, Sebastian Steinhaus
comments: 30+5 pages, many figures, v2: references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024058 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0905
abstract: So far spin foam models are hardly understood beyond a few of their basic building blocks. To make progress on this question, we define analogue spin foam models, so called spin nets, for quantum groups $\text{SU}(2)_k$ and examine their effective continuum dynamics via tensor network renormalization. In the refinement limit of this coarse graining procedure, we find a vast non-trivial fixed point structure beyond the degenerate and the $BF$ phase. In comparison to previous work, we use fixed point intertwiners, inspired by Reisenberger's construction principle [1] and the recent work [2], as the initial parametrization. In this new parametrization fine tuning is not required in order to flow to these new fixed points. Encouragingly, each fixed point has an associated extended phase, which allows for the study of phase transitions in the future. Finally we also present an interpretation of spin nets in terms of melonic spin foams. The coarse graining flow of spin nets can thus be interpreted as describing the effective coupling between two spin foam vertices or space time atoms.

id: 1312.0934
title: Feynman Diagrams and Rooted Maps
authors: A. Prunotto, W.M. Alberico, P. Czerski
comments: 18 pages, 30 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0934
abstract: The {\em Rooted Maps Theory}, a branch of the Theory of Homology, is shown to be a powerful tool for investigating the topological properties of Feynman diagrams, related to the single particle propagator in the quantum many-body systems. The numerical correspondence between the number of this class of Feynman diagrams as a function of perturbative order and the number of rooted maps as a function of the number of edges is studied. A graphical procedure to associate Feynman diagrams and rooted maps is then stated. Finally, starting from rooted maps principles, an original definition of the {\em genus of a Feynman diagram}, which totally differs from the usual one, is given.

id: 1312.0949
title: Robust Two-Qubit Gates for Exchange-Coupled Qubits
authors: F. Setiawan, Hoi-Yin Hui, J. P. Kestner, Xin Wang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures (revised version)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 085314 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0949
abstract: We present composite pulse sequences that perform fault-tolerant two-qubit gate operations on exchange-only quantum dot spin qubits in various experimentally relevant geometries. We show how to perform dynamically corrected two-qubit gates in exchange-only systems with the leading hyperfine error term cancelled. These pulse sequences are constructed to conform to the realistic experimental constraint of strictly non-negative couplings. We establish that our proposed pulse sequences lead to several orders of magnitude improvement in the gate fidelity compared with their uncorrected counterparts. Together with single-qubit dynamically corrected gates, our results enable noise-resistant universal quantum operations with exchange-only qubits.

id: 1312.0970
title: Four-Component Density Matrix Renormalization Group
authors: Stefan Knecht, Ors Legeza, Markus Reiher
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140 (2014) 041101
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0970
abstract: We present the first implementation of the relativistic quantum chemical two- and four-component density matrix renormalization group algorithm that includes a variational description of scalar-relativistic effects and spin-orbit coupling. Numerical results based on the four-component Dirac-Coulomb Hamiltonian are presented for the standard reference molecule for correlated relativistic benchmarks: thallium hydride.

id: 1312.0980
title: Geometric phase and Pancharatnam phase induced by light wave polarization
authors: J. Lages, R. Giust, J.-M. Vigoureux
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physica E
journal: Physica E, 59, 6-14, (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0980
abstract: We use the quantum kinematic approach to revisit geometric phases associated with polarizing processes of a monochromatic light wave. We give the expressions of geometric phases for any, unitary or non-unitary, cyclic or non-cyclic transformations of the light wave state. Contrarily to the usually considered case of absorbing polarizers, we found that a light wave passing through a polarizer may acquire in general a non zero geometric phase. This geometric phase exists despite the fact that initial and final polarization states are in phase according to the Pancharatnam criterion and can not be measured using interferometric superposition. Consequently, there is a difference between the Pancharatnam phase and the complete geometric phase acquired by a light wave passing through a polarizer. We illustrate our work with the particular example of total reflection based polarizers.

id: 1312.0996
title: Long-lived selective spin echoes in dipolar solids under periodic and aperiodic pi-pulse trains
authors: Clark D. Ridge, Lauren F. O'Donnell, Jamie D. Walls
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures, submitted to Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0996
abstract: The application of Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) $\pi-$trains for dynamically decoupling a system from its environment has been extensively studied in a variety of physical systems. When applied to dipolar solids, recent experiments have demonstrated that CPMG pulse trains can generate long-lived spin echoes. While there still remains some controversy as to the origins of these long-lived spin echoes under the CPMG sequence, there is a general agreement that pulse errors during the $\pi-$pulses are a necessary requirement. In this work, we develop a theory to describe the spin dynamics in dipolar coupled spin-1/2 system under a CPMG($\phi_{1},\phi_{2}$) pulse train, where $\phi_{1}$ and $\phi_{2}$ are the phases of the $\pi-$pulses. From our theoretical framework, the propagator for the CPMG($\phi_{1},\phi_{2}$) pulse train is equivalent to an effective ``pulsed'' spin-locking of single-quantum coherences with phase $\pm\frac{\phi_{2}-3\phi_{1}}{2}$, which generates a periodic quasiequilibrium that corresponds to the long-lived echoes. Numerical simulations, along with experiments on both magnetically dilute, random spin networks found in C$_{60}$ and C$_{70}$ and in non-dilute spin systems found in adamantane and ferrocene, were performed and confirm the predictions from the proposed theory.

id: 1312.1027
title: A Note on the Quantum Collision and Set Equality Problems
authors: Mark Zhandry
comments: 10 pages. v2: fixed typos. v3: added set equality result
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1027
abstract: The results showing a quantum query complexity of $\Theta(N^{1/3})$ for the collision problem do not apply to random functions. The issues are two-fold. First, the $\Omega(N^{1/3})$ lower bound only applies when the range is no larger than the domain, which precludes many of the cryptographically interesting applications. Second, most of the results in the literature only apply to $r$-to-1 functions, which are quite different from random functions. Understanding the collision problem for random functions is of great importance to cryptography, and we seek to fill the gaps of knowledge for this problem. To that end, we prove that, as expected, a quantum query complexity of $\Theta(N^{1/3})$ holds for all interesting domain and range sizes. Our proofs are simple, and combine existing techniques with several novel tricks to obtain the desired results. Using our techniques, we also give an optimal $\Omega(N^{1/3})$ lower bound for the set equality problem. This new lower bound can be used to improve the relationship between classical randomized query complexity and quantum query complexity for so-called permutation-symmetric functions.

id: 1312.1149
title: Localization of discrete time quantum walks on the glued trees
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa, Xin-Ping Xu
comments: 10 pages
journal: Entropy 16 (3), 1501-1514, 2014
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1149
abstract: In this paper, we consider the time averaged distribution of discrete time quantum walks on the glued trees. In order to analyse the walks on the glued trees, we consider a reduction to the walks on path graphs. Using a spectral analysis of the Jacobi matrices defined by the corresponding random walks on the path graphs, we have spectral decomposition of the time evolution operator of the quantum walks. We find significant contributions of the eigenvalues $\pm 1$ of the Jacobi matrices to the time averaged limit distribution of the quantum walks. As a consequence we obtain lower bounds of the time averaged distribution.

id: 1312.1183
title: Remarks on entanglement entropy for gauge fields
authors: Horacio Casini, Marina Huerta, Jose Alejandro Rosabal
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 085012 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1183
abstract: In gauge theories the presence of constraints can obstruct expressing the global Hilbert space as a tensor product of the Hilbert spaces corresponding to degrees of freedom localized in complementary regions. In algebraic terms, this is due to the presence of a center --- a set of operators which commute with all others --- in the gauge invariant operator algebra corresponding to finite region. A unique entropy can be assigned to algebras with center, giving place to a local entropy in lattice gauge theories. However, ambiguities arise on the correspondence between algebras and regions. In particular, it is always possible to choose (in many different ways) local algebras with trivial center, and hence a genuine entanglement entropy, for any region. These choices are in correspondence with maximal trees of links on the boundary, which can be interpreted as partial gauge fixings. This interpretation entails a gauge fixing dependence of the entanglement entropy. In the continuum limit however, ambiguities in the entropy are given by terms local on the boundary of the region, in such a way relative entropy and mutual information are finite, universal, and gauge independent quantities.

id: 1312.1229
title: Hamiltonian formalism for integer-valued variables and integer time steps and a possible application in quantum physics
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 12 pages (excl title page), 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1229
abstract: Most classical mechanical systems are based on dynamical variables whose values are real numbers. Energy conservation is then guaranteed if the dynamical equations are phrased in terms of a Hamiltonian function, which then leads to differential equations in the time variable. If these real dynamical variables are instead replaced by integers, and also the time variable is restricted to integers, it appears to be hard to enforce energy conservation unless one can also derive a Hamiltonian formalism for that case. We here show how the Hamiltonian formalism works here, and how it may yield the usual Hamilton equations in the continuum limit. The question was motivated by the author's investigations of special quantum systems that allow for a deterministic interpretation. The 'discrete Hamiltonian formalism' appears to shed new light on these approaches.

id: 1312.1405
title: Stokes' theorem, gauge symmetry and the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: James Macdougall, Douglas Singleton
comments: 14 pages, revtex, no figures. Extended discussion of time variation of the flux and discussion of specific (infinitesimal) space-time paths. Accepted for publication J. Math. Phys
journal: J.Math.Phys. 55 (2014) 042101
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1405
abstract: Stokes' theorem is investigated in the context of the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect -- the two-slit quantum interference experiment with a time varying solenoid between the slits. The time varying solenoid produces an electric field which leads to an additional phase shift which is found to exactly cancel the time-dependent part of the usual magnetic Aharonov-Bohm phase shift. This electric field arises from a combination of a non-single valued scalar potential and/or a 3-vector potential. The gauge transformation which leads to the scalar and 3-vector potentials for the electric field is non-single valued. This feature is connected with the non-simply connected topology of the Aharonov-Bohm set-up. The non-single valued nature of the gauge transformation function has interesting consequences for the 4-dimensional Stokes' theorem for the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect. An experimental test of these conclusions is proposed.

id: 1312.1463
title: What we can learn about quantum physics from a single qubit
authors: W. D¨¹r, S. Heusler
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1463
abstract: We present an approach for teaching quantum physics at high school level based on the simplest quantum system - the single quantum bit (qubit). We show that many central concepts of quantum mechanics, including the superposition principle, the stochastic behavior and state change under measurements as well as the Heisenberg uncertainty principle can be understood using simple mathematics, and can be illustrated using catchy visualizations. We discuss abstract features of a qubit in general, and consider possible physical realizations as well as various applications, e.g. in quantum cryptography.

id: 1312.1468
title: Radiation of a neutral polarizable particle moving uniformly through a thermal radiation field
authors: G.V. Dedkov, A.A. Kyasov
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures; revised version submitted to Phys. Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 89 (2014) 105501
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1468
abstract: We discuss the properties of thermal electromagnetic radiation produced by a neutral polarizable nanoparticle moving with an arbitrary relativistic velocity in a heated vacuum background with a fixed temperature. We show that the particle in its own rest frame acquires the radiation temperature of vacuum, multiplied by a velocity-dependent factor, and then emits thermal photons predominantly in the forward direction. The intensity of radiation proves to be much higher than for the particle at rest. For metal particles with high energy, the ratio of emitted and absorbed radiation power is proportional to the Lorentz-factor squared.

id: 1312.1573
title: Deformed Bose gas models aimed at taking into account both compositeness of particles and their interaction
authors: A. M. Gavrilik, Yu. A. Mishchenko
comments: 7 pages, 2-column UJP style, contribution to Proceedings of the Internat. Conf. "Quantum Groups and Guantum Integrable systems" (June 18-21, 2013, Kiev, Ukraine)
journal: Ukr. J. Phys., 2013, Vol. 58, no. 12, pp. 1171-1177
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1573
abstract: We consider the deformed Bose gas model with the deformation structure function that is the combination of a q-deformation and a quadratically polynomial deformation. Such a choice of the unifying deformation structure function enables us to describe the interacting gas of composite (two-fermionic or two-bosonic) bosons. Using the relevant generalization of the Jackson derivative, we derive a two-parametric expression for the total number of particles, from which the deformed virial expansion of the equation of state is obtained. The latter is interpreted as the virial expansion for the effective description of a gas of interacting composite bosons with some interaction potential.

id: 1312.1589
title: The Generation of Quantum Hamiltonian Evolution from A Pseudo-Measurement Process
authors: Matthew F. Brown
comments: 20 pages, canonical quantum measurement
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1589
abstract: Here we shall consider the idea that the Hamiltonian evolution of a quantum system is generated by sequential observations of the system by a `pseudo-apparatus'. This representation of Hamiltonian dynamics, originally discovered by Belavkin, is a canonical dilation of the Schroedinger equation that reveals a Minkowski space structure outside of the context of Special Relativity. In particular, this formalism gives rise to the notion of a Boosted Schroedinger equation referred to a dilated time increment which is the manifestation of a Lorentz transform in the Minkowski space of the apparatus.

id: 1312.1600
title: The Open Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard, Antoine Tilloy
comments: 50 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P09001 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1600
abstract: Using quantum parallelism on random walks as original seed, we introduce new quantum stochastic processes, the open quantum Brownian motions. They describe the behaviors of quantum walkers -- with internal degrees of freedom which serve as random gyroscopes -- interacting with series of probes. These processes may also be viewed as the scaling limit of open quantum random walks and we develop this approach along three different lines: quantum trajectory, quantum dynamical map, and quantum stochastic differential equation. We also present a study of the simplest case, with a two level system as internal gyroscope, illustrating the interplay between ballistic and diffusive behaviors at work in these processes.

id: 1312.1612
title: Quantum Monte Carlo study of strongly interacting Fermi gases
authors: Stefano Gandolfi
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Recent Progress in Many-Body-Theories
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1612
abstract: In recent years Quantum Monte Carlo techniques provided to be a valuable tool to study strongly interacting Fermi gases at zero temperature. We have used QMC methods to investigate several properties of the two-components Fermi gas at unitarity and in the BCS-BEC crossover, both with equal and unequal masses corresponding to the $Li-K$ Fermi mixture. In this paper we present several recent QMC results, including the energy at zero and finite effective range, the contact parameter and the static structure factor, which, at low momentum, depends strongly on the phonons in the unitary Fermi gas.

id: 1312.1621
title: Non-Geometric Fluxes, Quasi-Hopf Twist Deformations and Nonassociative Quantum Mechanics
authors: Dionysios Mylonas, Peter Schupp, Richard J. Szabo
comments: 38 pages; v2: typos corrected, reference added; v3: typos corrected, comments about cyclicity added in section 4.2, references updated; Final version to be published in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1621
abstract: We analyse the symmetries underlying nonassociative deformations of geometry in non-geometric R-flux compactifications which arise via T-duality from closed strings with constant geometric fluxes. Starting from the non-abelian Lie algebra of translations and Bopp shifts in phase space, together with a suitable cochain twist, we construct the quasi-Hopf algebra of symmetries that deforms the algebra of functions and the exterior differential calculus in the phase space description of nonassociative R-space. In this setting nonassociativity is characterised by the associator 3-cocycle which controls non-coassociativity of the quasi-Hopf algebra. We use abelian 2-cocycle twists to construct maps between the dynamical nonassociative star product and a family of associative star products parametrized by constant momentum surfaces in phase space. We define a suitable integration on these nonassociative spaces and find that the usual cyclicity of associative noncommutative deformations is replaced by weaker notions of 2-cyclicity and 3-cyclicity. Using this star product quantization on phase space together with 3-cyclicity, we formulate a consistent version of nonassociative quantum mechanics, in which we calculate the expectation values of area and volume operators, and find coarse-graining of the string background due to the R-flux.

id: 1312.1726
title: Entanglement propagation and typicality of measurements in the quantum Kac ring
authors: Johannes M. Oberreuter, Ingo Homrighausen, Stefan Kehrein
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics (2014), pp. 324-340
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1726
abstract: We study the time evolution of entanglement in a quantum version of the Kac ring. Our model consists of two spin chains and quantum gates instead of the classical markers. The gates take one qubit from each ring at a time as an input and entangle them. Subsequently, one ring is rotated. This protocol creates non-trivial entanglement between the two rings, which we measure by the entanglement entropy. The features of the entanglement evolution can best be understood by using knowledge about the behavior of an ensemble of classical Kac rings. For instance, the recurrence time of this quantum many-body system is twice the length of the chain and "thermalization" only occurs on time scales much smaller than the dimension of the Hilbert space. The model thus elucidates the relation between distribution of measurement results in quantum and classical systems: While in classical systems repeated measurements are performed over an ensemble of systems, the corresponding result is obtained by measuring the same quantum system prepared in an appropriate superposition repeatedly.

id: 1312.1790
title: Casimir Effect under Quasi-Periodic Boundary Condition Inspired by Nanotubes
authors: Chao-Jun Feng, Xin-Zhou Li, Xiang-Hua Zhai
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, accepted by MPLA
journal: MPLA, Vol. 29, No. 2 (2014) 1450004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1790
abstract: When one studies the Casimir effect, the periodic (anti-periodic) boundary condition is usually taken to mimic a periodic (anti-periodic) structure for a scalar field living in a flat space with a non-Euclidean topology. However, there could be an arbitrary phase difference between the value of the scalar field on one endpoint of the unit structure and that on the other endpoint, such as the structure of nanotubes. Then, in this paper, a periodic condition on the ends of the system with an additional phase factor, which is called the ``quasi-periodic" condition, is imposed to investigate the corresponding Casimir effect. And an attractive or repulsive Casimir force is found, whose properties depend on the phase angle value. Especially, the Casimir effect disappears when the phase angle takes a particular value. High dimensional space-time case is also investigated.

id: 1312.1854
title: Generalized Thomson problem in arbitrary dimensions and non-euclidean geometries
authors: J. Batle
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1854
abstract: Systems of identical particles with equal charge are studied under a special type of con?nement. These classical particles are free to move inside some convex region S and on the boundary of it $\Omega$ (the $S^{d-1}-$ sphere, in our case). We shall show how particles arrange themselves under the sole action of the Coulomb repulsion in many dimensions in the usual Euclidean space, therefore generalizing the so called Thomson problem to many dimensions. Also, we explore how the problem varies when non-Euclidean geometries are considered. We shall see that optimal con?gurations in all cases possess a high degree of symmetry, regardless of the concomitant dimension or geometry.

id: 1312.1902
title: Relativistic two-particle equations with superposition of delta-shell potentials: scattering and bound states
authors: Valery Kapshai, Yury Grishechkin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1902
abstract: Exact solutions of two-particle relativistic equations of quantum field theory describing the scattering $s$-states and the bound $s$-states are found in the cases of delta-shell potential and superposition of delta-shell potentials. Some properties of obtained relativistic wave functions, scattering amplitudes and quantization conditions are investigated. The resonance character of scattering processes is demonstrated by the behavior of amplitudes. It is shown that the non-relativistic limits of these relativistic values coincide with respective non-relativistic ones obtained from the Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 1312.1972
title: Quantum Chaos in Ultracold Collisions of Erbium
authors: Albert Frisch, Michael Mark, Kiyotaka Aikawa, Francesca Ferlaino, John L. Bohn, Constantinos Makrides, Alexander Petrov, Svetlana Kotochigova
comments: 
journal: Nature 507, 475-479 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1972
abstract: Atomic and molecular samples reduced to temperatures below 1 microkelvin, yet still in the gas phase, afford unprecedented energy resolution in probing and manipulating how their constituent particles interact with one another. For simple atoms, such as alkalis, scattering resonances are extremely well-characterized. However, ultracold physics is now poised to enter a new regime, where far more complex species can be cooled and studied, including magnetic lanthanide atoms and even molecules. For molecules, it has been speculated that a dense forest of resonances in ultracold collision cross sections will likely express essentially random fluctuations, much as the observed energy spectra of nuclear scattering do. According to the Bohigas-Giannoni-Schmit conjecture, these fluctuations would imply chaotic dynamics of the underlying classical motion driving the collision. This would provide a paradigm shift in ultracold atomic and molecular physics, necessitating new ways of looking at the fundamental interactions of atoms in this regime, as well as perhaps new chaos-driven states of ultracold matter. In this report we provide the first experimental demonstration that random spectra are indeed found at ultralow temperatures. In the experiment, an ultracold gas of erbium atoms is shown to exhibit many Fano-Feshbach resonances, for bosons on the order of 3 per gauss. Analysis of their statistics verifies that their distribution of nearest-neighbor spacings is what one would expect from random matrix theory. The density and statistics of these resonances are explained by fully-quantum mechanical scattering calculations that locate their origin in the anisotropy of the atoms' potential energy surface. Our results therefore reveal for the first time chaotic behavior in the native interaction between ultracold atoms.

id: 1312.2028
title: Convergence Conditions of Mixed States and their von Neumann Entropy in Continuous Quantum Measurements
authors: Toru Fuda
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2028
abstract: By carrying out appropriate continuous quantum measurements with a family of projection operators, a unitary channel can be approximated in an arbitrary precision in the trace norm sense. In particular, the quantum Zeno effect is described as an application. In the case of an infinite dimension, although the von Neumann entropy is not necessarily continuous, the difference of the entropies between the states, as mentioned above, can be arbitrarily made small under some conditions.

id: 1312.2090
title: Quantum coherence in momentum space of light-matter condensates
authors: C. Ant¨®n, G. Tosi, M. D. Mart¨ªn, Z. Hatzopoulos, G. Konstantinidis, P. S. Eldridge, P. G. Savvidis, C. Tejedor, L. Vi?a
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 081407 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2090
abstract: We show that the use of momentum-space optical interferometry, which avoids any spatial overlap between two parts of a macroscopic quantum state, presents a unique way to study coherence phenomena in polariton condensates. In this way, we address the longstanding question in quantum mechanics: "\emph{Do two components of a condensate, which have never seen each other, possess a definitive phase?}" [P. W. Anderson, \emph{Basic Notions of Condensed Matter Physics} (Benjamin, 1984)]. A positive answer to this question is experimentally obtained here for light-matter condensates, created under precise symmetry conditions, in semiconductor microcavities taking advantage of the direct relation between the angle of emission and the in-plane momentum of polaritons.

id: 1312.2092
title: On Gauge Independence for Gauge Models with Soft Breaking of BRST Symmetry
authors: Alexander Reshetnyak
comments: 1+42 pages, presentation improved, citation on arXiv:1108.4820 [hep-th] results, comments on superdeterminant (2.33), (2.34), on composite fields approach after (4.22) for average EA added, 3 references and acknowledgments added
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A 29 (2014) 1450184
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2092
abstract: A consistent quantum treatment of general gauge theories with an arbitrary gauge-fixing in the presence of soft breaking of the BRST symmetry in the field-antifield formalism is developed. It is based on a gauged (involving a field-dependent parameter) version of finite BRST transformations. The prescription allows one to restore the gauge-independence of the effective action at its extremals and therefore also that of the conventional $S$-matrix for a theory with BRST-breaking terms being additively introduced into a BRST-invariant action in order to achieve a consistency of the functional integral. We demonstrate the applicability of this prescription within the approach of functional renormalization group to the Yang--Mills and gravity theories. The Gribov--Zwanziger action and the refined Gribov--Zwanziger action for a many-parameter family of gauges, including the Coulomb, axial and covariant gauges, are derived perturbatively on the basis of finite gauged BRST transformations starting from Landau gauge. It is proved that gauge theories with soft breaking of BRST symmetry can be made consistent if the transformed BRST-breaking terms satisfy the same soft BRST symmetry breaking condition in the resulting gauge as the untransformed ones in the initial gauge, and also without this requirement.

id: 1312.2275
title: Theoretical prediction of the importance of the 3B2 state in the dynamics of sulfur dioxide
authors: Camille L¨¦v¨ºque, Richard Ta?eb, Horst K?ppel
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2275
abstract: While, the sulfur dioxide molecule has been extensively studied over the last decades, its photoexcitation dynamics is still unclear, due to its complexity, combining conical intersections and spin-orbit coupling between a manifold of states. We present for the first time a comprehensive ab initio study of the intersystem crossing of the molecule in the low energy domain, based on a wave-packet propagation on the manifold of the lowest singlet and triplet states. Furthermore, spin-orbit couplings are evaluated on a geometry-dependent grid, and diabatized along with the different conical intersections. Our results show for the first time the primordial role of the triplet $^3$B$_2$ state which has not been discussed before, giving new insights into the dynamics of the intersystem crossing in $SO_2$.

id: 1312.2346
title: Testing the $a_¦Ì$ anomaly in the electron sector through a precise measurement of $h/M$
authors: F. Terranova, G.M. Tino
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures. Paper revised after the new measurement of m_e by Sturm et al. Version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 (2014) 052118
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2346
abstract: The persistent $a_\mu \equiv (g-2)/2$ anomaly in the muon sector could be due to new physics visible in the electron sector through a sub-ppb measurement of the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron $a_e$. Driven by recent results on the electron mass (S. Sturm et al., Nature 506 (2014) 467), we reconsider the sources of uncertainties that limit our knowledge of $a_e$ including current advances in atom interferometry. We demonstrate that it is possible to attain the level of precision needed to test $a_\mu$ in the naive scaling hypothesis on a timescale similar to next generation $g-2$ muon experiments at Fermilab and JPARC. In order to achieve such level of precision, the knowledge of the quotient $h/M$, i.e. the ratio between the Planck constant and the mass of the atom employed in the interferometer, will play a crucial role. We identify the most favorable isotopes to achieve an overall relative precision below $10^{-10}$.

id: 1312.2365
title: Dynamics-generating semigroups and phenomenology of decoherence
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, in LATEX; reported at the 3d intern. conf. "Theoretical Physics and its Applications", Moscow, June 24-28, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2365
abstract: The earlier proposed Dynamics-Generating Approach (DGA) is reviewed and extended. Starting from an arbitrarily chosen group or semigroup which have structure similar to the structure of Galilei group, DGA allows one to construct phenomenological description of dynamics of the corresponding "elementary quantum object" (a particle or non-local object of special type). A class of Galilei-type semigroups, with semigroup of trajectories (parametrized paths) instead of translations, allows one to derive Feynman path integrals in the framework of DGA. The measure of path integrating (exponential of the classic action) is not postulated but derived from the structure of projective semigroup representations. The generalization of DGA suggested in the present paper allows one to derive dynamics of open quantum systems. Specifically, phenomenological description of decoherence and dissipation of a non-relativistic particle is derived from Galilei semigroup.

id: 1312.2446
title: Extension of the correlated Gaussian hyperspherical method to more particles and dimensions
authors: Kevin M. Daily, Chris H. Greene
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2446
abstract: The solution of the hyperangular Schr\"odinger equation for few-body systems using a basis of explicitly correlated Gaussians remains numerically challenging. This is in part due to the number of basis functions needed as the system size grows, but also due to the fact that the number of numerical integrations increases with the number of hyperangular degrees of freedom. This paper shows that the latter challenge is no more. Using a delta function to fix the hyperradius $R$, all matrix element calculations are reduced to a single numerical integration regardless of system size $n$ or number of dimensions $d$. In the special case of $d$ an even number, the matrix elements of the noninteracting system are fully analytical. We demonstrate the use of the new matrix elements for the 3-, 4-, and 5-body electron-positron systems with zero total angular momentum $L$, positive parity $\pi$, and varied spins $S_+$ and $S_-$.

id: 1312.2515
title: Measuring entanglement of photons produced by a pulsed source
authors: M¨®nica B. Ag¨¹ero, Alejandro A. Hnilo, Marcelo G. Kovalsky
comments: 9 pages, 10 or 7 figures (one of the figures includes 4), 28 Refernces
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2515
abstract: A pulsed source of entangled photons is desirable for some applications. Yet, such a source has intrinsic problems arising from the simultaneous arrival of the signal and noise photons to the detectors. These problems are analyzed and practical methods to calculate the number of accidental (or spurious) coincidences are described in detail, and experimentally checked, for the different regimes of interest. The results are useful not only to measure entanglement, but to all the situations where extracting the number of valid coincidences from noisy data is required. As an example of the use of those methods, we present the time-resolved measurement of the Concurrence of the field produced by spontaneous parametric down conversion with pump pulses of duration in the ns-range at a repetition of kHz. The predicted discontinuous evolution of the entanglement at the edges of the pump pulse is observed.

id: 1312.2536
title: Tunneling-assisted optical information storage with lattice polariton solitons in cavity-QED arrays
authors: E. S. Sedov, A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, Y.-L. Chuang, Y. Y. Lin, W.-X. Yang, R.-K. Lee
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033828 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2536
abstract: Considering two-level media in the array of weakly coupled nano-cavities, we reveal a variety of dynamical regimes, such as diffusion, self-trapping, soliton, and breathers for the wave-packets in the presence of photon tunneling processes between the next-nearest cavities. We focus our attention on the low branch (LB) bright polariton soliton formation, due to the two-body polariton-polariton scattering processes. When detuning frequency is manipulated adiabatically, the low-branch lattice polariton localized states, i.e., that are solitons and breathers evolving between photon-like and matter-like states, are shown to act as carriers for spatially distributed storage and retrieval of optical information.

id: 1312.2557
title: Single Particle Transport in Two-dimensional Heterojunction Interlayer Tunneling Field Effect Transistor
authors: Mingda Li, David Esseni, Gregory Snider, Debdeep Jena, Huili Grace Xing
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2557
abstract: The single particle tunneling in a vertical stack consisting of monolayers of two-dimensional semiconductors is studied theoretically and its application to a novel Two-dimensional Heterojunction Interlayer Tunneling Field Effect Transistor (Thin-TFET) is proposed and described. The tunneling current is calculated by using a formalism based on the Bardeen's transfer Hamiltonian, and including a semi-classical treatment of scattering and energy broadening effects. The misalignment between the two 2D materials is also studied and found to influence the magnitude of the tunneling current, but have a modest impact on its gate voltage dependence. Our simulation results suggest that the Thin-TFETs can achieve very steep subthreshold swing, whose lower limit is ultimately set by the band tails in the energy gaps of the 2D materials produced by energy broadening. The Thin-TFET is thus very promising as a low voltage, low energy solid state electronic switch.

id: 1312.2643
title: Symmetry-protected topological order and negative-sign problem for SO(N) bilinear-biquadratic chains
authors: Kouichi Okunishi, Kenji Harada
comments: published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 134422 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2643
abstract: Using a generalized Jordan-Wigner transformation combined with the defining representation of the SO(N) spin, we map the SO(N) bilinear-biquadratic(BLBQ) spin chain into the N-color bosonic particle model. We find that, when the Jordan-Wigner transformation disentangles the symmetry-protected topological entanglement, this bosonic model becomes negative-sign free in the context of quantum Monte-Carlo simulation. For the SO(3) case, moreover, the Kennedy-Tasaki transformation for the S=1 BLBQ chain, which is also a topological disentangler, derives the same bosonic model through the dimer-R bases. We present the temperature dependence of the energy, entropy and string order parameter for the SO(N=3, 4, 5) BLBQ chains by a world-line Monte-Carlo simulation for the N-color bosonic particle model.

id: 1312.2973
title: On the $¦Ê$-Dirac Oscillator revisited
authors: F. M. Andrade, E. O. Silva, M. M. Ferreira Jr., E. C. Rodrigues
comments: 5 pages, no figures, accepted for publication in Physics Letters B
journal: Physics Letters B 731, 327 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2973
abstract: This Letter is based on the $\kappa$-Dirac equation, derived from the $\kappa$-Poincar\'{e}-Hopf algebra. It is shown that the $\kappa$-Dirac equation preserves parity while breaks charge conjugation and time reversal symmetries. Introducing the Dirac oscillator prescription, $\mathbf{p}\to\mathbf{p}-im\omega\beta\mathbf{r}$, in the $\kappa$-Dirac equation, one obtains the $\kappa$-Dirac oscillator. Using a decomposition in terms of spin angular functions, one achieves the deformed radial equations, with the associated deformed energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. The deformation parameter breaks the infinite degeneracy of the Dirac oscillator. In the case where $\varepsilon=0$, one recovers the energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Dirac oscillator.

id: 1312.2997
title: Optical signatures of silicon-vacancy spins in diamond
authors: Tina Muller, Christian Hepp, Benjamin Pingault, Elke Neu, Stefan Gsell, Matthias Schreck, Hadwig Sternschulte, Doris Steinmueller-Nethl, Christoph Becher, Mete Atature
comments: Additional data and analysis in PDF format is available for download at the publications section of this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2997
abstract: Colour centres in diamond have emerged as versatile tools for solid-state quantum technologies ranging from quantum information to metrology, where the nitrogen-vacancy centre is the most studied to-date. Recently, this toolbox has expanded to include different materials for their nanofabrication opportunities, and novel colour centres to realize more efficient spin-photon quantum interfaces. Of these, the silicon-vacancy centre stands out with ultrabright single photon emission predominantly into the desirable zero-phonon line. The challenge for utilizing this centre is to realise the hitherto elusive optical access to its electronic spin. Here, we report spin-tagged resonance fluorescence from the negatively charged silicon-vacancy centre. In low-strain bulk diamond spin-selective excitation under finite magnetic field reveals a spin-state purity approaching unity in the excited state. We also investigate the effect of strain on the centres in nanodiamonds and discuss how spin selectivity in the excited state remains accessible in this regime.

id: 1312.3095
title: On the role of Schwinger's SU(2) generators for Simple Harmonic Oscillator in 2D Moyal plane
authors: Kaushlendra Kumar, Shivraj Prajapat, Biswajit Chakraborty
comments: 15 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3095
abstract: The Hilbert-Schmidt operator formulation of non-commutative quantum mechanics in 2D Moyal plane is shown to allow one to construct Schwinger's SU(2) generators. Using this the SU(2) symmetry aspect of both commutative and non-commutative harmonic oscillator are studied and compared. Particularly, in the non-commutative case we demonstrate the existence of a critical point in the parameter space of mass and angular frequency where there is a manifest SU(2) symmetry for a unphysical harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian built out of commuting (unphysical yet covariantly transforming under SU(2)) position like observable. The existence of this critical point is shown to be a novel aspect in non-commutative harmonic oscillator, which is exploited to obtain the spectrum and the observable mass and angular frequency parameters of the physical oscillator-which is generically different from the bare parameters occurring in the Hamiltonian. Finally, we show that a Zeeman term in the Hamiltonian of non-commutative physical harmonic oscillator, is solely responsible for both SU(2) and time reversal symmetry breaking.

id: 1312.3113
title: Force-Gradient Nested Multirate Methods for Hamiltonian System
authors: Dmitry Shcherbakov, Matthias Ehrhardt, Michael G¨¹nther, Michael Peardon
comments: 16 pages 3 figures, submitted to Applied Numerical Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3113
abstract: Force-gradient decomposition methods are used to improve the energy preservation of symplectic schemes applied to Hamiltonian systems. If the potential is composed of different parts with strongly varying dynamics, this multirate potential can be exploited by coupling force-gradient decomposition methods with splitting techniques for multi-time scale problems to further increase the accuracy of the scheme and reduce the computational costs. In this paper, we derive novel force-gradient nested methods and test them numerically. Such methods can be used to increase the acceptance rate for the molecular dynamics step of the Hybrid Monte Carlo algorithm (HMC) and hence improve its computational efficiency.

id: 1312.3125
title: On the origin of the exponential decay of the Loschmidt echo in integrable systems
authors: Remy Dubertrand, Arseni Goussev
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 022915 (2014)
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3125
abstract: We address the time decay of the Loschmidt echo, measuring sensitivity of quantum dynamics to small Hamiltonian perturbations, in one-dimensional integrable systems. Using semiclassical analysis, we show that the Loschmidt echo may exhibit a well-pronounced regime of exponential decay, alike the one typically observed in quantum systems whose dynamics is chaotic in the classical limit. We derive an explicit formula for the exponential decay rate in terms of the spectral properties of the unperturbed and perturbed Hamilton operators and the initial state. In particular, we show that the decay rate, unlike in the case of the chaotic dynamics, is directly proportional to the strength of the Hamiltonian perturbation. Finally, we compare our analytical predictions against the results of a numerical computation of the Loschmidt echo for a quantum particle moving inside a one-dimensional box with Dirichlet-Robin boundary conditions, and find the two in good agreement.

id: 1312.3127
title: Tensor networks for Lattice Gauge Theories and Atomic Quantum Simulation
authors: E. Rico, T. Pichler, M. Dalmonte, P. Zoller, S. Montangero
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 201601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3127
abstract: We show that gauge invariant quantum link models, Abelian and non-Abelian, can be exactly described in terms of tensor networks states. Quantum link models represent an ideal bridge between high-energy to cold atom physics, as they can be used in cold-atoms in optical lattices to study lattice gauge theories. In this framework, we characterize the phase diagram of a (1+1)-d quantum link version of the Schwinger model in an external classical background electric field: the quantum phase transition from a charge and parity ordered phase with non-zero electric flux to a disordered one with a net zero electric flux configuration is described by the Ising universality class.

id: 1312.3148
title: Coherent states on the Grassmannian $U(4)/U(2)^2$: Oscillator realization and bilayer fractional quantum Hall systems
authors: M. Calixto, E. Perez-Romero
comments: 25 pages. Minor changes. To appear in Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 115302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3148
abstract: Bilayer quantum Hall (BLQH) systems, which underlie a $U(4)$ symmetry, display unique quantum coherence effects. We study coherent states (CS) on the complex Grassmannian $\mathbb G_2^4=U(4)/U(2)^2$, orthonormal basis, $U(4)$ generators and their matrix elements in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space $\mathcal H_\lambda(\mathbb G_2^4)$ of analytic square-integrable holomorphic functions on $\mathbb G_2^4$, which carries a unitary irreducible representation of $U(4)$ with index $\lambda\in\mathbb N$. A many-body representation of the previous construction is introduced through an oscillator realization of the $U(4)$ Lie algebra generators in terms of eight boson operators. This particle picture allows us for a physical interpretation of our abstract mathematical construction in the BLQH jargon. In particular, the index $\lambda$ is related to the number of flux quanta bound to a bi-fermion in the composite fermion picture of Jain for fractions of the filling factor $\nu=2$. The simpler, and better known, case of spin-$s$ CS on the Riemann-Bloch sphere $\mathbb{S}^2=U(2)/U(1)^2$ is also treated in parallel, of which Grassmannian $\mathbb G_2^4$-CS can be regarded as a generalized (matrix) version.

id: 1312.3169
title: Quench-induced breathing mode of one-dimensional Bose gases
authors: Bess Fang, Giuseppe Carleo, Aisling Johnson, Isabelle Bouchoule
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 113 (2014) 035301
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3169
abstract: We measure the position- and momentum- space breathing dynamics of trapped one-dimensional Bose gases. The profile in real space reveals sinusoidal width oscillations whose frequency varies continuously through the quasicondensate to ideal Bose gas crossover. A comparison with theoretical models taking into account the effect of finite temperature is provided. In momentum space, we report the first observation of a frequency doubling in the quasicondensate regime, corresponding to a self-reflection mechanism. The disappearance of this mechanism through the quasicondensation crossover is mapped out.

id: 1312.3261
title: Semiclassical pair production rate for time-dependent electrical fields with more than one component: -WKB-approach and world-line instantons
authors: Eckhard Strobel, She-Sheng Xue
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, V2: some passages shortened, importance of the location of the peak of the momentum spectrum clarified, final version to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl. Phys. B 886 (2014) 1153-1176
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3261
abstract: We present an analytic calculation of the semiclassical electron-positron pair creation rate by time-dependent electrical fields. We use two methods, first the imaginary time method in the WKB-approximation and second the world-line instanton approach. The analytic tools for both methods are generalized to time-dependent electric fields with more than one component. For the WKB method an expansion of the momentum spectrum of produced pairs around the canonical momentum $\vec{P}=0$ is presented which simplifies the computation of the pair creation rate. We argue that the world-line instanton method of [Dunne et al., Phys. Rev. D73, 065028 (2006)] implicitly performs this expansion of the momentum spectrum around $\vec{P}=0$. Accordingly the generalization to more than one component is shown to agree with the WKB result obtained via this expansion. However the expansion is only a good approximation for the cases where the momentum spectrum is peaked around $\vec{P}=0$. Thus the expanded WKB result and the world-line instanton method of [Dunne et al., Phys. Rev. D73, 065028 (2006)] as well as the generalized method presented here are only applicable in these cases. We study the two component case of a rotating electric field and find a new analytic closed form for the momentum spectrum using the generalized WKB method. The momentum spectrum for this field is not peaked around $\vec{P}=0$.

id: 1312.3446
title: Atom-Light Interactions in Photonic Crystals
authors: A. Goban, C.-L. Hung, S.-P. Yu, J. D. Hood, J. A. Muniz, J. H. Lee, M. J. Martin, A. C. McClung, K. S. Choi, D. E. Chang, O. Painter, H. J. Kimble
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3446
abstract: The integration of nanophotonics and atomic physics has been a long-sought goal that would open new frontiers for optical physics. Here, we report the development of the first integrated optical circuit with a photonic crystal capable of both localizing and interfacing atoms with guided photons in the device. By aligning the optical bands of a photonic crystal waveguide (PCW) with selected atomic transitions, our platform provides new opportunities for novel quantum transport and many-body phenomena by way of photon-mediated atomic interactions along the PCW. From reflection spectra measured with average atom number N = 1.1$\pm$0.4, we infer that atoms are localized within the PCW by Casimir-Polder and optical dipole forces. The fraction of single-atom radiative decay into the PCW is $\Gamma_{\rm 1D}/\Gamma'$ = 0.32$\pm$0.08, where $\Gamma_{1D}$ is the rate of emission into the guided mode and $\Gamma'$ is the decay rate into all other channels. $\Gamma_{\rm 1D}/\Gamma'$ is quoted without enhancement due to an external cavity and is unprecedented in all current atom-photon interfaces.

id: 1312.3467
title: Galilean invariance in confined quantum systems: Implications on spectral gaps, superfluid flow, and periodic order
authors: Andras Suto
comments: Improved, final version. Equation (22) is slightly more general than in the publication. The upper bound for the critical velocity on p. 4 is corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 095301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3467
abstract: Galilean invariance leaves its imprint on the energy spectrum and eigenstates of $N$ quantum particles, bosons or fermions, confined in a bounded domain. It endows the spectrum with a recurrent structure which in capillaries or elongated traps of length $L$ and cross-section area $s_\perp$ leads to spectral gaps $n^2h^2s_\perp\rho/(2mL)$ at wavenumbers $2n\pi s_\perp\rho$, where $\rho$ is the number density and $m$ is the particle mass. In zero temperature superfluids, in toroidal geometries, it causes the quantization of the flow velocity with the quantum $h/(mL)$ or that of the circulation along the toroid with the known quantum $h/m$. Adding a "friction" potential which breaks Galilean invariance, the Hamiltonian can have a superfluid ground state at low flow velocities but not above a critical velocity which may be different from the velocity of sound. In the limit of infinite $N$ and $L$, if $N/L=s_\perp\rho$ is kept fixed, translation invariance is broken, the center of mass has a periodic distribution, while superfluidity persists at low flow velocities. This conclusion holds for the Lieb-Liniger model.

id: 1312.3697
title: First-Quantized Theory of Expanding Universe from Field Quantization in Mini-Superspace
authors: Daisuke Ida, Miyuki Saito
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3697
abstract: We propose an improved variant of the third-quantization scheme, for the spatially homogeneous and isotropic cosmological models in Einstein gravity coupled with a neutral massless scalar field. Our strategy is to specify a semi-Riemannian structure on the mini-superspace and to consider the quantum Klein-Gordon field on the mini-superspace. Then, the Hilbert space of this quantum system becomes inseparable, which causes the creation of infinite number of universes. To overcome this issue, we introduce a vector bundle structure on the Hilbert space and the connection of the vector bundle. Then, we can define a consistent unitary time evolution of the quantum universe in terms of the connection field on the vector bundle. By doing this, we are able to treat the quantum dynamics of a single-universe state. We also find an appropriate observable set constituting the CCR-algebra, and obtain the Schr\"odinger equation for the wave function of the single-universe state. We show that the present quantum theory correctly reproduces the classical solution to the Einstein equation.

id: 1312.3731
title: Complex Obtuse Random Walks and their Continuous-Time Limits
authors: S. Attal, J. Deschamps, C. Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3731
abstract: We study a particular class of complex-valued random variables and their associated random walks: the complex obtuse random variables. They are the generalization to the complex case of the real-valued obtuse random variables which were introduced in \cite{A-E} in order to understand the structure of normal martingales in $\RR^n$.The extension to the complex case is mainly motivated by considerations from Quantum Statistical Mechanics, in particular for the seek of a characterization of those quantum baths acting as classical noises. The extension of obtuse random variables to the complex case is far from obvious and hides very interesting algebraical structures. We show that complex obtuse random variables are characterized by a 3-tensor which admits certain symmetries which we show to be the exact 3-tensor analogue of the normal character for 2-tensors (i.e. matrices), that is, a necessary and sufficient condition for being diagonalizable in some orthonormal basis. We discuss the passage to the continuous-time limit for these random walks and show that they converge in distribution to normal martingales in $\CC^N$. We show that the 3-tensor associated to these normal martingales encodes their behavior, in particular the diagonalization directions of the 3-tensor indicate the directions of the space where the martingale behaves like a diffusion and those where it behaves like a Poisson process. We finally prove the convergence, in the continuous-time limit, of the corresponding multiplication operators on the canonical Fock space, with an explicit expression in terms of the associated 3-tensor again.

id: 1312.3734
title: Differentiable but exact formulation of density-functional theory
authors: Simen Kvaal, Ulf Ekstr?m, Andrew M. Teale, Trygve Helgaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3734
abstract: The universal density functional $F$ of density-functional theory is a complicated and ill-behaved function of the density-in particular, $F$ is not differentiable, making many formal manipulations more complicated. Whilst $F$ has been well characterized in terms of convex analysis as forming a conjugate pair $(E,F)$ with the ground-state energy $E$ via the Hohenberg-Kohn and Lieb variation principles, $F$ is nondifferentiable and subdifferentiable only on a small (but dense) set of its domain. In this article, we apply a tool from convex analysis, Moreau-Yosida regularization, to construct, for any $\epsilon>0$, pairs of conjugate functionals $({}^\epsilon\!E,{}^\epsilon\!F)$ that converge to $(E,F)$ pointwise everywhere as $\epsilon\rightarrow 0^+$, and such that ${}^\epsilon\!F$ is (Fr\'echet) differentiable. For technical reasons, we limit our attention to molecular electronic systems in a finite but large box. It is noteworthy that no information is lost in the Moreau-Yosida regularization: the physical ground-state energy $E(v)$ is exactly recoverable from the regularized ground-state energy ${}^\epsilon\!E(v)$ in a simple way. All concepts and results pertaining to the original $(E,F)$ pair have direct counterparts in results for $({}^\epsilon\! E, {}^\epsilon\!F)$. The Moreau-Yosida regularization therefore allows for an exact, differentiable formulation of density-functional theory. In particular, taking advantage of the differentiability of ${}^\epsilon\!F$, a rigorous formulation of Kohn-Sham theory is presented that does not suffer from the noninteracting representability problem in standard Kohn-Sham theory.

id: 1312.3736
title: Casimir energy and force induced by an impenetrable flux tube of finite radius
authors: V. M. Gorkavenko, Yu. A. Sitenko, O. B. Stepanov
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.0224
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3736
abstract: A perfectly reflecting (Dirichlet) boundary condition at the edge of an impenetrable magnetic-flux-carrying tube of nonzero transverse size is imposed on the charged massive scalar matter field which is quantized outside the tube. We show that the vacuum polarization effects outside the tube give rise to a macroscopic force acting at the increase of the tube radius (if the magnetic flux is held steady). The Casimir energy and force are periodic in the value of the magnetic flux, being independent of the coupling to the space-time curvature scalar. We conclude that a topological defect of the vortex type can polarize the vacuum of only those quantum fields that have masses which are much less than a scale of the spontaneous symmetry breaking.

id: 1312.3824
title: An introduction to spinors
authors: Andrew M. Steane
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3824
abstract: We introduce spinors, at a level appropriate for an undergraduate or first year graduate course on relativity, astrophysics or particle physics. The treatment assumes very little mathematical knowledge (mainly just vector analysis and some idea of what a group is). The SU(2)--SO(3) homomorphism is presented in detail. Lorentz transformation, chirality, and the spinor Minkowski metric are introduced. Applications to electromagnetism, parity violation, and to Dirac spinors are presented. A classical form of the Dirac equation is obtained, and the (quantum) prediction that $g=2$ for Dirac particles is presented.

id: 1312.3875
title: Extreme Harmonic Generation in Electrically Driven Spin Resonance
authors: J. Stehlik, M. D. Schroer, M. Z. Maialle, M. H. Degani, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 227601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3875
abstract: We report the observation of multiple harmonic generation in electric dipole spin resonance in an InAs nanowire double quantum dot. The harmonics display a remarkable detuning dependence: near the interdot charge transition as many as eight harmonics are observed, while at large detunings we only observe the fundamental spin resonance condition. The detuning dependence indicates that the observed harmonics may be due to Landau-Zener transition dynamics at anticrossings in the energy level spectrum.

id: 1312.3896
title: Revision of the Coulomb logarithm in the ideal plasma
authors: P. Mulser, G. Alber, M. Murakami
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3896
abstract: The standard picture of the Coulomb logarithm in the ideal plasma is controversial, the arguments for the lower cut off need revision. The two cases of far subthermal and of far superthermal electron drift motions are accessible to a rigorous analytical treatment. We show that the lower cut off $b_{\min}$ is a function of symmetry and shape of the shielding cloud, it is not universal. In the subthermal case shielding is spherical and $b_{\min}$ is to be identified with the de Broglie wavelength; at superthermal drift the shielding cloud exhibits cylindrical (axial) symmetry and $b_{\min}$ is the classical parameter of perpendicular deflection. In both situations the cut offs are determined by the electron-ion encounters at large collision parameters. This is in net contrast to the governing standard meaning that attributes $b_{\min}$ to the Coulomb singularity at vanishing collision parameters $b$ and, consequently, assigns it universal validity. The origin of the contradictions in the traditional picture is analyzed.

id: 1312.3922
title: Topology and Criticality in Resonating Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki loop Spin Liquid States
authors: Wei Li, Shuo Yang, Meng Cheng, Zheng-Xin Liu, Hong-Hao Tu
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 174411 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3922
abstract: We exploit a natural Projected Entangled-Pair State (PEPS) representation for the resonating Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki loop (RAL) state. By taking advantage of PEPS-based analytical and numerical methods, we characterize the RAL states on various two-dimensional lattices. On square and honeycomb lattices, these states are critical since the dimer-dimer correlations decay as a power law. On kagome lattice, the RAL state has exponentially decaying correlation functions, supporting the scenario of a gapped spin liquid. We provide further evidence that the RAL state on the kagome lattice is a $\mathbb{Z}_2$ spin liquid, by identifying the four topological sectors and computing the topological entropy. Furthermore, we construct a one-parameter family of PEPS states interpolating between the RAL state and a short-range Resonating Valence Bond state and find a critical point, consistent with the fact that the two states belong to two different phases. We also perform a variational study of the spin-1 kagome Heisenberg model using this one-parameter PEPS.

id: 1312.3954
title: Geometric mutual information at classical critical points
authors: Jean-Marie St¨¦phan, Stephen Inglis, Paul Fendley, Roger G. Melko
comments: 5 pages. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 127204 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3954
abstract: A practical use of the entanglement entropy in a 1d quantum system is to identify the conformal field theory describing its critical behavior. It is exactly $(c/3)\ln \ell$ for an interval of length $\ell$ in an infinite system, where $c$ is the central charge of the conformal field theory. Here we define the geometric mutual information, an analogous quantity for classical critical points. We compute this for 2d conformal field theories in an arbitrary geometry, and show in particular that for a rectangle cut into two rectangles, it is proportional to $c$. This makes it possible to extract $c$ in classical simulations, which we demonstrate for the critical Ising and 3-state Potts models.

id: 1312.3987
title: Classical Light Beams and Geometric Phases
authors: N. Mukunda, S. Chaturvedi, R. Simon
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3987
abstract: We present a study of geometric phases in classical wave and polarisation optics using the basic mathematical framework of quantum mechanics. Important physical situations taken from scalar wave optics, pure polarisation optics, and the behaviour of polarisation in the eikonal or ray limit of Maxwell's equations in a transparent medium are considered. The case of a beam of light whose propagation direction and polarisation state are both subject to change is dealt with, attention being paid to the validity of Maxwell's equations at all stages. Global topological aspects of the space of all propagation directions are discussed using elementary group theoretical ideas, and the effects on geometric phases are elucidated.

id: 1312.4041
title: Effective photons in weakly absorptive dielectric media and the Beer-Lambert-Bouguer law
authors: A C Judge, J S Brownless, N A R Bhat, J E Sipe, M J Steel, C Martijn de Sterke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4041
abstract: We derive effective photon modes that facilitate an intuitive and convenient picture of photon dynamics in a structured Kramers-Kronig dielectric in the limit of weak absorption. Each mode is associated with an effective line-width which determines the temporal decay rate of the photon. These results are then applied to obtain an expression for the Beer-Lambert-Bouguer law absorption coefficient for unidirectional propagation in structured media consisting of dispersive, weakly absorptive dielectric materials.

id: 1312.4056
title: Quantum Model for a Periodically Driven Selectivity Filter in K$^{+}$ Ion Channel
authors: A. A. Cifuentes, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 5 figures, 6 pages, slightly changed title
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 225503 (2014)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4056
abstract: In this work, we present a quantum transport model for the selectivity filter in the KcsA potassium ion channel. This model is fully consistent with the fact that two conduction pathways are involved in the translocation of ions thorough the filter, and we show that the presence of a second path may actually bring advantages for the filter as a result of quantum interference. To highlight interferences and resonances in the model, we consider the selectivity filter to be driven by a controlled time-dependent external field which changes the free energy scenario and consequently the conduction of the ions. In particular, we demonstrate that the two-pathway conduction mechanism is more advantageous for the filter when dephasing in the transient configurations is lower than in the main configurations. As a matter of fact, K$^+$ ions in the main configurations are highly coordinated by oxygen atoms of the filter backbone and this increases noise. Moreover, we also show that, for a wide range of dephasing rates and driving frequencies, the two-pathway conduction used by the filter leads indeed to higher ionic currents when compared with the single path model.

id: 1312.4118
title: Interpretation of the Cosmological Constant Problem within the Framework of Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Yan-Gang Miao, Ying-Jie Zhao
comments: 10 pages, no figures; v2: clarifications added; v3: 11 pages, title slightly changed, clarifications added, the final version to appear in IJMPD
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. D 23 (2014) 1450062
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4118
abstract: We propose an improved exponential Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) by introducing a positive integer $n$ called the suppressing index. Due to the UV/IR mixing brought by the GUP, the states with momenta smaller than the critical momentum ($P < P_{\rm Crit}$) are canceled by the states with momenta larger than the critical momentum ($P > P_{\rm Crit}$) and thus have no contributions to the energy density of the vacuum. By considering the contributions just from the states with momenta larger than the critical momentum ($P > P_{\rm Crit}$) and choosing a suitable suppressing index, $n \sim 10^{123}$, we calculate the cosmological constant consistent with the experimentally observed value.

id: 1312.4129
title: Vortices in the two-dimensional dipolar Bose gas
authors: B. C. Mulkerin, D. H. J. O'Dell, A. M. Martin, N. G. Parker
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. Proceedings of the 22nd International Laser Physics Workshop (Prague, July 2013
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 497, 012025 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4129
abstract: We present vortex solutions for the homogeneous two-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate featuring dipolar atomic interactions, mapped out as a function of the dipolar interaction strength (relative to the contact interactions) and polarization direction. Stable vortex solutions arise in the regimes where the fully homogeneous system is stable to the phonon or roton instabilities. Close to these instabilities, the vortex profile differs significantly from that of a vortex in a nondipolar quantum gas, developing, for example, density ripples and an anisotropic core. Meanwhile, the vortex itself generates a mesoscopic dipolar potential which, at distance, scales as 1/r^2 and has an angular dependence which mimics the microscopic dipolar interaction.

id: 1312.4165
title: Dynamical quantum phase transitions and the Loschmidt echo: A transfer matrix approach
authors: F. Andraschko, J. Sirker
comments: Published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 125120 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4165
abstract: A boundary transfer matrix formulation allows to calculate the Loschmidt echo for one-dimensional quantum systems in the thermodynamic limit. We show that non-analyticities in the Loschmidt echo and zeros for the Loschmidt amplitude in the complex plane (Fisher zeros) are caused by a crossing of eigenvalues in the spectrum of the transfer matrix. Using a density-matrix renormalization group algorithm applied to these transfer matrices we numerically investigate the Loschmidt echo and the Fisher zeros for quantum quenches in the XXZ model with a uniform and a staggered magnetic field. We give examples---both in the integrable and the non-integrable case---where the Loschmidt echo does not show non-analyticities although the quench leads across an equilibrium phase transition, and examples where non-analyticities appear for quenches within the same phase. For a quench to the free fermion point, we analytically show that the Fisher zeros sensitively depend on the initial state and can lie exactly on the real axis already for finite system size. Furthermore, we use bosonization to analyze our numerical results for quenches within the Luttinger liquid phase.

id: 1312.4174
title: Nonequilibrium fluctuation-dissipation relations for one- and two-particle correlation functions in steady-state quantum transport
authors: H. Ness, L. K. Dash
comments: This revised version is now accepted for publication in the Journal of Chemical Physics (March 2014). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1305.5077
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 140, 144106 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4174
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium (NE) fluctuation-dissipation (FD) relations in the context of quantum thermoelectric transport through a two-terminal nanodevice in the steady-state. The FD relations for the one- and two-particle correlation functions are derived for a model of the central region consisting of a single electron level. Explicit expressions for the FD relations of the Green's functions (one-particle correlations) are provided. The FD relations for the current-current and charge-charge (two-particle) correlations are calculated numerically. We use self-consistent NE Green's functions calculations to treat the system in the absence and in the presence of interaction (electron-phonon) in the central region. We show that, for this model, there is no single universal FD theorem for the NE steady state. There are different FD relations for each different class of problems. We find that the FD relations for the one-particle correlation function are strongly dependent on both the NE conditions and the interactions, while the FD relations of the current-current correlation function are much less dependent on the interaction. The latter property suggests interesting applications for single-molecule and other nanoscale transport experiments.

id: 1312.4195
title: On an interpolative Schr?dinger equation and an alternative classical limit
authors: K.R.W. Jones
comments: 42 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4195
abstract: We introduce a simple deformed quantization prescription that interpolates the classical and quantum sectors of Weinberg's nonlinear quantum theory. The result is a novel classical limit where $\hbar$ is kept fixed while a dimensionless mesoscopic parameter, $\lambda\in[0,1]$, goes to zero. Unlike the standard classical limit, which holds good up to a certain timescale, ours is a precise limit incorporating true dynamical chaos, no dispersion, an absence of macroscopic superpositions and a complete recovery of the symplectic geometry of classical phase space. We develop the formalism, and discover that energy levels suffer a {\em generic perturbation\/}. Exactly, they become $E(\lambda^{2}\hbar)$, where $\lambda = 1$ gives the standard prediction. Exact interpolative eigenstates can be similarly constructed. Unlike the linear case, these need no longer be orthogonal. A formal solution for the interpolative dynamics is given, and we exhibit the free particle as one exactly soluble case. Dispersion is reduced, to vanish at $\lambda = 0$. We conclude by discussing some possible empirical signatures, and explore the obstructions to a satisfactory physical interpretation.

id: 1312.4325
title: Magnetoelectric Effects in Local Light-Matter Interactions
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Yuri S. Kivshar, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 033601 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4325
abstract: We study the generic interaction of a monochromatic electromagnetic field with bi-isotropic nanoparticles. Such an interaction is described by dipole-coupling terms associated with the breaking of dual, P- and T-symmetries, including the chirality and the nonreciprocal magnetoelectric effect. We calculate absorption rates, radiation forces, and radiation torques for the nanoparticles and introduce novel characteristics of the field quantifying the transfer of energy, momentum, and angular-momentum in these interactions. In particular, we put forward the concept of 'magnetoelectric energy density', quantifying the local PT-symmetry of the field. Akin to the 'super-chiral' light suggested recently for sensitive local probing of molecular chirality [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 163901 (2010); Science 332, 333 (2011)], here we describe a complex field for sensitive probing of the nonreciprocal magnetoelectric effect in nanoparticles or molecules.

id: 1312.4436
title: Measure synchronization in quantum many-body systems
authors: Haibo Qiu, Bruno Julia-Diaz, Miguel Angel Garcia-March, Artur Polls
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4436
abstract: The concept of measure synchronization between two coupled quantum many-body systems is presented. In general terms we consider two quantum many-body systems whose dynamics gets coupled through the contact particle-particle interaction. This coupling is shown to produce measure synchronization, a generalization of synchrony to a large class of systems which takes place in absence of dissipation. We find that in quantum measure synchronization, the many-body quantum properties for the two subsystems, e.g. condensed fractions and particle fluctuations, behave in a coordinated way. To illustrate the concept we consider a simple case of two species of bosons occupying two distinct quantum states. Measure synchronization can be readily explored with state-of-the-art techniques in ultracold atomic gases and, if propertly controlled, be employed to share quantum correlations between different degrees of freedom.

id: 1312.4518
title: On the precanonical structure of the Schr?dinger wave functional
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 15 pages. v2: a misprint in Arxiv abstract is corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4518
abstract: An expression of the Schr\"odinger wave functional as the product integral of precanonical wave functions on the space of fields and space-time variables is obtained. A functional derivative Schr\"odinger equation in the canonical quantization is derived from the partial derivative covariant analogue of the Schr\"odinger equation, which appears in the precanonical quantization based on the De Donder-Weyl Hamiltonization of field theory. The representation of precanonical quantum operators typically contains a parameter $\varkappa$ of the dimension of the inverse spatial volume. The transition from the precanonical description of quantum fields in terms of Clifford-valued wave functions and partial derivative operators to the standard functional Schr\"odinger representation obtained from canonical quantization is accomplished if $1/\varkappa \rightarrow 0$ and $\gamma^0 / \varkappa$ is mapped to the infinitesimal spatial volume element $d\mathbf{x}$. Thus the standard QFT corresponds to the precanonical QFT in the limiting case of the infinitesimal parameter $1 / \varkappa$.

id: 1312.4523
title: Robust quantum gates for singlet-triplet spin qubits using composite pulses
authors: Xin Wang, Lev S. Bishop, Edwin Barnes, J. P. Kestner, S. Das Sarma
comments: 22+ pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022310 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4523
abstract: We present a comprehensive theoretical treatment of SUPCODE, a method for generating dynamically corrected quantum gate operations, which are immune to random noise in the environment, by using carefully designed sequences of soft pulses. SUPCODE enables dynamical error suppression even when the control field is constrained to be positive and uniaxial, making it particularly suited to counteracting the effects of noise in systems subject to these constraints such as singlet-triplet qubits. We describe and explain in detail how to generate SUPCODE pulse sequences for arbitrary single-qubit gates and provide several explicit examples of sequences that implement commonly used gates, including the single-qubit Clifford gates. We develop sequences for noise-resistant two-qubit gates for two exchanged-coupled singlet-triplet qubits by cascading robust single-qubit gates, leading to a 35% reduction in gate time compared to previous works. This cascade approach can be scaled up to produce gates for an arbitrary-length spin qubit array, and is thus relevant to scalable quantum computing architectures. To more accurately describe real spin qubit experiments, we show how to design sequences that incorporate additional features and practical constraints such as sample-specific charge noise models and finite pulse rise times. We provide a detailed analysis based on randomized benchmarking to show how SUPCODE gates perform under realistic $1/f^\alpha$ noise and find a strong dependence of gate fidelity on the exponent $\alpha$, with best performance for $\alpha>1$. Our SUPCODE sequences can therefore be used to implement robust universal quantum computation while accommodating the fundamental constraints and experimental realities of singlet-triplet qubits.

id: 1312.4570
title: Orbital entanglement and electron localization in quantum wires
authors: Alberto Aleta, H¨¦ctor Villarubia-Rojo, Diego Frustaglia, V¨ªctor A. Gopar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 89, 075429 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4570
abstract: We study the signatures of disorder in the production of orbital electron entanglement in quantum wires. Disordered entanglers suffer the effects of localization of the electron wave function and random fluctuations in the entanglement production. This manifests in the statistics of the concurrence, a measure of the produced two-qubit entanglement. We calculate the concurrence distribution as a function of the disorder strength within a random-matrix approach. We also identify significant constraints on the entanglement production as a consequence of the breaking/preservation of time-reversal invariance. Additionally, our theoretical results are independently supported by simulations of disordered quantum wires based on a tight-binding model.

id: 1312.4577
title: Temperature-dependent Mollow triplet spectra from a single quantum dot: Rabi frequency renormalisation and sideband linewidth insensitivity
authors: Yu-Jia Wei, Yu He, Yu-Ming He, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Sven H?fling, Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir
comments: Close to published version, new figure and minor changes to the text. 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 097401 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4577
abstract: We investigate temperature-dependent resonance fluorescence spectra obtained from a single self-assembled quantum dot. A decrease of the Mollow triplet sideband splitting is observed with increasing temperature, an effect we attribute to a phonon-induced renormalisation of the driven dot Rabi frequency. We also present first evidence for a non-perturbative regime of phonon coupling, in which the expected linear increase in sideband linewidth as a function of temperature is cancelled by the corresponding reduction in Rabi frequency. These results indicate that dephasing in semiconductor quantum dots may be less sensitive to changes in temperature than expected from a standard weak-coupling analysis of phonon effects.

id: 1312.4583
title: Uncertainty and Analyticity
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: AMS-LaTeX, 7 p., no figures; v2: misprints are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4583
abstract: We describe a connection between minimal uncertainty states and holomorphy-type conditions on the images of the respective wavelet transform. The most familiar example is the Fock-Segal-Bargmann transform generated by the Gaussian, however, this also occurs under more general assumptions.

id: 1312.4586
title: Auxiliary master equation approach to non-equilibrium correlated impurities
authors: Antonius Dorda, Martin Nuss, Wolfgang von der Linden, Enrico Arrigoni
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165105 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4586
abstract: We present a numerical method for the study of correlated quantum impurity problems out of equilibrium, which is particularly suited to address steady state properties within Dynamical Mean Field Theory. The approach, recently introduced in [Arrigoni et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 086403 (2013)], is based upon a mapping of the original impurity problem onto an auxiliary open quantum system, consisting of the interacting impurity coupled to bath sites as well as to a Markovian environment. The dynamics of the auxiliary system is governed by a Lindblad master equation whose parameters are used to optimize the mapping. The accuracy of the results can be readily estimated and systematically improved by increasing the number of auxiliary bath sites, or by introducing a linear correction. Here, we focus on a detailed discussion of the proposed approach including technical remarks. To solve for the Green's functions of the auxiliary impurity problem, a non-hermitian Lanczos diagonalization is applied. As a benchmark, results for the steady state current-voltage characteristics of the single impurity Anderson model are presented. Furthermore, the bias dependence of the single particle spectral function and the splitting of the Kondo resonance are discussed. In its present form the method is fast, efficient and features a controlled accuracy.

id: 1312.4698
title: Graphics processing units accelerated semiclassical initial value representation molecular dynamics
authors: Dario Tamascelli, Francesco S. Dambrosio, Riccardo Conte, Michele Ceotto
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 174109 (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4698
abstract: This paper presents a Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) implementation of the Semiclassical Initial Value Representation (SC-IVR) propagator for vibrational molecular spectroscopy calculations. The time-averaging formulation of the SC-IVR for power spectrum calculations is employed. Details about the GPU implementation of the semiclassical code are provided. Four molecules with an increasing number of atoms are considered and the GPU-calculated vibrational frequencies perfectly match the benchmark values. The computational time scaling of two GPUs (NVIDIA Tesla C2075 and Kepler K20) respectively versus two CPUs (Intel Core i5 and Intel Xeon E5-2687W) and the critical issues related to the GPU implementation are discussed. The resulting reduction in computational time and power consumption is significant and semiclassical GPU calculations are shown to be environment friendly.

id: 1312.4718
title: Nonadiabatic molecular dynamics simulation: An approach based on quantum measurement picture
authors: Wei Feng, Luting Xu, Xin-Qi Li, Weihai Fang, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: AIP Advances 4, 077131 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4718
abstract: Mixed-quantum-classical molecular dynamics simulation implies an effective measurement on the electronic states owing to continuously tracking the atomic forces.Based on this insight, we propose a quantum trajectory mean-field approach for nonadiabatic molecular dynamics simulations. The new protocol provides a natural interface between the separate quantum and classical treatments, without invoking artificial surface hopping algorithm. Moreover, it also bridges two widely adopted nonadiabatic dynamics methods, the Ehrenfest mean-field theory and the trajectory surface-hopping method. Excellent agreement with the exact results is illustrated with representative model systems, including the challenging ones for traditional methods.

id: 1312.4739
title: Exchange coupling between silicon donors: the crucial role of the central cell and mass anisotropy
authors: G. Pica, B. W. Lovett, R. N Bhatt, S. A. Lyon
comments: Published version. Corrected b and B values from previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89 235306 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4739
abstract: Donors in silicon are now demonstrated as one of the leading candidates for implementing qubits and quantum information processing. Single qubit operations, measurements and long coherence times are firmly established, but progress on controlling two qubit interactions has been slower. One reason for this is that the inter donor exchange coupling has been predicted to oscillate with separation, making it hard to estimate in device designs. We present a multivalley effective mass theory of a donor pair in silicon, including both a central cell potential and the effective mass anisotropy intrinsic in the Si conduction band. We are able to accurately describe the single donor properties of valley-orbit coupling and the spatial extent of donor wave functions, highlighting the importance of fitting measured values of hyperfine coupling and the orbital energy of the $1s$ levels. Ours is a simple framework that can be applied flexibly to a range of experimental scenarios, but it is nonetheless able to provide fast and reliable predictions. We use it to estimate the exchange coupling between two donor electrons and we find a smoothing of its expected oscillations, and predict a monotonic dependence on separation if two donors are spaced precisely along the [100] direction.

id: 1312.4782
title: Locality and nonlocality of classical restrictions of quantum spin systems with applications to quantum large deviations and entanglement
authors: Wojciech De Roeck, Christian Maes, Karel Neto?n?, Marius Sch¨¹tz
comments: v1-->v2: typos corrected and added an improvement suggested to us by Aernout van Enter, see page 7, to appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56, 023301 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4782
abstract: We study the projection on classical spins starting from quantum equilibria. We show Gibbsianness or quasi-locality of the resulting classical spin system for a class of gapped quantum systems at low temperatures including quantum ground states. A consequence of Gibbsianness is the validity of a large deviation principle in the quantum system which is known and here recovered in regimes of high temperature or for thermal states in one dimension. On the other hand we give an example of a quantum ground state with strong nonlocality in the classical restriction, giving rise to what we call measurement induced entanglement, and still satisfying a large deviation principle.

id: 1312.4795
title: Quantum Compositeness of Gravity: Black Holes, AdS and Inflation
authors: Gia Dvali, Cesar Gomez
comments: 66 pages. Latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4795
abstract: Gravitational backgrounds, such as black holes, AdS, de Sitter and inflationary universes, should be viewed as composite of N soft constituent gravitons. It then follows that such systems are close to quantum criticality of graviton Bose-gas to Bose-liquid transition. Generic properties of the ordinary metric description, including geodesic motion or particle-creation in the background metric, emerge as the large-N limit of quantum scattering of constituent longitudinal gravitons. We show that this picture correctly accounts for physics of large and small black holes in AdS, as well as reproduces well-known inflationary predictions for cosmological parameters. However, it anticipates new effects not captured by the standard semi-classical treatment. In particular, we predict observable corrections that are sensitive to the inflationary history way beyond last 60 e-foldings. We derive an absolute upper bound on the number of e-foldings, beyond which neither de Sitter nor inflationary Universe can be approximated by a semi-classical metric. However, they could in principle persist in a new type of it quantum eternity state. We discuss implications of this phenomenon for the cosmological constant problem.

id: 1312.4865
title: Landau-Zener population control and dipole measurement of a two level system bath
authors: M. S. Khalil, S. Gladchenko, M. J. A. Stoutimore, F. C. Wellstood, A. L. Burin, K. D. Osborn
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted to PRB Rapid
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4865
abstract: Tunneling two level systems (TLS), present in dielectrics at low temperatures, have been recently studied for fundamental understanding and superconducting device development. According to a recent theory by Burin \textit{et al.}, the TLS bath of any amorphous dielectric experiences a distribution of Landau-Zener transitions if exposed to simultaneous fields. In this experiment we measure amorphous insulating films at millikelvin temperatures with a microwave field and a swept electric field bias using a superconducting resonator. We find that the maximum dielectric loss per microwave photon with the simultaneous fields is approximately the same as that in the equilibrium state, in agreement with the generic material theory. In addition, we find that the loss depends on the fields in a way which allows for the separate extraction of the TLS bath dipole moment and density of states. This method allows for the study of the TLS dipole moment in a diverse set of disordered films, and provides a technique for continuously inverting their population.

id: 1312.4866
title: Lamb shift in radical-ion pairs produces a singlet-triplet energy splitting in photosynthetic reaction centers
authors: K. M. Vitalis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: European Physical Journal Plus 129, 187 (2014)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4866
abstract: Radical-ion pairs, fundamental for understanding photosynthesis and the avian magnetic compass, were recently shown to be biological open quantum systems. We here show that the coupling of the radical-pair's spin degrees of freedom to its decohering vibrational reservoir leads to a shift of the radical-pair's magnetic energy levels. The Lamb shift Hamiltonian is diagonal in the singlet-triplet basis, and results in a singlet-triplet energy splitting physically indistinguishable from an exchange interaction. This could have significant implications for understanding the energy level structure and the dynamics of photosynthetic reaction centers.

id: 1312.5068
title: Observation of Anticorrelation with Classical Light in a Linear Optical System
authors: Jianbin Liu, Yu Zhou, Fu-Li Li, Zhuo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: EPL 105, 64007 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5068
abstract: Two-photon anticorrelation is observed when laser and pseudothermal light beams are incident to the two input ports of a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer, respectively. The spatial second-order interference pattern of laser and pseudothermal light beams is reported. Temporal Hong-Ou-Mandel dip is also observed when these two detectors are at the symmetrical positions. These results are helpful to understand the physics behind the second-order interference of light.

id: 1312.5104
title: Relation of deformed nonlinear algebras with linear ones
authors: A. Nowicki, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 025207 (11pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5104
abstract: The relation between nonlinear algebras and linear ones is established. For one-dimensional nonlinear deformed Heisenberg algebra with two operators we find the function of deformation for which this nonlinear algebra can be transformed to a linear one with three operators. We also establish the relation between Lie algebra of total angular momentum and corresponding nonlinear one. This relation gives a possibility to simplify and to solve the eigenvalue problem for the Hamiltonian in a nonlinear case using the reduction of this problem to the case of linear algebra. It is demonstrated on the example of harmonic oscillator.

id: 1312.5134
title: Bosonic fractional quantum Hall states on the torus from conformal field theory
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures, v2: accepted version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 2014, P04007 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5134
abstract: The Kalmeyer-Laughlin state, which is a lattice version of the bosonic Laughlin state at filling factor one half, has attracted much attention due to its topological and chiral spin liquid properties. Here we show that the Kalmeyer-Laughlin state on the torus can be expressed in terms of a correlator of conformal fields from the $SU(2)_1$ Wess-Zumino-Witten model. This reveals an interesting underlying mathematical structure and provides a natural way to generalize the Kalmeyer-Laughlin state to arbitrary lattices on the torus. We find that the many-body Chern number of the states is unity for more different lattices, which suggests that the topological properties of the states are preserved when the lattice is changed. Finally, we analyze the symmetry properties of the states on square lattices.

id: 1312.5145
title: New Formulation of Statistical Mechanics using Thermal Pure Quantum States
authors: Sho Sugiura, Akira Shimizu
comments: Proceedings of Kinki University Series on Quantum Computing
journal: Physics, Mathematics, and All That Quantum Jazz, Kinki University Series on Quantum Computing, Vol. 9, edited by S. Tanaka, M. Bando, and U. G\"ung\"ord\"u (World Scientific, Singapore, 2014), p. 245
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5145
abstract: We formulate statistical mechanics based on a pure quantum state, which we call a ``thermal pure quantum (TPQ) state''. A single TPQ state gives not only equilibrium values of mechanical variables, such as magnetization and correlation functions, but also those of genuine thermodynamic variables and thermodynamic functions, such as entropy and free energy. Among many possible TPQ states, we discuss the canonical TPQ state, the TPQ state whose temperature is specified. % We also propose there are other TPQ states. In the TPQ formulation of statistical mechanics, thermal fluctuations are completely included in quantum-mechanical fluctuations. As a consequence, TPQ states have much larger quantum entanglement than the equilibrium density operators of the ensemble formulation. We also show that the TPQ formulation is very useful in practical computations, by applying the formulation to a frustrated two-dimensional quantum spin system.

id: 1312.5147
title: Collective-field-corrected strong field approximation for laser-irradiated metal clusters
authors: Th. Keil, D. Bauer
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, IOP style
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5147
abstract: The strong field approximation (SFA) formulated in terms of so-called "quantum orbits" led to much insight into intense-laser driven ionization dynamics. In plain SFA, the emitted electron is treated as a free electron in the laser field alone. However, with improving experimental techniques and more advanced numerical simulations it becomes more and more obvious that the plain SFA misses interesting effects even on a qualitative level. Examples are holographic side lobes, the low-energy structure, radial patterns in photoelectron spectra at low kinetic energies, and strongly rotated angular distributions. For this reason increasing effort has been recently devoted to Coulomb corrections of the SFA. In the current paper, we follow a similar line but consider ionization of metal clusters. It is known that photoelectrons from clusters can be much more energetic than those emitted from atoms or small molecules, especially if the Mie resonance of the expanding cluster is evoked. We develop a SFA that takes the collective field inside the cluster via the simple rigid-sphere model into account. Our approach is based on field-corrected quantum orbits so that the acceleration process (or any other spectral feature of interest) can be investigated in detail.

id: 1312.5159
title: Spin-Orbit Qubit on a Multiferroic Insulator in a Superconducting Resonator
authors: P. Zhang, Ze-Liang Xiang, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: PhysRevB 89, 115417 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5159
abstract: We propose a spin-orbit qubit in a nanowire quantum dot on the surface of a multiferroic insulator with a cycloidal spiral magnetic order. The spiral exchange field from the multiferroic insulator causes an inhomogeneous Zeeman-like interaction on the electron spin in the quantum dot, producing a spin-orbit qubit. The absence of an external magnetic field benefits the integration of such spin-orbit qubit into high-quality superconducting resonators. By exploiting the Rashba spin-orbit coupling in the quantum dot via a gate voltage, one can obtain an effective spin-photon coupling with an efficient on/off switching. This makes the proposed device controllable and promising for hybrid quantum communications.

id: 1312.5169
title: Decomposition and Gluing for Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Micah Blake McCurdy, Jeffrey Egger, Jordan Kyriakidis
comments: 15 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5169
abstract: Farhi and others have introduced the notion of solving NP problems using adiabatic quantum com- puters. We discuss an application of this idea to the problem of integer factorization, together with a technique we call gluing which can be used to build adiabatic models of interesting problems. Although adiabatic quantum computers already exist, they are likely to be too small to directly tackle problems of interesting practical sizes for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we discuss techniques for decomposition of large problems, which permits us to fully exploit such hardware as may be available. Numerical re- sults suggest that even simple decomposition techniques may yield acceptable results with subexponential overhead, independent of the performance of the underlying device.

id: 1312.5190
title: Hall Effect Gyrators and Circulators
authors: Giovanni Viola, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures, ~5 MB. V3: sections V-VIII revisited plus other minor changes, Fig 2 added. Submitted to PRX
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021019 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5190
abstract: The electronic circulator, and its close relative the gyrator, are invaluable tools for noise management and signal routing in the current generation of low-temperature microwave systems for the implementation of new quantum technologies. The current implementation of these devices using the Faraday effect is satisfactory, but requires a bulky structure whose physical dimension is close to the microwave wavelength employed. The Hall effect is an alternative non-reciprocal effect that can also be used to produce desired device functionality. We review earlier efforts to use an ohmically-contacted four-terminal Hall bar, explaining why this approach leads to unacceptably high device loss. We find that capacitive coupling to such a Hall conductor has much greater promise for achieving good circulator and gyrator functionality. We formulate a classical Ohm-Hall analysis for calculating the properties of such a device, and show how this classical theory simplifies remarkably in the limiting case of the Hall angle approaching 90 degrees. In this limit we find that either a four-terminal or a three-terminal capacitive device can give excellent circulator behavior, with device dimensions far smaller than the a.c. wavelength. An experiment is proposed to achieve GHz-band gyration in millimetre (and smaller) scale structures employing either semiconductor heterostructure or graphene Hall conductors. An inductively coupled scheme for realising a Hall gyrator is also analysed.

id: 1312.5206
title: GSI Oscillations as Laboratory for Testing of New Physics
authors: A. N. Ivanov, P. Kienle
comments: 12 pages, The paper is revised and the analysis of the time modulation of the decay rates of the H-like heavy ions 108Ag46+ is added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5206
abstract: We analyse recent experimental data on the GSI oscillations of the hydrogen-like heavy {^{142}}{\rm Pm}^{60+} ions that is a time modulation of the K-shell electron capture (EC) decay rate. We follow the mechanism of the GSI oscillations, caused by an interference of the neutrino flavour mass-eigenstates in a content of the electron neutrino. We give arguments that these experimental data show i) an existence of sterile neutrinos that is necessary for an explanation of a phase-shift, ii) an observation of CP violation, related to a phase-shift, and iii) an influence of the Quantum Zeno Effect, explaining different values of the amplitude and phase-shift for two runs of measurements with different time resolutions and different numbers of consecutive measurements.

id: 1312.5512
title: An introduction to spherically symmetric loop quantum gravity black holes
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Proceedings of CosmoSur II, AIP Conference Proceedings
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1647, 19 (2015);
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5512
abstract: We review recent developments in the treatment of spherically symmetric black holes in loop quantum gravity. In particular, we discuss an exact solution to the quantum constraints that represents a black hole and is free of singularities. We show that new observables that are not present in the classical theory arise in the quantum theory. We also discuss Hawking radiation by considering the quantization of a scalar field on the quantum spacetime.

id: 1312.5689
title: An approach to the quantization of black-hole quasi-normal modes
authors: Soham Pal, Karthik Rajeev, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5689
abstract: In this work we present a systematic procedure to quantize the black-hole quasi-normal modes. Using the field theoretic Lagrangian, we map the quasinormal modes of black holes to the Bateman-Feschbach-Tikochinsky oscillator and Caldirola-Kanai Lagrangian. We then discuss the conditions under which the black-hole quasinormal modes form a complete set of modes. Using the system-bath model, similar to the Bateman-Feschbach-Tikochinsky oscillator, we show that the black-hole quasnormal modes can be quantized and obtain the general form of the generating functional.

id: 1312.5741
title: Theory of dynamic nuclear polarization and feedback in quantum dots
authors: Sophia E. Economou, Edwin Barnes
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures; published PRB version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165301 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5741
abstract: An electron confined in a quantum dot interacts with its local nuclear spin environment through the hyperfine contact interaction. This interaction combined with external control and relaxation or measurement of the electron spin allows for the generation of dynamic nuclear polarization. The quantum nature of the nuclear bath, along with the interplay of coherent external fields and incoherent dynamics in these systems renders a wealth of intriguing phenomena seen in recent experiments such as electron Zeeman frequency focusing, hysteresis, and line dragging. We develop in detail a fully quantum, self-consistent theory that can be applied to such experiments and that moreover has predictive power. Our theory uses the operator sum representation formalism in order to incorporate the incoherent dynamics caused by the additional, Markovian bath, which in self-assembled dots is the vacuum field responsible for electron-hole optical recombination. The beauty of this formalism is that it reduces the complexity of the problem by encoding the joint dynamics of the external coherent and incoherent driving in an effective dynamical map that only acts on the electron spin subspace. This together with the separation of timescales in the problem allows for a tractable and analytically solvable formalism. The key role of entanglement between the electron spin and the nuclear spins in the formation of dynamic nuclear polarization naturally follows from our solution. We demonstrate the theory in detail for an optical pulsed experiment and present an in-depth discussion and physical explanation of our results.

id: 1312.5747
title: Cyclotron dynamics of interacting bosons in artificial magnetic fields
authors: Xiaopeng Li, S. Das Sarma
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 224302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5747
abstract: We study theoretically quantum dynamics of interacting bosons in artificial magnetic fields as engineered in recent ultracold atomic experiments, where quantum cyclotron orbital motion has been observed. With exact numerical simulations and perturbative analyses, we find that interactions induce damping in the cyclotron motion. The damping time is found to be dependent on interaction and tunneling strengths monotonically, while its dependence on magnetic flux is non-monotonic. Sufficiently strong interactions would render bosons dynamically localized inhibiting the cyclotron motion. The damping predicted by us can be construed as an interaction-induced quantum decoherence of the cyclotron motion.

id: 1312.5754
title: Quantum Sticking of Atoms on Membranes
authors: Dennis P. Clougherty
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 245412 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5754
abstract: A continuum model for low-energy physisorption on a membrane under tension is proposed and studied with variational mean-field theory. A discontinuous change in the energy-dependent sticking coefficient is predicted under certain conditions. This singularity is a result of the bosonic orthogonality catastrophe of the vibrational states of the membrane. The energy-dependent sticking coefficient is predicted to have exponential scaling in 1/E above the singularity. The application of this model to the quantum sticking of cold hydrogen to suspended graphene is discussed. The model predicts that a beam of atomic hydrogen can be completely reflected by suspended graphene at ultralow energies.

id: 1312.5769
title: Modes and Mode Volumes of Leaky Optical Cavities and Plasmonic Nanoresonators
authors: Philip Tr?st Kristensen, Stephen Hughes
comments: Accepted for publication in ACS Photonics as a perspectives article
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5769
abstract: Electromagnetic cavity modes in photonic and plasmonic resonators offer rich and attractive regimes for tailoring the properties of light-matter interactions. Yet there is a disturbing lack of a precise definition for what constitutes a cavity mode, and as a result their mathematical properties remain largely unspecified. The lack of a definition is evidenced in part by the diverse nomenclature at use - "resonance", "leaky mode", "quasimode", to name but a few - suggesting that the dissipative nature of cavity modes somehow makes them different from other modes, but an explicit distinction is rarely made. This perspective article aims to introduce the reader to some of the subtleties and working definitions that can be rigorously applied when describing the modal properties of leaky optical cavities and plasmonic nanoresonators. We describe some recent development in the field, including {calculation methods for quasinormal modes of both photonic and plasmonic resonators and the concept of a generalized effective mode volume, and we} illustrate the theory with several representative cavity structures from the fields of photonic crystals and nanoplasmonics.

id: 1312.5805
title: Transient first-order interference of two independent thermal light beams
authors: Jianbin Liu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Submitted for publication. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5805
abstract: By analyzing the first-order interference of two independent thermal light beams with both classical and quantum theories, we conclude that it is impossible to observe the transient first-order interference pattern by superposing two independent thermal light beams even if the degeneracy parameter of thermal light is much greater than one. The result suggests that the classical model of thermal light field within the coherence time may not be the same as the one of laser light field within the coherence time.

id: 1312.5931
title: Peierls substitution for magnetic Bloch bands
authors: Silvia Freund, Stefan Teufel
comments: 39 pages, 4 figures. Old Section 7 was removed. The new Section 7 contains explicit Peierls substitution Hamiltonians for magnetic subbands of the Hofstadter model
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5931
abstract: We consider the Schr\"odinger operator in two dimensions with a periodic potential and a strong constant magnetic field perturbed by slowly varying non-periodic scalar and vector potentials, $\phi(\epsilon x)$ and $A(\epsilon x)$, for $\epsilon\ll 1$. For each isolated family of magnetic Bloch bands we derive an effective Hamiltonian that is unitarily equivalent to the restriction of the Schr\"odinger operator to a corresponding almost invariant subspace. At leading order, our effective Hamiltonian can be interpreted as the Peierls substitution Hamiltonian widely used in physics for non-magnetic Bloch bands. However, while for non-magnetic Bloch bands the corresponding result is well understood, for magnetic Bloch bands it is not clear how to even define a Peierls substitution Hamiltonian beyond a formal expression. The source of the difficulty is a topological obstruction: magnetic Bloch bundles are generically not trivializable. As a consequence, Peierls substitution Hamiltonians for magnetic Bloch bands turn out to be pseudodifferential operators acting on sections of non-trivial vector bundles over a two-torus, the reduced Brillouin zone. Part of our contribution is the construction of a suitable Weyl calculus for such pseudos. As an application of our results we construct a new family of canonical one-band Hamiltonians $H^B_{\theta,q}$ for magnetic Bloch bands with Chern number $\theta\in \mathbb{Z}$ that generalizes the Hofstadter model $H^B_{\rm Hof} = H^B_{0,1}$ for a single non-magnetic Bloch band. It turns out that $H^B_{\theta,q}$ is isospectral to $H^{q^2B}_{\rm Hof}$ for any $\theta$ and all spectra agree with the Hofstadter spectrum depicted in his famous black and white butterfly. However, the resulting Chern numbers of subbands, corresponding to Hall conductivities, depend on $\theta$ and $q$, and thus the models lead to different colored butterflies.

id: 1312.5963
title: Differential atom interferometry with $^{87}$Rb and $^{85}$Rb for testing the UFF in STE-QUEST
authors: C Schubert, J Hartwig, H Ahlers, K Posso-Trujillo, N. Gaaloul, U. Velte, A. Landragin, A. Bertoldi, B. Battelier, P. Bouyer, F. Sorrentino, G. M. Tino, M. Krutzik, A. Peters, S. Herrmann, C. L?mmerzahl, L. Cacciapouti, E. Rocco, K. Bongs, W. Ertmer, E. M. Rasel
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5963
abstract: In this paper we discuss in detail an experimental scheme to test the universality of free fall (UFF) with a differential $^{87}$Rb / $^{85}$Rb atom interferometer applicable for extended free fall of several seconds in the frame of the STE-QUEST mission. This analysis focuses on suppression of noise and error sources which would limit the accuracy of a violation measurement. We show that the choice of atomic species and the correctly matched parameters of the interferometer sequence are of utmost importance to suppress leading order phase shifts. In conclusion we will show the expected performance of $2$ parts in $10^{15}$ of such an interferometer for a test of the UFF.

id: 1312.6022
title: Quantum Jarzynski equalities for the energy costs of the information processes
authors: Yohei Morikuni, Hiroyasu Tajima
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6022
abstract: We present quantum versions of the Jarzynski equality for the energy costs of information processes, namely the measurement and the information erasure. We also obtain inequalities for the energy costs of the information processes, using the Jensen inequality. The inequalities include Sagawa and Ueda's inequalities [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250602 (2009)] as a special case.

id: 1312.6247
title: Lagrangian for Frenkel electron and position's non-commutativity due to spin
authors: Alexei A. Deriglazov, Andrey M. Pupasov-Maksimov
comments: 25 pages, matches with published version, references added
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C (2014) 74:3101
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6247
abstract: We construct relativistic-invariant spinning-particle Lagrangian without auxiliary variables. Spin is considered as a composed quantity constructed on the base of non-Grassmann vector-like variable. The variational problem guarantees both fixed value of spin and Frenkel condition on spin-tensor. Taking into account the Frenkel condition, we obtain, inevitably, relativistic corrections to the algebra of position variables: their classical brackets became noncommutative, with the "parameter of non-commutativity" proportional to the spin-tensor. This leads to a number of interesting consequences in quantum theory. We construct the relativistic quantum mechanics in canonical formalism (in physical-time parametrization) and in covariant formalism (in arbitrary parametrization). We show how state-vectors and operators of covariant formulation can be used to compute mean values of physical operators of position and spin. This proves relativistic covariance of canonical formalism. Various candidates for position and spin operators of an electron acquire clear meaning and interpretation in the Lagrangian model of Frenkel electron. We also establish the relation between Frenkel electron and positive-energy sector of Dirac equation, this allowed us to turn to the long-standing problem on spin and position operators of Dirac theory. Contrary to widely assumed opinion, our results argue in favor of Pryce's (d)-type operators. This implies that effects of non-commutativity could be presented at the Compton wave length, in contrast to conventional expectations at the Planck length. At last, we present the manifestly covariant form of spin and position operators of Dirac equation.

id: 1312.6313
title: Optically Detected Cross-Relaxation Spectroscopy of Electron Spins in Diamond
authors: Hai-Jing Wang, Chang S. Shin, Scott J. Seltzer, Claudia E. Avalos, Alexander Pines, Vikram S. Bajaj
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6313
abstract: The application of magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy at progressively smaller length scales may eventually permit "chemical imaging" of spins at the surfaces of materials and biological complexes. In particular, the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV-) centre in diamond has been exploited as an optical transducer for nanoscale nuclear magnetic resonance. However, the spectra of detected spins are generally broadened by their interaction with proximate paramagnetic NV- centres through coherent and incoherent mechanisms. Here we demonstrate a detection technique that can resolve the spectra of electron spins coupled to NV- centres, namely substitutional nitrogen (NS) and neutral nitrogen-vacancy (NV0) centres in diamond, through optically detected cross-relaxation. The hyperfine spectra of these spins are a unique chemical identifier, suggesting the possibility, in combination with recent results in diamonds harbouring shallow NV- implants, that the spectra of spins external to the diamond can be similarly detected.

id: 1312.6346
title: Rydberg dressing: Understanding of collective many-body effects and implications for experiments
authors: Jonathan B. Balewski, Alexander T. Krupp, Anita Gaj, Sebastian Hofferberth, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 063012
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6346
abstract: The strong interaction between Rydberg atoms can be used to control the strength and character of the interatomic interaction in ultracold gases by weakly dressing the atoms with a Rydberg state. Elaborate theoretical proposals for the realization of various complex phases and applications in quantum simulation exist. Also a simple model has been already developed that describes the basic idea of Rydberg dressing in a two-atom basis. However, an experimental realization has been elusive so far. We present a model describing the ground state of a Bose-Einstein condensate dressed with a Rydberg level based on the Rydberg blockade. This approach provides an intuitive understanding of the transition from pure twobody interaction to a regime of collective interactions. Furthermore it enables us to calculate the deformation of a three-dimensional sample under realistic experimental conditions in mean-field approximation. We compare full three-dimensional numerical calculations of the ground state to an analytic expression obtained within Thomas-Fermi approximation. Finally we discuss limitations and problems arising in an experimental realization of Rydberg dressing based on our experimental results. Our work enables the reader to straight forwardly estimate the experimental feasibility of Rydberg dressing in realistic three-dimensional atomic samples.

id: 1312.6355
title: Wavepacket of the Universe and its spreading
authors: Marek Czachor, Andrzej Posiewnik
comments: v1 preliminary report, v2 includes sections on the explicit form of the evolution operator, v3 includes an explicit analysis based on Kolmogorov-Nagumo-Renyi averaging, v4 section on 1+3 generalization is corrected, v5 conflict of notation in Bernoulli and Renyi forms is fixed
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6355
abstract: Wavepackets in quantum mechanics spread and the Universe in cosmology expands. We discuss a formalism where the two effects can be unified. The basic assumption is that the Universe is determined by a unitarily evolving wavepacket defined on space-time. Space-time is static but the Universe is dynamic. Spreading analogous to expansion known from observational cosmology is obtained if one regards time evolution as a discrete process with probabilities of jumps determined by a variational principle employing Kolmogorov-Nagumo-R\'enyi averages. The choice of the R\'enyi calculus implies that the form of the Universe involves an implicit fractal structure. The formalism automatically leads to two types of "time" parameters: $\tau$, with dimension of $x^0$, and dimensionless $\varepsilon=\ln \epsilon_\tau$, related to the form of diffeomorphism that defines the dynamics. There is no preferred time foliation, but effectively the dynamics leads to asymptotic concentration of the Universe on spacelike surfaces that propagate in space-time. The analysis is performed explicitly in $1+1$ dimensions, but the unitary evolution operator is brought to a form that makes generalizations to other dimensions and other fields quite natural.

id: 1312.6390
title: The nature of the ferromagnetic ground state in the Mn4 molecular magnet
authors: S.V. Streltsov, Z.V. Pchelkina, D.I. Khomskii, N.A. Skorikov, A.O. Anokhin, Yu.N. Shvachko, M.A. Korotin, V.I. Anisimov, V.V. Ustinov
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 014427 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6390
abstract: Using ab initio band structure and model calculations we studied magnetic properties of one of the Mn$_4$ molecular magnets (Mn4(hmp)6), where two types of the Mn ions exist: Mn3+ and Mn2+. The direct calculation of the exchange constants in the GGA+U approximation shows that in contrast to a common belief the strongest exchange coupling is not between two Mn3+ ions (J_{bb}), but along two out of four exchange paths connecting Mn3+ and Mn2+ ions (J_{wb}). The microscopic analysis performed within the perturbation theory allowed to establish the mechanism for this largest ferromagnetic exchange constant. The charge ordering of the Mn ions results in the situation when the energy of the excited state in the exchange process is defined not by the large on-site Coulomb repulsion U, but by much smaller energy V, which stabilizes the charge ordered state. Together with strong Hund's rule coupling and specific orbital order this leads to a large ferromagnetic exchange interaction for two out of four Mn2+ --Mn3+ pairs.

id: 1312.6396
title: Approximate Dynamical Systems
authors: K.R.W. Jones
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6396
abstract: Working notes on setting up approximate dynamical systems and nonlinear eigenvalue problems, here embedded within the theory of complex nonlinear dynamics. Computations parallel those of linear quantum theory except that we use functional methods rather than Hilbert space.

id: 1312.6401
title: Observation of low-field Fano-Feshbach resonances in ultracold gases of dysprosium
authors: Kristian Baumann, Nathaniel Q. Burdick, Mingwu Lu, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Rapid Communications, 89, 020701(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6401
abstract: We report the observation of resonance-like loss in the trap population of ultracold dysprosium as a function of magnetic field, which we attribute to anisotropy-induced Fano-Feshbach resonances arising from Dy's large magnetic dipole moment and nonzero electronic orbital angular momentum. We recorded these resonances for four different isotopes, three bosonic and one fermionic, over a field range of 0-6 G and show that the number of resonances changes significantly as a function of temperature, even in the nK regime. Most of the observed resonances are of very narrow width. The fermionic isotope, unlike its bosonic counterparts, possesses nonzero nuclear spin and exhibits a much higher density of resonances.

id: 1312.6535
title: Borromean ground state of fermions in two dimensions
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 185302
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6535
abstract: The study of quantum mechanical bound states is as old as quantum theory itself. Yet, it took many years to realize that three-body borromean systems that are bound when any two-body subsystem is unbound are abundant in nature. Here we demonstrate the existence of borromean systems of spin-polarized (spinless) identical fermions in two spatial dimensions. The ground state with zero orbital (planar) angular momentum exists in a borromean window between critical two- and three-body strengths. The doubly degenerate first excited states of angular momentum one appears only very close to the two-body threshold. They are the lowest in a possible sequence of so-called super-Efimov states. While the observation of the super-Efimov scaling could be very difficult, the borromean ground state should be observable in cold atomic gases and could be the basis for producing a quantum gas of three-body states in two dimensions.

id: 1312.6561
title: Nuclear threads
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6561
abstract: The internal structure of deuterons weakly influences a motion of their center of mass (translational motion). The scenario can be different when the translational wave function has a formal singularity along the line (thread) connecting the deuteron and another Coulomb center. The singularity is cut off by fluctuations of nuclear internal degrees of freedom and the wave function becomes smooth with the narrow peak. The peak is associated with the certain potential well which is localized on the thread and dominates the Coulomb barrier. As a result, the deuteron is able to move along the thread with no classical reflection. Two deuterons can get in contact despite their energy is low. This is not an underbarrier motion but one along the region which became classically allowed due to the thread well. In experiments nuclear threads can be formed by the incident particle flux if to adjust its angular distribution at large distances.

id: 1312.6616
title: Classical limit of the Casimir interaction for thin films with applications to graphene
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.89, 035407 (2014)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6616
abstract: The Casimir interaction between two thin material films, between a film and a thick plate and between two films deposited on substrates is considered at large separations (high temperatures) which correspond to the classical limit. It is shown that the free energy of the classical Casimir interaction between two insulating films with no free charge carriers and between an insulating film and a material plate depends on film thicknesses and decreases with separation more rapidly than the classical limit for two thick plates. The free energy of thin films characterized by the metallic-type dielectric permittivity decreases as the second power of separation, i.e., demonstrates the standard classical limit. The obtained results shed light on the possibility to describe dispersion interaction between two graphene sheets and between a graphene sheet and a material plate by modeling graphene as a thin film possessing some dielectric permittivity. It is argued that the most reliable results are obtained by describing the reflection properties on graphene by means of the polarization tensor in (2+1)-dimensional space-time.

id: 1312.6643
title: Conic approach to quantum graph parameters using linear optimization over the completely positive semidefinite cone
authors: Monique Laurent, Teresa Piovesan
comments: Parts of Section 3.2 and Section 4.1 have been modified. Minor changes throughout the paper
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6643
abstract: We investigate the completely positive semidefinite cone $\mathcal{CS}_+^n$, a new matrix cone consisting of all $n\times n$ matrices that admit a Gram representation by positive semidefinite matrices (of any size). In particular we study relationships between this cone and the completely positive and doubly nonnegative cones, and between its dual cone and trace positive non-commutative polynomials. We use this new cone to model quantum analogues of the classical independence and chromatic graph parameters $\alpha(G)$ and $\chi(G)$, which are roughly obtained by allowing variables to be positive semidefinite matrices instead of $0/1$ scalars in the programs defining the classical parameters. We can formulate these quantum parameters as conic linear programs over the cone $\mathcal{CS}_+^n$. Using this conic approach we can recover the bounds in terms of the theta number and define further approximations by exploiting the link to trace positive polynomials.

id: 1312.6652
title: Rounding Sum-of-Squares Relaxations
authors: Boaz Barak, Jonathan Kelner, David Steurer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Learning (cs.LG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6652
abstract: We present a general approach to rounding semidefinite programming relaxations obtained by the Sum-of-Squares method (Lasserre hierarchy). Our approach is based on using the connection between these relaxations and the Sum-of-Squares proof system to transform a *combining algorithm* -- an algorithm that maps a distribution over solutions into a (possibly weaker) solution -- into a *rounding algorithm* that maps a solution of the relaxation to a solution of the original problem. Using this approach, we obtain algorithms that yield improved results for natural variants of three well-known problems: 1) We give a quasipolynomial-time algorithm that approximates the maximum of a low degree multivariate polynomial with non-negative coefficients over the Euclidean unit sphere. Beyond being of interest in its own right, this is related to an open question in quantum information theory, and our techniques have already led to improved results in this area (Brand\~{a}o and Harrow, STOC '13). 2) We give a polynomial-time algorithm that, given a d dimensional subspace of R^n that (almost) contains the characteristic function of a set of size n/k, finds a vector $v$ in the subspace satisfying $|v|_4^4 > c(k/d^{1/3}) |v|_2^2$, where $|v|_p = (E_i v_i^p)^{1/p}$. Aside from being a natural relaxation, this is also motivated by a connection to the Small Set Expansion problem shown by Barak et al. (STOC 2012) and our results yield a certain improvement for that problem. 3) We use this notion of L_4 vs. L_2 sparsity to obtain a polynomial-time algorithm with substantially improved guarantees for recovering a planted $\mu$-sparse vector v in a random d-dimensional subspace of R^n. If v has mu n nonzero coordinates, we can recover it with high probability whenever $\mu < O(\min(1,n/d^2))$, improving for $d < n^{2/3}$ prior methods which intrinsically required $\mu < O(1/\sqrt(d))$.

id: 1312.6654
title: Matrix product states for gauge field theories
authors: Boye Buyens, Jutho Haegeman, Karel Van Acoleyen, Henri Verschelde, Frank Verstraete
comments: expanded discussion on real-time evolution, matching the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 091601 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6654
abstract: The matrix product state formalism is used to simulate Hamiltonian lattice gauge theories. To this end, we define matrix product state manifolds which are manifestly gauge invariant. As an application, we study 1+1 dimensional one flavour quantum electrodynamics, also known as the massive Schwinger model, and are able to determine very accurately the ground state properties and elementary one-particle excitations in the continuum limit. In particular, a novel particle excitation in the form of a heavy vector boson is uncovered, compatible with the strong coupling expansion in the continuum. We also study non-equilibrium dynamics by simulating the real-time evolution of the system induced by a quench in the form of a uniform background electric field.

id: 1312.6754
title: Non-analytic behavior of the Casimir force across a Lifshitz transition in a spin-orbit coupled material
authors: Andrew A. Allocca, Justin H. Wilson, Victor Galitski
comments: 5 pages + 6 page supplement; 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 075420 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6754
abstract: We propose the Casimir effect as a general method to observe Lifshitz transitions in electron systems. The concept is demonstrated with a planar spin-orbit coupled semiconductor in a magnetic field. We calculate the Casimir force between two such semiconductors and between the semiconductor and a metal as a function of the Zeeman splitting in the semiconductor. The Zeeman field causes a Fermi pocket in the semiconductor to form or collapse by tuning the system through a topological Lifshitz transition. We find that the Casimir force experiences a kink at the transition point and noticeably different behaviors on either side of the transition. The simplest experimental realization of the proposed effect would involve a metal-coated sphere suspended from a micro-cantilever above a thin layer of InSb (or another semiconductor with large $g$-factor). Numerical estimates are provided and indicate that the effect is well within experimental reach.

id: 1312.6793
title: S matrix from matrix product states
authors: Laurens Vanderstraeten, Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: Improved version, extra supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 257202 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6793
abstract: We use the matrix product state formalism to construct stationary scattering states of elementary excitations in generic one-dimensional quantum lattice systems. Our method is applied to the spin-1 Heisenberg antiferromagnet, for which we calculate the full magnon-magnon S matrix for arbitrary momenta and spin, the two-particle contribution to the spectral function and the magnetization curve. As our method provides an accurate microscopic representation of the interaction between elementary excitations, we envisage the description of low-energy dynamics of one-dimensional spin chains in terms of these particlelike excitations.

id: 1312.6828
title: Scaling of R¨¦nyi entanglement entropies of the free Fermi-gas ground state: a rigorous proof
authors: Hajo Leschke, Alexander V. Sobolev, Wolfgang Spitzer
comments: 5 pages, added a discussion following (in)equalities (9) and concluding remarks
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 160403 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6828
abstract: In a remarkable paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 100503 (2006)], Dimitri Gioev and Israel Klich conjectured an explicit formula for the leading asymptotic growth of the spatially bi-partite von-Neumann entanglement entropy of non-interacting fermions in multi-dimensional Euclidean space at zero temperature. Based on recent progress by one of us (A.V.S.) in semi-classical functional calculus for pseudo-differential operators with discontinuous symbols, we provide here a complete proof of that formula and of its generalization to R\'enyi entropies of all orders $\alpha>0$. The special case $\alpha=1/2$ is also known under the name logarithmic negativity and often considered to be a particularly useful quantification of entanglement. These formulas, exhibiting a "logarithmically enhanced area law", have been used already in many publications.

id: 1312.6894
title: Seeing bulk topological properties of band insulators in small photonic lattices
authors: C.-E. Bardyn, S. D. Huber, O. Zilberberg
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; with Supplemental Material (2 pages)
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 123013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6894
abstract: We present a general scheme for measuring the bulk properties of non-interacting tight-binding models realized in arrays of coupled photonic cavities. Specifically, we propose to implement a single unit cell of the targeted model with tunable twisted boundary conditions in order to simulate large systems and, most importantly, to access bulk topological properties experimentally. We illustrate our method by demonstrating how to measure topological invariants in a two-dimensional quantum Hall-like model.

id: 1312.7104
title: Quantum fluctuation theorems and generalized measurements during the force protocol
authors: Gentaro Watanabe, B. Prasanna Venkatesh, Peter Talkner, Michele Campisi, Peter H?nggi
comments: 9 pages; published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 032114 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7104
abstract: Generalized measurements of an observable performed on a quantum system during a force protocol are investigated and conditions that guarantee the validity of the Jarzynski equality and the Crooks relation are formulated. In agreement with previous studies by Campisi {\it et al.} [M. Campisi, P. Talkner, and P. H\"anggi, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 105}, 140601 (2010); Phys. Rev. E {\bf 83}, 041114 (2011)], we find that these fluctuation relations are satisfied for projective measurements; however, for generalized measurements special conditions on the operators determining the measurements need to be met. For the Jarzynski equality to hold, the measurement operators of the forward protocol must be normalized in a particular way. The Crooks relation additionally entails that the backward and forward measurement operators depend on each other. Yet, quite some freedom is left as to how the two sets of operators are interrelated. This ambiguity is removed if one considers selective measurements, which are specified by a {\it joint} probability density function of work and measurement results of the considered observable. We find that the respective forward and backward joint probabilities satisfy the Crooks relation only if the measurement operators of the forward and backward protocols are the time-reversed adjoints of each other. In this case, the work probability density function {\it conditioned} on the measurement result satisfies a modified Crooks relation. The modification appears as a protocol-dependent factor that can be expressed by the information gained by the measurements during the forward and backward protocols. Finally, detailed fluctuation theorems with an arbitrary number of intervening measurements are obtained.

id: 1312.7237
title: Parametric amplification by coupled flux qubits
authors: M. Rehak, P. Neilinger, M. Grajcar, G. Oelsner, U. Hubner, E. Ilichev, H.-G. Meyer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7237
abstract: We report the parametric amplification of a microwave signal in a Kerr medium formed from superconducting qubits. Two mutually coupled flux qubits, embedded in the current antinode of a superconducting coplanar waveguide resonator, are used as a nonlinear element. Shared Josephson junctions provide the qubit-resonator coupling, resulting in a device with a measured gain of about 20 dB. We argue, that this arrangement represents a unit cell which can be straightforwardly extended to a quasi one-dimensional quantum metamaterial with a large tunable Kerr nonlinearity.

id: 1312.7319
title: Van-der-Waals stabilized Rydberg aggregates
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Alex Eisfeld, Sebastian W¨¹ster
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053426 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7319
abstract: Assemblies of Rydberg atoms subject to resonant dipole-dipole interactions form Frenkel excitons. We show that van-der-Waals shifts can significantly modify the exciton wave function, whenever atoms approach each other closely. As a result, attractive excitons and repulsive van-der-Waals interactions can be combined to form stable one-dimensional atom chains, akin to bound aggregates. Here the van-der-Waals shifts ensure a stronger homogeneous delocalisation of a single excitation over the whole chain, enabling it to bind up to six atoms. When brought into unstable configurations, such Rydberg aggregates allow the direct monitoring of their dissociation dynamics.

id: 1312.7362
title: Characterization of low-temperature microwave loss of thin aluminum oxide formed by plasma oxidation
authors: Chunqing Deng, Martin Otto, Adrian Lupascu
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 043506 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7362
abstract: We report on the characterization of microwave loss of thin aluminum oxide films at low temperatures using superconducting lumped resonators. The oxide films are fabricated using plasma oxidation of aluminum and have a thickness of 5 nm. We measure the dielectric loss versus microwave power for resonators with frequencies in the GHz range at temperatures from 54 to 303 mK. The power and temperature dependence of the loss is consistent with the tunneling two-level system theory. These results are relevant to understanding decoherence in superconducting quantum devices. The obtained oxide films are thin and robust, making them suitable for capacitors in compact microwave resonators.

id: 1312.7413
title: The mixed two qutrit system: local unitary invariants, entanglement monotones, and the SLOCC group SL(3,C)
authors: Peter Jarvis
comments: 24pp, latex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7413
abstract: We consider local unitary invariants and entanglement monotones for the mixed two qutrit system. Character methods for the local SU(3)xSU(3) transformation group are used to establish the count of algebraically independent polynomial invariants up to degree 5 in the components of the density operator. These are identified up to quartic degree in the standard basis of Gell-Mann matrices, with the help of the calculus of f and d coefficients. Next, investigating local measurement operations, we study a SLOCC qutrit group, which plays the role of a `relativistic' transformation group analogous to that of the Lorentz group SL(2,C)_R ~ SO(3,1) for the qubit case. This is the group SL(3,C)_R, presented as a group of real 9x9 matrices acting linearly on the 9-dimensional space of projective coordinates for the qutrit density matrix. The counterpart, for qutrits, of the invariant 4x4 Minkowski metric of the qubit case, proves to be a certain 9x9x9 totally symmetric three-fold tensor generalizing the Gell-Mann d coefficient. Using this structure, we provide a count of the corresponding LSL polynomial invariants using group character methods. Finally, we give an explicit construction of the lowest degree quantity (the cubic invariant) and its expansion in terms of SU(3)xSU(3) invariants, and we indicate how to construct higher degree analogues. These quantities are proven to yield entanglement monotones. This work generalizes and partly extends the paper of King, Welsh and Jarvis (Journal of Physics A, 40(33):10083, 2007) on the mixed two qubit system, which is reviewed in an appendix.

id: 1312.7521
title: A cavity-Cooper pair transistor scheme for investigating quantum optomechanics in the ultra-strong coupling regime
authors: A.J. Rimberg, M.P. Blencowe, A.D. Armour, P.D. Nation
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 055008 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7521
abstract: We propose a scheme involving a Cooper pair transistor (CPT) embedded in a superconducting microwave cavity, where the CPT serves as a charge tunable quantum inductor to facilitate ultra-strong coupling between photons in the cavity and a nano- to meso-scale mechanical resonator. The mechanical resonator is capacitively coupled to the CPT, such that mechanical displacements of the resonator cause a shift in the CPT inductance and hence the cavity's resonant frequency. The amplification provided by the CPT is sufficient for the zero point motion of the mechanical resonator alone to cause a significant change in the cavity resonance. Conversely, a single photon in the cavity causes a shift in the mechanical resonator position on the order of its zero point motion. As a result, the cavity-Cooper pair transistor (cCPT) coupled to a mechanical resonator will be able to access a regime in which single photons can affect single phonons and vice versa. Realizing this ultra-strong coupling regime will facilitate the creation of non-classical states of the mechanical resonator, as well as the means to accurately characterize such states by measuring the cavity photon field.

id: 1312.7579
title: High Fidelity Qubit Readout with the Superconducting Low-Inductance Undulatory Galvanometer Microwave Amplifier
authors: D. Hover, S. Zhu, T. Thorbeck, G.J. Ribeill, D. Sank, J. Kelly, R. Barends, John M. Martinis, R. McDermott
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7579
abstract: We describe the high fidelity dispersive measurement of a superconducting qubit using a microwave amplifier based on the Superconducting Low-inductance Undulatory Galvanometer (SLUG). The SLUG preamplifier achieves gain of 19 dB and yields a signal-to-noise ratio improvement of 9 dB over a state-of-the-art HEMT amplifier. We demonstrate a separation fidelity of 99% at 700 ns compared to 59% with the HEMT alone. The SLUG displays a large dynamic range, with an input saturation power corresponding to 700 photons in the readout cavity.

id: 1312.7617
title: Direct spectroscopy of the $^2$S$_{1/2}-^2$P$_{1/2}$ and $^2$D$_{3/2}-^2$P$_{1/2}$ transitions and observation of micromotion modulated spectra in trapped \Ca
authors: Thaned Pruttivarasin, Michael Ramm, Hartmut Haeffner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7617
abstract: We present an experimental scheme to perform spectroscopy of the $^2$S$_{1/2}-^2$P$_{1/2}$ and $^2$D$_{3/2}-^2$P$_{1/2}$ transitions in \Ca. By rapidly switching lasers between both transitions, we circumvent the complications of both dark resonances and Doppler heating. We apply this method to directly observe the micromotion modulated fluorescence spectra of both transitions and measure the dependence of the micromotion modulation index on the trap frequency. With a measurement time of 10 minutes, we can detect the center frequencies of both dipole transitions with a precision on the order of 200 kHz even in the presence of strong micromotion.

id: 1312.7635
title: Indirect control of spin precession by electric field via spin-orbit coupling
authors: Li-Ping Yang, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2015) 88: 35
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7635
abstract: The spin-orbit coupling (SOC) can mediate electric-dipole spin resonance (EDSR) in an a.c. electric field. In this letter, the EDSR is essentially understood as an spin precession under an effective a.c. magnetic field induced by the SOC in the reference frame, which is exactly following the classical trajectory of the electron and obtained by applying a quantum linear coordinate transformation. With this observation for one-dimensional (1D) case, we find a upper limit for the spin-flipping speed in the EDSR-based control of spin, which is given by the accessible data from the current experiment. For two-dimensional case, the azimuthal dependence of the effective magnetic field can be used to measure the ratio of the Rashba and Dresselhause SOC strengths.

id: 1312.7652
title: Configurations of a new atomic interferometer for gravitational wave detection
authors: Biao Tang, Baocheng Zhang, Lin Zhou, Jin Wang, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7652
abstract: Recently, the configuration using atomic interferometers (AIs) had been suggested for the detection of gravitational waves. A new AI with some additional laser pulses for implementing large momentum transfer was also put forward, in order to improve the influence of shot noise and laser frequency noise. In the paper, we use the sensitivity function to analyze all possible configurations of the new AI and to distinguish how many momenta are transferred in a specific configuration. With the analysis for the new configuration, we explore the detection scheme of gravitational wave further, in particular, for the amelioration of the laser frequency noise. We find that the amelioration is definite in such scheme, but novelly, in some cases the frequency noise can be canceled completely by using a proper data processing method.

id: 1312.7727
title: Thermal and non-thermal radiation of rotating polarizable particle moving in an equilibrium background of electromagnetic radiation
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V Dedkov
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures; extended variant of the first two versions
journal: Armen. J. Phys. 7(4) (2014)177-200
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7727
abstract: A theory of thermal and nonthermal radiation in a vacuum background of arbitrary temperature generated by relativistic polarizable particle with spin is proposed. When the particle rotates, radiation is produced by vacuum fluctuations even in the case of zero temperature of the system. In the ultrarelativistic case, the spectral-angular intensity of radiation is concentrated along the velocity of the particle. At finite temperatures of particle and vacuum, the particle temperature (in its rest frame) rather quickly acquires an equilibrium magnitude depending on the velocities of rotation and uniform motion and the background temperature. This equilibrium temperature determines the intensity of radiation. The dynamical slowing down takes a very long time until the kinetic energy of uniform motion and rotation is converted into radiation.

id: 1312.7733
title: Nonequilibrium distribution functions for quantum transport: universality and approximation for the steady state regime
authors: H. Ness
comments: paper accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B (fig 4 now correct)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 045409 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7733
abstract: We derive a general expression for the electron nonequilibrium (NE) distribution function in the context of steady state quantum transport through a two-terminal nanodevice with interaction. The central idea for the use of NE distributions for open quantum systems is that both the NE and many-body (MB) effects are taken into account in the statistics of the finite size system connected to reservoirs. We develop an alternative scheme to calculate the NE steady state properties of such systems. The method, using NE distribution and spectral functions, presents several advantages, and is equivalent to conventional steady-state NE Green's functions (NEGF) calculations when the same level of approximation for the MB interaction is used. The advantages of our method resides in the fact that the NE distribution and spectral functions have better analytic behaviour for numerical calculations. Furthermore our approach offer the possibility of introducing further approximations, not only at the level of the MB interaction as in NEGF, but also at the level of the functional form used for the NE distributions. For the single level model with electron-phonon coupling we have considered, such approximations provide a good representation of the exact results, for either the NE distributions themselves or the transport properties. We also derive the formal extensions of our method for systems consisting of several electronic levels and several vibration modes.

id: 1312.7747
title: Lorentz Spin-Foam with Non Unitary Representations by use of Holomorphic Peter-Weyl Theorem
authors: Leonid Perlov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7747
abstract: In quantum gravity the unitary evolution does not follow from the Wheeler-DeWitt dynamics equation as it follows from the Schr\"odinger equation in non-relativistic quantum mechanics. Therefore we can define a spin-foam model based on SL(2,C) spinor finite non-unitary representations. The recently discovered holomorphic Peter-Weyl theorem \cite{Huebschmann} made it possible to decompose the delta function of a non-compact Lorentz group into the convergent sum of the matrix coefficients. We calculate the vertex amplitude with the help of that theorem and obtain a simple expression for our model. The $SL(2,C)$ Hilbert space is defined from $SU(2)$ Hilbert space by Huebschmann-Kirillov transform \cite{Huebschmann}. A new transform is simpler than the well known Hall transform as it does not contain a heat kernel convolution. We do not set Barbero-Immirzi constant $\gamma$ a priori, instead we obtain it as a solution of the diagonal and off-diagonal simplicity constraints being $\gamma = m i$, where $m$ is a positive half-integer. When $m=1$ the solution becomes $SU(2)$ BF model with Ashtekar's self-dual connections. We also point out that if in EPRL one had chosen the non-unitary principal series instead of unitary, one would also receive a complex solution for Barbero-Immirzi. It points to the fact that the Barbero-Immirzi becomes real when one chooses a unitary representation. It is complex when the representation is non-unitary principal series or non-unitary spinor representation.

id: 1312.7782
title: Entanglement entropy and entanglement spectrum of triplet topological superconductors
authors: T. P. Oliveira, P. Ribeiro, P. D. Sacramento
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 425702 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7782
abstract: We analyse the entanglement entropy properties of a two-dimensional p-wave superconductor with Rashba spin-orbit coupling, which displays a rich phase-space that supports non-trivial topological phases, as the chemical potential and the Zeeman term are varied. We show that the entanglement entropy and its derivatives clearly signal the topological transitions and provides a sensible signature of each topological phase. We separately analyse the contributions to the entanglement entropy that are proportional to or independent of the perimeter of the system, as a function of the Hamiltonian coupling constants and the geometry of the subsystem. We conclude that both contributions are generically non-universal depending on the specific Hamiltonian parameters and on the particular geometry. Nevertheless, contributions to the entanglement entropy due to different kinds of boundaries or edges simply add up. We also observe a relationship between a topological contribution to the entanglement entropy in a half- cylinder geometry and the number of edge states, and that the entanglement spectrum has robust modes associated with each edge state.

id: 1312.7788
title: Perturbative Semiclassical Trace Formulae for Harmonic Oscillators
authors: J. Moller-Andersen, M. Ogren
comments: Added a comparison with Einstein-Brillouin-Keller theory. To appear in Reports on Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7788
abstract: In this article we extend previous semiclassical studies by including more general perturbative potentials of the harmonic oscillator in arbitrary spatial dimensions. Our starting point is a radial harmonic potential with an arbitrary even monomial perturbation, which we use to study the resulting $\mathrm{U}(D)$ to $\mathrm{O}(D)$ symmetry breaking. We derive the gross structure of the semiclassical spectrum from periodic orbit theory, in the form of a perturbative ($\hbar \rightarrow 0$) trace formula. We then show how to apply the results to even order polynomial potentials, possibly including mean-field terms. We have drawn the conclusion that the gross structure of the quantum spectrum is determined from only classical circular- and diameter-orbits for this class of systems.

id: 1312.7797
title: Quantum Indeterminacy of Cosmic Systems
authors: Craig J. Hogan
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7797
abstract: It is shown that quantum uncertainty of motion in systems controlled mainly by gravity generally grows with orbital timescale $H^{-1}$, and dominates classical motion for trajectories separated by distances less than $\approx H^{-3/5}$ in Planck units. For example, the cosmological metric today becomes indeterminate at macroscopic separations, $H_0^{-3/5}\approx 60$ meters. Estimates suggest that entangled non-localized quantum states of geometry and matter may significantly affect fluctuations during inflation, and connect the scale of dark energy to that of strong interactions.

id: 1312.7798
title: Directional Entanglement of Quantum Fields with Quantum Geometry
authors: Craig J. Hogan
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7798
abstract: It is conjectured that the spatial structure of quantum field states is influenced by a new kind of directional indeterminacy of quantum geometry set by the Planck length, $l_P$, that does not occur in a classical background geometry. Entanglement of fields with geometry modifies the transverse phase of field states at wavelength $\lambda$ and propagation distance $c\tau$ by about $ \Delta \phi\approx \sqrt{l_P\tau}/\lambda$. The new effect is not detectable in measurements of propagating states that depend only on longitudinal coordinates. The reduced information content of fields in large systems is consistent with holographic bounds from gravitation theory, and may appear as measurable quantum-geometrical noise in interferometers.

id: 1312.7821
title: Spectral flow of trimer states of two heavy impurities and one light condensed boson
authors: N. T. Zinner
comments: 10 pages including appendices, 4 figures, revised version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 261
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7821
abstract: The spectral flow of three-body (trimer) states consisting of two heavy (impurity) particles sitting in a condensate of light bosons is considered. Assuming that the condensate is weakly interaction and that an impurity and a boson have a zero-range two-body interaction, we use the Born-Oppenheimer approximation to determine the effective three-body potential. We solve the resulting Schr\"odinger equation numerically and determine the trimer binding energies as a function of the coherence length of the light bosonic condensate particles. The binding energy is found to be suppressed by the presence of the condensate when the energy scale corresponding to the coherence length becomes of order the trimer binding energy in the absence of the condensate. We find that the Efimov scaling property is reflected in the critical values of the condensate coherence length at which the trimers are pushed into the continuum.

id: 1312.7855
title: Sideband generation of transient lasing without population inversion
authors: Luqi Yuan, Da-Wei Wang, Christopher O'Brien, Anatoly A. Svidzinsky, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023836 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.7855
abstract: We suggest a method to generate coherent short pulses by generating a frequency comb using lasing without inversion in the transient regime. We use a universal method to study the propagation of a pulse in various spectral regions through an active medium that is strongly driven on a low-frequency transition on a time scale shorter than the decoherence time. The results show gain on the sidebands at different modes can be produced even if there is no initial population inversion prepared. Besides the production of ultra-short pulse this frequency comb may have applications towards making short-wavelength or Tera-hertz lasers.

id: 1312.5844
title: Topology of surfaces for molecular Stark energy, alignment and orientation generated by combined permanent and induced electric dipole interactions
authors: Burkhard Schmidt, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 22 pages, including 2 tables and 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5844
abstract: We show that combined permanent and induced electric dipole interactions of polar and polarizable molecules with collinear electric fields lead to a sui generis topology of the corresponding Stark energy surfaces and of other observables - such as alignment and orientation cosines - in the plane spanned by the permanent and induced dipole interaction parameters. We find that the loci of the intersections of the surfaces can be traced analytically and that the eigenstates as well as the number of their intersections can be characterized by a single integer index. The value of the index, distinctive for a particular ratio of the interaction parameters, brings out a close kinship with the eigenproperties obtained previously for a class of Stark states via the apparatus of supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: 1312.0536
title: Casimir-like corrections to the classical tensions of the strings and membranes
authors: Y. Koohsarian, A. Shirzad
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; v8: the version accepted in PTEP
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys.2014, 113A03
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.0536
abstract: We find the Casimir-like energies for strings and membranes. We show that the related Casimir forces can be interpreted as quantum corrections to the classical tensions of the strings and membranes. We see that these corrections always increase the tensions of the circular string as well as spherical membrane, while for the straight string, rectangular and cylindrical membranes, these Casimir forces may increase or decrease the tensions. So we find that the quantum vacuum can break the (tensional) isotropy of the rectangular and cylindrical membranes. Also obtaining the nonzero-temperature Casimir energy, we find relations for the tensions at nonzero temperature.

