id: 1402.0034
title: On convex optimization problems in quantum information theory
authors: Mark W. Girard, Gilad Gour, Shmuel Friedland
comments: 15 pages. (version 2: minor edits -- updated to published version)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 505302 (2014 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0034
abstract: Convex optimization problems arise naturally in quantum information theory, often in terms of minimizing a convex function over a convex subset of the space of hermitian matrices. In most cases, finding exact solutions to these problems is usually impossible. As inspired by earlier investigations into the relative entropy of entanglement [Phys. Rev. A 78 032310 (2008)], we introduce a general method to solve the converse problem rather than find explicit solutions. That is, given a matrix in a convex set, we determine a family of convex functions that are minimized at this point. This method allows us find explicit formulae for the relative entropy of entanglement and the Rains bound, two well-known upper bounds on the distillable entanglement, and yields interesting information about these quantities, such as the fact that they coincide in the case where at least one subsystem of a multipartite state is a qubit.

id: 1402.0049
title: Single-shot security for one-time memories in the isolated qubits model
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: v2: to appear in CRYPTO 2014. 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: CRYPTO 2014, Part II, Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 8617, pp.19-36 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0049
abstract: One-time memories (OTM's) are simple, tamper-resistant cryptographic devices, which can be used to implement sophisticated functionalities such as one-time programs. Can one construct OTM's whose security follows from some physical principle? This is not possible in a fully-classical world, or in a fully-quantum world, but there is evidence that OTM's can be built using "isolated qubits" -- qubits that cannot be entangled, but can be accessed using adaptive sequences of single-qubit measurements. Here we present new constructions for OTM's using isolated qubits, which improve on previous work in several respects: they achieve a stronger "single-shot" security guarantee, which is stated in terms of the (smoothed) min-entropy; they are proven secure against adversaries who can perform arbitrary local operations and classical communication (LOCC); and they are efficiently implementable. These results use Wiesner's idea of conjugate coding, combined with error-correcting codes that approach the capacity of the q-ary symmetric channel, and a high-order entropic uncertainty relation, which was originally developed for cryptography in the bounded quantum storage model.

id: 1402.0111
title: Confined quantum Zeno dynamics of a watched atomic arrow
authors: Adrien Signoles, Adrien Facon, Dorian Grosso, Igor Dotsenko, Serge Haroche, Jean-Michel Raimond, Michel Brune, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0111
abstract: In a quantum world, a watched arrow never moves. This is the Quantum Zeno Effect (QZE). Repeatedly asking a quantum system "are you still in your initial state?" blocks its coherent evolution through measurement back-action. Quantum Zeno Dynamics (QZD) leaves more freedom to the system. Instead of pinning it to a single state, it sets a border in its evolution space. Repeatedly asking the system "did you cross the border?" makes it impenetrable. Since the border can be designed at will by choosing the measured observable, QZD allows one to tailor the system's evolution space. Recent proposals, particularly in the Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics (CQED) context, highlight the interest of QZD for quantum state engineering tasks, which are the key to quantumenabled technologies and quantum information processing. We report the observation of QZD in the 51-dimension Hilbert space of a large angular momentum J = 25. Continuous selective interrogation limits the evolution of this angular momentum to an adjustable multi-dimensional subspace. This confined dynamics leads to the production of non-classical "Schr\"odinger cat" states, quantum superpositions of angular momentums pointing in different directions. These states are promising for sensitive metrology of electric and magnetic fields. This QZD approach could be generalized to other systems, opening novel perspectives for quantum information processing.

id: 1402.0129
title: Strong Majorization Entropic Uncertainty Relations
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0129
abstract: We analyze entropic uncertainty relations in a finite dimensional Hilbert space and derive several strong bounds for the sum of two entropies obtained in projective measurements with respect to any two orthogonal bases. We improve the recent bounds by Coles and Piani, which are known to be stronger than the well known result of Maassen and Uffink. Furthermore, we find a novel bound based on majorization techniques, which also happens to be stronger than the recent results involving largest singular values of submatrices of the unitary matrix connecting both bases. The first set of new bounds give better results for unitary matrices close to the Fourier matrix, while the second one provides a significant improvement in the opposite sectors. Some results derived admit generalization to arbitrary mixed states, so that corresponding bounds are increased by the von Neumann entropy of the measured state. The majorization approach is finally extended to the case of several measurements.

id: 1402.0159
title: A Generalized Quantum Theory
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 14 pages, Found. Phys. 2014
journal: Found Phys (2014) 44:1216-1229
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0159
abstract: In quantum mechanics, the selfadjoint Hilbert space operators play a triple role as observables, generators of the dynamical groups and statistical operators defining the mixed states. One might expect that this is typical of Hilbert space quantum mechanics, but it is not. The same triple role occurs for the elements of a certain ordered Banach space in a much more general theory based upon quantum logics and a conditional probability calculus (which is a quantum logical model of the Lueders-von Neumann measurement process). It is shown how positive groups, automorphism groups, Lie algebras and statistical operators emerge from one major postulate - the non-existence of third-order interference (third-order interference and its impossibility in quantum mechanics were discovered by R. Sorkin in 1994). This again underlines the power of the combination of the conditional probability calculus with the postulate that there is no third-order interference. In two earlier papers, its impact on contextuality and nonlocality had already been revealed.

id: 1402.0185
title: Continuous variable versus hybrid schemes for quantum teleportation of Gaussian states
authors: Ioannis Kogias, Sammy Ragy, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0185
abstract: In this paper, we examine and compare two fundamentally different teleportation schemes; the well-known continuous variable scheme by Vaidman, Braunstein and Kimble (VBK), and a recently proposed hybrid scheme by Andersen and Ralph (AR). We analyze the teleportation of ensembles of arbitrary pure single-mode Gaussian states using these schemes and see how they fare against the optimal measure-and-prepare strategies -- the benchmarks. In the VBK case, we allow for non-unit gain tuning and consider a class of possibly non-Gaussian resources in order to optimize performance. The results suggest that the AR scheme may likely be a more suitable candidate for beating the benchmarks in the teleportation of squeezing, capable of achieving this for moderate resources in comparison to the VBK scheme. Moreover, our quantification of resources, whereby different protocols are compared at fixed values of the entanglement entropy or the mean energy of the resource states, brings into question any advantage due to non-Gaussianity for quantum teleportation of Gaussian states.

id: 1402.0189
title: Bound states in a double delta potential via Fourier sine and cosine transforms
authors: A.S. de Castro
comments: In Portuguese
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0189
abstract: The problem of bound states in a double delta potential is revisited by means of Fourier sine and cosine transforms

id: 1402.0199
title: Comment on "Weak value amplification is suboptimal for estimation and detection"
authors: L.Vaidman
comments: 1 page. Comment on arXiv:1307.4016
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0199
abstract: The assumptions of Ferrie and Combes are irrelevant for realistic experimental situations. This undermines their conclusions.

id: 1402.0227
title: Is the molecular Berry phase an artifact of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation?
authors: S. K. Min, A. Abedi, K. S. Kim, E.K.U. Gross
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0227
abstract: We demonstrate that the molecular Berry phase and the corresponding non-analyticity in the electronic Born-Oppenheimer wavefunction is, in general, not a true topological feature of the exact solution of the full electron-nuclear Schr\"odinger equation. For a numerically exactly solvable model we show that a non-analyticity, and the associated geometric phase, only appear in the limit of infinite nuclear mass, while a perfectly smooth behavior is found for any finite nuclear mass.

id: 1402.0235
title: Distinguishing Quantum and Classical Baths via Correlation Measurements
authors: Thomas Fink, Hendrik Bluhm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0235
abstract: Investigations of quantum mechanical effects in macroscopic systems are of great interest to shed light onto the question where and how the transition to the classical world appears. It is also of practical relevance to determine if a bath dephasing a qubit can be described classically or requires a quantum mechanical treatment. We propose a measurement scheme to detect quantum backaction via correlation measurements to answer this question for a bath coupled to a single qubit. The presence of backaction leads to a dependence of correlations of subsequent initialization-evolution-readout cycles on how the qubit is manipulated in between. We compute the autocorrelation function for both an instructive spin model and the realistic case of an electron spin coupled to a bath of $10^6$ nuclear spins, as found in gated GaAs quantum dots, and show that backaction from the qubit onto the nuclear spin bath should be detectable even in such a large system.

id: 1402.0256
title: Using quantum routers to implement quantum message authentication and Bell-state manipulation
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Karel Lemr
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022335 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0256
abstract: In this paper we investigate the capability of quantum routing (quantum state fusion) to implement two useful quantum communications protocols. The analyzed protocols include quantum authentication of quantum messages and non-destructive linear-optical Bell state manipulation. We also present the concept of quantum decoupler -- a device implementing an inverse operation to quantum routing. We demonstrate that both quantum router and decoupler can work as specialized disentangling gates.

id: 1402.0274
title: What bipartite states are lazy
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 7 pages, no figure. With corrections to version 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0274
abstract: A bipartite state is called lazy if the entropy rate of one subsystem is vanishing for any coupling to the other subsystem. In this paper, we provide a necessary and sufficient condition for a finite-dimensional bipartite state to be lazy, and prove that a two-mode Gaussian state is lazy if and only if it is a direct product state.

id: 1402.0301
title: Preservation of the geometric quantum discord in noisy environments
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Dong-Ping Tian
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, the final version as that published in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 343, 132 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0301
abstract: Geometric description of quantum correlations are favored for their distinct physical significance. Geometric discord based on the trace distance and the Bures distance are shown to be well-defined quantum correlation measures. Here, we examine their particular dynamical behaviors under independent as well as common structured reservoirs, and reveal their robustness against decoherence. We showed that the two well-defined geometric discord may be preserved well, or even be improved and generated by the noisy process of the common reservoir. Moreover, we also provided a strategy for long-time preservation of these two geometric discord in independent reservoirs.

id: 1402.0307
title: Self-induced Spatial Dynamics to Enhance Spin-Squeezing via One-Axis Twisting in a Two-Component Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: S. A. Haine, J. Lau, R. P. Anderson, M. T. Johnsson
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023613 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0307
abstract: We theoretically investigate a scheme to enhance spin squeezing in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) by utilizing the inherent mean-field dynamics of the condensate. Due to the asymmetry in the scattering lengths, the two components exhibit density oscillations where they spatially separate and recombine. The effective non-linearity responsible for spin squeezing is increased by up to three orders of magnitude when the two components spatially separate \cite{treutlein2010}. We perform a multi-mode simulation of the system using the truncated Wigner method, and show that this method can be used to create significant spin squeezing in systems where the effective nonlinearity would ordinarily be too small, and that strong spatial dynamics resulting from large particle numbers aren't necessarily detrimental to generating spin-squeezing. We develop a simplified semi-analytic model that gives good agreement with our multi-mode simulation, and will be useful for predicting spin-squeezing in a range of different systems.

id: 1402.0335
title: Distributed manipulation of two-qubit entanglement with coupled continuous variables
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Rong-Xin Chen, Huai-Zhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures, comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0335
abstract: We study the dynamics of two qubits separately sent through two coupled resonators, each initially containing a coherent state field. We present analytical arguments and numerical calculations for the qubit-field system under different two-qubit initial states, photon hopping strengths, and detunings. In far off-resonant regime, the maximal entanglement of two qubits can be generated with the initial qubit state in which one qubit is in the excited state and the other is in the ground state, and the initially maximal two-qubit entanglement can be frozen and fully revived even for large mean photon number. When the qubits are both initially in their excited states or ground states, the qubit-qubit entanglement birth and death apparently appear in the regime where the photon hopping strength is close to qubit-field detuning, and its peaks do not decrease monotonically as the interaction time increases. It is interesting to observe that when there is photon hopping strength between two fields, the field-field entanglement can be larger than one and increases as the initial amplitude of the coherent state grows. By postselecting the fields both in their coherent states, the entanglement of two initially unentangled qubits can be largely improved. Our present setup is fundamental for the distributed quantum information processing and applicable to different physical qubit-resonator systems.

id: 1402.0342
title: Exact steady state manifold of a boundary driven spin-1 Lai-Sutherland chain
authors: Enej Ilievski, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 20 pages; version v2 as accepted by Nuclear Physics B
journal: Nuclear Physics B 882, 485 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0342
abstract: We present an explicit construction of a family of steady state density matrices for an open integrable spin-1 chain with bilinear and biquadratic interactions, also known as the Lai-Sutherland model, driven far from equilibrium by means of two oppositely polarizing Markovian dissipation channels localized at the boundary. The steady state solution exhibits n+1 fold degeneracy, for a chain of length n, due to existence of (strong) Liouvillian U(1) symmetry. The latter can be exploited to introduce a chemical potential and define a grand canonical nonequilibrium steady state ensemble. The matrix product form of the solution entails an infinitely-dimensional representation of a non-trivial Lie algebra (semidirect product of sl_2 and a non-nilpotent radical) and hints to a novel Yang-Baxter integrability structure.

id: 1402.0351
title: The Two Bell's Theorems of John Bell
authors: Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 35 pages. To be published in Special Issue of J.Phys.A. "50 years of Bell's theorem". This version has minor refinements in terminology and in a few definitions, and a few other minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 424001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0351
abstract: Many of the heated arguments about the meaning of "Bell's theorem" arise because this phrase can refer to two different theorems that John Bell proved, the first in 1964 and the second in 1976. His 1964 theorem is the incompatibility of quantum phenomena with the dual assumptions of locality and determinism. His 1976 theorem is the incompatibility of quantum phenomena with the unitary property of local causality. This is contrary to Bell's own later assertions, that his 1964 theorem began with that single, and indivisible, assumption of local causality (even if not by that name). While there are other forms of Bell's theorems --- which I present to explain the relation between Jarrett-completeness, "fragile locality", and EPR-completeness --- I maintain that Bell's two versions are the essential ones. Although the two Bell's theorems are logically equivalent, their assumptions are not, and the different versions of the theorem suggest quite different conclusions, which are embraced by different communities. For realists, the notion of local causality, ruled out by Bell's 1976 theorem, is motivated implicitly by Reichenbach's Principle of common cause and explicitly by the Principle of relativistic causality, and it is the latter which must be forgone. Operationalists pay no heed to Reichenbach's Principle, but wish to keep the Principle of relativistic causality, which, bolstered by an implicit "Principle of agent-causation", implies their notion of locality. Thus for operationalists, Bell's theorem is the 1964 one, and implies that it is determinism that must be forgone. I discuss why the two `camps' are drawn to these different conclusions, and what can be done to increase mutual understanding.

id: 1402.0370
title: Losses-based test of wave-particle duality with Mach-Zehnder interferometers
authors: Chen Yang, Aiai Jia, Xue Deng, Yuchi Zhang, Gang Li, Shiyao Zhu, Tiancai Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, appendix is absent, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0370
abstract: Wave-particle duality of photons with losses in the Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) is investigated experimentally and theoretically. The experiment is done with the standard MZI with the beam splitter or the beam merger being continuously varied. The losses are deliberately introduced either inside the MZI (the two arms between the beam splitter and beam mergers) or outside the MZI (after the beam merger). It is proved that the unbalanced losses have great influence on the predictability $P$ (particle nature) and visibility $V$ (wave nature). For the former case the duality inequality holds while for the later the duality inequality is ``violated''. We get $P^2+V^2>1$. This ``violation'' could be eliminated in principle by switching the two paths and detectors and then averaging the results. The observed results can be exactly explained theoretically. The experiment is done with coherent beam, instead of single photons, and we have proved that they are exactly equivalent in duality experiment with MZI.

id: 1402.0374
title: Inducing Non-Classical Lasing Via Periodic Drivings in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Diego Porras
comments: Comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 193601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0374
abstract: We show how a pair of superconducting qubits coupled to a microwave cavity mode can be used to engineer a single-atom laser that emits light into a non-classical state. Our scheme relies on the dressing of the qubit-field coupling by periodic modulations of the qubit energy. In the dressed basis, the radiative decay of the first qubit becomes an effective incoherent pumping mechanism that injects energy into the system, hence turning dissipation to our advantage. A second, auxiliary qubit is used to shape the decay within the cavity, in such a way that lasing occurs in a squeezed basis of the cavity mode. We characterize the system both by mean-field theory and exact calculations. Our work may find applications in the generation of squeezing and entanglement in circuit QED, as well as in the study of dissipative many-body phase transitions.

id: 1402.0375
title: Highly symmetric POVMs and their informational power
authors: Wojciech S?omczy¨½ski, Anna Szymusiak
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0375
abstract: We discuss the dependence of the Shannon entropy of rank-1 normalized finite POVMs on the choice of the input state, looking for the states that minimize this quantity. To distinguish the class of measurements where the problem can be solved analytically, we introduce the notion of highly symmetric POVMs and classify them in dimension two (for qubits). In this case we prove that the entropy is minimal (and hence the relative entropy is maximal), when the input state is orthogonal to one of the states constituting a POVM. The method used in the proof, employing the Michel theory of critical points for group action, the Hermite interpolation and the structure of invariant polynomials for unitary-antiunitary groups can also be applied in higher dimensions and for other entropy-like functions.

id: 1402.0377
title: Interferometry with non-classical motional states of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Sandrine van Frank, Antonio Negretti, Tarik Berrada, Robert B¨¹cker, Simone Montangero, Jean-Fran?ois Schaff, Thorsten Schumm, Tommaso Calarco, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 7 pages (including Supplementary Information), 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0377
abstract: We demonstrate a two-pulse Ramsey-type interferometer for non-classical motional states of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an anharmonic trap. The control pulses used to manipulate the condensate wavefunction are obtained from Optimal Control Theory and directly optimised to maximise the interferometric contrast. They permit a fast manipulation of the atomic ensemble compared to the intrinsic decay and many-body dephasing effects, and thus to reach an interferometric contrast of 92% in the experimental implementation.

id: 1402.0378
title: Optimisation of Bell inequalities with invariant Tsirelson bound
authors: Michael Epping, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; contribution to special issue of JPA: 50 years of Bell's theorem
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 424015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0378
abstract: We consider a subclass of bipartite CHSH-type Bell inequalities. We investigate operations, which leave their Tsirelson bound invariant, but change their classical bound. The optimal observables are unaffected except for a relative rotation of the two laboratories. We illustrate the utility of these operations by giving explicit examples: We prove that for a fixed quantum state and fixed measurement setup except for a relative rotation of the two laboratories, there is a Bell inequality that is maximally violated for this rotation, and we optimise some Bell inequalities with respect to the maximal violation. Finally we optimise the qutrit to qubit ratio of some dimension witnessing Bell inequalities.

id: 1402.0381
title: Infrared-dressed entanglement of cold open-shell polar molecules for universal matchgate quantum computing
authors: Felipe Herrera, Yudong Cao, Sabre Kais, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 075001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0381
abstract: Implementing a scalable quantum information processor using polar molecules in optical lattices requires precise control over the long-range dipole-dipole interaction between molecules in selected lattice sites. We present here a scheme using trapped open-shell $^2\Sigma$ polar molecules that allows dipolar exchange processes between nearest and next-nearest neighbors to be controlled to construct a generalized transverse Ising spin Hamiltonian with tunable $XX$, $YY$ and $XY$ couplings in the rotating frame of the driving lasers. The scheme requires a moderately strong bias magnetic field with near-infrared light to provide local tuning of the qubit energy gap, and mid-infrared pulses to perform rotational state transfer via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. No interaction between qubits is present in the absence of the infrared driving. We analyze the fidelity of the resulting two-qubit matchgate, and demonstrate its robustness as a function of the driving parameters. We discuss a realistic application of the system for universal matchgate quantum computing in optical lattices.

id: 1402.0396
title: Quantum Mechanics from Newton's Second Law and the Canonical Commutation Relation [X,P]=i
authors: Mark C. Palenik
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 35 (2014) 045014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0396
abstract: Despite the fact that it has been known since the time of Heisenberg that quantum operators obey a quantum version of Newton's laws, students are often told that derivations of quantum mechanics must necessarily follow from the Hamiltonian or Lagrangian formulations of mechanics. Here, we first derive the existing Heisenberg equations of motion from Newton's laws and the uncertainty principle using only the equations $F=\frac{dP}{dt}$, $P=m\frac{dV}{dt}$, and $\left[X,P\right]=i$. Then, a new expression for the propagator is derived that makes a connection between time evolution in quantum mechanics and the motion of a classical particle under Newton's laws. The propagator is solved for three cases where an exact solution is possible 1) the free particle 2) the harmonic oscillator 3) a constant force, or linear potential in the standard interpretation. Such a picture may be useful for students as they make the transition from classical to quantum mechanics and help solidify the equivalence of the Hamiltonian, Lagrangian, and Newtonian formulations of physics in their minds.

id: 1402.0404
title: A generalization of the Entropy Power Inequality to Bosonic Quantum Systems
authors: Giacomo De Palma, Andrea Mari, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 958-964 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0404
abstract: In most communication schemes information is transmitted via travelling modes of electromagnetic radiation. These modes are unavoidably subject to environmental noise along any physical transmission medium and the quality of the communication channel strongly depends on the minimum noise achievable at the output. For classical signals such noise can be rigorously quantified in terms of the associated Shannon entropy and it is subject to a fundamental lower bound called entropy power inequality. Electromagnetic fields are however quantum mechanical systems and then, especially in low intensity signals, the quantum nature of the information carrier cannot be neglected and many important results derived within classical information theory require non-trivial extensions to the quantum regime. Here we prove one possible generalization of the Entropy Power Inequality to quantum bosonic systems. The impact of this inequality in quantum information theory is potentially large and some relevant implications are considered in this work.

id: 1402.0428
title: Parity-Time Symmetry Breaking beyond One Dimension: The Role of Degeneracy
authors: Li Ge, A. Douglas Stone
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031011 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0428
abstract: We consider the role of degeneracy in Parity-Time (PT) symmetry breaking for non-hermitian wave equations beyond one dimension. We show that if the spectrum is degenerate in the absence of T-breaking, and T is broken in a generic manner (without preserving other discrete symmetries), then the standard PT-symmetry breaking transition does not occur, meaning that the spectrum is complex even for infinitesimal strength of gain and loss. However the realness of the entire spectrum can be preserved over a finite interval if additional discrete symmetries X are imposed when T is broken, if X decouple all degenerate modes. When this is true only for a subset of the degenerate spectrum, there can be a partial PT transition in which this subset remains real over a finite interval of T-breaking. If the spectrum has odd-degeneracy, a fraction of the degenerate spectrum can remain in the symmetric phase even without imposing additional discrete symmetries, and they are analogous to dark states in atomic physics. These results are illustrated by the example of different T-breaking perturbations of a uniform dielectric disk and sphere, and a group theoretical analysis is given in the disk case. Finally, we show that multimode coupling is capable of restoring the T-symmetric phase at finite T-breaking. We also analyze these questions when the parity operator is replaced by another spatial symmetry operator and find that the behavior can be qualitatively different.

id: 1402.0439
title: Coordinate-space approach to vacuum polarization
authors: Paul Indelicato, Peter J. Mohr, J. Sapirstein
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 042121, 10 p. (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0439
abstract: The vacuum-polarization correction for bound electrons or muons is examined. The objective is to formulate a framework for calculating the correction from bound-state quantum electrodynamics entirely in coordinate space, including the Uehling potential which is usually isolated and treated separately. Pauli-Villars regularization is applied to the coordinate-space calculation and the most singular terms are shown to be eliminated, leaving the physical correction after charge renormalization. The conventional derivation of the Uehling potential in momentum space is reviewed and compared to the coordinate-space derivation.

id: 1402.0447
title: Estimation of quantum states by weak and projective measurements
authors: Debmalya Das, Arvind
comments: Substantial addition and expansion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062121 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0447
abstract: We explore the possibility of using "weak" measurements to carry out quantum state tomography. Given a certain fixed number of copies of identically prepared states of a qubit, we simulate state tomography using weak as well as projective measurements. Due to the collapse of the state after measurement, we cannot re-use the state after a projective measurement. If the coupling strength between the quantum system and the measurement device is made weaker, the disturbance caused to the state can be lowered. This then allows us to re-use the same member of the ensemble for further measurements and thus extract more information from the system. However, this happens at the expense of getting imprecise information from the first measurement. We simulate this scheme for a single qubit and show that under certain circumstances, it can outperform the projective measurement-based tomography scheme. This opens up the possibility of new ways of extracting information from quantum ensembles. We study the efficacy of this scheme for different coupling strengths.

id: 1402.0481
title: An integrated processor for photonic quantum states using a broadband light-matter interface
authors: Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Joshua A. Slater, Khabat Heshami, Daniel Oblak, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: Revised version including a quantitative treatment of the compression and stretching techniques, 22 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 065019 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0481
abstract: Faithful storage and coherent manipulation of quantum optical pulses are key for long distance quantum communications and quantum computing. Combining these functions in a light-matter interface that can be integrated on-chip with other photonic quantum technologies, e.g. sources of entangled photons, is an important step towards these applications. To date there have only been a few demonstrations of coherent pulse manipulation utilizing optical storage devices compatible with quantum states, and that only in atomic gas media (making integration difficult) and with limited capabilities. Here we describe how a broadband waveguide quantum memory based on the Atomic Frequency Comb (AFC) protocol can be used as a programmable processor for essentially arbitrary spectral and temporal manipulations of individual quantum optical pulses. Using weak coherent optical pulses at the few photon level, we experimentally demonstrate sequencing, time-to-frequency multiplexing and demultiplexing, splitting, interfering, temporal and spectral filtering, compressing and stretching as well as selective delaying. Our integrated light-matter interface offers high-rate, robust and easily configurable manipulation of quantum optical pulses and brings fully practical optical quantum devices one step closer to reality. Furthermore, as the AFC protocol is suitable for storage of intense light pulses, our processor may also find applications in classical communications.

id: 1402.0489
title: Robust protocols for securely expanding randomness and distributing keys using untrusted quantum devices
authors: Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi
comments: Changes from v2: Minor corrections, and a simplification of the analysis in "Efficient Information Reconciliation" (Section K.4) using a known result. 67 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0489
abstract: Randomness is a vital resource for modern day information processing, especially for cryptography. A wide range of applications critically rely on abundant, high quality random numbers generated securely. Here we show how to expand a random seed at an exponential rate without trusting the underlying quantum devices. Our approach is secure against the most general adversaries, and has the following new features: cryptographic quality output security, tolerating a constant level of implementation imprecision, requiring only a constant size quantum memory for the honest implementation, and allowing a large natural class of constructions. In conjunct with a recent work by Chung, Shi and Wu (QIP 2014), it also leads to robust unbounded expansion using just 2 multi-part devices. When adapted for distributing cryptographic keys, our method achieves, for the first time, exponential expansion combined with cryptographic security and noise tolerance. The proof proceeds by showing that the Renyi divergence of the outputs of the protocol (for a specific bounding operator) decreases linearly as the protocol iterates. At the heart of the proof are a new uncertainty principle on quantum measurements, and a method for simulating trusted measurements with untrusted devices.

id: 1402.0495
title: True Limits to Precision via Unique Quantum Probe
authors: Sergey I. Knysh, Edward H. Chen, Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 11 pages including Methods, 1 Appendix, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0495
abstract: Quantum instruments derived from composite systems allow greater measurement precision than their classical counterparts due to coherences maintained between N components; spins, atoms or photons. Decoherence that plagues real-world devices can be particle loss, or thermal excitation and relaxation, or dephasing due to external noise sources -- and also due to prior parameter uncertainty. All these adversely affect precision estimation of time, phase or frequency. We develop a novel technique uncovering the uniquely optimal probe states of the N `qubits' alongside new tight bounds on precision under local and collective mechanisms of these noise types above. For large quantum ensembles where numerical techniques fail, the problem reduces by analogy to finding the ground state of a 1-D particle in a potential well; the shape of the well is dictated by the type and strength of decoherence. The formalism is applied to prototypical Mach-Zehnder and Ramsey interferometers to discover the ultimate performance of real-world instruments.

id: 1402.0496
title: Multidimensional spectroscopy with entangled light; loop vs ladder delay scanning protocols
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0496
abstract: Multidimensional optical signals are commonly recorded by varying the delays between time ordered pulses. These control the evolution of the density matrix and are described by ladder diagrams. We propose a new non-time-ordered protocol based on following the time evolution of the wavefunction and described by loop diagrams. The time variables in this protocol allow to observe different types of resonances and reveal information about intraband dephasing not readily available by time ordered techniques. The time variables involved in this protocol become coupled when using entangled light, which provides high selectivity and background free measurement of the various resonances. Entangled light can resolve certain states even when strong background due to fast dephasing suppresses the resonant features when probed by classical light.

id: 1402.0500
title: Entanglement And Non-Trivial Topologies
authors: Thiago Prudencio, Diego Julio Cirilo-Lombardo
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Vol. 10 (2013) 1350040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0500
abstract: We consider states defined on non-trivial topologies of Torus, Mobius and Torus-Mobius. Adequate operators leading to the construction of coherent states, two-mode coherent states and entangled states are derived and we show a class of entangled states on Torus that are related to the entanglement of photons by orbital angular momentum states.

id: 1402.0522
title: Dissipative preparation of large W states in Optical Cavities
authors: R. Sweke, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 21 page, 14 figures;
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0522
abstract: Two novel schemes are proposed for the dissipative preparation of large W states, of the order of ten qubits, within the context of Cavity QED. By utilizing properties of the irreducible representations of su(3), we are able to construct protocols in which it is possible to restrict the open system dynamics to a fully symmetric irreducible subspace of the total Hilbert space, and hence obtain analytic solutions for effective ground state dynamics of arbitrary sized ensembles of $\Lambda$ atoms within an optical cavity. In the proposed schemes, the natural decay processes of spontaneous emission and photon loss are no longer undesirable, but essential to the required dynamics. All aspects of the proposed schemes relevant to implementation in currently available optical cavities are explored, especially with respect to increasing system size.

id: 1402.0529
title: Dissipative preparation of generalised Bell states
authors: R. Sweke, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 104004 (2013); Special issue on the 20th anniversary of quantum state engineering
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0529
abstract: A scheme is presented for the dissipative preparation of generalised Bell states of two-qubits, within the context of cavity QED. In the suggested protocol the dissipative processes of spontaneous emission and cavity loss are no longer undesirable, but essential to the required dynamics. Extremely long lived target states are achieved, with fidelities of near unity, utilising cooperativities corresponding to currently available optical cavities. Furthermore, the suggested protocol exhibits excellent scaling of relevant characteristics, with respect to cooperativity, such that improved results may be obtained as the development of experimental capabilities continues.

id: 1402.0531
title: Boson sampling with displaced single-photon Fock states versus single-photon-added coherent states---The quantum-classical divide and computational-complexity transitions in linear optics
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Jonathan P. Olson, Keith R. Motes, Peter P. Rohde, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022334 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0531
abstract: Boson sampling is a specific quantum computation, which is likely hard to implement efficiently on a classical computer. The task is to sample the output photon number distribution of a linear optical interferometric network, which is fed with single-photon Fock state inputs. A question that has been asked is if the sampling problems associated with any other input quantum states of light (other than the Fock states) to a linear optical network and suitable output detection strategies are also of similar computational complexity as boson sampling. We consider the states that differ from the Fock states by a displacement operation, namely the displaced Fock states and the photon-added coherent states. It is easy to show that the sampling problem associated with displaced single-photon Fock states and a displaced photon number detection scheme is in the same complexity class as boson sampling for all values of displacement. On the other hand, we show that the sampling problem associated with single-photon-added coherent states and the same displaced photon number detection scheme demonstrates a computational complexity transition. It transitions from being just as hard as boson sampling when the input coherent amplitudes are sufficiently small, to a classically simulatable problem in the limit of large coherent amplitudes.

id: 1402.0551
title: Analytic Pulse Sequence Construction for Exchange-Only Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel Zeuch, R. Cipri, N.E. Bonesteel
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures. Revised introduction and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0551
abstract: We present pulse sequences for two-qubit gates acting on encoded qubits for exchange-only quantum computation. Previous work finding such sequences has always required numerical methods due to the large search space of unitary operators acting on the space of the encoded qubits. By contrast, our construction can be understood entirely in terms of three-dimensional rotations of effective spin-1/2 pseudospins which allows us to use geometric intuition to determine the required sequence of operations analytically. The price we pay for this simplification is that, at 39 pulses, our sequences are significantly longer than the best numerically obtained sequences.

id: 1402.0594
title: The non-Abelian geometric phase in the diamond nitrogen-vacancy center
authors: Mark A. Kowarsky, Llyod C. L. Hollenberg, Andrew M. Martin
comments: 5 pages, including 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0594
abstract: This paper introduces a theoretical framework for understanding the accumulation of non-Abelian geometric phases in rotating nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. Specifically, we consider how degenerate states can be achieved and demonstrate that the resulting geometric phase for multiple paths is non-Abelian. We find that the non-Abelian nature of the phase is robust to fluctuations in the path and magnetic field. In contrast to previous studies of the accumulation of Abelian geometric phases for nitrogen-vacancy centers under rotation we find that the limiting time-scale is $T_{1}$. As such a non-Abelian geometric phase accumulation in nitrogen-vacancy centers has potential advantages for applications as gyroscopes.

id: 1402.0602
title: Tight Bounds on the Accessible Information and the Informational Power
authors: Michele Dall'Arno, Francesco Buscemi, Masanao Ozawa
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, updated references, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 235302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0602
abstract: The accessible information quantifies the amount of classical information that can be extracted from an ensemble of quantum states. Analogously, the informational power quantifies the amount of classical information that can be extracted by a quantum measurement. For both quantities, we provide upper and lower bounds that depend only on the dimension of the system, and we prove their tightness. In the case of symmetric informationally complete (SIC) ensembles and measurements, stronger bounds are provided and their tightness proved for qubits and qutrits. From our upper bounds, we notice, perhaps surprisingly, that the statistics generated by SIC ensembles or measurements in arbitrary dimension, though optimal for tomographic purposes, in fact never contains more than just one bit of information, the rest being constituted by completely random bits. On the other hand, from our lower bounds, we obtain an explicit strategy beating the so-called "pretty-good" one for the extraction of mutual information in the case of SIC ensembles and measurements.

id: 1402.0624
title: Symmetries of Multipartite Entanglement Evolution in Many-Sided Local Channels
authors: Michael Siomau
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 30 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0624
abstract: Symmetries of the initial state of a quantum system and the quantum channels, which simultaneously affect parts of the system, can significantly simplify the description of the entanglement evolution. Using concurrence as the entanglement measure, we study the entanglement evolution of few qubit systems, when each of the qubits is affected by a local channel independently of the others. We show that, for low-rank density matrices of the final quantum state, such complex entanglement dynamics can be completely described by a combination of independent factors representing the evolution of entanglement of the initial state, when just one of the qubits is affected by a local channel.

id: 1402.0650
title: One-step implementation of multiqubit phase gate with one control qubit and multiple target qubits in coupled cavities
authors: Hong-Fu Wang, Ai-Dong Zhu, Shou Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0650
abstract: We propose a one-step scheme to implement a multiqubit controlled phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling multiple qubits with three-level atoms at distant nodes in coupled cavity arrays. The selective qubit-qubit couplings are achieved by adiabatically eliminating the atomic excited states and photonic states and the required phase shifts between the control qubit and any target qubit can be realized through suitable choices of the parameters of the external fields. Moreover, the effective model is robust against decoherence because neither the atoms nor the field modes during the gate operation are excited, leading to a useful step toward scalable quantum computing networks.

id: 1402.0660
title: Quantum Algorithms for Curve Fitting
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0660
abstract: We present quantum algorithms for estimating the best-fit parameters and the quality of least-square curve fitting. The running times of these algorithms are polynomial in $\log{n}$, $d$, $\kappa$, $\nu$, $\chi$, $1/\Phi$ and $1/\epsilon$, where $n$ is the number of data points to be fitted, $d$ is the dimension of feature vectors, $\kappa$ is the condition number of the design matrix, $\nu$ and $\chi$ are some parameters reflecting the variances of the design matrix and response vector, $\Phi$ is the fit quality, and $\epsilon$ is the tolerable error. Different from previous quantum algorithms for these tasks, our algorithms do not require the design matrix to be sparse, and they do completely determine the fitted curve. They are developed by combining phase estimation and the density matrix exponentiation technique for dense Hamiltonian simulation.

id: 1402.0738
title: Noise resistance of violation of local causality for pure three-qutrit entangled states
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Junghee Ryu, Marek Zukowski
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424019 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0738
abstract: Bell's Theorem started with two qubits, spins $1/2$. It is a no-go statement on classical (local causal) models of quantum correlations. Only after 25 years, it turned out that for three qubits the situation is even more mind boggling. General statements concerning higher dimensional systems, qutrits etc., started to appear even later, once the spin (higher than $1/2$) picture was replaced by a more broad one, allowing all possible observables. This work is continuation of the Gdansk effort to take advantage of the fact that Bell Theorem can be put in form of a linear programming problem, which in turn can be translated into a computer code. Our results are numerical and classify the strength of non-classicality of various families of three-qutrit states, as measured by resistance to noise. This is a previously uncharted territory. The results may be helpful in suggesting which three-qutrit states are handy for applications in quantum information protocols. One of the surprises is that the W state turns out to have a stronger non-classicality than the GHZ state.

id: 1402.0758
title: Loschmidt echo and dynamical fidelity in periodically driven quantum systems
authors: Shraddha Sharma, Angelo Russomanno, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Amit Dutta
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in EPL
journal: EPL 106 (2014) 67003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0758
abstract: We study the dynamical fidelity $\mathcal{F} (t)$ and the Loschmidt echo $\mathcal{L} (t)$, following a periodic driving of the transverse magnetic field of a quantum Ising chain (back and forth across the quantum critical point) by calculating the overlap between the initial ground state and the state reached after $n$ periods $\tau$. We show that $\log{\mathcal{F}}(n\tau)/L$ (the logarithm of the fidelity per-site) reaches a steady value in the asymptotic limit $n\to \infty$, and we derive an exact analytical expression for this quantity. Remarkably, the steady state value of $[\log{\mathcal{F}}(n\tau\to \infty)]/L$ shows memory of non-trivial phase information which is instead hidden in the case of thermodynamic quantities; this conclusion, moreover, is not restricted to 1-dimensional models.

id: 1402.0791
title: Operation of a planar-electrode ion trap array with adjustable RF electrodes
authors: Muir Kumph, Philip Holz, Kirsten Langer, Michael Niedermayr, Michael Brownnutt, Rainer Blatt
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0791
abstract: One path to scaling-up trapped atomic ions for large-scale quantum computing and simulation is to create a two-dimensional array of ion traps in close proximity to each other. A method to control the interactions between nearest neighboring ions is demonstrated and characterized here, using an adjustable radio-frequency (RF) electrode between trapping sites. A printed circuit board planar-electrode ion trap is demonstrated, trapping laser-cooled $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions. RF shuttling and secular-frequency adjustment are shown as a function of the power applied to the addressed RF electrode. The trapped ion's heating rate is measured via a fluorescence recooling method.

id: 1402.0810
title: Measures of disturbance and incompatibility for quantum measurements
authors: Prabha Mandayam, M. D. Srinivas
comments: 11 pages; close to published version; typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0810
abstract: We propose a class of incompatibility measures for quantum observables based on quantifying the effect of a measurement of one observable on the statistics of the outcomes of another. Specifically, for a pair of observables $A$ and $B$ with purely discrete spectra, we compare the following two probability distributions: one resulting from a measurement of $A$ followed by a measurement of $B$ on a given state, and the other obtained from a measurement of $B$ alone on the same state. We show that maximizing the distance between these two distributions over all states yields a valid measure of the incompatibility of observables $A$ and $B$, which is zero if and only if they commute and is strictly greater than zero (and less than or equal to one) otherwise. For finite dimensional systems, we obtain a tight upper bound on the incompatibility of any pair of observables and show that the bound is attained when the observables are totally non-degenerate and associated with mutually unbiased bases. In the process, we also establish an important connection between the incompatibility of a pair of observables and the maximal disturbances due to their measurements. Finally, we indicate how these measures of incompatibility and disturbance can be extended to the more general class of non-projective measurements. In particular, we obtain a non-trivial upper bound on the incompatibility of one L\"uders instrument with another.

id: 1402.0813
title: Observation of quantum interference in the plasmonic Hong-Ou-Mandel effect
authors: G. Di Martino, Y. Sonnefraud, M. S. Tame, S. K¨¦na-Cohen, F. Dieleman, ?. K. ?zdemir, M. S. Kim, S. A. Maier
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 1, 034004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0813
abstract: We report direct evidence of the bosonic nature of surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) in a scattering-based beamsplitter. A parametric down-conversion source is used to produce two indistinguishable photons, each of which is converted into a SPP on a metal-stripe waveguide and then made to interact through a semi-transparent Bragg mirror. In this plasmonic analog of the Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment, we measure a coincidence dip with a visibility of 72%, a key signature that SPPs are bosons and that quantum interference is clearly involved.

id: 1402.0821
title: Atomic form factor for twisted vortex photons interacting with atoms
authors: Pierson Guthrey, Lev Kaplan, J. H. McGuire
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043826 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0821
abstract: The relatively new atomic form factor for twisted (vortex) beams, which carry orbital angular momentum (OAM), is considered and compared to the conventional atomic form factor for plane wave beams that carry only spin angular momentum (SAM). Since the vortex symmetry of a twisted photon is more complex that that of a plane-wave, evaluation of the atomic form factor is also more complex for twisted photons. On the other hand, the twisted photon has additional parameters, including the OAM quantum number, $\ell$, the nodal radial number, $p$, and the Rayleigh range, $z_R$ that determines the cone angle of the vortex. This Rayleigh range may be used as a variable parameter to control, in new ways, the interaction of twisted photons with matter. Here we address: i) normalization of the vortex atomic form factor, ii) displacement of target atoms away from the center of the beam vortex, and iii) formulation of transition probabilities for a variety of photon-atom processes. We attend to features related to new experiments that can test the range of validity and accuracy of calculations of these variations of the atomic form factor. Using the absolute square of the form factor for vortex beams, we introduce a vortex factor that can be directly measured.

id: 1402.0955
title: High visibility on-chip quantum interference of single surface plasmons
authors: Yong-Jing Cai, Ming Li, Xi-Feng Ren, Chang-Ling Zou, Xiao Xiong, Hua-Lin Lei, Bi-Heng Liu, Guo-Ping Guo, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review APPLIED 2, 014004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0955
abstract: Quantum photonic integrated circuits (QPICs) based on dielectric waveguides have been widely used in linear optical quantum computation. Recently, surface plasmons have been introduced to this application because they can confine and manipulate light beyond the diffraction limit. In this study, the on-chip quantum interference of two single surface plasmons was achieved using dielectric-loaded surface-plasmon-polariton waveguides. The high visibility (greater than 90%) proves the bosonic nature of single plasmons and emphasizes the feasibility of achieving basic quantum logic gates for linear optical quantum computation. The effect of intrinsic losses in plasmonic waveguides with regard to quantum information processing is also discussed. Although the influence of this effect was negligible in the current experiment, our studies reveal that such losses can dramatically reduce quantum interference visibility in certain cases; thus, quantum coherence must be carefully considered when designing QPIC devices.

id: 1402.0963
title: The interface of gravity and quantum mechanics illuminated by Wigner phase space
authors: Enno Giese, Wolfgang Zeller, Stephan Kleinert, Matthias Meister, Vincenzo Tamma, Albert Roura, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 69 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0963
abstract: We provide an introduction into the formulation of non-relativistic quantum mechanics using the Wigner phase-space distribution function and apply this concept to two physical situations at the interface of quantum theory and general relativity: (i) the motion of an ensemble of cold atoms relevant to tests of the weak equivalence principle, and (ii) the Kasevich-Chu interferometer. In order to lay the foundations for this analysis we first present a representation-free description of the Kasevich-Chu interferometer based on unitary operators.

id: 1402.0970
title: Intrinsic asymmetry with respect to adversary: new feature of Bell inequalities
authors: P. Horodecki, M. Pawlowski, R. Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Submission to Special Issue of J.Phys.A. celebrating 50 years of Bell-nonlocality
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424016 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0970
abstract: It is known that the local bound of a Bell inequality is sensitive to the knowledge of the external observer about the settings statistics. Here we ask how that sensitivity depends on the structure of that knowledge. It turns out that in some cases it may happen that the local bound is much more sensitive to adversary's knowledge about settings of one party than the other. Remarkably, there are Bell inequalities which are highly asymmetric with respect to the adversary's knowledge about local settings. This property may be viewed as a hidden intrinsic asymmetry of Bell inequalities. Potential implications of the revealed asymmetry effect are also discussed.

id: 1402.0974
title: Device-independent randomness extraction for arbitrarily weak min-entropy source
authors: Jan Bouda, Marcin Pawlowski, Matej Pivoluska, Martin Plesch
comments: 5 pages + 3 pages supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032313 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0974
abstract: Expansion and amplification of weak randomness plays a crucial role in many security protocols. Using quantum devices, such procedure is possible even without trusting the devices used, by utilizing correlations between outcomes of parts of the devices. We show here how to extract random bits with an arbitrarily low bias from a single arbitrarily weak min-entropy source in a device independent setting. To do this we use Mermin devices that exhibit super-classical correlations. Number of devices used scales polynomially in the length of the random sequence $n$. Our protocol is robust, it can tolerate devices that malfunction with a probability dropping polynomially in $n$ at the cost of a minor increase of the number of devices used.

id: 1402.0976
title: About the use of fidelity in continuous variable systems
authors: Antonio Mandarino, Matteo Bina, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages; 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum. Inf. 12, 1461015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0976
abstract: We present examples of continuous variable (CV) states having high fidelity to a given target, say $F > 0.9$ or $F > 0.99$, and still showing striking differences in their physical properties, including classical and quantum states within the set, separable and entangled ones, or nearly Gaussian and strongly non-Gaussian ones. We also show that the phenomenon persists also when one imposes additional constraints on the energy or the squeezing fraction of the states, thus generally questioning the use of fidelity to assess properties of CV systems.

id: 1402.0987
title: An alternative representation for pure symmetric states of qubits and its applications to entanglement classification
authors: A. Mandilara, T. Coudreau, A. Keller, P. Milman
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. The proof for the existence of the decomposition in the case of an even number of qubits is corrected. The connection of the representation with Schmidt measure is mentioned. In the published version the applications on entanglement are highlighted while on this (arXiv) version more emphasis is given on the decomposition itself
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 050302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0987
abstract: We prove that the vast majority of symmetric states of qubits can be decomposed in a unique way into a superposition of spin 1/2 coherent states. For the case of two qubits, the proposed decomposition reproduces the Schmidt decomposition and therefore, in the case of a higher number of qubits, can be considered as its generalization. We analyze the geometrical aspects of the proposed representation and its invariant properties under the action of local unitary and local invertible transformations. As an application, we identify the most general classes of entanglement and representative states for any number of qubits in a symmetric state.

id: 1402.1087
title: The quantum vacuum
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: invited contribution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1087
abstract: The vacuum is the lowest energy state of a field in a certain region of space. This definition implies that no particles can be present in the vacuum state. In classical physics, the only features of vacuum are those of its geometry. For example, in the general theory of relativity the geometry is a dynamical structure that guides the motion of matter, and, in turn, it is bent and curved by the presence of matter. Other than this, the classical vacuum is a structure void of any physical properties, since classically properties are strictly associated with physical objects such as particles and finite-amplitude fields. The situation is very different in quantum physics. As I will show in this paper, the difference stems from the fact that in quantum physics the properties are not strictly tied to objects. We know for example that physical properties come into existence - as values of observables - only when the object is measured. Thus, quantum physics allows us to detach properties from objects. This has consequences: one does not need pre-existing real objects to create actual properties, and indeed under certain perturbations the quantum vacuum produces observable effects such as energy shifts and creation of particles. An open question is if by necessity the vacuum comes with an embedded geometry, and if it is possible to construct viable physical theories in which geometry is detached from the vacuum.

id: 1402.1093
title: Quantum Systems Equilibrate Rapidly for Most Observables
authors: Artur S.L. Malabarba, Luis Pedro Garc¨ªa-Pintos, Noah Linden, Terence C. Farrelly, Anthony J. Short
comments: Main Text: 5 pages, 1 figure. Appendices: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, (2014) 012121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1093
abstract: Considering any Hamiltonian, any initial state, and measurements with a small number of possible outcomes compared to the dimension, we show that most measurements are already equilibrated. To investigate non-trivial equilibration we therefore consider a restricted set of measurements. When the initial state is spread over many energy levels, and we consider the set of observables for which this state is an eigenstate, most observables are initially out of equilibrium yet equilibrate rapidly. Moreover, all two-outcome measurements, where one of the projectors is of low rank, equilibrate rapidly.

id: 1402.1104
title: Unitary Holonomies by Direct Degenerate Projections
authors: Daniel Kuan Li Oi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Author post-print version with rewritten qubit gate example, modified figure, and updated conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1104
abstract: An incomplete quantum measurement can induce non-trivial dynamics between degenerate subspaces, a closed sequence of such projections produces a non-abelian holonomy. We show how to induce unitary evolution on an initial subspace from such finite discrete sequences and also construct a near deterministic repeat-until-success protocol. We also prove necessary and sufficient criteria on the auxiliary Hilbert space dimension required for inducing isometries between between subspaces.

id: 1402.1143
title: Quantum and classical entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Kamil Korzekwa, Matteo Lostaglio, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1143
abstract: How much of the uncertainty in predicting measurement outcomes for non-commuting quantum observables is genuinely quantum mechanical? We provide a natural decomposition of the total entropic uncertainty of two non-commuting observables into a classical component, and an intrinsically quantum mechanical component. We show that the total quantum component in a state is never lower or upper bounded by any state-independent quantities, but instead admits "purity-based" lower bounds that generalize entropic formulations such as the Maassen-Uffink relation. These relations reveal a non-trivial interplay between quantum and classical randomness in any finite-dimensional state.

id: 1402.1158
title: Calculation of low-lying energy levels in quantum mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1158
abstract: This paper proposes a very simple perturbative technique to calculate the low-lying eigenvalues and eigenstates of a parity-symmetric quantum-mechanical potential. The technique is to solve the time-independent Schroedinger eigenvalue problem as a perturbation series in which the perturbation parameter is the energy itself. Unlike nearly all perturbation series for physical problems, for the ground state this perturbation expansion is convergent and, even though the ground-state energy is in general not small compared with 1, the perturbative results are numerically accurate. The perturbation series is divergent for higher energy levels but can be easily evaluated by using methods such as Pade summation.

id: 1402.1195
title: Hybrid optomechanics for Quantum Technologies
authors: Benjamin Rogers, Nicola Lo Gullo, Gabriele De Chiara, G. Massimo Palma, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 33 pages, 24 figures; Invited review paper, accepted for publication in "Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology"
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology 2, 11 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1195
abstract: We review the physics of hybrid optomechanical systems consisting of a mechanical oscillator interacting with both a radiation mode and an additional matter-like system. We concentrate on the cases embodied by either a single or a multi-atom system (a Bose-Einstein condensate, in particular) and discuss a wide range of physical effects, from passive mechanical cooling to the set-up of multipartite entanglement, from optomechanical non-locality to the achievement of non-classical states of a single mechanical mode. The reviewed material showcases the viability of hybridised cavity optomechanical systems as basic building blocks for quantum communication networks and quantum state-engineering devices, possibly empowered by the use of quantum and optimal control techniques. The results that we discuss are instrumental to the promotion of hybrid optomechanical devices as promising experimental platforms for the study of non-classicality at the genuine mesoscopic level.

id: 1402.1217
title: Entanglement, scaling, and the meaning of the wave function in protective measurement
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Tangereen V. B. Claringbold
comments: 8 pages. v2: Corrected Eqs. (12) and (13). To appear in "Protective Measurements and Quantum Reality: Toward a New Understanding of Quantum Mechanics," edited by S. Gao (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2014)
journal: In: S. Gao (ed.), "Protective Measurement and Quantum Reality: Towards a New Understanding of Quantum Mechanics" (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2014), pp. 180-194
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1217
abstract: We examine the entanglement and state disturbance arising in a protective measurement and argue that these inescapable effects doom the claim that protective measurement establishes the reality of the wave function. An additional challenge to this claim results from the exponential number of protective measurements required to reconstruct multi-qubit states. We suggest that the failure of protective measurement to settle the question of the meaning of the wave function is entirely expected, for protective measurement is but an application of the standard quantum formalism, and none of the hard foundational questions can ever be settled in this way.

id: 1402.1240
title: Channel matrix, measurement matrix and collapsed matrix in teleportation
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Jian-Xia Qi, Hai-Yang Song
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1240
abstract: In this paper, two kinds of coefficient matrixes (channel matrix, measurement matrix)associated with the pure state for teleportation are presented, the general relation among channel matrix, measurement matrix and collapsed matrix is obtained. In addition, a criterion for teleportation that the number of coefficient of an unknown state is determined by the rank of the collapsed matrix is given.

id: 1402.1244
title: Deterministic and probabilistic entanglement swapping of nonmaximally entangled states assisted by optimal quantum state discrimination
authors: M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, A. Delgado, O. Jim¨¦nez, L. Neves
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012337 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1244
abstract: We analyze entanglement swapping (ES) of partially entangled pure states with arbitrary Schmidt rank from the perspective of quantum state discrimination. It is shown that the standard deterministic ES protocol is related with an optimal minimum-error strategy. In this case the amount of entanglement of the states resulting from swapping is, in general, lower than the maximum achievable for the quantum channels involved. In this regard, we show that the ES protocol can be probabilistically improved resorting to optimal maximum-confidence (MC) discrimination strategy. Additionally, we show that the success probability of achieving entanglement above a prescribed value from standard deterministic ES can be increased by applying sequential MC measurements.

id: 1402.1259
title: Efficient method for localized functions using domain transformation and Fourier sine series
authors: Raka Jovanovic, Sabre Kais, Fahhad H. Alharbi
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Molecular Physics ahead-of-print (2013): 1-8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1259
abstract: An efficient approach to handle localized states by using spectral methods (SM) in one and three dimensions is presented. The method consists of transformation of the infinite domain to the bounded domain in $(0, \pi)$ and using the Fourier sine series as a set of basis functions for the SM. It is shown that with an appropriate choice of transformation functions, this method manages to preserve the good properties of original SMs; more precisely, superb computational efficiency when high level of accuracy is necessary. This is made possible by analytically exploiting the properties of the transformation function and the Fourier sine series. An especially important property of this approach is the possibility of calculating the Hartree energy very efficiently. This is done by exploiting the positive properties of the sine series as a basis set and conducting an extinctive part of the calculations analytically. We illustrate the efficiency of this method and implement it to solve the Poisson's and Helmholtz equations in both one and three dimensions. The efficiency of the method is verified through a comparison to recently published results for both one and three dimensional problems.

id: 1402.1299
title: Three-level superadiabatic quantum driving
authors: Luigi Giannelli, Ennio Arimondo
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1299
abstract: The superadiabatic quantum driving, producing a perfect adiabatic transfer on a given Hamitonian by introducing an additional Hamiltonian, is theoretically analysed for transfers within a three-level system. Our starting point is the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, realized through different schemes of laser pulses. We determine the superadiabatic correction for each scheme. The fidelity, robustness and transfer time of all the superadiabatic transfer schemes are discussed. We derive that all superadiabatic corrections are based on a $\pi$- (or near-$\pi$)-area pulse coupling between the initial and final states. The benefits in the protocol robustness overcome the difficulties associated to the actual implementation of the three-level superadiabatic transfer.

id: 1402.1352
title: A comment on "Weak value amplification is suboptimal for estimation and detection"
authors: Yaron Kedem
comments: Comment on arXiv:1307.4016
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1352
abstract: By assuming that the weak value is real, Ferrie and Combes render their result inapplicable to weak measurement experiments which are aimed at enhancing precision.

id: 1402.1360
title: Quantum reservoirs with ion chains
authors: B.G. Taketani, T. Fogarty, E. Kajari, Th. Busch, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1360
abstract: Ion chains are promising platforms for studying and simulating quantum reservoirs. One interesting feature is that their vibrational modes can mediate entanglement between two objects which are coupled through the vibrational modes of the chain. In this work we analyse entanglement between the transverse vibrations of two heavy impurity defects embedded in an ion chain, which is generated by the coupling with the chain vibrations. We verify general scaling properties of the defects dynamics and demonstrate that entanglement between the defects can be a stationary feature of these dynamics. We then analyse entanglement in chains composed of tens of ions and propose a measurement scheme which allows one to verify the existence of the predicted entangled state.

id: 1402.1364
title: A universal matter-wave interferometer with optical ionization gratings in the time domain
authors: Philipp Haslinger, Nadine D?rre, Philipp Geyer, Jonas Rodewald, Stefan Nimmrichter, Markus Arndt
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 9, 144 148, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1364
abstract: Matter-wave interferometry with atoms and molecules has attracted a rapidly growing interest over the past two decades, both in demonstrations of fundamental quantum phenomena and in quantum-enhanced precision measurements. Such experiments exploit the non-classical superposition of two or more position and momentum states which are coherently split and rejoined to interfere. Here, we present the experimental realization of a universal near-field interferometer built from three short-pulse single-photon ionization gratings. We observe quantum interference of fast molecular clusters, with a composite de Broglie wavelength as small as 275 fm. Optical ionization gratings are largely independent of the specific internal level structure and are therefore universally applicable to different kinds of nanoparticles, ranging from atoms to clusters, molecules and nanospheres. The interferometer is sensitive to fringe shifts as small as a few nanometers and yet robust against velocity-dependent phase shifts, since the gratings exist only for nanoseconds and form an interferometer in the time domain.

id: 1402.1394
title: QED effects in scattering processes involving atomic bound states: Radiative recombination
authors: Ingvar Lindgren, Sten Salomonson, Johan Holmberg
comments: 16 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1394
abstract: The standard S-matrix formulation cannot generally be used in the treatment of atomic scattering processes, involving bound-state QED effects, due to the special type of singularity that can here appear. This type of singularity can be handled by means of methods designed for structure calculations. It is essentially a consequence of the optical theorem that similar techniques can be applied also in scattering processes. The optical theorem for free particles gives a relation between the effective Hamiltonian and the cross section, a relation that is valid also when bound states are present. We have found that the method with the Covariant-evolution-operator/Green's operator that we have developed primarily for structure problems can here be applied in a rather straightforward manner. The new procedure is demonstrated for the case of radiative recombination.

id: 1402.1423
title: Self-organization into quantized eigenstates of a classical wave driven particle
authors: St¨¦phane Perrard, Matthieu Labousse, Marc Miskin, Emmanuel Fort, Yves Couder
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, Article number: 3219 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1423
abstract: A growing number of dynamical situations involve the coupling of particles or singularities with physical waves. In principle these situations are very far from the wave-particle duality at quantum scale where the wave is probabilistic by nature. Yet some dual characteristics were observed in a system where a macroscopic droplet is guided by a pilot-wave it generates. Here we investigate the behaviour of these entities when confined in a two-dimensional harmonic potential well. A discrete set of stable orbits is observed, in the shape of successive generalized Cassinian-like curves (circles, ovals, lemniscates, trefoils...). Along these specific trajectories, the droplet motion is characterized by a double quantization of the orbit spatial extent and of the angular momentum. We show that these trajectories are intertwined with the dynamical build-up of central wave-field modes. These dual self-organized modes form a basis of eigenstates on which more complex motions are naturally decomposed.

id: 1402.1468
title: Properties of Open Quantum Walks on $\mathbb{Z}$
authors: I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; contribution to FQMT'11: Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics (Prague, Czech Republic, 25-30 July 2011)
journal: Phys. Scr. T151 014077 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1468
abstract: A connection between the asymptotic behavior of the open quantum walk and the spectrum of a generalized quantum coins is studied. For the case of simultaneously diagonalizable transition operators an exact expression for probability distribution of the position of the walker for arbitrary number of steps is found. For a large number of steps the probability distribution consist of maximally two "soliton"-like solution and a certain number of Gaussian distributions. The number of different contributions to the final probability distribution is equal to the number of distinct absolute values in the spectrum of the transition operators. The presence of the zeros in spectrum is an indicator of the "soliton"-like solutions in the probability distribution.

id: 1402.1477
title: Dynamics and non-equilibrium steady state in a system of coupled harmonic oscillators
authors: A. Ghesqui¨¨re, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377, 1682-1692 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1477
abstract: A system of two coupled oscillators, each of them coupled to an independent reservoir, is analysed. The analytical solution of the non-rotating wave master equation is obtained in the high-temperature and weak coupling limits. No thermal entanglement is found in the high-temperature limit. In the weak coupling limit the system converges to an entangled non-equilibrium steady state. A critical temperature for the appearance of quantum correlations is found.

id: 1402.1487
title: Truncated Coherent States and Photon-addition
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures, To appear in Intl. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1487
abstract: A class of states of the electromagnetic field involving superpositions of all the excited states above a specified low energy eigenstate of the electromagnetic field is introduced. These states and the photon-added coherent states are shown to be the limiting cases of a generalized photon-added coherent states. This new class of states is nonclassical, non-Gaussian and has equal uncertainties in the field quadratures. For suitable choices of parameters, these uncertainties are very close to those of the coherent states. Nevertheless, these states exhibit sub-Poissonian photon number distribution, which is a nonclassical feature. Under suitable approximations, these states become the generalized Bernoulli states of the field. Nonclassicality of these states is quantified using their entanglement potential.

id: 1402.1508
title: Quantum key distribution for 10 Gb/s dense wavelength division multiplexing networks
authors: K. A. Patel, J. F. Dynes, M. Lucamarini, I. Choi, A. W. Sharpe, Z. L. Yuan, R. V. Penty, A. J. Shields
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 104, 051123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1508
abstract: We demonstrate quantum key distribution (QKD) with bidirectional 10 Gb/s classical data channels in a single fiber using dense wavelength division multiplexing. Record secure key rates of 2.38 Mbps and fiber distances up to 70 km are achieved. Data channels are simultaneously monitored for error-free operation. The robustness of QKD is further demonstrated with a secure key rate of 445 kbps over 25 km, obtained in the presence of data lasers launching conventional 0 dBm power. We discuss the fundamental limit for the QKD performance in the multiplexing environment.

id: 1402.1604
title: Balance equations-based properties of the Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Antonino Messina, Anna Napoli, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: Accepted for publication on Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1604
abstract: A stationary physical system satisfies peculiar balance conditions involving mean values of appropriate observables. In this paper we show how to deduce such quantitative links, named balance equations, demonstrating as well their usefulness in bringing to light physical properties of the system without solving the Schrodinger equation. The knowledge of such properties in the case of Rabi Hamiltonian is exploit to provide arguments to make easier the variational engineering of the ground state of this model.

id: 1402.1634
title: Exotic quantum holonomy and higher-order exceptional points in quantum kicked tops
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Sang Wook Kim, Taksu Cheon
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. Improved explanations and added references (v2). Fixed typo (v3)
journal: Physical Review E 89, 042904 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1634
abstract: The correspondence between exotic quantum holonomy that occurs in families of Hermitian cycles, and exceptional points (EPs) for non-Hermitian quantum theory is examined in quantum kicked tops. Under a suitable condition, an explicit expressions of the adiabatic parameter dependencies of quasienergies and stationary states, which exhibit anholonomies, are obtained. It is also shown that the quantum kicked tops with the complexified adiabatic parameter have a higher order EP, which is broken into lower order EPs with the application of small perturbations. The stability of exotic holonomy against such bifurcation is demonstrated.

id: 1402.1701
title: Tripartite separability conditions exponentially violated by Gaussian states
authors: E. Shchukin, P. van Loock
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1701
abstract: Starting with a set of conditions for bipartite separability of arbitrary quantum states in any dimension and expressed in terms of arbitrary operators whose commutator is a $c$-number, we derive a hierarchy of conditions for tripartite separability of continuous-variable three-mode quantum states. These conditions have the form of inequalities for higher-order moments of linear combinations of the mode operators. They enable one to distinguish between all possible kinds of tripartite separability, while the strongest violation of these inequalities is a sufficient condition for genuine tripartite entanglement. We construct Gaussian states for which the violation of our conditions grows exponentially with the order of the moments of the mode operators. By going beyond second moments, our conditions are expected to be useful as well for the detection of tripartite entanglement of non-Gaussian states.

id: 1402.1722
title: A Quantum Field Approach for Advancing Optical Coherence Tomography Part I: First Order Correlations, Single Photon Interference, And Quantum Noise
authors: Mark E. Brezinski
comments: Keywords: optical coherence tomography, quantum mechanics, noise, interferometry,vacuum, cardiology, plaque, ophthalmology, arthritis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1722
abstract: Optical coherence tomography has become an important imaging technology in cardiology and ophthalmology, with other applications under investigations. Major advances in optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging are likely to occur through a quantum field approach to the technology. In this paper, which is the first part in a series on the topic, the quantum basis of OCT first order correlations is expressed in terms of full field quantization. Specifically first order correlations are treated as the linear sum of single photon interferences along indistinguishable paths. Photons and the electromagnetic (EM) field are described in terms of quantum harmonic oscillators. While the author feels the study of quantum second order correlations will lead to greater paradigm shifts in the field, addressed in part II, advances from the study of quantum first order correlations are given. In particular, ranging errors are discussed (with remedies) from vacuum fluctuations through the detector port, photon counting errors, and position probability amplitude uncertainty. In addition, the principles of quantum field theory and first order correlations are needed for studying second order correlations in part II.

id: 1402.1768
title: Non-classicality of positive relativistic Wigner function
authors: Andre G. Campos, Renan Cabrera, Denys I. Bondar, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90 034102 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1768
abstract: In nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, Hudsons theorem states that a Gaussian wavefunction is the only pure state corresponding to a positive Wigner function (WF). We explicitly construct non Gaussian Dirac spinors with positive relativistic WF. These pure states are coherent superpositions of particles and antiparticles, while the existence of positive WF exclusive composed of particles is conjectured. These observations challenge a common belief that states with positive WF are classical or have classical analogues, and may open new venues in relativistic quantum information.

id: 1402.1820
title: Path integral Monte Carlo on a lattice: extended states
authors: Mark O'Callaghan, Bruce N. Miller
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1820
abstract: The equilibrium properties of a single quantum particle (qp) interacting with a classical gas for a wide range of temperatures that explore the system's behavior in the classical as well as in the quantum regime is investigated. Both the quantum particle and atoms are restricted to the sites of a one-dimensional lattice. A path-integral formalism is developed within the context of the canonical ensemble in which the quantum particle is represented by a closed, variable-step random walk on the lattice. Monte Carlo methods are employed to determine the system's properties. For the case of a free particle, analytical expressions for the energy, its fluctuations, and the qp-qp correlation function are derived and compared with the Monte Carlo simulations. To test the usefulness of the path integral formalism, the Metropolis algorithm is employed to determine the equilibrium properties of the qp for a periodic interaction potential, forcing the qp to occupy extended states. We consider a striped potential in one dimension, where every other lattice site is occupied by an atom with potential $\epsilon$, and every other lattice site is empty. This potential serves as a stress test for the path integral formalism because of its rapid site-to-site variation. An analytical solution was determined in this case by utilizing Bloch's theorem due to the periodicity of the potential. Comparisons of the potential energy, the total energy, the energy fluctuations and the correlation function are made between the results of the Monte Carlo simulations and the analytical calculations.

id: 1402.1848
title: Protecting sing-photon multi-mode W state from photon loss
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Yang Ou-Yang, Lan Zhou, Lei Wang
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1848
abstract: Single-photon entanglement is of major importance in current quantum communications. However, it is sensitive to photon loss. In this paper, we discuss the protection of single-photon multi-mode W state with noiseless linear amplification. It is shown that the amplification factor is only decided with the transmission coefficient of the variable fiber beam splitters, and it does not change with the number of the spatial mode. This protocol may be useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1402.1850
title: Device and semi-device independent random numbers based on non-inequality paradox
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Marcin Pawlowski, Ramij Rahaman, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1850
abstract: In this work, we propose device independent true random numbers generation protocols based on non-inequality paradoxes such as Hardy's and Cabello's non-locality argument. The efficiency of generating randomness in our protocols are far better than any other proposed protocols certified by CHSH inequality or other non-locality test involving inequalities. Thus, highlighting non-inequality paradox as an important resource for device independent quantum information processing in particular generating true randomness. As a byproduct, we find that the non-local bound of the Cabello's argument with arbitrary dimension is the same as the one achieved in the qubits system. More interestingly, we propose a new dimension witness paradox based on the Cabello's argument, which can be used for constructing semi-device-independent true random numbers generation protocol.

id: 1402.1867
title: Real-time single-molecule imaging of quantum interference
authors: Thomas Juffmann, Adriana Milic, Michael M¨¹llneritsch, Peter Asenbaum, Alexander Tsukernik, Jens T¨¹xen, Marcel Mayor, Ori Cheshnovsky, Markus Arndt
comments: Related video: this http URL
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 7, 297-300 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1867
abstract: The observation of interference patterns in double-slit experiments with massive particles is generally regarded as the ultimate demonstration of the quantum nature of these objects. Such matter-wave interference has been observed for electrons, neutrons, atoms and molecules and it differs from classical wave-physics in that it can even be observed when single particles arrive at the detector one by one. The build-up of such patterns in experiments with electrons has been described as the "most beautiful experiment in physics". Here we show how a combination of nanofabrication and nanoimaging methods allows us to record the full two-dimensional build-up of quantum diffraction patterns in real-time for phthalocyanine molecules PcH2 and their tailored derivatives F24PcH2 with a mass of 1298 amu. A laser-controlled micro-evaporation source was used to produce a beam of molecules with the required intensity and coherence and the gratings were machined in 10 nm thick silicon nitride membranes to reduce the effect of van der Waals forces. Wide-field fluorescence microscopy was used to detect the position of each molecule with an accuracy of 10 nm and to reveal the build-up of a deterministic ensemble interference pattern from stochastically arriving and internally hot single molecules.

id: 1402.1914
title: Manipulation of tripartite-to-bipartite entanglement localization under quantum noises and its application to entanglement distribution
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Shi-Qing Tang, Ji-Bing Yuan, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 025502 (10pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1914
abstract: This paper is to investigate the effects of quantum noises on entanglement localization by taking an example of reducing a three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state to a two-qubit entangled state. We consider, respectively, two types of quantum decoherence, i.e., amplitude-damping and depolarizing decoherence, and explore the best von Neumann measurements on one of three qubits of the triple GHZ state for making the amount of entanglement of the collapsed bipartite state be as large as possible. The results indicate that different noises have different impacts on entanglement localization, and that the optimal strategy for reducing a three-qubit GHZ state to a two-qubit one via local measurements and classical communications in the amplitude-damping case is different from that in the noise-free case. We also show that the idea of entanglement localization could be utilized to improve the quality of bipartite entanglement distributing through amplitude-damping channels. These findings might shed a new light on entanglement manipulations and transformations.

id: 1402.1948
title: Hidden entanglement, system-environment information flow and non-Markovianity
authors: A. D'Arrigo, G. Benenti, R. Lo Franco, G. Falci, E. Paladino
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; proceedings of the conference IQIS 2013, September 24-26 2013, Como, Italy
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 12, 1461005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1948
abstract: It is known that entanglement dynamics of two noninteracting qubits, locally subjected to classical environments, may exhibit revivals. A simple explanation of this phenomenon may be provided by using the concept of hidden entanglement, which signals the presence of entanglement that may be recovered without the help of nonlocal operations. Here we discuss the link between hidden entanglement and the (non-Markovian) flow of classical information between the system and the environment.

id: 1402.1972
title: Constraints on determinism: Bell versus Conway-Kochen
authors: Eric Cator, Klaas Landsman
comments: 10 pages, v2: references [19] and [37] added, footnote 2 expanded. Accepted by Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1972
abstract: Bell's Theorem from 1964 and the (Strong) Free Will Theorem of Conway and Kochen from 2009 both exclude deterministic hidden variable theories (or, in modern parlance, `ontological models') that are compatible with some small fragment of quantum mechanics, admit `free' settings of the archetypal Alice & Bob experiment, and satisfy a locality condition called Parameter Independence. We clarify the relationship between these theorems by giving reformulations of both that exactly pinpoint their resemblance and their differences. Our reformulation imposes determinism in what we see as the only consistent way, in which the `ontological state' initially determines both the settings and the outcome of the experiment. The usual status of the settings as `free' parameters is subsequently recovered from independence assumptions on the pertinent (random) variables. Our reformulation also clarifies the role of the settings in Bell's later generalization of his theorem to stochastic hidden variable theories.

id: 1402.1982
title: Constructing Entanglers in 2-Players--N-Strategies Quantum Game
authors: Y. Avishai
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1982
abstract: In quantum games based on 2-player--$N$-strategies classical games, each player has a quNit (a normalized vector in an $N$-dimensional Hilbert space ${\cal H}_N$) upon which he applies his strategy (a matrix $U \in$ SU(N)). The players draw their payoffs from a state $|\Psi \ra=J^\dagger U_1 \otimes U_2 J|\Psi_0 \ra \in {\cal H}_N \otimes {\cal H}_N $. Here $|\Psi_0 \ra$ and $J$ (both determined by the game's referee) are respectively an {\it unentangled} 2-quNit (pure) state and a unitary operator such that $|\Psi_1 \ra \equiv J|\Psi_0 \ra \in {\cal H}_N \otimes {\cal H}_N$ is {\it partially entangled}. The existence of pure strategy Nash equilibrium in the quantum game is intimately related to the degree of entanglement of $|\Psi_1 \ra$. Hence, it is practical to design the entangler $J=J(\beta)$ to be dependent on a {\it single} real parameter $\beta$ that controls the degree of entanglement of $|\Psi_1 \ra$, such that its von-Neumann entropy $ {\cal S}_N(\beta)$ is continuous and obtains {\it any value} in $[0, \log N]$. Moreover, an efficient control of $ {\cal S}_N(\beta)$ is possible only if $|\Psi_1 \ra$ appears in a Schmidt decomposed form. Designing $J(\beta)$ for $N=2$ is quite standard. Extension to $N>2$ is not obvious, and here we suggest an algorithm to achieve it.

id: 1402.2053
title: Quantum key distribution based on quantum dimension and independent devices
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 032302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2053
abstract: In this paper, we propose a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol based on only a two-dimensional Hilbert space encoding a quantum system and independent devices between the equipment for state preparation and measurement. Our protocol is inspired by the fully device-independent quantum key distribution (FDI-QKD) protocol and the measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol. Our protocol only requires the state to be prepared in the two dimensional Hilbert space, which weakens the state preparation assumption in the original MDI-QKD protocol. More interestingly, our protocol can overcome the detection loophole problem in the FDI-QKD protocol, which greatly limits the application of FDI-QKD. Hence our protocol can be implemented with practical optical components.

id: 1402.2055
title: Imaging of Spatial Correlations of Two-Photon States
authors: Ivan B. Bobrov, Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures; accepted by Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043814 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2055
abstract: We use a fiber based double slit Young interferometer for studying the far-field spatial distribution of the two-photon coincidence rate (coincidence pattern) for various quantum states with different degree of spatial entanglement. The realized experimental approach allows to characterize coincidence patterns for different states without any modifications of the setup. Measurements were carried out with path-entangled and separable states. The dependence of the coincidence pattern on the phase of the interferometer for superposition and separable states was studied. The results have implications for using of nonclassical light in multiphoton imaging, quantum lithography, and studies of phase decoherence.

id: 1402.2078
title: Quantum Domain Wall
authors: Victor Atanasov, Rossen Dandoloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2078
abstract: We demonstrate an equivalence between the elastic membrane shape equation and the quantum mechanical two dimensional Schr\"odinger equation for a (quasi-) particle on the surface of the membrane. Surface curvature is related to an unexpected static formation: the concentration of the expectation value to find a (quasi-) particle where the elastic energy is concentrated, namely where surface curvature has a maximum which represents a particular form of a conformon.

id: 1402.2081
title: Near-unity coupling efficiency of a quantum emitter to a photonic-crystal waveguide
authors: M. Arcari, I. S?llner, A. Javadi, S. Lindskov Hansen, S. Mahmoodian, J. Liu, H. Thyrrestrup, E. H. Lee, J. D. Song, S. Stobbe, P. Lodahl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 093603, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2081
abstract: A quantum emitter efficiently coupled to a nanophotonic waveguide constitutes a promising system for the realization of single-photon transistors, quantum-logic gates based on giant single-photon nonlinearities, and high bit-rate deterministic single-photon sources. The key figure of merit for such devices is the $\beta$-factor, which is the probability for an emitted single photon to be channeled into a desired waveguide mode. We report on the experimental achievement of $\beta = 98.43 \pm 0.04\%$ for a quantum dot coupled to a photonic-crystal waveguide, corresponding to a single-emitter cooperativity of $\eta = 62.7 \pm 1.5$. This constitutes a nearly ideal photon-matter interface where the quantum dot acts effectively as a 1D "artificial" atom, since it interacts almost exclusively with just a single propagating optical mode. The $\beta$-factor is found to be remarkably robust to variations in position and emission wavelength of the quantum dots. Our work demonstrates the extraordinary potential of photonic-crystal waveguides for highly efficient single-photon generation and on-chip photon-photon interaction.

id: 1402.2086
title: Guaranteed Non-quadratic Performance for Quantum Systems with Nonlinear Uncertainties
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A version of this paper is to appear in the Proceedings of the 2014 American Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2086
abstract: This paper presents a robust performance analysis result for a class of uncertain quantum systems containing sector bounded nonlinearities arising from perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. An LMI condition is given for calculating a guaranteed upper bound on a non-quadratic cost function. This result is illustrated with an example involving a Josephson junction in an electromagnetic cavity.

id: 1402.2141
title: Single- and two-qubit quantum gates using superimposed optical lattice potentials
authors: Nils B. J?rgensen, Mark G. Bason, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2141
abstract: Steps towards implementing a collision based two-qubit gate in optical lattices have previously been realized by the parallel merging all pairs of atoms in a periodicity two superlattice. In contrast, we propose an architecture which allows for the merger of a selected qubit pair in a novel long-periodicity superlattice structure consisting of two optical lattices with close-lying periodicity. We numerically optimize the gate time and fidelity, including the effects on neighboring atoms, and in the presence of experimental sources of error. Furthermore, the superlattice architecture induces a differential hyperfine shift, allowing for single-qubit gates. The fastest possible single-qubit gate times, given a maximal tolerable rotation error on the remaining atoms at various values of the lattice wavelengths, are identified. We find that robust single- and two-qubit gates with gate times of a few 100~$\mu$s and with error probabilities $\sim{}10^{-3}$ are possible.

id: 1402.2146
title: Open Quantum Walks: a short introduction
authors: I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; contribution to 6th International Workshop DICE2012, 17-21 September 2012, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), Italy
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 442 012003 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2146
abstract: The concept of open quantum walks (OQW), quantum walks exclusively driven by the interaction with the external environment, is reviewed. OQWs are formulated as discrete completely positive maps on graphs. The basic properties of OQWs are summarised and new examples of OQWs on $\mathbb{Z}$ and their simulation by means of quantum trajectories are presented.

id: 1402.2152
title: Thermal effects on the sudden changes and freezing of correlations between remote atoms in cavity QED network
authors: Vitalie Eremeev, Nellu Ciobanu, Miguel Orszag
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. The comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Optics Letters 39, 2668-2671 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2152
abstract: We investigate the thermal effects on the sudden changes and freezing of the quantum and classical correlations of remote qubits in a cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED) network with losses. We find that the detrimental effect of the thermal reservoirs on the system can be compensated via an efficient coupling of the fiber connecting the two cavities of the system. Furthermore, for certain initial conditions, we find a double sudden transitions in the dynamics of Bures geometrical quantum discord. The second transition tends to disappear at a critical temperature, hence freezing the discord. Finally, we discuss some ideas of the experimental realization of the present proposal.

id: 1402.2163
title: Zeeman shift of an electron trapped near a surface
authors: Robert Bennett, Claudia Eberlein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2163
abstract: Boundary dependent corrections to the spin energy eigenvalues of an electron in a weak magnetic field and confined by a harmonic trapping potential are investigated. The electromagnetic field is quantized through a normal mode expansion obeying the Maxwell boundary conditions at the material surface. We couple the electron to this photon field and a classical magnetic field in the Dirac equation, to which we apply the unitary Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation in order to generate a non-relativistic approximation of the Hamiltonian to the desired order. We obtain the Schr\"odinger eigenstates of an electron subject to double confinement by a harmonic potential and a classical magnetic field, and then use these within second-order perturbation theory to calculate the spin energy shift that is attributable to the surface-modified quantized field. We find that a pole at the eigenfrequency of a set of generalized Landau transitions gives dominant oscillatory contributions to the energy shift in the limit of tight harmonic confinement in a weak magnetic field, which also make the energy shift preferable to the magnetic moment for a physically meaningful interpretation.

id: 1402.2181
title: ¦Ê state solutions for the fermionic massive spin-1/2 particles interacting with double ring-shaped Kratzer and oscillator potentials
authors: K. J Oyewumi, B. J. Falaye, C. A. Onate, O. J. Oluwadare, W. A Yahya
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics E, Vol. 23, No. 1 (2014) 1450005 (26 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2181
abstract: In recent years, an extensive survey on various wave equations of relativistic quantum mechanics with different types of potential interactions has been a line of great interest. In this regime, special attention has been given to the Dirac equation because the spin-1/2 fermions represent the most frequent building blocks of the molecules and atoms. Motivated by the considerable interest in this equation and its relativistic symmetries (spin and pseudospin) in the presence of solvable potential model, we attempt to obtain the relativistic bound states solution of the Dirac equation with double ring-shaped Kratzer and oscillator potentials under the condition of spin and pseudospin symmetries. The solutions are reported for arbitrary quantum number in a compact form. the analytic bound state energy eigenvalues and the associated upper- and lower-spinor components of two Dirac particles have been found. Several typical numerical results of the relativistic eigenenergies have also been presented. We found that the existence or absence of the ring shaped potential potential has strong effects on the eigenstates of the Kratzer and oscillator particles with a wide band spectrum except for the pseudospin-oscillator particles where there exist a narrow band gap.

id: 1402.2210
title: Room temperature single-photon detectors for high bit rate quantum key distribution
authors: L. C. Comandar, B. Fr?hlich, M. Lucamarini, K. A. Patel, A. W. Sharpe, J. F. Dynes, Z. L. Yuan, R. V. Penty, A. J. Shields
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104 , 021101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2210
abstract: We report room temperature operation of telecom wavelength single-photon detectors for high bit rate quantum key distribution (QKD). Room temperature operation is achieved using InGaAs avalanche photodiodes integrated with electronics based on the self-differencing technique that increases avalanche discrimination sensitivity. Despite using room temperature detectors, we demonstrate QKD with record secure bit rates over a range of fiber lengths (e.g. 1.26 Mbit/s over 50 km). Furthermore, our results indicate that operating the detectors at room temperature increases the secure bit rate for short distances.

id: 1402.2219
title: The rebit three-tangle and its relation to two-qubit entanglement
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2219
abstract: The three-tangle is a measure of three-way entanglement in a system of three qubits. For a pure state, it can be understood as the residual entanglement not accounted for by pairwise entanglements between individual qubits. Here we define and evaluate the analogous quantity for three rebits (that is, binary systems in the real-amplitude variant of quantum theory). We find that the resulting formula is the same as in the complex case, except that an overall absolute value sign is missing. As a result, the rebit three-tangle can be negative, expressing the possibility of non-monogamous entanglement in real-amplitude quantum theory (for entanglement based on the convex-roof construction). We then relate the entanglement among three rebits to the entanglement of two qubits, by re-expressing the two-qubit state as a three-rebit state in the ubit model.

id: 1402.2250
title: Counterfactual quantum certificate authorization
authors: Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth, T. Srinivas
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2250
abstract: We present a multi-partite protocol in a counterfactual paradigm. In counterfactual quantum cryptography, secure information is transmitted between two spatially separated parties even when there is no physical travel of particles transferring the information between them. We propose here a tripartite counterfactual quantum protocol for the task of certificate authorization. Here a trusted third party, Alice, authenticates an entity Bob (e.g., a bank) that a client Charlie wishes to securely transact with. The protocol is counterfactual with respect to either Bob or Charlie. We prove its security against a general incoherent attack, where Eve attacks single particles.

id: 1402.2252
title: A principle of quantumness
authors: Ovidiu-Cristinel Stoica
comments: Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2252
abstract: Quantum correlations and other phenomena characteristic to a quantum world can be understood as simply consequences of a principle derived from the postulates of Quantum Mechanics. This explanatory principle states that these phenomena specific to the quantum world are caused by the tension between the constraints, or initial conditions, imposed by incompatible observations. This tension is found to be at the root of Bohr's complementarity, Heisenberg's uncertainty, results concerning nonlocality, contextuality, quantum correlations in time and space. This tension requires the presence of noncommuting observables, but noncommutativity doesn't always lead to the tension, and the two concepts are not exactly the same, as it will be explained and exemplified.

id: 1402.2295
title: Monte Carlo simulation of stoquastic Hamiltonians
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 19 pages. Version 2: more references on complexity of the ferromagnetic Ising model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2295
abstract: Stoquastic Hamiltonians are characterized by the property that their off-diagonal matrix elements in the standard product basis are real and non-positive. Many interesting quantum models fall into this class including the Transverse field Ising Model (TIM), the Heisenberg model on bipartite graphs, and the bosonic Hubbard model. Here we consider the problem of estimating the ground state energy of a local stoquastic Hamiltonian $H$ with a promise that the ground state of $H$ has a non-negligible correlation with some `guiding' state that admits a concise classical description. A formalized version of this problem called Guided Stoquastic Hamiltonian is shown to be complete for the complexity class MA (a probabilistic analogue of NP). To prove this result we employ the Projection Monte Carlo algorithm with a variable number of walkers. Secondly, we show that the ground state and thermal equilibrium properties of the ferromagnetic TIM can be simulated in polynomial time on a classical probabilistic computer. This result is based on the approximation algorithm for the classical ferromagnetic Ising model due to Jerrrum and Sinclair (1993).

id: 1402.2383
title: Sequential Quantum Secret Sharing in a Noisy Environment aided with Weak Measurements
authors: Maharshi Ray, Sourav Chatterjee, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2383
abstract: In this work we give a $(n,n)$-threshold protocol for sequential secret sharing of quantum information for the first time. By sequential secret sharing we refer to a situation where the dealer is not having all the secrets at the same time, at the beginning of the protocol; however if the dealer wishes to share secrets at subsequent phases she/he can realize it with the help of our protocol. First of all we present our protocol for three parties and later we generalize it for the situation where we have $(n>3)$ parties. Further in a much more realistic situation, we consider the sharing of qubits through two kinds of noisy channels, namely the phase damping channel (PDC) and the amplitude damping channel (ADC). When we carry out the sequential secret sharing in the presence of noise we observe that the fidelity of secret sharing at the $k^{th}$ iteration is independent of the effect of noise at the $(k-1)^{th}$ iteration. In case of ADC we have seen that the average fidelity of secret sharing drops down to $\frac{1}{2}$ which is equivalent to a random guess of the quantum secret. Interestingly, we find that by applying weak measurements one can enhance the average fidelity. This increase of the average fidelity can be achieved with certain trade off with the success probability of the weak measurements.

id: 1402.2391
title: Coincidence Landscapes for Three-Channel Linear Optical Networks
authors: Hubert de Guise, Si-Hui Tan, Isaac P. Poulin, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 063819 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2391
abstract: We use permutation-group methods plus SU(3) group-theoretic methods to determine the action of a three-channel passive optical interferometer on controllably delayed single-photon pulse inputs to each channel. Permutation-group techniques allow us to relate directly expressions for rates and, in particular, investigate symmetries in the coincidence landscape. These techniques extend the traditional Hong-Ou-Mandel effect analysis for two-channel interferometry to valleys and plateaus in three-channel interferometry. Our group-theoretic approach is intuitively appealing because the calculus of Wigner $D$ functions partially accounts for permutational symmetries and directly reveals the connections among $D$ functions, partial distinguishability, and immanants.

id: 1402.2411
title: Information transmission in a chaotically kicked spin chain
authors: Lucile Aubourg, David Viennot
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2411
abstract: We study spin chains submitted to disturbed kick trains described by classical dynamical processes. The spin chains are coupled by Heisenberg and Ising models. We consider chaotic processes by using the kick irregularity in the multipartite system (the spin chain). We show that the various couplings transmit differently the chaos disorder along the spin chain and can disturb the horizon of coherence (when the kicks disorder is transmitted to the spin chain). An example of information transmission between the spins of the chain shows the interest of the horizon of coherence.

id: 1402.2413
title: Entanglement witnesses: construction, analysis and classification
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: A review paper; 53 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 483001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2413
abstract: From the physical point of view entanglement witnesses define a universal tool for analysis and classification of quantum entangled states. From the mathematical point of view they provide highly nontrivial generalization of positive operators and they find elegant correspondence with the theory of positive maps in matrix algebras. We concentrate on theoretical analysis of various important notions like (in)decomposability, atomicity, optimality, extremality and exposedness. Several methods of construction are provided as well. Our discussion is illustrated by many examples enabling the reader to see the intricate structure of these objects. It is shown that the theory of entanglement witnesses finds elegant geometric formulation in terms of convex cones and related geometric structures.

id: 1402.2414
title: Information is not physical
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2414
abstract: The standard relations between information theory and thermodynamics are challenged. The Szilard engine is revisited and the bound proposed by Landauer is replaced by a different one which includes errors in information processing. Instead of equivalence, complementarity of information and thermodynamical entropy is advocated. Finally, the relations between error correction and self-replication of states which can carry information are discussed.

id: 1402.2423
title: Interface between path and OAM entanglement for high-dimensional photonic quantum information
authors: Robert Fickler, Radek Lapkiewicz, Marcus Huber, Martin P. J. Lavery, Miles J. Padgett, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Journal reference added. Additonal measurements can be found in the journal version. 5 pages incl. 4 figures plus 2 pages supplementary information
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2423
abstract: Photonics has become a mature field of quantum information science, where integrated optical circuits offer a way to scale the complexity of the setup as well as the dimensionality of the quantum state. On photonic chips, paths are the natural way to encode information. To distribute those high-dimensional quantum states over large distances, transverse spatial modes, like orbital angular momentum (OAM) possessing Laguerre Gauss modes, are favourable as flying information carriers. Here we demonstrate a quantum interface between these two vibrant photonic fields. We create three-dimensional path entanglement between two photons in a non-linear crystal and use a mode sorter as the quantum interface to transfer the entanglement to the OAM degree of freedom. Thus our results show a novel, flexible way to create high-dimensional spatial mode entanglement. Moreover, they pave the way to implement broad complex quantum networks where high-dimensionally entangled states could be distributed over distant photonic chips.

id: 1402.2430
title: Photon localization versus population trapping in a coupled-cavity array
authors: Federico Lombardo, Francesco Ciccarello, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Replaced one plot in Fig. 3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053826 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2430
abstract: We consider a coupled-cavity array (CCA), where one cavity interacts with a two-level atom under the rotating-wave approximation. We investigate the excitation transport dynamics across the array, which arises in the atom's emission process into the CCA vacuum. Due to the known formation of atom-photon bound states, partial field localization and atomic population trapping in general take place. We study the functional dependance on the coupling strength of these two phenomena and show that the threshold values beyond which they become significant are different. As the coupling strength grows from zero, field localization is exhibited first.

id: 1402.2502
title: Measurement-device-independent QKD with Modified Coherent State
authors: Mo Li, Chun-Mei Zhang, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 39,4 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2502
abstract: The measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol has been proposed for the purpose of removing the detector side channel attacks. Due to the multi-photon events of coherent states sources, real-life implementations of MDI-QKD protocol must employ decoy states to beat the photon-number-splitting attack. Decoy states for MDI-QKD based on the weak coherent states have been studied recently. In this paper, we propose to perform MDI-QKD protocol with modified coherent states (MCS) sources. We simulate the performance of MDI-QKD with the decoy states based on MCS sources. And our simulation indicates that both the secure-key rate and transmission distance can be improved evidently with MCS sources.The physics behind this improvement is that the probability of multi-photon events of the MCS is lower than that of weak coherent states while at the same time the probability of single-photon is higher.

id: 1402.2506
title: Three-body radiative heat transfer and Casimir-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium for arbitrary bodies
authors: Riccardo Messina, Mauro Antezza
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2506
abstract: We study the Casimir-Lifshitz force and the radiative heat transfer in a system consisting of three bodies held at three independent temperatures and immersed in a thermal environment, the whole system being in a stationary configuration out of thermal equilibrium. The theory we develop is valid for arbitrary bodies, i.e. for any set of temperatures, dielectric and geometrical properties, and describes each body by means of its scattering operators. For the three-body system we provide a closed-form unified expression of the radiative heat transfer and of the Casimir-Lifshitz force (both in and out of thermal equilibrium). This expression is thus first applied to the case of three planar parallel slabs. In this context we discuss the non-additivity of the force at thermal equilibrium, as well as the equilibrium temperature of the intermediate slab as a function of its position between two external slabs having different temperatures. Finally, we consider the force acting on an atom inside a planar cavity. We show that, differently from the equilibrium configuration, the absence of thermal equilibrium admits one or more positions of minima for the atomic potential. While the corresponding atomic potential depths are very small for typical ground state atoms, they may become particularly relevant for Rydberg atoms, becoming a promising tool to produce an atomic trap.

id: 1402.2527
title: Perturbative Roughness Corrections to Electromagnetic Casimir Energies
authors: Hua Yao Wu, Martin Schaden
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures, new references+corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 105003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2527
abstract: Perturbative corrections to the Casimir free energy due to macroscopic roughness of dielectric interfaces are obtained in the framework of an effective low-energy field theory. It describes the interaction of electromagnetic fields with materials whose plasma frequency $\omega_p$ determines the low-energy scale. The na\"ive perturbative expansion of the single-interface scattering matrix in the variance of the profile is sensitive to short wavelength components of the roughness correlation function. We introduce generalized counter terms that subtract and correct these high-momentum contributions to the loop expansion. To leading order the counter terms are determined by the phenomenological plasmon model. The latter is found to be consistent with the low-energy description. The proximity force approximation is recovered in the limit of long correlation length and gives the upper limit for the roughness correction to the Casimir force. The renormalized low-energy theory is insensitive to the high-momentum behavior of the roughness correlation function. Predictions of the improved theory are compared with those of the unrenormalized model and with experiment. The Casimir interaction of interfaces with low levels of roughness is found to be well reproduced by that of flat parallel plates with the measured reflection coefficients at a distance that is slightly less than the mean separation of the rough surfaces.

id: 1402.2530
title: Subnatural-Linewidth Polarization-Entangled Photon Pairs with Controllable Temporal Length
authors: Kaiyu Liao, Hui Yan, Junyu He, Shengwang Du, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: Title changed, published version, 5 pages + 3 pages Supplemental Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 243602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2530
abstract: We demonstrate an efficient experimental scheme for producing polarization-entangled photon pairs from spontaneous four-wave mixing (SFWM) in a laser-cooled $^{85}$Rb atomic ensemble, with a bandwidth (as low as 0.8 MHz) much narrower than the rubidium atomic natural linewidth. By stabilizing the relative phase between the two SFWM paths in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer configuration, we are able to produce all four Bell states. These subnatural-linewidth photon pairs with polarization entanglement are ideal quantum information carriers for connecting remote atomic quantum nodes via efficient light-matter interaction in a photon-atom quantum network.

id: 1402.2537
title: The Casimir-Polder interaction an atom with spherical shell
authors: Nail Khusnutdinov
comments: Talk given in 8th Alexander Friedmann International Seminar on Gravitation and Cosmology and the Satellite Symposium on the Casimir Effect, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, May 29 - June 4, 2011
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. Conf. Series 3, 564-573 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2537
abstract: The Casimir-Polder and van der Waals interaction energy of an atom with infinitely thin sphere with finite conductivity is investigated in the framework of the hydrodynamic approach. We put the sphere into spherical cavity inside the infinite dielectric media, then calculate the energy of vacuum fluctuations in the context of the zeta-function approach. The energy for a single atom is obtained by rarefying media. The Casimir-Polder expression for an atom and plate is recovered in the limit of the infinite radius of the sphere. Assuming a finite radius of the sphere, the interaction energy of an atom falls down monotonic as third power of distance between atom and sphere for short distance and as seventh power for large distance from the sphere.

id: 1402.2541
title: Quantum optics and cavity QED with quantum dots in photonic crystals
authors: Jelena Vuckovic
comments: Lectures given at Les Houches 101th summer school on "Quantum Optics and Nanophotonics," August 2013. To be published by Oxford University Press. 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2541
abstract: This chapter will primarily focus on the studies of quantum optics with semiconductor, epitaxially grown quantum dots embedded in photonic crystal cavities. We will start by giving brief introductions into photonic crystals and quantum dots, then proceed with the introduction to cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) effects, with a particular emphasis on the demonstration of these effects on the quantum dot-photonic crystal platform. Finally, we will focus on the applications of such cavity QED effects.

id: 1402.2542
title: How difficult it is to prove the quantumness of macroscropic states?
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Gisin, Nicolas Sangouard
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 090403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2542
abstract: General wisdom tells us that if two quantum states are ``macroscopically distinguishable'' then their superposition should be hard to observe. We make this intuition precise and general by quantifying the difficulty to observe the quantum nature of a superposition of two states that can be distinguished without microscopic accuracy. First, we quantify the distinguishability of any given pair of quantum states with measurement devices lacking microscopic accuracy, i.e. measurements suffering from limited resolution or limited sensitivity. Next, we quantify the required stability that have to be fulfilled by any measurement setup able to distinguish their superposition from a mere mixture. Finally, by establishing a relationship between the stability requirement and the ``macroscopic distinguishability'' of the two superposed states, we demonstrate that indeed, the more distinguishable the states are, the more demanding are the stability requirements.

id: 1402.2544
title: PT-restoration via increased loss-gain in PT-symmetric Aubry-Andre model
authors: Charles Liang, Derek D. Scott, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 030102(R) 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2544
abstract: In systems with ``balanced loss and gain'', the PT-symmetry is broken by increasing the non-hermiticity or the loss-gain strength. We show that finite lattices with oscillatory, PT-symmetric potentials exhibit a new class of PT-symmetry breaking and restoration. We obtain the PT phase diagram as a function of potential periodicity, which also controls the location complex eigenvalues in the lattice spectrum. We show that the sum of PT-potentials with nearby periodicities leads to PT-symmetry restoration, where the system goes from a PT-broken state to a PT-symmetric state as the average loss-gain strength is increased. We discuss the implications of this novel transition for the propagation of a light in an array of coupled waveguides.

id: 1402.2545
title: New approach for Damping in a squeezed bath and its time evolution through Complete Class of Gaussian Quasi-distributions
authors: Mohammad Reza Bazrafkan, Seyed Mahmoud Ashrafi, Fahimeh Naghdi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2545
abstract: By virtue of the thermal entangled states representation of density operator and using dissipative interaction picture we solve the master equation of a driven damped harmonic oscillator in a squeezed bath. We show that the essential part of the dynamics can be expressed by the convolution of initial Wigner function with a special kind of normalized Gaussian in phase space and relate the dynamics with the change of Gaussian ordering of density operator.

id: 1402.2556
title: New approach for solving master equations of density operator for the Jaynes Cummings Model with Cavity Damping
authors: Seyed Mahmoud Ashrafi, Mohammad Reza Bazrafkan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2556
abstract: By introducing thermal entangled state representation which can map master equations of density operator in quantum statistics as state vector evolution equations and using dissipative interaction picture we solve the master equation of J-C model with cavity damping. In addition we derive the Wigner function for density operator when the atom is initially in the up state and the cavity mode is in coherent state.

id: 1402.2572
title: Phase state and related nonlinear coherents states
authors: F. Soto-Eguibar, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 1335 - 1338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2572
abstract: We cast the phase state as a $SU(1,1)$ nonlinear coherent state to support the idea that the $SU(1,1)$ representation of the electromagnetic field may be helpful in some instances and to bring forward that it may relate to the phase state problem. We also construct nonlinear coherent states related to the exponential phase operator and provide their corresponding nonlinear annihilation operators. Finally, we discuss the propagation of classical fields through arrays of coupled waveguides that are solved through the use of nonlinear coherent states of $SU(1,1)$ or the exponential phase operator.

id: 1402.2605
title: Information under Lorentz transformation
authors: N. Metwally, H. Eleuch, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 
journal: Published in Commun. Theor. Phys. 61 32-36 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2605
abstract: A general form of a two-qubit system is obtained under the effect of Lorentz transformation. We investigate extensively some important classes in the context of quantum information. It is shown Lorentz transformation causes a decay of entanglement and consequently information loses. On the other hand, it generates entangled states between systems prepared initially in a separable states. The partial entangled states are more robust under Lorentz transformation than maximally entangled states. Therefore the rate of information lose is larger for maximum entangled states compared with that for partially entangled states.

id: 1402.2624
title: Single-Photon Storing in Coupled Non-Markovian Atom-Cavity System
authors: H. Z. Shen, M. Qin, X. X. Yi
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2624
abstract: Taking the non-Markovian effect into account, we study how to store a single photon of arbitrary temporal shape in a single atom coupled to an optical cavity. Our model applies to Raman transitions in three-level atoms with one branch of the transition controlled by a driving pulse, and the other coupled to the cavity. For any couplings of input field to the optical cavity and detunings of the atom from the driving pulse and cavity, we extend the input-output relation from Markovian dynamics to non-Markovian one. For most possible photon shapes, we derive an analytic expression for the driving pulse in order to completely map the input photon into the atom. We find that, the amplitude of the driving pulse depends only on the detuning of the atom from the frequency of the cavity, i.e., the detuning of the atom to the driving pulse has no effect on the strength of the driving pulse.

id: 1402.2716
title: Experimental and theoretical investigation of angular dependence of the Casimir force between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces
authors: A.A. Banishev, J. Wagner, T. Emig, R. Zandi, U. Mohideen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2716
abstract: In the current work we present the complete results for the measurement of normal Casimir force between shallow and smooth sinusoidally corrugated gold coated sphere and a plate at various angles between the corrugations using an atomic force microscope. All measured data were compared with the theoretical approach using the proximity force approximation and theory based on derivative expansion. In both cases real material properties of the surfaces and non-zero temperature were taken into account. Special attention is paid to the description of electrostatic interactions between corrugated surfaces at different angels between corrugations and samples reparation and characterization. The measured forces are found to be in good agreement with the theory including correlation effects of geometry and material properties and deviate significantly from the predictions of the proximity force approximation approach. This provides the quantitative confirmation for the observation of diffraction-type effects that are disregarded within the PFA approach. The obtained results open new opportunities for control of the Casimir effect in micromechanical systems.

id: 1402.2749
title: PT Symmetric Aubry-Andre Model
authors: C. Yuce
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 2024, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2749
abstract: PT symmetric Aubry-Andre model describes an array of N coupled optical waveguides with position dependent gain and loss. We show that the reality of the spectrum depends sensitively on the degree of disorder for small number of lattice sites. We obtain the Hofstadter Butterfly spectrum and discuss the existence of the phase transition from extended to localized states. We show that rapidly changing periodical gain/loss materials almost conserves the total intensity.

id: 1402.2752
title: Quantum Goos-H?nchen shift and tunneling transmission at a curved step potential
authors: Soo-Young Lee, J¨¦r¨¦my Le Deunff, Muhan Choi, Roland Ketzmerick
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89 (2014) 022120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2752
abstract: We study the quantum Goos-H\"{a}nchen (GH) shift and the tunneling transmission at a curved step potential by investigating the time evolution of a wave packet. An initial wave packet is expanded in terms of the eigenmodes of a circular step potential. Its time evolution is then given by the interference of their simple eigenmode oscillations. We show that the GH shift along the step boundary can be explained by the energy-dependent phase loss upon reflection, which is defined by modifying the one-dimensional (1D) effective potential derived from the 2D circular system. We also demonstrate that the tunneling transmission of the wave packet is characterized by a free-space image distant from the boundary. The tunneling transmission exhibits a rather wide angle divergence and the direction of maximum tunneling is slightly rotated from the tangent at the incident point, which is consistent with the time delay of the tunneling wave packet computed in the 1D modified effective potential.

id: 1402.2764
title: Optomechanical analog of two-color electromagnetically-induced transparency: Photon transmission through an optomechanical device with a two-level system
authors: Hui Wang, Xiu Gu, Yu-xi Liu, Adam Miranowicz, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023817 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2764
abstract: Some optomechanical systems can be transparent to a probe field when a strong driving field is applied. These systems can provide an optomechanical analogue of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). We study the transmission of a probe field through a hybrid optomechanical system consisting of a cavity and a mechanical resonator with a two-level system (qubit). The qubit might be an intrinsic defect inside the mechanical resonator, a superconducting artificial atom, or another two-level system. The mechanical resonator is coupled to the cavity field via radiation pressure and to the qubit via the Jaynes-Cummings interaction. We find that the dressed two-level system and mechanical phonon can form two sets of three-level systems. Thus, there are two transparency windows in the discussed system. We interpret this effect as an optomechanical analog of two-color EIT (or double-EIT). We demonstrate how to switch between one and two EIT windows by changing the transition frequency of the qubit. We show that the absorption and dispersion of the system are mainly affected by the qubit-phonon coupling strength and the transition frequency of the qubit.

id: 1402.2771
title: Spatially single-mode source of bright squeezed vacuum
authors: A. M. P¨¦rez, T. Sh. Iskhakov, P. Sharapova, S. Lemieux, O. V. Tikhonova, M. V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2771
abstract: Bright squeezed vacuum, a macroscopic nonclassical state of light, can be obtained at the output of a strongly pumped non-seeded traveling-wave optical parametric amplifier (OPA). By constructing the OPA of two consecutive crystals separated by a large distance we make the squeezed vacuum spatially single-mode without a significant decrease in the brightness or squeezing.

id: 1402.2781
title: Ancilla-assisted measurement of photonic spatial correlations and entanglement
authors: M. Hor-Meyll, J. O. de Almeida, G. B. Lemos, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn
comments: 6 pages (4+Supplementary Information), 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 053602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2781
abstract: We report an experiment in which the moments of spatial coordinates of down-converted photons are measured directly, without having to reconstruct any marginal probability distributions. We use a spatial light modulator to couple the spatial degrees of freedom and the polarization of the fields, which act as ancilla systems. Information about the spatial correlations is obtained via measurements on the ancilla qubits. Among other applications, this new method provides a more efficient technique to identify continuous variable entanglement.

id: 1402.2838
title: Perturbative photon production in a dispersive medium
authors: Francesco Belgiorno, Sergio Luigi Cacciatori, Francesco Dalla Piazza
comments: 9 pages and one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2838
abstract: We investigate photon pair-creation in a dispersive dielectric medium induced by the presence of a spacetime varying dielectric constant. Our aim is to examine the possibility to observe new phenomena of pair creation induced by travelling dielectric perturbations e.g. created by laser pulses by means of the Kerr effect. In this perspective, we adopt a semi-phenomenological version of the Hopfield model in which a space-time dependent dielectric susceptibility appears. We focus our attention on perturbation theory, and provide general formulas for the photon production induced by a local but arbitrarily spacetime dependent refractive index perturbation. As an example, we further explore the case of an uniformly travelling perturbation, and provide examples of purely time-dependent perturbations.

id: 1402.2850
title: Closed sets of correlations: answers from the zoo
authors: Ben Lang, Tamas Vertesi, Miguel Navascues
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2850
abstract: We investigate the conditions under which a set of multipartite nonlocal correlations can describe the distributions achievable by distant parties conducting experiments in a consistent universe. Several questions are posed, such as: are all such sets "nested", i.e., contained into one another? Are they discrete or do they form a continuum? How many of them are supraquantum? Are there non-trivial polytopes among them? We answer some of these questions or relate them with established conjectures in complexity theory by introducing a "zoo" of physically consistent sets which can be characterized efficiently via either linear or semidefinite programming. As a bonus, we use the zoo to derive, for the first time, concrete impossibility results in nonlocality distillation.

id: 1402.2866
title: A Waveguide Frequency Converter Connecting Rubidium Based Quantum Memories to the Telecom C-Band
authors: Boris Albrecht, Pau Farrera, Xavier Fernandez-Gonzalvo, Matteo Cristiani, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 3376 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2866
abstract: The ability to coherently convert the frequency and temporal waveform of single and entangled photons will be crucial to interconnect the various elements of future quantum information networks. Of particular importance in this context is the quantum frequency conversion of photons emitted by material systems able to store quantum information, so called quantum memories. There have been significant efforts to implement quantum frequency conversion using non linear crystals, with non classical light from broadband photon pair sources and solid state emitters. However, so far, solid state quantum frequency conversion has not been achieved with long lived optical quantum memories. Here, we demonstrate an ultra low noise solid state photonic quantum interface suitable for connecting quantum memories based on atomic ensembles to the telecommunication fiber network. The interface is based on an integrated waveguide non linear device. As a proof of principle, we convert heralded single photons at 780nm emitted by a rubidium based quantum memory to the telecommunication wavelength of 1552nm. We demonstrate a significant amount of non classical correlations between the converted photon and the heralding signal.

id: 1402.2870
title: Discriminating Strength: a bona fide measure of non-classical correlations
authors: A. Farace, A. De Pasquale, L. Rigovacca, V. Giovannetti
comments: 11+2 pages, 2+1 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 073010 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2870
abstract: A new measure of non-classical correlations is introduced and characterized. It tests the ability of using a state {\rho} of a composite system AB as a probe for a quantum illumination task [e.g. see S. Lloyd, Science 321, 1463 (2008)], in which one is asked to remotely discriminate among the two following scenarios: i) either nothing happens to the probe, or ii) the subsystem A is transformed via a local unitary R_A whose properties are partially unspecified when producing {\rho}. This new measure can be seen as the discrete version of the recently introduced Intereferometric Power measure [G. Girolami et al. e-print arXiv:1309.1472 (2013)] and, at least for the case in which A is a qubit, it is shown to coincide (up to an irrelevant scaling factor) with the Local Quantum Uncertainty measure of D. Girolami, T. Tufarelli, and G. Adesso, Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240402 (2013). Analytical expressions are derived which allow us to formally prove that, within the set of separable configurations, the maximum value of our non-classicality measure is achieved over the set of quantum-classical states (i.e. states {\rho} which admit a statistical unravelling where each element of the associated ensemble is distinguishable via local measures on B).

id: 1402.2879
title: Nano-optical observation of cascade switching in a parallel superconducting nanowire single photon detector
authors: Robert M. Heath, Michael G. Tanner, Alessandro Casaburi, Mark G. Webster, Lara San Emeterio Alvarez, Zoe H. Barber, Richard J. Warburton, Robert H. Hadfield
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 063503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2879
abstract: The device physics of parallel-wire superconducting nanowire single photon detectors is based on a cascade process. Using nano-optical techniques and a parallel wire device with spatially-separate pixels we explicitly demonstrate the single- and multi-photon triggering regimes. We develop a model for describing efficiency of a detector operating in the arm-trigger regime. We investigate the timing response of the detector when illuminating a single pixel and two pixels. We see a change in the active area of the detector between the two regimes and find the two-pixel trigger regime to have a faster timing response than the one-pixel regime.

id: 1402.2897
title: Quantum-enhanced tomography of unitary processes
authors: Xiao-Qi Zhou, Hugo Cable, Rebecca Whittaker, Peter Shadbolt, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Jonathan C.F. Matthews
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2897
abstract: A fundamental task in photonics is to characterise an unknown optical process, defined by properties such as birefringence, spectral response, thickness and flatness. Amongst many ways to achieve this, single-photon probes can be used in a method called quantum process tomography (QPT). Furthermore, QPT is an essential method in determining how a process acts on quantum mechanical states. For example for quantum technology, QPT is used to characterise multi-qubit processors and quantum communication channels; across quantum physics QPT of some form is often the first experimental investigation of a new physical process, as shown in the recent research into coherent transport in biological mechanisms. However, the precision of QPT is limited by the fact that measurements with single-particle probes are subject to unavoidable shot noise---this holds for both single photon and laser probes. In situations where measurement resources are limited, for example, where the process is rapidly changing or the time bandwidth is constrained, it becomes essential to overcome this precision limit. Here we devise and demonstrate a scheme for tomography which exploits non-classical input states and quantum interferences; unlike previous QPT methods our scheme capitalises upon the possibility to use simultaneously multiple photons per mode. The efficiency---quantified by precision per photon used---scales with larger photon number input states. Our demonstration uses four-photon states and our results show a substantial reduction of statistical fluctuations compared to traditional QPT methods---in the ideal case one four-photon probe state yields the same amount of statistical information as twelve single probe photons.

id: 1402.2898
title: One-electron atoms in Schwarzschild Universe Bare and electromagnetically dressed cases
authors: Abolfazl Jafari
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2898
abstract: The quantum mechanics of one-electron atoms in presence of external electromagnetic fields is considered within Weber's framework. The results by the earlier studies are extended in the sense that for given source and field configurations the changes of the electromagnetic potentials due to the curved background are included. The formulation is specialized to the case with Schwarzschild background. The first corrections to the energy levels for bare atom and Zeeman/Stark effects are calculated, exhibiting possible changes in meaningful orders.

id: 1402.2911
title: Three-body Physics in Strongly Correlated Spinor Condensates
authors: V. E. Colussi, Chris H. Greene, J. P. D'Incao
comments: 5+ pages, 1 figure, and supplementary material (4 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 045302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2911
abstract: Spinor condensates have proven to be a rich area for probing many-body phenomena richer than that of an ultracold gas consisting of atoms restricted to a single spin state. In the strongly correlated regime, the physics controlling the possible novel phases of the condensate remains largely unexplored, and few-body aspects can play a central role in the properties and dynamics of the system through manifestations of Efimov physics. The present study solves the three-body problem for bosonic spinors using the hyperspherical adiabatic representation and characterizes the multiple families of Efimov states in spinor systems as well as their signatures in the scattering observables relevant for spinor condensates. These solutions exhibit a rich array of possible phenomena originating in universal few-body physics, which can strongly affect the spin dynamics and three-body mean-field contributions for spinor condensates. The collisional aspects of atom-dimer spinor condensates are also analyzed and effects are predicted that derive from Efimov physics.

id: 1402.2919
title: Quantum-mechanical measurement apparatus as a black box
authors: A. V. Nenashev
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2919
abstract: It is commonly believed that the most general type of a quantum-mechanical measurement is one described by a positive-operator valued measure (POVM). In the present paper, this statement is proven for any measurements on quantum systems with a finite-dimensional state space. The proof of POVM nature of an arbitrary measurement is carried out using a purely operational approach, which is fully ignorant about what is inside a measurement apparatus. The suggested approach gives also an opportunity to derive the Born rule.

id: 1402.2932
title: Free-space quantum key distribution by rotation-invariant twisted photons
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Anna Sponselli, Sergei Slussarenko, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 060503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2932
abstract: Twisted photons are photons carrying a well-defined nonzero value of orbital angular momentum (OAM). The associated optical wave exhibits a helical shape of the wavefront (hence the name) and an optical vortex at the beam axis. The OAM of light is attracting a growing interest for its potential in photonic applications ranging from particle manipulation, microscopy and nanotechnologies, to fundamental tests of quantum mechanics, classical data multiplexing and quantum communication. Hitherto, however, all results obtained with optical OAM were limited to laboratory scale. Here we report the experimental demonstration of a link for free-space quantum communication with OAM operating over a distance of 210 meters. Our method exploits OAM in combination with optical polarization to encode the information in rotation-invariant photonic states, so as to guarantee full independence of the communication from the local reference frames of the transmitting and receiving units. In particular, we implement quantum key distribution (QKD), a protocol exploiting the features of quantum mechanics to guarantee unconditional security in cryptographic communication, demonstrating error-rate performances that are fully compatible with real-world application requirements. Our results extend previous achievements of OAM-based quantum communication by over two orders of magnitudes in the link scale, providing an important step forward in achieving the vision of a worldwide quantum network.

id: 1402.2934
title: A quantum limit on the information retrievable from an image
authors: Lev B Levitin, Tommaso Toffoli
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2934
abstract: We consider the physical limitations imposed on the information content of an image by the wave and quantum nature of light, when the image is obtained by illuminating a reflecting or transmitting planar object by natural---i.e., fully thermalized---light, or by observation of an object emitting incoherent (thermal) radiation. The discreteness of the degrees of freedom and the statistical properties of thermal radiation are taken into account. We derive the maximum amount of information that can be retrieved from the object. This amount is always finite and is proportional to the area of the object, the solid angle under which the entrance pupil of the receiver is seen from the object, and the time of observation. An explicit expression for the information in the case where the information recorded by the receiver obeys Planck's spectral distribution is obtained. The amount of information per photon of recorded radiation is a universal numerical constant, independent of the parameters of observation.

id: 1402.2944
title: A low-noise frequency down-conversion to the telecommunication band for a quantum communication based on NV centers in diamond
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Toshiki Kobayashi, Shuto Yasui, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Mikio Fujiwara, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2944
abstract: We demonstrate a low-noise frequency down-conversion of photons at 637 nm to the telecommunication band at 1587 nm by the difference frequency generation in a periodically-poled lithium niobate. An internal conversion efficiency of the converter is estimated to be 0.44 at the maximum which is achieved by a pump power of 430 mW, whereas a rate of internal background photons caused by the strong cw pump laser is estimated to be 9 kHz/mW within a bandwidth of about 1 nm. By using the experimental values related to the intrinsic property of the converter, and using the intensity correlation and the average photon number of a 637-nm input light pulse, we derive the intensity correlation of a converted telecom light pulse. Then we discuss feasibility of a single-photon frequency conversion to the telecommunication band for a long-distance quantum communication based on NV centers in diamond.

id: 1402.2954
title: Reply to comments on "Weak value amplification is suboptimal for estimation and detection"
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joshua Combes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2954
abstract: Kedem's Comment [arXiv:1402.1352] on our Letter [PRL 112, 040406 (2014)] contains only the criticism that we did not consider complex weak values. We point out follow-up work which uses the same analysis as in our Letter, includes any type of weak values and draws the same conclusion. Vaidman's Comment [arXiv:1402.0199] on our Letter can be deconstructed in to two distinct logical fallacies.

id: 1402.3031
title: Controlled Secret Sharing Protocol using a Quantum Cloning Circuit
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Sovik Roy, Shantanav Chakraborty, V. Jagadish, M. K. Haris, Atul Kumar
comments: This is a modified version of the previous work quant-ph/arXiv:1011.2868
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc. 13, 2071 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3031
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of controlling the success probability of a secret sharing protocol using a quantum cloning circuit. The cloning circuit is used to clone the qubits containing the encoded information and {\em en route} to the intended receipients. The success probability of the protocol depends on the cloning parameters used to clone the qubits. We also establish a relation between the concurrence of initially prepared state, entanglement of the mixed state received by the receivers after cloning scheme and the cloning parameters of cloning machine.

id: 1402.3037
title: Efficient fault-tolerant decoding of topological color codes
authors: Ashley M. Stephens
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3037
abstract: Topological color codes defined by the 4.8.8 semiregular lattice feature geometrically local check operators and admit transversal implementation of the entire Clifford group, making them promising candidates for fault-tolerant quantum computation. Recently, several efficient algorithms for decoding the syndrome of color codes were proposed. Here, we modify one of these algorithms to account for errors affecting the syndrome, applying it to the family of triangular 4.8.8 color codes encoding one logical qubit. For a three-dimensional bit-flip channel, we report a threshold error rate of 0.0208(1), compared with 0.0305(4) previously reported for an integer-program-based decoding algorithm. When we account for circuit details, this threshold is reduced to 0.00143(1) per gate, compared with 0.00672(1) per gate for the surface code under an identical noise model.

id: 1402.3075
title: Decoherence of trapped bosons by buffer gas scattering: What length scales matter?
authors: Lukas Gilz, Luis Rico-P¨¦rez, James R. Anglin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052131 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3075
abstract: We ask and answer a basic question about the length scales involved in quantum decoherence: how far apart in space do two parts of a quantum system have to be, before a common quantum environment decoheres them as if they were entirely separate? We frame this question specifically in a cold atom context. How far apart do two populations of bosons have to be, before an environment of thermal atoms of a different species (`buffer gas') responds to their two particle numbers separately? An initial guess for this length scale is the thermal coherence length of the buffer gas; we show that a standard Born-Markov treatment partially supports this guess, but predicts only inverse-square saturation of decoherence rates with distance, and not the much more abrupt Gaussian behavior of the buffer gas's first-order coherence. We confirm this Born-Markov result with a more rigorous theory, based on an exact solution of a two-scatterer scattering problem, which also extends the result beyond weak scattering. Finally, however, we show that when interactions within the buffer gas reservoir are taken into account, an abrupt saturation of the decoherence rate does occur, exponentially on the length scale of the buffer gas's mean free path.

id: 1402.3102
title: Measurement Uncertainty: Reply to Critics
authors: P. Busch, P. Lahti, R.F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3102
abstract: In a recent publication [PRL 111, 160405 (2013)] we proved a version of Heisenberg's error-disturbance tradeoff. This result was in apparent contradiction to claims by Ozawa of having refuted these ideas of Heisenberg. In a direct reaction [arXiv:1308.3540] Ozawa has called our work groundless, and has claimed to have found both a counterexample and an error in our proof. Here we answer to these allegations. We also comment on the submission [arXiv:1307.3604] by Rozema et al, in which our approach is unfavourably compared to that of Ozawa.

id: 1402.3108
title: Breakdown of Surface Code Error Correction Due to Coupling to a Bosonic Bath
authors: Adrian Hutter, Daniel Loss
comments: 16+4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3108
abstract: We consider a surface code suffering decoherence due to coupling to a bath of bosonic modes at finite temperature and study the time available before the unavoidable breakdown of error correction occurs as a function of coupling and bath parameters. We derive an exact expression for the error rate on each individual qubit of the code, taking spatial and temporal correlations between the errors into account. We investigate numerically how different kinds of spatial correlations between errors in the surface code affect its threshold error rate. This allows us to derive the maximal duration of each quantum error correction period by studying when the single-qubit error rate reaches the corresponding threshold. At the time when error correction breaks down, the error rate in the code can be dominated by the direct coupling of each qubit to the bath, by mediated subluminal interactions, or by mediated superluminal interactions. For a 2D Ohmic bath, the time available per quantum error correction period vanishes in the thermodynamic limit of a large code size $L$ due to induced superluminal interactions, though it does so only like $1/\sqrt{\log L}$. For all other bath types considered, this time remains finite as $L\rightarrow\infty$.

id: 1402.3152
title: Fusing multiple W states simultaneously with a Fredkin gate
authors: Fatih Ozaydin, Sinan Bugu, Can Yesilyurt, Azmi Ali Altintas, Mark Tame, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3152
abstract: We propose an optical scheme to prepare large-scale entangled networks of W states. The scheme works by simultaneously fusing three polarization-encoded W states of arbitrary size via accessing only one qubit of each W state. It is composed of a Fredkin gate (controlled-swap gate), two fusion gates [as proposed in New J. Phys. 13, 103003 (2011)] and an H-polarized ancilla photon. Starting with three $n$-qubit W states, the scheme prepares a new W state with $3(n-1)$-qubits after postselection if both fusion gates operate successfully, i.e. a four-fold coincidence at the detectors. The proposed scheme reduces the cost of creating arbitrarily large W states considerably when compared to previously reported schemes.

id: 1402.3165
title: PT-symmetric optical superlattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: final version, 7 figures, to appear in J.Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 165302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3165
abstract: The spectral and localization properties of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric optical superlattices, either infinitely extended or truncated at one side, are theoretically investigated, and the criteria that ensure a real energy spectrum are derived. The analysis is applied to the case of superlattices describing a complex ($\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric) extension of the Harper Hamiltonian in the rational case.

id: 1402.3190
title: Heating the coffee by looking at it. Or why quantum measurements are physical processes
authors: Pablo Echenique-Robba
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3190
abstract: Using a very simple Gedankenexperiment, I remind the reader that (contrary to what happens in classical mechanics) the energy of a quantum system is inevitably increased just by performing (some) textbook measurements on it. As a direct conclusion, this means that some measurements require the expenditure of a finite amount of energy to be carried out. I also argue that this makes it very difficult to regard measurements as disembodied, immaterial, informational operations, and it forces us to look at them as physical processes just like any other one.

id: 1402.3192
title: Wavefront sensing reveals optical coherence
authors: B. Stoklasa, L. Motka, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Close to the accepted version in Nature Communications
journal: Nat. Commun. 5:3275 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3192
abstract: Wavefront sensing is a set of techniques providing efficient means to ascertain the shape of an optical wavefront or its deviation from an ideal reference. Due to its wide dynamical range and high optical efficiency, the Shack-Hartmann is nowadays the most widely used of these sensors. Here, we show that it actually performs a simultaneous measurement of position and angular spectrum of the incident radiation and, therefore, when combined with tomographic techniques previously developed for quantum information processing, the Shack-Hartmann can be instrumental in reconstructing the complete coherence properties of the signal. We confirm these predictions with an experimental characterization of partially coherent vortex beams, a case that cannot be treated with the standard tools. This seems to indicate that classical methods employed hitherto do not fully exploit the potential of the registered data.

id: 1402.3222
title: Detection of Chern numbers and entanglement in topological two-species systems through subsystem winding numbers
authors: James de Lisle, Suvabrata De, Emilio Alba, Alex Bullivant, Juan J. Garcia-Ripoll, Ville Lahtinen, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 083022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3222
abstract: Topological invariants, such as the Chern number, characterise topological phases of matter. Here we provide a method to detect Chern numbers in systems with two distinct species of fermion, such as spins, orbitals or several atomic states. We analytically show that the Chern number can be decomposed as a sum of component specific winding numbers, which are themselves physically observable. We apply this method to two systems, the quantum spin Hall insulator and a staggered topological superconductor, and show that (spin) Chern numbers are accurately reproduced. The measurements required for constructing the component winding numbers also enable one to probe the entanglement spectrum with respect to component partitions. Our method is particularly suited to experiments with cold atoms in optical lattices where time-of-flight images can give direct access to the relevant observables.

id: 1402.3253
title: Open Quantum Random Walks
authors: S. Attal, F. Petruccione, C. Sabot, I. Sinayskiy
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, Vol. 147, Issue 4, pp 832-852 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3253
abstract: A new model of quantum random walks is introduced, on lattices as well as on finite graphs. These quantum random walks take into account the behavior of open quantum systems. They are the exact quantum analogues of classical Markov chains. We explore the "quantum trajectory" point of view on these quantum random walks, that is, we show that measuring the position of the particle after each time- step gives rise to a classical Markov chain, on the lattice times the state space of the particle. This quantum trajectory is a simulation of the master equation of the quantum random walk. The physical pertinence of such quantum random walks and the way they can be concretely realized is discussed. Differences and connections with the already well-known quantum random walks, such as the Hadamard random walk, are established.

id: 1402.3279
title: Variations on Classical and Quantum Extractors
authors: Mario Berta, Omar Fawzi, Volkher B. Scholz, Oleg Szehr
comments: 7 pages, slightly enhanced IEEE ISIT submission including all the proofs
journal: Information Theory (ISIT), 2014 IEEE International Symposium on (pages 1474 - 1478)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3279
abstract: Many constructions of randomness extractors are known to work in the presence of quantum side information, but there also exist extractors which do not [Gavinsky {\it et al.}, STOC'07]. Here we find that spectral extractors $\psi$ with a bound on the second largest eigenvalue $\lambda_{2}(\psi^{\dagger}\circ\psi)$ are quantum-proof. We then discuss fully quantum extractors and call constructions that also work in the presence of quantum correlations decoupling. As in the classical case we show that spectral extractors are decoupling. The drawback of classical and quantum spectral extractors is that they always have a long seed, whereas there exist classical extractors with exponentially smaller seed size. For the quantum case, we show that there exists an extractor with extremely short seed size $d=O(\log(1/\epsilon))$, where $\epsilon>0$ denotes the quality of the randomness. In contrast to the classical case this is independent of the input size and min-entropy and matches the simple lower bound $d\geq\log(1/\epsilon)$.

id: 1402.3285
title: Can the clicks of the detectors provide a complete description of Nature?
authors: Ovidiu Cristinel Stoica
comments: Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3285
abstract: No matter how counterintuitive they are, quantum phenomena are all simple consequences of the laws of Quantum Mechanics. It is not needed to extend the theory with hidden mechanisms or additional principles to explain what Quantum Mechanics already predicts. This indubitable fact is often taken as supporting the view that all we can know about the universe comes from the outcomes of the quantum observations. According to this view, we can even learn the physical laws, in particular the properties of the space, particles, fields, and interactions, solely from the outcomes of the quantum observations. In this article it is shown that the unitary symmetry of the laws of Quantum Mechanics imposes severe restrictions in learning the physical laws of the universe, if we know only the observables and their outcomes.

id: 1402.3289
title: Quantum interference between independent reservoirs in open quantum systems
authors: Ching-Kit Chan, Guin-Dar Lin, Susanne F. Yelin, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3289
abstract: When a quantum system interacts with multiple reservoirs, the environmental effects are usually treated in an additive manner. We show that this assumption breaks down for non-Markovian environments that have finite memory times. Specifically, we demonstrate that quantum interferences between independent environments can qualitatively modify the dynamics of the physical system. We illustrate this effect with a two level system coupled to two structured photonic reservoirs, discuss its origin using a non-equilibrium diagrammatic technique, and show an example when the application of this interference can result in an improved dark state preparation in a $\lambda$ system.

id: 1402.3321
title: On the entanglement of formation of two-mode Gaussian states: a compact form
authors: Yahya Akbari-Kourbolagh, Hoda Alijanzadeh-Boura
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3321
abstract: We define an EPR-like uncertainty by using the Duan et al.'s inequality which gives a necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of any two-mode Gaussian state. We show that for a given amount of entanglement, the uncertainty is minimized by pure two-mode squeezed states. Using this fact, we write the optimal pure-state decomposition and derive a compact form for the entanglement of formation of two-mode Gaussian states. For illustration purposes, we consider symmetric and squeezed thermal states as special cases and evaluate their entanglement of formation explicitly. For the symmetric states, our result is in agreement with the Giedke et al.'s one. To our knowledge, our work is the first one which gives the exact entanglement of formation of two-mode squeezed thermal states explicitly.

id: 1402.3349
title: Quantum Walks of Two Interacting Particles in One Dimension
authors: Xizhou Qin, Yongguan Ke, Xiwen Guan, Zhibing Li, Natan Andrei, Chaohong Lee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3349
abstract: We investigate continuous-time quantum walks of two indistinguishable particles (bosons, fermions or hard-core bosons) in one-dimensional lattices with nearest-neighbour interactions. The two interacting particles can undergo independent- and/or co-walking dependent on both quantum statistics and interaction strength. We find that two strongly interacting particles may form a bound state and then co-walk like a single composite particle with statistics-dependent propagation speed. Such an effective single-particle picture of co-walking is analytically derived in the context of degenerate perturbation and the analytical results are well consistent with direct numerical simulation. In addition to implementing universal quantum computation and observing bound states, two-particle quantum walks offer a novel route to detecting quantum statistics. Our theoretical results can be examined in experiments of light propagations in two-dimensional waveguide arrays or spin-impurity dynamics of ultracold atoms in one-dimensional optical lattices.

id: 1402.3389
title: Controllable single-photon frequency converter via a one-dimensional waveguide
authors: Z. H. Wang, Lan Zhou, Yong Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3389
abstract: We propose a single-photon frequency converter via a one-dimensional waveguide coupled to a $V$-type atom. The on-demand classical field allows the atom to absorb a photon with a given frequency, then emit a photon with a carried frequency different from the absorbed one. The absorption and re-emission process is formulated as a two-channel scattering process. We study the single-photon frequency conversion mechanism in two kinds of realistic physical system: coupled resonator waveguide with cosine dispersion relation and an optical waveguide with linear dispersion relation respectively. We find that the driving field prefers weak in coupled resonator waveguide but arbitrarily strong in optical waveguide to achieve an optical transfer efficiency.

id: 1402.3425
title: Quantum reconstruction of the mutual coherence function
authors: Z. Hradil, J. Rehacek, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3425
abstract: Light is a major carrier of information about the world around us, from the microcosmos to the macrocosmos. The present methods of detection are sensitive both to robust features, such as intensity, or polarization, and to more subtle effects, such as correlations. Here we show how wave front detection, which allows for registering the direction of the incoming wave flux at a given position, can be used to reconstruct the mutual coherence function when combined with some techniques previously developed for quantum information processing.

id: 1402.3442
title: Test of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering Based on the All-Versus-Nothing Proof
authors: Chunfeng Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, Xiang-Jun Ye, Hong-Yi Su, Dong-Ling Deng, Zhenghan Wang, C. H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Accepted by Scientific Reports
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4291 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3442
abstract: In comparison with entanglement and Bell nonlocality, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering is a newly emerged research topic and in its incipient stage. Although Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering has been explored via violations of steering inequalities both theoretically and experimentally, the known inequalities in the literatures are far from well-developed. As a result, it is not yet possible to observe Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering for some steerable mixed states. Recently, a simple approach was presented to identify Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering based on all-versus-nothing argument, offering a strong condition to witness the steerability of a family of two-qubit (pure or mixed) entangled states. In this work, we show that the all-versus-nothing proof of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering can be tested by measuring the projective probabilities. Through the bound of probabilities imposed by local-hidden-state model, the proposed test shows that steering can be detected by the all-versus-nothing argument experimentally even in the presence of imprecision and errors. Our test can be implemented in many physical systems and we discuss the possible realizations of our scheme with non-Abelian anyons and trapped ions.

id: 1402.3449
title: Quantum Pushdown Automata with a Garbage Tape
authors: Masaki Nakanishi
comments: v3 Proofs in Section 4 were revised. Introduction was revised. Theorem 1 was removed since Theorem 2, which is Theorem 1 in the new version, is the generalization of it. Several other minor revisions were made. v4 The well-formedness conditions were added. Several other minor revisions were made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3449
abstract: Several kinds of quantum pushdown automaton models have been proposed, and their computational power is investigated intensively. However, for some quantum pushdown automaton models, it is not known whether quantum models are at least as powerful as classical counterparts or not. This is due to the reversibility restriction. In this paper, we introduce a new quantum pushdown automaton model that has a garbage tape. This model can overcome the reversibility restriction by exploiting the garbage tape to store popped symbols. We show that the proposed model can simulate any quantum pushdown automaton with a classical stack as well as any probabilistic pushdown automaton. We also show that our model can solve a certain promise problem exactly while deterministic pushdown automata cannot. These results imply that our model is strictly more powerful than classical counterparts in the setting of exact, one-sided error and non-deterministic computation.

id: 1402.3454
title: Effective dephasing for a qubit interacting with a transverse classical field
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: revised version, 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform 12, 1461004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3454
abstract: We address the dynamics of a qubit interacting with a quasi static random classical field having both a longitudinal and a transverse component and described by a Gaussian stochastic process. In particular, we analyze in details the conditions under which the dynamics may be effectively approximated by a unitary operation or a pure dephasing without relaxation.

id: 1402.3481
title: Hide it to see it better: a robust setup to probe the thermal Casimir effect
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 5 pages, 2 encapsulated figures, final version accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 240401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3481
abstract: We describe a Casimir setup consisting of two aligned sinusoidally corrugated Ni surfaces, one of which is "hidden" by a thin opaque layer of gold with a flat exposed surface. The gold layer acts as a low-pass filter that allows for a clean observation of the controversial thermal Casimir force between the corrugations, with currently available Casimir apparatuses. The proposed scheme of measurement, based on the phase-dependent modulation of the Casimir force, requires no electrostatic calibrations of the apparatus, and is unaffected by uncertainties in the knowledge of the optical properties of the surfaces. This scheme should allow for an unambiguous discrimination between alternative theoretical prescriptions that have been proposed in the literature for the thermal Casimir effect.

id: 1402.3525
title: Decoherence: a closed-system approach
authors: Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi, Mario Castagnino
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: S. Fortin et al (2014) Brazilian Journal of Physics 44, pp 138-153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3525
abstract: The aim of this paper is to review a new perspective about decoherence, according to which formalisms originally devised to deal just with closed or open systems can be subsumed under a closed-system approach that generalizes the traditional account of the phenomenon. This new viewpoint dissolves certain conceptual difficulties of the orthodox open-system approach but, at the same time, shows that the openness of the quantum system is not the essential ingredient for decoherence, as commonly claimed. Moreover, when the behavior of a decoherent system is described from a closed-system perspective, the account of decoherence turns out to be more general than that supplied by the open-system approach, and the quantum-to-classical transition defines unequivocally the realm of classicality by identifying the observables with classical-like behavior.

id: 1402.3535
title: Equivalence classes and local asymptotic normality in system identification for quantum Markov chains
authors: Madalin Guta, Jukka Kiukas
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3535
abstract: We consider the problems of identifying and estimating dynamical parameters of an ergodic quantum Markov chain, when only the stationary output is accessible for measurements. On the identifiability question, we show that the knowledge of the output state completely fixes the dynamics up to a `coordinate transformation' consisting of a multiplication by a phase and a unitary conjugation of the Kraus operators. When the dynamics depends on an unknown parameter, we show that the latter can be estimated at the `standard' rate $n^{-1/2}$, and give an explicit expression of the (asymptotic) quantum Fisher information of the output, which is proportional to the Markov variance of a certain `generator'. More generally, we show that the output is locally asymptotically normal, i.e. it can be approximated by a simple quantum Gaussian model consisting of a coherent state whose mean is related to the unknown parameter. As a consistency check we prove that a parameter related to the `coordinate transformation' unitaries, has zero quantum Fisher information.

id: 1402.3539
title: Quantum search with non--orthogonal entangled states
authors: T. Douce, A. Ketterer, A. Keller, T. Coudreau, P. Milman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3539
abstract: We propose a classical to quantum information encoding system using non--orthogonal states and apply it to the problem of searching an element in a quantum list. We show that the proposed encoding scheme leads to an exponential gain in terms of quantum resources and, in some cases, to an exponential gain in the number of runs of the protocol. In the case where the output of the search algorithm is a quantum state with some particular physical property, the searched state is found with a single query to the introduced oracle. If the obtained quantum state must be converted back to classical information, our protocol demands a number of repetitions that scales polynomially with the number of qubits required to encode a classical string.

id: 1402.3583
title: Sequences of projective measurements in generalized probabilistic models
authors: Matthias Kleinmann
comments: 14 pages; accepted version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 455304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3583
abstract: We define a simple rule that allows to describe sequences of projective measurements for a broad class of generalized probabilistic models. This class embraces quantum mechanics and classical probability theory, but, for example, also the hypothetical Popescu-Rohrlich box. For quantum mechanics, the definition yields the established L\"uders's rule, which is the standard rule how to update the quantum state after a measurement. In the general case it can be seen as the least disturbing or most coherent way to perform sequential measurements. As example we show that Spekkens's toy model is an instance of our definition. We also demonstrate the possibility of strong post-quantum correlations as well as the existence of triple-slit correlations for certain non-quantum toy models.

id: 1402.3607
title: One-way Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering
authors: Joseph Bowles, Tam¨¢s V¨¦rtesi, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 200402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3607
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering is a form of quantum nonlocality exhibiting an inherent asymmetry between the observers, Alice and Bob. We present a simple class of entangled two-qubit states which are one-way steerable, considering arbitrary projective measurements. That is, Alice can steer the state of Bob, but it is impossible for Bob to steer Alice's state. This shows that the nonlocal properties of entangled states can be fundamentally asymmetrical.

id: 1402.3626
title: Strong converse for the quantum capacity of the erasure channel for almost all codes
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages, submission to the 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography (TQC 2014)
journal: Proceedings of the 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography, LIPIcs vol. 27, pages 52-66, May 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3626
abstract: A strong converse theorem for channel capacity establishes that the error probability in any communication scheme for a given channel necessarily tends to one if the rate of communication exceeds the channel's capacity. Establishing such a theorem for the quantum capacity of degradable channels has been an elusive task, with the strongest progress so far being a so-called "pretty strong converse". In this work, Morgan and Winter proved that the quantum error of any quantum communication scheme for a given degradable channel converges to a value larger than $1/\sqrt{2}$ in the limit of many channel uses if the quantum rate of communication exceeds the channel's quantum capacity. The present paper establishes a theorem that is a counterpart to this "pretty strong converse". We prove that the large fraction of codes having a rate exceeding the erasure channel's quantum capacity have a quantum error tending to one in the limit of many channel uses. Thus, our work adds to the body of evidence that a fully strong converse theorem should hold for the quantum capacity of the erasure channel. As a side result, we prove that the classical capacity of the quantum erasure channel obeys the strong converse property.

id: 1402.3713
title: Open-System Dynamics of Entanglement
authors: Leandro Aolita, Fernando de Melo, Luiz Davidovich
comments: 76 pages, 32 figures. Long-overdue review article. Preliminary version. Comments are very welcome
journal: Reports on Progress in Physics 78, 042001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3713
abstract: One of the greatest challenges in quantum information processing is the coherent control over quantum systems with an ever increasing number of particles. Within this endeavor, the harnessing of many-body entanglement against the effects of the environment is a pressing issue. Besides being an important concept from a fundamental standpoint, entanglement is recognized as a crucial resource for performance enhancements over classical methods. Understanding and controlling many-body entanglement in open systems may have implications in quantum computing, quantum simulations, secure quantum communication, quantum metrology, our understanding of the quantum-to-classical transition, and other important questions of quantum foundations. Here we present an overview of recent theoretical and experimental efforts to underpin the dynamics of entanglement in open quantum systems. Entanglement is taken as a dynamic quantity, and we survey how it evolves due to the interaction of the entangled system with its surroundings. We analyze several scenarios, corresponding to different families of states and environments, which render a diversity of dynamical behaviors. Contrary to single-particle quantities, that typically vanish only asymptotically in time, entanglement may disappear at a finite time. Moreover, important classes of entanglement show an exponential decay with the system size when subject to local noise, posing yet another threat to the already challenging scaling of quantum technologies. Results for the local and global noise cases are summarized. Robustness-enhancement techniques, scaling laws, statistical and geometrical aspects of multipartite-entanglement decay are also reviewed; all in order to give a broad picture of entanglement dynamics in open quantum systems addressed to both theorists and experimentalists inside and outside the field of quantum information.

id: 1402.3733
title: Contrary Inferences in Consistent Histories and a Set Selection Criterion
authors: Petros Wallden
comments: 13 pages. Accepted in Found Phys. V2 expanded after reviewing
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 1195 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3733
abstract: The best developed formulation of closed system quantum theory that handles multiple-time statements, is the consistent (or decoherent) histories approach. The most important weaknesses of the approach is that it gives rise to many different consistent sets, and it has been argued that a complete interpretation should be accompanied with a natural mechanism leading to a (possibly) unique preferred consistent set. The existence of multiple consistent sets becomes more problematic because it allows the existence of contrary inferences (Kent 1997). We analyse the conceptual difficulties that arise from the existence of multiple consistent sets and provide a suggestion for a natural set selection criterion. This criterion does not lead to a unique physical consistent set, however it evades the existence of consistent sets with contrary inferences. The criterion is based on the concept of preclusion and the requirement that probability one propositions and their inferences should be noncontextual. The allowed consistent sets turn-out to be compatible with coevents which are the ontology of an alternative, histories based, formulation.

id: 1402.3760
title: Stationary three-dimensional entanglement via dissipative Rydberg pumping
authors: Xiao-Qiang Shao, Jia-Bin You, Tai-Yu Zheng, C. H. Oh, Shou Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3760
abstract: We extend the recent result of bipartite Bell singlet [Carr and Saffman, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf111}, (2013)] to a stationary three-dimensional entanglement between two-individual neutral Rydberg atoms. This proposal makes full use of the coherent dynamics provided by Rydberg mediated interaction and the dissipative factor originating from the spontaneous emission of Rydberg state. The numerical simulation of the master equation reveals that both the target state negativity ${\cal N}(\hat\rho_{\infty})$ and fidelity ${\cal F}(\hat\rho_{\infty})$ can exceed 99.90%. Furthermore, a steady three-atom singlet state $|S_3\rangle$ is also achievable based on the same mechanism.

id: 1402.3761
title: Bound states in the continuum in PT-symmetric optical lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 2 figures, to appear in Opt. Lett
journal: Optics Letters 39, 1697-1700 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3761
abstract: Bound states in the continuum (BIC), i.e. normalizable modes with an energy embedded in the continuous spectrum of scattered states, are shown to exist in certain optical waveguide lattices with $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric defects. Two distinct types of BIC modes are found: BIC states that exist in the broken $\mathcal{PT}$ phase, corresponding to exponentially-localized modes with either exponentially damped or amplified optical power; and BIC modes with sub-exponential spatial localization that can exist in the unbroken $\mathcal{PT}$ phase as well. The two types of BIC modes at the $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking point behave rather differently: while in the former case spatial localization is lost and the defect coherently radiates outgoing waves with an optical power that linearly increases with the propagation distance, in the latter case localization is maintained and the optical power increase is quadratic.

id: 1402.3764
title: Optical lattices with exceptional points in the continuum
authors: S. Longhi, G. Della Valle
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, slightly revised revision (corrected misprints in caption of Figs.2 and 4 from published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052132 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3764
abstract: The spectral, dynamical and topological properties of physical systems described by non-Hermitian (including $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric) Hamiltonians are deeply modified by the appearance of exceptional points and spectral singularities. Here we show that exceptional points in the continuum can arise in non-Hermitian (yet admitting and entirely real-valued energy spectrum) optical lattices with engineered defects. At an exceptional point, the lattice sustains a bound state with an energy embedded in the spectrum of scattered states, similar to the von-Neumann Wigner bound states in the continuum of Hermitian lattices. However, the dynamical and scattering properties of the bound state at an exceptional point are deeply different from those of ordinary von-Neumann Wigner bound states in an Hermitian system. In particular, the bound state in the continuum at an exceptional point is an unstable state that can secularly grow by an infinitesimal perturbation. Such properties are discussed in details for transport of discretized light in a $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric array of coupled optical waveguides, which could provide an experimentally accessible system to observe exceptional points in the continuum.

id: 1402.3768
title: Quantum entanglement, Calabi-Yau manifolds, and noncommutative algebraic geometry
authors: Shinnosuke Okawa, Kazushi Ueda
comments: 11 pages. Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3768
abstract: We relate SLOCC equivalence classes of qudit states to moduli spaces of Calabi-Yau manifolds equipped with a collection of line bundles. The cases of 3 qutrits and 4 qubits are also related to noncommutative algebraic geometry.

id: 1402.3785
title: Optimal joint measurement of two observables of a qubit
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3785
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty relations for measurement quantify how well we can jointly measure two complementary observables and have attracted much experimental and theoretical attention recently. Here we provide an exact tradeoff between the worst-case errors in measuring jointly two observables of a qubit, i.e., all the allowed and forbidden pairs of errors, especially asymmetric ones, are exactly pinpointed. For each pair of optimal errors we provide an optimal joint measurement that is realizable without introducing any ancilla and entanglement. Possible experimental implementations are discussed and Toronto experiment [Rozema et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100404 (2012)] can be readily adapted to an optimal joint measurement of two orthogonal observables.

id: 1402.3787
title: Thermodynamic cycle in a cavity optomechanical system
authors: Hou Ian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3787
abstract: A cavity optomechanical system is initiated by a radiation pressure of a cavity field onto a mirror element acting as a quantum resonator. This radiation pressure can control the thermodynamic character of the mirror to some extent, such as cooling its effective temperature. Here we show that by properly engineering the spectral density of a thermal heat bath that interacts with a quantum system, the evolution of the quantum system can be effectively turned on and off. Inside a cavity optomechanical system, when the heat bath is realized by a multi-mode oscillator modeling of the mirror, this on-off effect translates to infusion or extraction of heat energy in and out of the cavity field, facilitating a four-stroke thermodynamic cycle.

id: 1402.3825
title: On the Local and Global Approaches to Quantum Transport and Violation of the Second-law of Thermodynamics
authors: Amikam Levy, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: EPL 107 20004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3825
abstract: Clausius' statement of the second law of thermodynamics reads: Heat will flow spontaneously from a hot to cold reservoir. This statement should hold for transport of energy through a quantum network composed of small subsystems each coupled to a heat reservoir. When the coupling between nodes is small, it seems reasonable to construct a local master equation for each node in contact with the local reservoir. The energy transport through the network is evaluated by calculating the energy flux after the individual nodes are coupled. We show by analysing the most simple network composed of two quantum nodes coupled to a hot and cold reservoir, that the local description can result in heat flowing from cold to hot reservoirs, even in the limit of vanishing coupling between the nodes. A global derivation of the master equation which prediagonalizes the total network Hamiltonian, and within this framework derives the master equation, is always consistent with the second-law of thermodynamics.

id: 1402.3837
title: Tunneling of slow quantum packets through the high Coulomb barrier
authors: A.V. Dodonov, V.V. Dodonov
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3837
abstract: We study the tunneling of slow quantum packets through a high Coulomb barrier. We show that the transmission coefficient can be quite different from the standard expression obtained in the plane wave (WKB) approximation (and larger by many orders of magnitude), even if the momentum dispersion is much smaller than the mean value of the momentum.

id: 1402.3840
title: Remainder Terms for Some Quantum Entropy Inequalities
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 6 pages, latex
journal: Jour. Math. Phys 55, 042201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3840
abstract: We consider three von Neumann entropy inequalities: subadditivity; Pinsker's inequality for relative entropy; and the monotonicity of relative entropy. For these we state conditions for equality, and we prove some new error bounds away from equality, including an improved version of Pinsker's inequality.

id: 1402.3858
title: Applications of the Adversary Method in Quantum Query Algorithms
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: PhD Thesis, 169 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3858
abstract: In the thesis, we use a recently developed tight characterisation of quantum query complexity, the adversary bound, to develop new quantum algorithms and lower bounds. Our results are as follows: * We develop a new technique for the construction of quantum algorithms: learning graphs. * We use learning graphs to improve quantum query complexity of the triangle detection and the $k$-distinctness problems. * We prove tight lower bounds for the $k$-sum and the triangle sum problems. * We construct quantum algorithms for some subgraph-finding problems that are optimal in terms of query, time and space complexities. * We develop a generalisation of quantum walks that connects electrical properties of a graph and its quantum hitting time. We use it to construct a time-efficient quantum algorithm for 3-distinctness.

id: 1402.3864
title: Note on invariant properties of a quantum system placed into thermodynamic environment
authors: A. Y. Klimenko
comments: 18 pages 2 figures
journal: Physica A 398, 2014, pp. 65-75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3864
abstract: The analysis conducted in this work indicates that interactions of a CP-violating (and CPT-preserving) quantum system with a thermodynamic environment can produce the impression of a CPT violation in the system. This conclusion is reasonably consistent with the results reported for decays of neutral K-mesons.

id: 1402.3872
title: More nonlocality with less entanglement in a tripartite atom-optomechanical system
authors: Jing Zhang, Tiancai Zhang, Andr¨¦ Xuereb, David Vitali, Jie Li
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in the special issue "Quantum and Hybrid Mechanical Systems - From Fundamentals to Applications" in Annalen der Physik
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 527, 147 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3872
abstract: We study quantum effects in hybrid atomic optomechanics in a system comprising a cloud of atoms and a mobile mirror mediated by a single-mode cavity. Tripartite nonlocality is observed in the atom-light-mirror system, as demonstrated by the violation of the Mermin-Klyshko (MK) inequality. It has been shown [C. Genes, et al., PRA 77, 050307 (R) (2008)] that tripartite entanglement is optimized when the cavity is resonant with the anti-Stokes sideband of the driving laser and the atomic frequency matches the Stokes one. However, we show that this is not the case for the nonlocality. The MK function achieves {\it minima} when the atoms are resonant with both the Stokes and anti-Stokes sidebands, and unexpectedly, we find violation of the MK inequality only in a parameter region where entanglement is far from being maximum. A negative relation exists between nonlocality and entanglement with consideration of the possibility of bipartite nonlocality in the violation of the MK inequality. We also study the non-classicality of the mirror by post-selected measurements, e.g. Geiger-like detection, on the cavity and/or the atoms. We show that with feasible parameters Geiger-like detection on the atoms can effectively induce mechanical non-classicality.

id: 1402.3877
title: Particles, waves and trajectories: 210 years after Young's experiment
authors: A. S. Sanz
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures; based on a talk at the Conference "Emergent Quantum Mechanics" (Vienna, Oct 3-6, 2013)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 504, 012028 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3877
abstract: Mermin's "shut up and calculate!" somehow summarizes the most widely accepted view on quantum mechanics. This conception has led to a rather constraining way to think and understand the quantum world. Nonetheless, a closer look at the principles and formal body of this theory shows that, beyond longstanding prejudices, there is still room enough for alternative tools. This is the case, for example, of Bohmian mechanics. As it is discussed here, there is nothing contradictory or wrong with this hydrodynamical representation, which enhances the dynamical role of the quantum phase to the detriment (to some extent) of the probability density. The possibility to describe the evolution of quantum systems in terms of trajectories or streamlines is just a direct consequence of the fact that Bohmian mechanics (quantum hydrodynamics) is just a way to recast quantum mechanics in the more general language of the theory of characteristics. Misconceptions concerning Bohmian mechanics typically come from the fact that many times it is taken out of context and considered as an alternative theory to quantum mechanics, which is not the case. On the contrary, an appropriate contextualization shows that Bohmian mechanics constitutes a serious and useful representation of quantum mechanics, at the same level as any other quantum picture, such as Schr\"odinger's, Heisenberg's, Dirac's, or Feynman's, for instance. To illustrate its versatility, two phenomena will be briefly considered, namely dissipation and light interference.

id: 1402.3878
title: Effective Markovian description of decoherence in bound systems
authors: A. S. Sanz
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Can. J. Chem. 92, 168 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3878
abstract: Effective descriptions accounting for the evolution of quantum systems that are acted on by a bath are desirable. As the number of bath degrees of freedom increases and full quantum simulations turn out computationally prohibitive, simpler models become essential to understand and gain an insight into the main physical mechanisms involved in the system dynamics. In this regard, vibrational decoherence of an I$_2$ diatomics is tackled here within the framework of Markovian quantum state diffusion. The I$_2$ dynamics are analyzed in terms of an effective decoherence rate, $\Lambda$, and the specific choice of the initial state, in particular, Gaussian wave packets and two-state superpositions. It is found that, for Markovian baths, the relevant quantity regarding decoherence is the product of friction ($\eta$) and temperature ($T$); there is no distinction between varying one or the other. It is also observed that decoherence becomes faster as the energy levels involved in the system state correspond to higher eigenvalues. This effect is due to a population redistribution during the dynamical process and an eventual irreversible loss of the initial coherence. These results have been compared with those available in the literature from more detailed semiclassical IVR simulations, finding a good agreement.

id: 1402.3932
title: Quantum two-players games, Entanglement and Nash equilibria
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek-Laso¨½
comments: 8 pages, no figures, two references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3932
abstract: The two-players N strategies games quantized according to the Eisert-Lewenstein-Wilkens scheme [1] are considered. It is shown that in the case of maximal entanglement no nontrivial pure Nash equilibrium exists. The proof relies on simple geometric properties of "chiral" group $SU (N)\times SU(N)$ and is based on considering the stability subgroup of the initial state of the game. The explicit forms of neither the gate operator nor the payoff matrix are necessary.

id: 1402.3992
title: Certifying nonlocality from separable marginals
authors: Tamas Vertesi, Wieslaw Laskowski, Karoly F. Pal
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3992
abstract: Imagine three parties, Alice, Bob, and Charlie, who share a state of three qubits such that all two-party reduced states A-B,A-C, and B-C are separable. Suppose that they have information only about these marginals but not about the global state. According to recent results, there exists an example for a set of three separable two-party reduced states that is only compatible with an entangled global state. In this paper, we show a stronger result, by exhibiting separable two-party reduced states A-B, A-C, and B-C, such that any global state compatible with these marginals is nonlocal. Hence, we obtain that nonlocality of multipartite states can be certified from information only about separable marginals.

id: 1402.4023
title: Context-invariant quasi hidden variable (qHV) modelling of all joint von Neumann measurements for an arbitrary Hilbert space
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: Edited version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56, 032201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4023
abstract: We prove the existence for each Hilbert space of the two new quasi hidden variable (qHV) models, statistically noncontextual and context-invariant, reproducing all the von Neumann joint probabilities via nonnegative values of real-valued measures and all the quantum product expectations -- via the qHV (classical-like) average of the product of the corresponding random variables. In a context-invariant model, a quantum observable X can be represented by a variety of random variables satisfying the functional condition required in quantum foundations but each of these random variables equivalently models X under all joint von Neumann measurements, regardless of their contexts. The proved existence of this model negates the general opinion that, in terms of random variables, the Hilbert space description of all the joint von Neumann measurements for dimH>2 can be reproduced only contextually. The existence of a statistically noncontextual qHV model, in particular, implies that every N-partite quantum state admits a local quasi hidden variable (LqHV) model introduced in [Loubenets, J. Math. Phys. 53, 022201 (2012)]. The new results of the present paper point also to the generality of the quasi-classical probability model proposed in [Loubenets, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 185306 (2012)].

id: 1402.4070
title: On properties of Karlsson Hadamards and sets of Mutually Unbiased Bases in dimension six
authors: Andrew Maxwell, Stephen Brierley
comments: As published version
journal: Linear Algebra and Its Applications (2015), pp. 296-306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4070
abstract: The complete classification of all 6x6 complex Hadamard matrices is an open problem. The 3-parameter Karlsson family encapsulates all Hadamards that have been parametrised explicitly. We prove that such matrices satisfy a non-trivial constraint conjectured to hold for (almost) all 6x6 Hadamard matrices. Our result imposes additional conditions in the linear programming approach to the mutually unbiased bases problem recently proposed by Matolcsi et al. Unfortunately running the linear programs we were unable to conclude that a complete set of mutually unbiased bases cannot be constructed from Karlsson Hadamards alone.

id: 1402.4120
title: Random-Unitary Depolarization and the Reversibility of All Quantum Channels
authors: Samuel R. Hedemann
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4120
abstract: A simple method for finding random-unitary (RU) state-independent Kraus decompositions of the depolarization channel for any $n$-level quantum system is presented. Furthermore, these RU Kraus operators are shown to be Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) complete or overcomplete in all dimensions, which enables the proof that all quantum channels are reversible, by virtue of the reversibility of any RU decomposition and the HS completeness of these Kraus operators. The major result of this work is that all quantum channels are reversible, and a universal reversal operation is presented along with several examples showing the full reversibility of some important $n$-level quantum channels.

id: 1402.4145
title: Unbounded entanglement can be needed to achieve the optimal success probability
authors: Laura Man?inska, Thomas Vidick
comments: In the new submission we have generalized our construction and provided more examples of games with properties similar to Hardy's game. Some proofs have been simplified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4145
abstract: Quantum entanglement is known to provide a strong advantage in many two-party distributed tasks. We investigate the question of how much entanglement is needed to reach optimal performance. For the first time we show that there exists a purely classical scenario for which no finite amount of entanglement suffices. To this end we introduce a simple two-party nonlocal game $H$, inspired by Lucien Hardy's paradox. In our game each player has only two possible questions and can provide bit strings of any finite length as answer. We exhibit a sequence of strategies which use entangled states in increasing dimension $d$ and succeed with probability $1-O(d^{-c})$ for some $c\geq 0.13$. On the other hand, we show that any strategy using an entangled state of local dimension $d$ has success probability at most $1-\Omega(d^{-2})$. In addition, we show that any strategy restricted to producing answers in a set of cardinality at most $d$ has success probability at most $1-\Omega(d^{-2})$. Finally, we generalize our construction to derive similar results starting from any game $G$ with two questions per player and finite answers sets in which quantum strategies have an advantage.

id: 1402.4210
title: Nonadiabatic Dynamics of a Dissipative Two-level System
authors: Canran Xu, Amrit Poudel, Maxim G. Vavilov
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4210
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-level system described by a slowly varying Hamiltonian and weakly coupled to the Ohmic environment. We follow the Bloch--Redfield perturbative approach to include the effect of the environment on qubit evolution and take into account modification of the spectrum and matrix elements of qubit transitions due to time-dependence of the Hamiltonian. This formalism is applied to two problems. (1) We consider a qubit, or a spin-1/2, in a rotating magnetic field. We show that once the rotation starts, the spin has a component perpendicular to the rotation plane of the field that initially wiggles and eventually settles to the value proportional to the product of angular rotation velocity of the field and the Berry curvature. (2) We re-examine the Landau--Zener transition for a system coupled to environment at arbitrary temperature. We show that as temperature increases, the thermal excitation and relaxation become leading processes responsible for transition between states of the system. We also apply the Lindblad master equations to these two problems and compare results with those obtained from the Bloch--Redfield equations.

id: 1402.4234
title: Time-Optimal Universal Control of Two-Level Systems under Strong Driving
authors: Chen Avinadav, Ran Fischer, Paz London, David Gershoni
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 245311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4234
abstract: We experimentally study the time-optimal construction of arbitrary single-qubit rotations under a single strong driving field of finite amplitude. Using radiation-dressed states of nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond, we realize a strongly-driven two-level system and achieve driving frequencies four times larger than its Larmor frequency. We implement time optimal universal rotations on this system, characterize their performance using quantum process tomography, and demonstrate a dual-axis ac magnetometry sequence with pulses at sub-Larmor time scales. Our results pave the way for applying fast qubit control and high-density pulse schemes in the fields of quantum information processing and quantum metrology.

id: 1402.4235
title: Signifying quantum benchmarks for qubit teleportation and secure communication using Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering inequalities
authors: M D Reid
comments: 10 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A 88, 062338 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4235
abstract: The demonstration of quantum teleportation of a photonic qubit from Alice to Bob usually relies on data conditioned on detection at Bob's location. I show that Bohm's Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox can be used to verify that the quantum benchmark for qubit teleportation has been reached, without postselection. This is possible for scenarios insensitive to losses at the generation station, and with efficiencies of $\eta_{B}>1/3$ for the teleportation process. The benchmark is obtained, if it is shown that Bob can {}"steer" Alice's record of the qubit as stored by Charlie. EPR steering inequalities involving $m$ measurement settings can also be used to confirm quantum teleportation, for efficiencies $\eta_{B}>1/m$, if one assumes trusted detectors for Charlie and Alice. Using proofs of monogamy, I show that two-setting EPR steering inequalities can signify secure teleportation of the qubit state.

id: 1402.4245
title: Irreducible many-body correlations in topologically ordered systems
authors: Yang Liu, Bei Zeng, D.L. Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4245
abstract: Topologically ordered systems exhibit large-scale correlation in their ground states, which may be characterized by quantities such as topological entanglement entropy. We propose that the concept of irreducible many-body correlation, the correlation that cannot be implied by all local correlations, may also be used as a signature of topological order. In a topologically ordered system, we demonstrate that for a part of the system with holes, the reduced density matrix exhibits irreducible many-body correlation which becomes reducible when the holes are removed. The appearance of these irreducible correlations then represents a key feature of topological phase. We analyze the many-body correlation structures in the ground state of the toric code model in an external magnetic field, and show that the topological phase transition is signaled by the irreducible many-body correlations.

id: 1402.4263
title: Universality of Sequential Quantum Measurements
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022110 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4263
abstract: Unavoidable disturbance caused by a quantum measurement implies that the realizable subsequent measurements are getting limited after one performs some measurement. The obvious general limitation that one cannot circumvent by sequential or any other method is that the actually implemented measurements must be jointly measurable. In this work we show that any jointly measurable pair of observables can be obtained in a sequential measurement scheme, even if the second observable would be decided after the first measurement. This universality feature holds only for measurement schemes with a specific structure. As a supplementing result, we provide a characterization of all possible joint measurements obtained from a sequential measurement lacking universality.

id: 1402.4312
title: Two Results about Quantum Messages
authors: Hartmut Klauck, Supartha Podder
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4312
abstract: We show two results about the relationship between quantum and classical messages. Our first contribution is to show how to replace a quantum message in a one-way communication protocol by a deterministic message, establishing that for all partial Boolean functions $f:\{0,1\}^n\times\{0,1\}^m\to\{0,1\}$ we have $D^{A\to B}(f)\leq O(Q^{A\to B,*}(f)\cdot m)$. This bound was previously known for total functions, while for partial functions this improves on results by Aaronson, in which either a log-factor on the right hand is present, or the left hand side is $R^{A\to B}(f)$, and in which also no entanglement is allowed. In our second contribution we investigate the power of quantum proofs over classical proofs. We give the first example of a scenario, where quantum proofs lead to exponential savings in computing a Boolean function. The previously only known separation between the power of quantum and classical proofs is in a setting where the input is also quantum. We exhibit a partial Boolean function $f$, such that there is a one-way quantum communication protocol receiving a quantum proof (i.e., a protocol of type QMA) that has cost $O(\log n)$ for $f$, whereas every one-way quantum protocol for $f$ receiving a classical proof (protocol of type QCMA) requires communication $\Omega(\sqrt n/\log n)$.

id: 1402.4315
title: Comments to Asking Photons Where They Have Been (A Danan et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240402 (2013))
authors: Bengt E Y Svensson
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4315
abstract: I critize some of the conclusions in the paper by Danan et al, in particular their claim that '(S)ome (of the photons) have been inside the nested interferometer ... but they never entered and never left (it) ...'. A standard quantum-mechanical analysis also casts doubts on their statement that '(o)nly the description with forward and backward evolving quantum states provides a simple and intuitive picture of pre- and postselected quantum particles.'

id: 1402.4321
title: Measurement-induced nonlocality based on the trace norm
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, the final version as that published in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033004 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4321
abstract: Nonlocality is one unique property of quantum mechanics differing from classical world. One of its quantifications can be properly described as the maximum global effect caused by locally invariant measurements, termed as measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) (2011 \emph{Phys. Rev. Lett.} {\bf 106} 120401). Here, we propose to quantify the MIN by the trace norm. We show explicitly that this measure is monotonically decreasing under the action of completely positive trace-preserving map, which is the general local quantum operation, on the unmeasured party for the bipartite state. This property avoids the undesirable characteristic appearing in the known measure of MIN defined by the Hilbert-Schmidt norm that may be increased or decreased by trivial local reversible operations on the unmeasured party. We obtain analytical formulas of the trace-norm MIN for any $2\times n$ dimensional pure state, two-qubit state, and certain high-dimensional states. As other quantum correlation measures, the new defined MIN can be directly applied to various models for physical interpretations.

id: 1402.4356
title: A superradiant clock laser on a magicwavelength optical lattice
authors: Thomas Maier, Sebastian Kraemer, Laurin Ostermann, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4356
abstract: An ideal superradiant laser on an optical clock transition of noninteracting cold atoms is predicted to exhibit an extreme frequency stability and accuracy far below mHz-linewidth. In any concrete setup sufficiently many atoms have to be confined and pumped within a finite cavity mode volume. Using a magic wavelength lattice minimizes light shifts and allows for almost uniform coupling to the cavity mode. Never- theless, the atoms are subject to dipole-dipole interaction and collective spontaneous decay which compromises the ultimate frequency stability. In the high density limit the Dicke superradiant linewidth enhancement will broaden the laser line and nearest neighbor couplings will induce shifts and fluctuations of the laser frequency. We estimate the magnitude and scaling of these effects by direct numerical simulations of few atom systems for different geometries and densities. For Strontium in a regularly filled magic wavelength configuration atomic interactions induce small laser frequency shifts only and collective spontaneous emission weakly broadens the laser. These interactions generally enhance the laser sensitivity to cavity length fluctuations but for optimally chosen operating conditions can lead to an improved synchronization of the atomic dipoles.

id: 1402.4361
title: Phase memory across two single photon interferometers including wavelength conversion
authors: Axel Heuer, Sebastian Raabe, Ralf Menzel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 045803 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4361
abstract: Detailed investigations of single photon 1st-order interferences of separated emitters allow for analyzing the role of the mode function in quantum optics. In an earlier Young's double slit experiment using a higher spatial light mode some possibly new aspects of complementarity were demonstrated. Here the chances of using induced coherence in spontaneous down conversion (SPDC) are experimentally investigated. SPDC in a nonlinear crystal generates two single photons (signal and idler) with random, but conjugated phases. Thus no interference between them occurs. But coherence can be induced between the two separated crystals. Decreasing the pump intensity allows the generation of just one photon pair from one of the crystals during one measuring interval, resulting in 1st-order interference of single photons. Varying the phase delay between the pump beams for the two crystals results in 1st-order single photon interference but with a fringe period of about half of the photon wavelength. This phase memory effect causes coherence across the two coupled interferometers. And even for pump photon delays much larger than the coherence length of the detected single photons the visibility is above 90 percent. Therefore this phase memory is a useful tool for investigating the wave-particle dualism in future experiments.

id: 1402.4365
title: Classical Limit of the Quantum Zeno Effect by Environmental Decoherence
authors: D.J.Bedingham, J.J.Halliwell
comments: 45 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4365
abstract: We consider a point particle in one dimension initially confined to a finite spatial region whose state is frequently monitored by projection operators onto that region. In the limit of infinitely frequent monitoring, the state never escapes from the region -- this is the Zeno effect. The aim of this paper is to show how the Zeno effect disappears in the classical limit in this and similar examples. We give a general argument showing that the Zeno effect is suppressed in the presence of a decoherence mechanism which kills interference between histories. We show how this works explicitly by coupling to a decohering environment. Smoothed projectors are required to give the problem proper definition and this implies the existence of a momentum cutoff. We show that the escape rate from the region approaches the classically expected result, and hence the Zeno effect is suppressed, as long as the environmentally-induced fluctuations in momentum are sufficiently large and we establish the associated timescale. We link our results to earlier work on the hbar -->0 limit of the Zeno effect. We illustrate our results by plotting the probability flux lines for the density matrix (which are equivalent to Bohm trajectories in the pure state case). These illustrate both the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects very clearly, and their suppression. Our results are closely related to our earlier paper demonstrating the suppression of quantum-mechanical reflection by decoherence

id: 1402.4382
title: The Wigner time delay for laser induced tunnel-ionization via the electron propagator
authors: Enderalp Yakaboylu, Michael Klaiber, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4382
abstract: Recent attoclock experiments using the attsecond angular streaking technique enabled the measurement of the tunneling time delay during laser induced strong field ionization. Theoretically the tunneling time delay is commonly modelled by the Wigner time delay concept which is derived from the derivative of the electron wave function phase with respect to energy. Here, we present an alternative method for the calculation of the Wigner time delay by using the fixed energy propagator. The developed formalism is applied to the nonrelativistic as well as to the relativistic regime of the tunnel-ionization process from a zero-range potential, where in the latter regime the propagator can be given by means of the proper-time method.

id: 1402.4390
title: Transitions in the quantum computational power
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Ying Li, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4390
abstract: We construct two spin models on lattices (both two and three-dimensional) to study the capability of quantum computational power as a function of temperature and the system parameter. There exists a finite region in the phase diagram such that the thermal equilibrium states are capable of providing a universal fault-tolerant resource for measurement-based quantum computation. Moreover, in such a region the thermal resource states on the 3D lattices can enable topological protection for quantum computation. The two models behave similarly in terms of quantum computational power. However, they have different properties in terms of the usual phase transitions. The first model has a first-order phase transition only at zero temperature whereas there is no transition at all in the second model. Interestingly, the transition in the quantum computational power does not coincide with the phase transition in the first model.

id: 1402.4394
title: Outline of a Generalization and a Reinterpretation of Quantum Mechanics Recovering Objectivity
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo, Junde Wu
comments: 29 pages, standard LateX, minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4394
abstract: The ESR model has been recently proposed in several papers to offer a possible solution of the problems raising from the nonobjectivity of physical properties in quantum mechanics (QM) (mainly the objectification problem of the quantum theory of measurement). This solution is obtained by embodying the mathematical formalism of QM into a broader mathematical framework and reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional on detection rather than absolute. We provide a new and more general formulation of the ESR model and discuss time evolution according to it, pointing out in particular that both linear and nonlinear evolution may occur, depending on the physical environment.

id: 1402.4409
title: Entanglement Measures in Ion-Trap Quantum Simulators without Full Tomography
authors: J. S. Pedernales, R. Di Candia, P. Schindler, T. Monz, M. Hennrich, J. Casanova, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012327 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4409
abstract: We propose a quantum algorithm in an embedding ion-trap quantum simulator for the efficient computation of N-qubit entanglement monotones without the necessity of full tomography. Moreover, we discuss possible realistic scenarios and study the associated decoherence mechanisms.

id: 1402.4428
title: Quantum Separability Criteria for Arbitrary Dimensional Multipartite States
authors: Ming Li, Jing Wang, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 (2014) 022325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4428
abstract: We present separability criteria for both bipartite and multipartite quantum states. These criteria include the criteria based on the correlation matrix and its generalized form as special cases. We show by detailed examples that our criteria are more powerful than the positive partial transposition criterion, the realignment criterion and the criteria based on the correlation matrices.

id: 1402.4451
title: Dynamical Casimir effect entangles artificial atoms
authors: S. Felicetti, M. Sanz, L. Lamata, G. Romero, G. Johansson, P. Delsing, E. Solano
comments: Improved version and references added. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 093602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4451
abstract: We show that the physics underlying the dynamical Casimir effect may generate multipartite quantum correlations. To achieve it, we propose a circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) scenario involving superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), cavities, and superconducting qubits, also called artificial atoms. Our results predict the generation of highly entangled states for two and three superconducting qubits in different geometric configurations with realistic parameters. This proposal paves the way for a scalable method of multipartite entanglement generation in cavity networks through dynamical Casimir physics.

id: 1402.4453
title: Strong monogamies of no-signaling violations for bipartite correlation Bell inequalities
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 210403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4453
abstract: The phenomenon of monogamy of Bell inequality violations is interesting both from the fundamental perspective as well as in cryptographic applications such as the extraction of randomness and secret bits. In this article, we derive new and stronger monogamy relations for violations of Bell inequalities in general no-signaling theories. These relations are applicable to the class of binary output correlation inequalities known as XOR games, and to a restricted set of unique games. In many instances of interest, we show that the derived relation provides a significant strengthening over previously known results. The result involves a shift in paradigm towards the importance in monogamies of the number of inputs of one party which lead to a contradiction from local realistic predictions.

id: 1402.4467
title: LIQUi|>: A Software Design Architecture and Domain-Specific Language for Quantum Computing
authors: Dave Wecker, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4467
abstract: Languages, compilers, and computer-aided design tools will be essential for scalable quantum computing, which promises an exponential leap in our ability to execute complex tasks. LIQUi|> is a modular software architecture designed to control quantum hardware. It enables easy programming, compilation, and simulation of quantum algorithms and circuits, and is independent of a specific quantum architecture. LIQUi|> contains an embedded, domain-specific language designed for programming quantum algorithms, with F# as the host language. It also allows the extraction of a circuit data structure that can be used for optimization, rendering, or translation. The circuit can also be exported to external hardware and software environments. Two different simulation environments are available to the user which allow a trade-off between number of qubits and class of operations. LIQUi|> has been implemented on a wide range of runtimes as back-ends with a single user front-end. We describe the significant components of the design architecture and how to express any given quantum algorithm.

id: 1402.4470
title: Solutions of the Dirac equation with the shifted Deng-Fan potential including Yukawa-like tensor interaction
authors: W. A. Yahya, B. J. Falaye, O. J. Oluwadare, K. J. Oyewumi
comments: 20 pages, 2 tables, 1 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E 22, 1350062 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4470
abstract: By using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method, we give the approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation with the shifted Deng-Fan potential including the Yukawa-like tensor interaction under the spin and pseudospin symmetry conditions. After using an improved approximation scheme, we solved the resulting schr\"{o}dinger-like equation analytically. Numerical results of the energy eigenvalues are also obtained, as expected, the tensor interaction removes degeneracies between spin and pseudospin doublets.

id: 1402.4473
title: Algebraic treatment of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric coupled oscillators
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4473
abstract: The purpose of this paper is the discussion of a pair of coupled linear oscillators that has recently been proposed as a model of a system of two optical resonators. By means of an algebraic approach we show that the frequencies of the classical and quantum-mechanical interpretations of the optical phenomenon are exactly the same. Consequently, if the classical frequencies are real, then the quantum-mechanical eigenvalues are also real.

id: 1402.4494
title: Cavity-stimulated Raman emission from a single quantum dot spin
authors: Timothy M. Sweeney, Samuel G. Carter, Allan S. Bracker, Mijin Kim, Chul Soo Kim, Lily Yang, Patrick Vora, Peter G. Brereton, Erin R. Cleveland, Daniel Gammon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4494
abstract: Solid state quantum emitters have shown strong potential for applications in quantum information, but spectral inhomogeneity of these emitters poses a significant challenge. We address this issue in a cavity-quantum dot system by demonstrating cavity-stimulated Raman spin flip emission. This process avoids populating the excited state of the emitter and generates a photon that is Raman shifted from the laser and enhanced by the cavity. The emission is spectrally narrow and tunable over a range of at least 125 GHz, which is two orders of magnitude greater than the natural linewidth. We obtain the regime in which the Raman emission is spin-dependent, which couples the photon to a long-lived electron spin qubit. This process can enable an efficient, tunable source of indistinguishable photons and deterministic entanglement of distant spin qubits in a photonic crystal quantum network.

id: 1402.4499
title: A non-equilibrium quantum Landauer principle
authors: John Goold, Mauro Paternostro, Kavan Modi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4-1; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 060602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4499
abstract: Using the operational framework of completely positive, trace preserving operations and thermodynamic fluctuation relations, we derive a lower bound for the heat exchange in a Landauer erasure process on a quantum system. Our bound comes from a non-phenomenological derivation of the Landauer principle which holds for generic non-equilibrium dynamics. Furthermore the bound depends on the non-unitality of dynamics, giving it a physical significance that differs from other derivations. We apply our framework to the model of a spin-1/2 system coupled to an interacting spin chain at finite temperature.

id: 1402.4502
title: Ideal quantum clocks and the measurement of time
authors: Walter Gessner
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4502
abstract: The recently introduced concept of an "ideal quantum clock" (IQC) is extended. Especially it is shown that the time operator of an IQC is canonically conjugated to the Hamiltonian of the IQC in a certain pre-Hilbert space. Further it is discussed how the IQC interacts with another physical system D and to what extent the IQC measures the time differences of any prescribed initial and final states of D.

id: 1402.4516
title: Exact NMR simulation of protein-size spin systems using tensor train formalism
authors: D. V. Savostyanov, S. V. Dolgov, J. M. Werner, Ilya Kuprov
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys Rev B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 085139, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4516
abstract: We introduce a new method, based on alternating optimization, for compact representation of spin Hamiltonians and solution of linear systems of algebraic equations in the tensor train format. We demonstrate the method's utility by simulating, without approximations, a 15N NMR spectrum of ubiquitin --- a protein containing several hundred interacting nuclear spins. Existing simulation algorithms for the spin system and the NMR experiment in question either require significant approximations or scale exponentially with the spin system size. We compare the proposed method to the Spinach package that uses heuristic restricted state space techniques to achieve polynomial complexity scaling. When the spin system topology is close to a linear chain (e.g. for the backbone of a protein), the tensor train representation is more compact and can be computed faster than the sparse representation using restricted state spaces.

id: 1402.4552
title: Dark State Adiabatic Passage with spin-one particles
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, Belita Koiller
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures (some in colour), comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4552
abstract: Adiabatic transport of information is a widely invoked resource in connection with quantum information processing and distribution. The study of adiabatic transport via spin-half chains or clusters is standard in the literature, while in practice the true realisation of a completely isolated two-level quantum system is not achievable. We explore here, theoretically, the extension of spin-half chain models to higher spins. Considering arrangements of three spin-one particles, we show that adiabatic transport, specifically a generalisation of the Dark State Adiabatic Passage procedure, is applicable to spin-one systems. We thus demonstrate a qutrit state transfer protocol. We discuss possible ways to physically implement this protocol, considering quantum dot and nitrogen-vacancy implementations.

id: 1402.4553
title: Minimum Error Discrimination of Linearly Independent Pure States: Analytic Properties of POVM
authors: Tanmay Singal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4553
abstract: The optimization conditions for minimum error discrimination of linearly independent pure states comprise of two kinds: stationary conditions over the space of rank one projective measurements and the global maximization conditions. A discrete number of projective measurments will solve th former of which a unique one will solve the latter. In the case of three real linearly independent pure states we show that the stationary conditions translate to a system of simultaneous polynomial (non linear) equations in three variabes thus explaining why it's so difficult to obtain a closed-form solution for the optimal POVM. Additionally, our method suggests that as an ensemble of LI pure states is varied as a smooth function of some independent parameters, the optimal POVM will also vary smoothly as a function of the same parameters. By employing the implicit functions theorem we exploit this fact to obtain a technique to find the solution of MED of LI pure states by dragging the solution from a known example (say, pure orthogonal states) to any general linearly indepenent ensemble of pure states in the same Hilbert space. By employing RK4 to solve the first order coupled non-linear differential equations find that the resulting error is within the RK4 error performance.

id: 1402.4581
title: Comments on "Asking Photons Where They Have Been"
authors: Jie-Hui Huang, Li-Yun Hu, Xue-Xiang Xu, Cun-Jin Liu, Qin Guo, Hao-Liang Zhang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 2 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4581
abstract: By using the nonuniform discrete Fourier transform on the center positions of the symmetric intensity distribution of the output beam, we recover the vibration information of two mirrors, which is lost in the analysis of Danan \emph{et al.} in the work [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{111}, 240402 (2013), arXiv:1304.7469]. We believe a photon always follows continuous trajectories, and a photon has to enter an interferometer at first and then leave it, if this photon has ever been inside the interferometer.

id: 1402.4638
title: Near-field microscopy with a single-photon point-like emitter: Resolution versus the aperture tip?
authors: A. Drezet, A. Cuche, S. Huant
comments: 
journal: Optics communications, 284, 1444-1450 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4638
abstract: We discuss theoretically the concept of spatial resolution in near-field scanning optical microscopy (NSOM) in light of a recent work [Opt. Express 17 (2009) 19969] which reported on the achievement of active tips made of a single ultrasmall fluorescent nanodiamond grafted onto the apex of a substrate tip and on their validation in NSOM imaging. Since fluorescent nanodiamonds tend to decrease steadily in size, we assimilate a nanodiamond-based tip to a point-like single photon source and compare its ultimate resolution with that offered by standard metal-coated aperture NSOM tips. We demonstrate both classically and quantum mechanically that NSOM based on a point-like tip has a resolving power that is only limited by the scan height over the imaged system whereas the aperture-tip resolution depends critically on both the scan height and aperture diameter. This is a consequence of the complex distribution of the electromagnetic field around the aperture that tends to artificially duplicate the imaged objects. We show that the point-like tip does not suffer from this "squint" and that it rapidly approaches its ultimate resolution in the near-field as soon its scan height falls below the distance between the two nano-objects to be resolved.

id: 1402.4639
title: Non-Markovianity and System-Environment Correlations in a microscopic collision model
authors: Ruari McCloskey, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4. Published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4639
abstract: We show that the use of a recently proposed iterative collision model with inter-environment swaps displays a signature of strongly non-Markovian dynamics that is highly dependent on the establishment of system-environment correlations. Two models are investigated; one in which such correlations are cancelled iteratively and one in which they are kept all across the dynamics. The degree of non-Markovianity, quantified using a measure based on the trace distance, is found to be much greater for all coupling strengths, when system-environment correlations are maintained.

id: 1402.4643
title: Quantum phenomena in a chirped parametric anharmonic oscillator
authors: Ido Barth, Lazar Friedland
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4643
abstract: The parametric ladder climbing (successive Landau-Zener-type transitions) and the quantum saturation of the threshold for the classical parametric autoresonance due to the zero point fluctuations at low temperatures are discussed. The probability for capture into the chirped parametric resonance is found by solving the Schrodinger equation in the energy basis and the associated resonant phase space dynamics is illustrated via the Wigner distribution. The numerical threshold for the efficient capture into the resonance is compared with the classical and quantum theories in different parameter regimes.

id: 1402.4647
title: Hierarchy of stochastic pure states for open quantum system dynamics
authors: D. S¨¹?, A. Eisfeld, W. T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4647
abstract: We derive a hierarchy of stochastic evolution equations for pure states (quantum trajectories) to efficiently solve open quantum system dynamics with non-Markovian structured environments. From this hierarchy of pure states (HOPS) the exact reduced density operator is obtained as an ensemble average. We demonstrate the power of HOPS by applying it to the Spin-Boson model, the calculation of absorption spectra of molecular aggregates and energy transfer in a photosynthetic pigment-protein complex.

id: 1402.4666
title: Feasibility of underwater free space quantum key distribution
authors: Peng Shi, Shi-Cheng Zhao, Wen-Dong Li, Yong-Jian Gu
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4666
abstract: We investigate the optical absorption and scattering properties of underwater media pertinent to our underwater free space quantum key distribution (QKD) channel model. With the vector radiative transfer theory and Monte Carlo method, we obtain the attenuation of photons, the fidelity of the scattered photons, the quantum bit error rate and the sifted key generation rate of underwater quantum communication. It can be observed from our simulations that the most secure single photon underwater free space QKD is feasible in the clearest ocean water.

id: 1402.4684
title: Quantum correlation via quantum coherence
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Yang Zhang, Haiqing Zhao
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. To appear Quant. Inf. Proc
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 13(6), 1437 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4684
abstract: Quantum correlation includes quantum entanglement and quantum discord. Both entanglement and discord have a common necessary condition--------quantum coherence or quantum superposition. In this paper, we attempt to give an alternative understanding of how quantum correlation is related to quantum coherence. We divide the coherence of a quantum state into several classes and find the complete coincidence between geometric (symmetric and asymmetric) quantum discords and some particular classes of quantum coherence. We propose a revised measure for total coherence and find that this measure can lead to a symmetric version of geometric quantum correlation which is analytic for two qubits. In particular, this measure can also arrive at a monogamy equality on the distribution of quantum coherence. Finally, we also quantify a remaining type of quantum coherence and find that for two qubits it is directly connected with quantum nonlocality.

id: 1402.4789
title: Measuring the defect structure orientation of a single NV- centre in diamond
authors: Marcus W. Doherty, Julia Michl, Florian Dolde, Ingmar Jakobi, Philipp Neumann, Neil B. Manson, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Physics 16, 063067 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4789
abstract: The negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV-) centre in diamond has many exciting applications in quantum nano-metrology, including magnetometry, electrometry, thermometry and piezometry. Indeed, it is possible for a single NV- centre to measure the complete three-dimensional vector of the local electric field or the position of a single fundamental charge in ambient conditions. However, in order to achieve such vector measurements, near complete knowledge of the orientation of the centre's defect structure is required. Here, we demonstrate an optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) technique employing rotations of static electric and magnetic fields that precisely determines the orientation of the centre's major and minor trigonal symmetry axes. Thus, our technique is an enabler of the centre's existing vector sensing applications and also motivates new applications in multi-axis rotation sensing, NV growth characterization and diamond crystallography.

id: 1402.4797
title: Physical Randomness Extractors: Generating Random Numbers with Minimal Assumptions
authors: Kai-Min Chung, Yaoyun Shi, Xiaodi Wu
comments: A substantial re-writing of V2, especially on model definitions. An abstract model of robustness is added and the robustness claim in V2 is made rigorous. Focuses on quantum-security. A future update is planned to address non-signaling security
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4797
abstract: How to generate provably true randomness with minimal assumptions? This question is important not only for the efficiency and the security of information processing, but also for understanding how extremely unpredictable events are possible in Nature. All current solutions require special structures in the initial source of randomness, or a certain independence relation among two or more sources. Both types of assumptions are impossible to test and difficult to guarantee in practice. Here we show how this fundamental limit can be circumvented by extractors that base security on the validity of physical laws and extract randomness from untrusted quantum devices. In conjunction with the recent work of Miller and Shi (arXiv:1402:0489), our physical randomness extractor uses just a single and general weak source, produces an arbitrarily long and near-uniform output, with a close-to-optimal error, secure against all-powerful quantum adversaries, and tolerating a constant level of implementation imprecision. The source necessarily needs to be unpredictable to the devices, but otherwise can even be known to the adversary. Our central technical contribution, the Equivalence Lemma, provides a general principle for proving composition security of untrusted-device protocols. It implies that unbounded randomness expansion can be achieved simply by cross-feeding any two expansion protocols. In particular, such an unbounded expansion can be made robust, which is known for the first time. Another significant implication is, it enables the secure randomness generation and key distribution using public randomness, such as that broadcast by NIST's Randomness Beacon. Our protocol also provides a method for refuting local hidden variable theories under a weak assumption on the available randomness for choosing the measurement settings.

id: 1402.4827
title: Extendability in the Sheaf-theoretic Approach: Construction of Bell Models from Kochen-Specker Models
authors: Shane Mansfield, Rui Soares Barbosa
comments: 18 pages, presented at Quantum Physics and Logic X - 2013 (ICFO, Barcelona), submitted to Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4827
abstract: Extendability of an empirical model was shown by Abramsky & Brandenburger to correspond in a unified manner to both locality and non-contextuality. We develop their approach by presenting a refinement of the notion of extendability that can also be useful in characterising the properties of sub-models. The refinement is found to have another useful application: it is shown that a particular canonical extension, when well-defined, may be used for the construction of Bell-type models from models of more general kinds in such a way that the constructed model is equivalent to the original in terms of non-locality/contextuality. This is important since on practical and foundational levels, the notion of locality in Bell-type models can more easily be motivated than the corresponding general notion of contextuality. We consider examples of Bell-type models generated from some standard examples of contextual models, including an entire class of Kochen-Specker-like models. This exposes an intriguing relationship between the simplest possible contextual model (the contextual triangle) and Popescu-Rohrlich no-signalling correlations.

id: 1402.4848
title: Logic gates at the surface code threshold: Superconducting qubits poised for fault-tolerant quantum computing
authors: R. Barends, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, A. Veitia, D. Sank, E. Jeffrey, T. C. White, J. Mutus, A. G. Fowler, B. Campbell, Y. Chen, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, A. Dunsworth, C. Neill, P. O`Malley, P. Roushan, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, A. N. Korotkov, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, including supplementary material
journal: Nature 508, 500-503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4848
abstract: A quantum computer can solve hard problems - such as prime factoring, database searching, and quantum simulation - at the cost of needing to protect fragile quantum states from error. Quantum error correction provides this protection, by distributing a logical state among many physical qubits via quantum entanglement. Superconductivity is an appealing platform, as it allows for constructing large quantum circuits, and is compatible with microfabrication. For superconducting qubits the surface code is a natural choice for error correction, as it uses only nearest-neighbour coupling and rapidly-cycled entangling gates. The gate fidelity requirements are modest: The per-step fidelity threshold is only about 99%. Here, we demonstrate a universal set of logic gates in a superconducting multi-qubit processor, achieving an average single-qubit gate fidelity of 99.92% and a two-qubit gate fidelity up to 99.4%. This places Josephson quantum computing at the fault-tolerant threshold for surface code error correction. Our quantum processor is a first step towards the surface code, using five qubits arranged in a linear array with nearest-neighbour coupling. As a further demonstration, we construct a five-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state using the complete circuit and full set of gates. The results demonstrate that Josephson quantum computing is a high-fidelity technology, with a clear path to scaling up to large-scale, fault-tolerant quantum circuits.

id: 1402.4895
title: Deterministic quantum teleportation of photonic quantum bits by a hybrid technique
authors: Shuntaro Takeda, Takahiro Mizuta, Maria Fuwa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Nature 500, 315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4895
abstract: Quantum teleportation allows for the transfer of arbitrary, in principle, unknown quantum states from a sender to a spatially distant receiver, who share an entangled state and can communicate classically. It is the essence of many sophisticated protocols for quantum communication and computation. In order to realize flying qubits in these schemes, photons are an optimal choice, however, teleporting a photonic qubit has been limited due to experimental inefficiencies and restrictions. Major disadvantages have been the fundamentally probabilistic nature of linear-optics Bell measurements as well as the need for either destroying the teleported qubit or attenuating the input qubit when the detectors do not resolve photon numbers. Here we experimentally realize fully deterministic, unconditional quantum teleportation of photonic qubits. The key element is to make use of a "hybrid" technique: continuous-variable (CV) teleportation of a discrete-variable, photonic qubit. By optimally tuning the receiver's feedforward gain, the CV teleporter acts as a pure loss channel, while the input dual-rail encoded qubit, based on a single photon, represents a quantum error detection code against amplitude damping and hence remains completely intact for most teleportation events. This allows for a faithful qubit transfer even with imperfect CV entangled states: the overall transfer fidelities range from 0.79 to 0.82 for four distinct qubits, all of them exceeding the classical limit of teleportation. Furthermore, even for a relatively low level of the entanglement, qubits are teleported much more efficiently than in previous experiments, albeit post-selectively (taking into account only the qubit subspaces), with a fidelity comparable to the previously reported values.

id: 1402.4897
title: Narrowing the filter cavity bandwidth via optomechanical interaction
authors: Yiqiu Ma, Stefan L. Danilishin, Chunnong Zhao, Haixing Miao, W. Z. Korth, Yanbei. Chen, Robert Ward, David. G. Blair
comments: 5 pages + 3 appendix. 4 figures and 2 tables Accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 151102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4897
abstract: We propose using optomechanical interaction to narrow the bandwidth of filter cavities for achieving frequency-dependent squeezing in advanced gravitational-wave detectors, inspired by the idea of optomechanically induced transparency. This not only allows us to achieve narrow bandwidth, comparable to the detection band of few hundred Hz, with tabletop optical cavities, but also to tune the bandwidth over a wide range, which is ideal for optimizing sensitivity for different gravitational-wave sources. The experimental challenge for its implementation is the stringent requirement on low thermal noise, which would need superb mechanical quality factor that is quite difficult to achieve by using currently-available low-loss mechanical oscillators; one possible solution is to use optical dilution of the mechanical damping, which can considerably relax the requirement on the mechanics.

id: 1402.4900
title: Entangled-state generation and Bell inequality violations in nanomechanical resonators
authors: J. Robert Johansson, Neill Lambert, Imran Mahboob, Hiroshi Yamaguchi, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 174307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4900
abstract: We investigate theoretically the conditions under which a multi-mode nanomechanical resonator, operated as a purely mechanical parametric oscillator, can be driven into highly nonclassical states. We find that when the device can be cooled to near its ground state, and certain mode matching conditions are satisfied, it is possible to prepare distinct resonator modes in quantum entangled states that violate Bell inequalities with homodyne quadrature measurements. We analyze the parameter regimes for such Bell inequality violations, and while experimentally challenging, we believe that the realization of such states lies within reach. This is a re-imagining of a quintessential quantum optics experiment by using phonons that represent tangible mechanical vibrations.

id: 1402.4901
title: Classical demonstration of frequency dependent noise ellipse rotation using Optomechanically Induced Transparency
authors: Jiayi Qin, Chunnong Zhao, Yiqiu Ma, Xu Chen, Li Ju, David G. Blair
comments: 5 pages + 5 figures, +1 supplementary material, submitted to Phys.Rev.A (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 041802 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4901
abstract: Cavities with extremely narrow linewidth of 10-100 Hz are required for realizing frequency dependent squeezing to enable gravitational wave detectors to surpass the free mass standard quantum limit over a broad frequency range. Hundred-meter-scale high finesse cavities have been proposed for this purpose. Optomechanically induced transparency (OMIT) enables the creation of optomechanical cavities in which the linewidth limit is set by the extremely narrow linewidth of a high Q factor mechanical resonator. Using an 85mm OMIT cavity with a silicon nitride membrane, we demonstrate a tunable linewidth from 3Hz up to several hundred Hz and frequency dependent noise ellipse rotation using classical light with squeezed added noise to simulate quantum squeezed light. The frequency dependent noise ellipse angle is rotated in close agreement with predictions.

id: 1402.4921
title: Feed-forward control for quantum state protection against decoherence
authors: Chao-Quan Wang, Bao-Ming Xu, Jian Zou, Zhi He, Yan Yan, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4921
abstract: We propose a novel scheme of feed-forward control and its reversal for protecting quantum state against decoherence. Before the noise channel our pre-weak measurement and feed-forward are just to change the protected state into the state almost immune to the noise channel, and after the channel our reversed operations and post-weak measurements are just to restore the protected state. Unlike most previous state protection schemes, ours only concerns the noise channel and does not care about the protected state. We show that our scheme can effectively protect unknown states, nonorthogonal states and entangled states against amplitude damping noise. Our scheme has dramatic merits of protecting quantum states against heavy amplitude damping noise, and can perfectly protect some specific nonorthogonal states in an almost deterministic way, which might be found some applications in current quantum communication technology. And it is most important that our scheme is experimentally available with current technology.

id: 1402.4949
title: The renormalisation group via statistical inference
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4949
abstract: In physics one attempts to infer the rules governing a system given only the results of imperfect measurements. Hence, microscopic theories may be effectively indistinguishable experimentally. We develop an operationally motivated procedure to identify the corresponding equivalence classes of states, and argue that the renormalisation group arises from the inherent ambiguities associated with the classes: one encounters flow parameters as, e.g., a regulator, a scale, or a measure of precision, which specify representatives in a given equivalence class. This provides a unifying framework and identifies the role played by information in renormalisation. We validate this idea by showing that it justifies the use of low-momenta n-point functions as statistically relevant observables around a gaussian hypothesis. These results enable the calculation of distinguishability in quantum field theory. Our methods also provide a way to extend renormalisation techniques to effective models which are not based on the usual quantum-field formalism, and elucidates the relationships between various type of RG.

id: 1402.4975
title: Comparative study of non-Markovianity measures in exactly solvable one and two qubit models
authors: C. Addis, B. Bylicka, D. Chru?ci¨½ski, S. Maniscalco
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures. *These two authors contributed equally to this work. Previously known as, "What we talk about when we talk about non-Markovianity"
journal: Physical Review A, 90, 052103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4975
abstract: In this paper we present a detailed critical study of several recently proposed non-Markovianity measures. We analyse their properties for single qubit and two-qubit systems in both pure-dephasing and dissipative scenarios. More specifically we investigate and compare their computability, their physical meaning, their Markovian to non-Markovian crossover, and their additivity properties with respect to the number of qubits. The bottom-up approach that we pursue is aimed at identifying similarities and differences in the behavior of non-Markovianity indicators in several paradigmatic open system models. This in turn allows us to infer the leading traits of the variegated phenomenon known as non-Markovian dynamics and, possibly, to grasp its physical essence.

id: 1402.4997
title: Nonclassical polarization dynamics in classical-like states
authors: Alfredo Luis, Angel S. Sanz
comments: Submitted to Annals of Physics (N. Y.), 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4997
abstract: Quantum polarization is investigated by means of a trajectory picture based on the Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics. Relevant examples of classical-like two-mode field states are thus examined, namely Glauber and SU(2) coherent states. Although these states are often regarded as classical, the analysis here shows that the corresponding electric-field polarization trajectories display topologies very different from those expected from classical electrodynamics. Rather than incompatibility with the usual classical model, this result demonstrates the dynamical richness of quantum motions, determined by local variations of the system quantum phase in the corresponding (polarization) configuration space, absent in classical-like models. These variations can be related to the evolution in time of the phase, but also to its dependence on configurational coordinates, which is the crucial factor to generate motion in the case of stationary states like those here considered. In this regard, for completeness these results are compared those obtained from nonclassical N00N states.

id: 1402.5025
title: Time-Energy Costs of Quantum Measurements
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5025
abstract: Time and energy of quantum processes are a tradeoff against each other. We propose to ascribe to any given quantum process a time-energy cost to quantify how much computation it performs. Here, we analyze the time-energy costs for general quantum measurements, along a similar line as our previous work for quantum channels, and prove exact and lower bound formulae for the costs. We use these formulae to evaluate the efficiencies of actual measurement implementations. We find that one implementation for a Bell measurement is optimal in time-energy. We also analyze the time-energy cost for unambiguous state discrimination and find evidence that only a finite time-energy cost is needed to distinguish any number of states.

id: 1402.5026
title: Non-Locality of Experimental Qutrit Pairs
authors: C. Bernhard, B. Bessire, A. Montina, M. Pfaffhauser, A. Stefanov, S. Wolf
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Special issue on 50 Years of Bell's Theorem, 47(42):424013, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5026
abstract: The insight due to John Bell that the joint behavior of individually measured entangled quantum systems cannot be explained by shared information remains a mystery to this day. We describe an experiment, and its analysis, displaying non-locality of entangled qutrit pairs. The non-locality of such systems, as compared to qubit pairs, is of particular interest since it potentially opens the door for tests of bipartite non-local behavior independent of probabilistic Bell inequalities, but of deterministic nature.

id: 1402.5057
title: Scheme for steady-state preparation of a harmonic oscillator in the first excited state
authors: Kjetil Borkje
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures + supplementary (7 pages, 2 figures) v2: Minor changes, added a few references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023806 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5057
abstract: We present a generic quantum master equation whose dissipative dynamics autonomously stabilizes a harmonic oscillator in the n=1 Fock state. A multi-mode optomechanical system is analyzed and shown to be an example of a physical system obeying this model. We show that the optomechanical setup enables preparation of a mechanical oscillator in a nonclassical steady state, and that this state indeed approaches a single phonon Fock state in the ideal parameter regime. The generic model may be useful in other settings, such as cavity or circuit quantum electrodynamics or trapped ion physics.

id: 1402.5092
title: Entangling Power of Disordered Quantum Walks
authors: Rafael Vieira, Edgard P. M. Amorim, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: v1: 11 pages, 16 figures, two columns, RevTex4; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5092
abstract: We investigate how the introduction of different types of disorder affects the generation of entanglement between the internal (spin) and external (position) degrees of freedom in one-dimensional quantum random walks (QRW). Disorder is modeled by adding another random feature to QRW, i.e., the quantum coin that drives the system's evolution is randomly chosen at each position and/or at each time step, giving rise to either dynamic, fluctuating, or static disorder. The first one is position-independent, with every lattice site having the same coin at a given time, the second has time and position dependent randomness, while the third one is time-independent. We show for several levels of disorder that dynamic disorder is the most powerful entanglement generator, followed closely by fluctuating disorder. Static disorder is the less efficient entangler, being almost always less efficient than the ordered case. Also, dynamic and fluctuating disorder lead to maximally entangled states asymptotically in time for any initial condition while static disorder has no asymptotic limit and, similarly to the ordered case, has a long time behavior highly sensitive to the initial conditions.

id: 1402.5110
title: Singular Layer Transmission for Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 48 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5110
abstract: We develop a singular layer transmission model for continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD). In CVQKD, the transmit information is carried by continuous-variable (CV) quantum states, particularly by Gaussian random distributed position and momentum quadratures. The reliable transmission of the quadrature components over a noisy link is a cornerstone of CVQKD protocols. The proposed singular layer uses the singular value decomposition of the Gaussian quantum channel, which yields an additional degree of freedom for the phase space transmission. This additional degree of freedom can further be exploited in a multiple-access scenario. The singular layer defines the eigenchannels of the Gaussian physical link, which can be used for the simultaneous reliable transmission of multiple user data streams. Our transmission model also includes the singular interference avoider (SIA) precoding scheme. The proposed SIA precoding scheme prevents the eigenchannel interference to reach an optimal transmission over a Gaussian link. We demonstrate the results through the adaptive multicarrier quadrature division-multiuser quadrature allocation (AMQD-MQA) CVQKD multiple-access scheme. We define the singular model of AMQD-MQA and characterize the properties of the eigenchannel interference. We propose the SIA precoding of Gaussian random quadratures and the optimal decoding at the receiver. We show a random phase space constellation scheme for the Gaussian sub-channels. The singular layer transmission provides improved simultaneous transmission rates for the users with unconditional security in a multiple-access scenario, particularly in crucial low signal-to-noise ratio regimes.

id: 1402.5115
title: Critique of the Rowe 2001 Detector Efficiency Experiment
authors: Douglas G. Danforth
comments: Nine figures. Further analysis added based on deconvolution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5115
abstract: The Rowe 2001 experiment scattered photons from two prepared 9Be+ ions. Measurement of the scattered photons used a single photomultiplier tube (PMT). The resultant histograms appear to be a superposition of the individual ions' distribution, but that is not correct. The PMT records the convolution of the joint probability density of the ions. There are many different joint densities which yield the same PMT histograms. Each density has a different correlation. For a fixed PMT histogram the range of those correlations can be large, e.g. -0.730 to +0.997. The reported correlations based on discriminator levels and the categories 'zero bright', 'one bright', and 'two bright' are unsupported. As such the claim that the detection efficiency loophole is closed is invalid. For this experiment, the detection loophole remains open.

id: 1402.5116
title: Extension of the Glauber-Sudarshan Mapping For Classical and Quantum Energy Spectra
authors: Paul J. Werbos
comments: 11 pages, 43 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5116
abstract: This paper begins by reviewing the general form of the Glauber-Sudarshan P mapping, a cornerstone of coherence theory in quantum optics, which defines a two-way mapping between ensembles of states S of any classical Hamiltonian field theory and a subset of the allowed density matrices {\rho} in the corresponding canonical bosonic quantum field theory (QFT). It has been proven that Tr(H{\rho})=E(S), where E is the classical energy and H is the normal form Hamiltonian. The new result of this paper is that ensembles of S of definite energy E map into density matrices which are mixes of eigenstates of eigenvalue zero of N(H-E,H-E) where N represents the normal product. This raises interesting questions and opportunities for future research, including questions about the relation between canonical QFT and QFT in the Feynman path formulation. In the Appendix, a corresponding Boltzmann distribution is shown, using a dual version of the P mapping, for the case of statistically compressible dynamical systems.

id: 1402.5119
title: Coherent excitation of two-state system by a Lorentzian filed
authors: G. S. Vasilev, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5119
abstract: This work presents an analytic description of the coherent excitation of a two-state quantum system by an external field with a Lorentzian temporal shape and a constant frequency. An exact analytical solution for the differential equation of the model is derived in terms of Confluent Heun functions. Also a very accurate analytic approximation to the transition probability is derived by using the Dykhne-Davis-Pechukas approach. This approximation provides analytic expressions for the frequency and amplitude of the probability oscillations.

id: 1402.5170
title: Polarization exchange in colliding photon beams in a medium of an atomic gas
authors: R. F. Sawyer
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5170
abstract: Photon-photon interactions mediated by an atomic gas can effect efficient polarization exchanges between two beams, leaving the medium exactly in its initial state. In, e.g., hydrogen, the distance required for macroscopic exchange is of order one tenth the distance in which the ordinary non-linear index of refraction would induce a phase change of pi. Several examples are worked out that show the variety of behaviors that can result, depending on the initial respective polarizations stated and the angle between the beams. Of particular interest are initial conditions in which there is no exchange at a mean field level, conventionally believed to apply when the number of photons, N, is large. Then the full theory leads both to large exchange and to large entanglement between the beams. Our most solid results indicate that one would have to wait a time proportional to log[N] to see this effect, but there are some indications that this behavior can be circumvented.

id: 1402.5174
title: Robustness of composite pulses to time-dependent control noise
authors: Chingiz Kabytayev, Todd J. Green, Kaveh Khodjasteh, Michael J. Biercuk, Lorenza Viola, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, text and figures updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5174
abstract: We study the performance of composite pulses in the presence of time-varying control noise on a single qubit. These protocols, originally devised only to correct for static, systematic errors, are shown to be robust to time-dependent non-Markovian noise in the control field up to frequencies as high as ~10% of the Rabi frequency. Our study combines a generalized filter-function approach with asymptotic dc-limit calculations to give a simple analytic framework for error analysis applied to a number of composite-pulse sequences relevant to nuclear magnetic resonance as well as quantum information experiments. Results include examination of recently introduced concatenated composite pulses and dynamically corrected gates, demonstrating equivalent first-order suppression of time-dependent fluctuations in amplitude and/or detuning, as appropriate for the sequence in question. Our analytic results agree well with numerical simulations for realistic $1/f$ noise spectra with a roll-off to $1/f^2$, providing independent validation of our theoretical insights.

id: 1402.5177
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling in ¦®-Type n-Level Quantum Systems
authors: Linping Chan, Shuang Cong
comments: 7 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Mathematical and Computational Methods in Science and Engineering,Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, April 23-25, 2014, pp. 28-34
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5177
abstract: In this paper, we first design a type of Bang-Bang (BB) operation group to reduce the phase decoherence in a {\Xi}-type n-level quantum system based on the dynamical decoupling mechanism. Then, we derive two kinds of dynamical decoupling schemes: periodic dynamical decoupling (PDD) and Uhrig dynamical decoupling (UDD). We select the non-diagonal element of density matrix as a reference index, and investigate the behavior of quantum coherence of the {\Xi}-type n-level atom under these two dynamical decoupling schemes proposed. At last, we choose a {\Xi}-type six-level atom as a system controlled, and use the decoupling schemes proposed to suppress the phase decoherence. The simulation experiments and the comparison results are given.

id: 1402.5195
title: Kochen-Specker Theorem: Two Geometric Proofs
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Peter H. Hertling, Karl Svozil
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings in honour of Prof. Kalmbach
journal: Tatra Mountains Mathematical Publications. Volume 15, 1998, No. 2: 133-142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5195
abstract: We present two geometric proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem. A quite similar argument has been used by Cooke, Keane, and Moran, as well as by Kalmbach in her book to derive the Gleason theorem.

id: 1402.5199
title: Embedding Quantum Universes into Classical Ones
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Peter H. Hertling, Karl Svozil
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics 29(3), 349-390 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5199
abstract: Do the partial order and ortholattice operations of a quantum logic correspond to the logical implication and connectives of classical logic? Re-phrased, how far might a classical understanding of quantum mechanics be, in principle, possible? A celebrated result by Kochen and Specker answers the above question in the negative. However, this answer is just one among different possible ones, not all negative. It is our aim to discuss the above question in terms of mappings of quantum worlds into classical ones, more specifically, in terms of embeddings of quantum logics into classical logics; depending upon the type of restrictions imposed on embeddings the question may get negative or positive answers.

id: 1402.5200
title: Coexistence of Kochen-Specker inequalities and noncontextuality inequalities
authors: Xiao-Dong Yu, D. M. Tong
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 89, 010101 (Rapid Communications), 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5200
abstract: Two types of inequalities, Kochen-Specker inequalities and noncontextuality inequalities, are both used to demonstrate the incompatibility between the noncontextual hidden variable model and quantum mechanics. It has been thought that noncontextuality inequalities are much more potent than Kochen-Specker inequalities, since the latter are constrained by the Kochen-Specker rules, which are regarded as an extra constraint imposed on the noncontextual hidden variable model. However, we find that a noncontextuality inequality exists in a ray set if and only if a Kochen-Specker inequality exists in the same ray set. This provides an effect approach both for constructing noncontextuality inequalities in a Kochen-Specker set and for converting a Kochen-Specker inequality to a noncontextuality inequality in any ray set.

id: 1402.5228
title: Zeno and anti-Zeno effects on Dephasing
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 5+6 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5228
abstract: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects on pure dephasing are studied using exactly solvable microscopic models. The crossover between these two opposite effects is investigated. The case of a single two-level system undergoing dephasing is already different from the previously studied population decay problem, even without taking into account any back action from the environment. For many two-level systems interacting with a common environment, multiple transitions between Zeno and anti-Zeno regimes are predicted. Finally, if the system-environment coupling strength is not weak, we show that the nontrivial evolution of the environment between measurements can considerably alter the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects.

id: 1402.5307
title: Absolute absorption cross sections from photon recoil in a matter-wave interferometer
authors: Sandra Eibenberger, Xiaxi Cheng, J.P. Cotter, Markus Arndt
comments: Four pages, three figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 250402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5307
abstract: We measure the absolute absorption cross section of molecules using a matter-wave interferometer. A nanostructured density distribution is imprinted onto a dilute molecular beam through quantum interference. As the beam crosses the light field of a probe laser some molecules will absorb a single photon. These absorption events impart a momentum recoil which shifts the position of the molecule relative to the unperturbed beam. Averaging over the shifted and unshifted components within the beam leads to a reduction of the fringe visibility, enabling the absolute absorption cross section to be extracted with high accuracy. This technique is independent of the molecular density, it is minimally invasive and successfully eliminates all problems related to photon-cycling, state-mixing, photo-bleaching, photo-induced heating, fragmentation and ionization. It can therefore be extended to a wide variety of neutral molecules, clusters and nanoparticles.

id: 1402.5369
title: Heat transfer between anisotropic nanopartricles: Enhancement and switching
authors: Roberta Incardone, Thorsten Emig, Matthias Kr¨¹ger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5369
abstract: We theoretically study heat transfer between two anisotropic nanoparticles in vacuum, and derive closed expressions in terms of the anisotropic dipole polarizabilities. We show that transfer between two small spheroids can be many times as large as the one for two spheres of same volumes. Such increase with anisotropy is also found for the heat emission of an isolated small spheroid. Furthermore, we observe a strong dependence of transfer on the relative orientation, yielding the interpretation as a heat transfer switch. The switch quality, given as the ratio of transfer in the ``on'' and ``off'' positions, is observed to be as large as $10^3$ in the near field and even larger in the far field.

id: 1402.5378
title: The one dimensional infinite square well with variable mass
authors: Juan Jose Alvarez, Manuel Gadella, Luis Pedro Lara
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5378
abstract: We introduce a numerical method to obtain approximate eigenvalues for some problems of Sturm-Liouville type. As an application, we consider an infinite square well in one dimension in which the mass is a function of the position. Two situations are studied, one in which the mass is a differentiable function of the position depending on a parameter $b$. In the second one the mass is constant except for a discontinuity at some point. When the parameter $b$ goes to infinity, the function of the mass converges to the situation described in the second case. One shows that the energy levels vary very slowly with $b$ and that in the limit as $b$ goes to infinity, we recover the energy levels for the second situation.

id: 1402.5395
title: Non-Markovianity through accessible information
authors: F. F. Fanchini, G. Karpat, B. ?akmak, L. K. Castelano, G. H. Aguilar, O. Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: Final Version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5395
abstract: The degree of non-Markovianity of quantum processes has been characterized in several different ways in the recent literature. However, the relationship between the non-Markovian behavior and the flow of information between the system and the environment through an entropic measure has not been yet established. We propose an entanglement-based measure of non-Markovianity by employing the concept of assisted knowledge, where the environment E, acquires information about a system S, by means of its measurement apparatus A. The assisted knowledge, based on the accessible information in terms of von-Neumann entropy, monotonically increases in time for all Markovian quantum processes. We demonstrate that the signatures of non-Markovianity can be captured by the nonmonotonic behaviour of the assisted knowledge. We explore this scenario for a two-level system undergoing a relaxation process, through an experimental implementation using an optical approach that allows full access to the state of the environment.

id: 1402.5405
title: Interfacing Superconducting Qubits and Telecom Photons via a Rare-Earth Doped Crystal
authors: Christopher O'Brien, Nikolai Lauk, Susanne Blum, Giovanna Morigi, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 063603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5405
abstract: We propose a scheme to couple short single photon pulses to superconducting qubits. An optical photon is first absorbed into an inhomogeneously broadened rare-earth doped crystal using controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening. The optical excitation is then mapped into a spin state using a series of $\pi$-pulses and subsequently transferred to a superconducting qubit via a microwave cavity. To overcome the intrinsic and engineered inhomogeneous broadening of the optical and spin transitions in rare earth doped crystals, we make use of a special transfer protocol using staggered $\pi$-pulses. We predict total transfer efficiencies on the order of 90%.

id: 1402.5421
title: Non-interferometric Test of Collapse Models in Optomechanical Systems
authors: M. Bahrami, M. Paternostro, A. Bassi, H. Ulbricht
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5421
abstract: The test of modifications to quantum mechanics aimed at identifying the fundamental reasons behind the un-observability of quantum mechanical superpositions at the macro-scale is a crucial goal of modern quantum mechanics. Within the context of collapse models, current proposals based on interferometric techniques for their falsification are far from the experimental state-of-the-art. Here we discuss an alternative approach to the testing of quantum collapse models that, by bypassing the need for the preparation of quantum superposition states might help us addressing non-linear stochastic mechanisms such as the one at the basis of the continuous spontaneous localisation model.

id: 1402.5467
title: Fast adiabatic qubit gates using only $¦Ò_z$ control
authors: John M. Martinis, Michael R. Geller
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5467
abstract: A controlled-phase gate was demonstrated in superconducting Xmon transmon qubits with fidelity reaching 99.4%, relying on the adiabatic interaction between the |11> and |02> states. Here we explain the theoretical concepts behind this protocol that achieves fast gate times with only $\sigma_z$ control of the Hamiltonian, based on a theory of non-linear mapping of state errors to a power spectral density and use of optimal window functions. With a solution given in the Fourier basis, optimization is shown to be straightforward for practical cases of an arbitrary state change and finite bandwidth of control signals. We find that errors below $10^{-4}$ are readily achievable for realistic control waveforms.

id: 1402.5478
title: Spin-Boson Model with Diagonal and Off-Diagonal Coupling to Two Independent Baths: Ground-State Phase Transition in the Deep Sub-Ohmic Regime
authors: Yang Zhao, Yao Yao, Vladimir Chernyak, Yang Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 161105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5478
abstract: We investigate a spin-boson model with two boson baths that are coupled to two perpendicular components of the spin by employing the density matrix renormalization group method with an optimized boson basis. It is revealed that in the deep sub-Ohmic regime there exists a novel second-order phase transition between two types of doubly degenerate states, which is reduced to one of the usual type for nonzero tunneling. In addition, it is found that expectation values of the spin components display jumps at the phase boundary in the absence of bias and tunneling.

id: 1402.5498
title: John Bell's varying interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: H. Dieter Zeh
comments: To be published in "Quantum Nonlocality and Reality", ed. by Mary Bell and Gao Shan, CUP 2015; v2-v6: minor changes, comments and references added; v7: submitted - 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5498
abstract: Various interpretations of quantum mechanics, favored (or neglected) by John Bell in the context of his non-locality theorem, are compared and discussed.

id: 1402.5574
title: The electronic Casimir-Polder force in a 1D tight-binding nanowire
authors: Hui Yang, Li-Ping Yang, T. Y. Zheng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5574
abstract: We study the effect of two non-interacting impurity atoms near by a one-dimensional nanowire, which is modeled as a tight-binding hopping model. The virtual single-electron hopping between two impurities will induce an additional energy depending on the distance of two impurities, which gives a electronic Casimir-Polder effect. We find that the Casimir-Polder force between the two impurities decreases with the impurity-impurity distance exponentially. And the effects of nanowire and finite temperature on the Casimir-Polder force are also discussed in detail, respectively.

id: 1402.5601
title: Heisenberg's uncertainty relation: Violation and reformulation
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 12 pages, submitted to EmQM13 proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5601
abstract: The uncertainty relation formulated by Heisenberg in 1927 describes a trade-off between the error of a measurement of one observable and the disturbance caused on another complementary observable so that their product should be no less than a limit set by Planck's constant. In 1980, Braginsky, Vorontsov, and Thorne claimed that this relation leads to a sensitivity limit for gravitational wave detectors. However, in 1988 a model of position measurement was constructed that breaks both this limit and Heisenberg's relation. Here, we discuss the problems as to how we reformulate Heisenberg's relation to be universally valid and how we experimentally quantify the error and the disturbance to refute the old relation and to confirm the new relation.

id: 1402.5648
title: Exact solution of the optical Bloch equation for the Demkov model
authors: G. S. Vasilev, P. A. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5648
abstract: An exact analytic solution is presented for coherent resonant excitation of a two-state quantum system driven by a time-dependent pulsed external field described by Demkov model in the presence of dephasing.

id: 1402.5653
title: Crucial tests of macrorealist and semi-classical gravity models with freely falling mesoscopic nanospheres
authors: Samuel Colin, Thomas Durt, Ralph Willox
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5653
abstract: Recently, several proposals have been made to test the quantum superposition principle in the mesoscopic regime. Most of these tests consist of a careful measurement of the loss of interference due to decoherence. Here we propose to measure, instead, the spread in position of a freely falling nanosphere. As we shall show, this parameter is not only sensitive to various sources of decoherence (exotic and non-exotic) but also to self-gravity. Moreover, our numerical estimates establish that a measurement of the spread of freely falling nanospheres can reveal an interesting interplay between self-gravity and decoherence.

id: 1402.5669
title: Superadiabatic optimization via Dykhne-Davis-Pechukas (DDP) method
authors: G. S. Vasilev, N. V. Vitanov
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1402.5119
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5669
abstract: This paper we propose how to apply the Dykhne-Davis-Pechukas (DDP) method for optimization of adiabatic passage in a two-state system in the second adiabtic basis.

id: 1402.5673
title: Morris-Shore transformation with unequal detunings
authors: G. S. Vasilev, N. V. Vitanov
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0909.5396
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5673
abstract: The aim of this paper is to analyze the MS transformation in the case of weak deviation of the condition for equal detunings, which in necessary for factorization towards set of two-state systems and set of decouple states. Some elements concerning the general solution of the MS transformation will be also discussed.

id: 1402.5689
title: Ontological Models in Quantum Mechanics: What do they tell us?
authors: Leslie Ballentine
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5689
abstract: The consequences of the theorems about ontological models are studied. "Maximally $\psi$-epistemic" is shown to be equivalent to the conjunction of two other conditions, each of which can be realized in Hilbert spaces of arbitrary dimension, but which cannot occur together for d>2. I argue that current theorems do not invalidate an epistemic interpretation of quantum states. A new condition, called "functionally $\psi$-epistemic", is introduced, which, were it to be excluded, would signal the exclusion of epistemic interpretations.

id: 1402.5695
title: Hamiltonian engineering via invariants and dynamical algebra
authors: E. Torrontegui, S. Mart¨ªnez-Garaot, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5695
abstract: We use the dynamical algebra of a quantum system and its dynamical invariants to inverse engineer feasible Hamiltonians for implementing shortcuts to adiabaticity. These are speeded up processes that end up with the same populations than slow, adiabatic ones. As application examples we design families of shortcut Hamiltonians that drive two and a three-level systems between initial and final configurations imposing physically motivated constraints on the terms (generators) allowed in the Hamiltonian.

id: 1402.5710
title: Experimental detection of entanglement with optimal-witness families
authors: Jibo Dai, Yink Loong Len, Yong Siah Teo, Berthold-Georg Englert, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: Accepted for PRL. V3 includes an appendix which we comment on related work, discuss more general adaptive schemes, provide some technical details of the experiment. We thank the anonymous referees for critical suggestions and comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 170402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5710
abstract: We report an experiment in which one determines, with least tomographic effort, whether an unknown two-photon polarization state is entangled or separable. The method measures whole families of optimal entanglement witnesses. We introduce adaptive measurement schemes that greatly speed up the entanglement detection. The experiments are performed on states of different ranks, and we find good agreement with results from computer simulations.

id: 1402.5722
title: Entropic uncertainty from effective anti-commutators
authors: J?drzej Kaniewski, Marco Tomamichel, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures (excluding Supplemental Material), revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5722
abstract: We investigate entropic uncertainty relations for two or more binary measurements, for example spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ or polarisation measurements. We argue that the effective anti-commutators of these measurements, i.e. the anti-commutators evaluated on the state prior to measuring, are an expedient measure of measurement incompatibility. Based on the knowledge of pairwise effective anti-commutators we derive a class of entropic uncertainty relations in terms of conditional R\'{e}nyi entropies. Our uncertainty relations are formulated in terms of effective measures of incompatibility, which can be certified device-independently. Consequently, we discuss potential applications of our findings to device-independent quantum cryptography. Moreover, to investigate the tightness of our analysis we consider the simplest (and very well-studied) scenario of two measurements on a qubit. We find that our results outperform the celebrated bound due to Maassen and Uffink [Phys. Rev. Lett. 60, 1103 (1988)] and provide a new analytical expression for the minimum uncertainty which also outperforms some recent bounds based on majorisation.

id: 1402.5762
title: A study of PT-symmetric Non-linear Schroedinger Equation
authors: K. Nireekshan Reddy, Subhrajit Modak, Kumar Abhinav, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages
journal: Published in the Proceedings of National Seminar on "Recent Advances in Physics", pp 18-26, 2014, NOU
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5762
abstract: Systems governed by the Non-linear Schroedinger Equation (NLSE) with various external PT-symmetric potentials are considered. Exact solutions have been obtained for the same through the method of ansatz, some of them being solitonic in nature. It is found that only the unbroken PT-symmetric phase is realized in these systems, characterized by real energies.

id: 1402.5771
title: Are there local hidden variables model with time correlated detection violating the Bell inequality?
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 6 pages, errors in the previous version corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5771
abstract: Explicit local hidden variables models are exhibited that assume a correlation between detection events produced in the same detector at different times. It is shown that some models give predictions closer to the Bell limit than models without time correlation.

id: 1402.5800
title: Counterintuitive temporal shape of single photons
authors: Gurpreet Kaur Gulati, Bharath Srivathsan, Brenda Chng, Alessandro Cer¨¨, Dzmitry Matsukevich, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033819 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5800
abstract: We prepare heralded single photons from a photon pair source based on non-degenerate four-wave mixing in a cold atomic ensemble via a cascade decay scheme. Their statistics shows strong antibunching with g(2)(0) < 0.03, indicating a near single photon character. In an optical homodyne experiment, we directly measure the temporal envelope of these photons and find, depending on the heralding scheme, an exponentially decaying or rising profile. The rising envelope will be useful for efficient interaction between single photons and microscopic systems like single atoms and molecules. At the same time, their observation illustrates the breakdown of a realistic interpretation of the heralding process in terms of defining an initial condition of a physical system.

id: 1402.5806
title: The two-particle two-slit experiment
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: EPJD (2014) 68:34
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5806
abstract: Identical two-particle interferometry provides a scenario where interference and exchange effects manifest at once. We present a detailed calculation of the detection patterns in the two-particle two-slit experiment by extending Feynman's Gaussian slit approach to multi-mode states. We show the existence of two regimes depending on the mode distributions. In one of them we find a novel behavior for bosons, with detection patterns almost equal to those of distinguishable particles although the overlapping is large. As a byproduct of our analysis we conclude that the interaction at the diffraction grating is an efficient method to increase the initial overlapping. We propose a scheme, within the reach of present day technology, to experimentally verify our results.

id: 1402.5810
title: Higher-dimensional orbital angular momentum based quantum key distribution with mutually unbiased bases
authors: Mhlambululi Mafu, Angela Dudley, Sandeep Goyal, Daniel Giovannini, Melanie McLaren, Miles J. Padgett, Thomas Konrad, Francesco Petruccione, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Andrew Forbes
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5810
abstract: We present an experimental study of higher-dimensional quantum key distribution protocols based on mutually unbiased bases, implemented by means of photons carrying orbital angular momentum. We perform (d+1) mutually unbiased measurements in a classical prepare and measure scheme and on a pair of entangled photons for dimensions ranging from d = 2 to 5. In our analysis, we pay attention to the detection efficiency and photon pair creation probability. As security measures, we determine from experimental data the average error rate, the mutual information shared between the sender and receiver and the secret key generation rate per photon. We demonstrate that increasing the dimension leads to an increased information capacity as well as higher key generation rates per photon up to a dimension of d = 4.

id: 1402.5813
title: Multi-partite separable states with unique decompositions and construction of three qubit entanglement with positive partial transpose
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5813
abstract: We investigate conditions on a finite set of multi-partite product vectors for which separable states with corresponding product states have unique decomposition, and show that this is true in most cases if the number of product vectors is sufficiently small. In the three qubit case, generic five dimensional spaces give rise to faces of the convex set consisting of all separable states, which are affinely isomorphic to the five dimensional simplex with six vertices. As a byproduct, we construct three qubit entangled PPT edge states of rank four with explicit formulae. This covers those entanglement which cannot be constructed from unextendible product basis.

id: 1402.5888
title: Compensation of anisotropy effects in the generation of two-photon light
authors: Andrea Cavanna, Angela M. P¨¦rez, Felix Just, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5888
abstract: We analyse a method to compensate for anisotropy effects in the spatial distribution of parametric down-conversion (PDC) radiation in bulk crystals. In this method, a single nonlinear crystal is replaced by two consecutive crystals with opposite transverse walk-off directions. We implement a simple numerical model to calculate the spatial distribution of intensity and correlations, as well as the Schmidt mode structure, with an account for the anisotropy. Experimental results are presented which prove the validity of both the model and the method.

id: 1402.5927
title: Limitations on Quantum Key Repeaters
authors: Stefan B?uml, Matthias Christandl, Karol Horodecki, Andreas Winter
comments: 11+38 pages, 4 figures, Statements for exact p-bits weakened as non-locking bound on measured relative entropy distance contained an error
journal: Nature Communications 6, Article number: 6908, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5927
abstract: A major application of quantum communication is the distribution of entangled particles for use in quantum key distribution (QKD). Due to noise in the communication line, QKD is in practice limited to a distance of a few hundred kilometres, and can only be extended to longer distances by use of a quantum repeater, a device which performs entanglement distillation and quantum teleportation. The existence of noisy entangled states that are undistillable but nevertheless useful for QKD raises the question of the feasibility of a quantum key repeater, which would work beyond the limits of entanglement distillation, hence possibly tolerating higher noise levels than existing protocols. Here we exhibit fundamental limits on such a device in the form of bounds on the rate at which it may extract secure key. As a consequence, we give examples of states suitable for QKD but unsuitable for the most general quantum key repeater protocol.

id: 1402.5983
title: Quantum noise in large-scale coherent nonlinear photonic circuits
authors: Charles Santori, Jason S. Pelc, Raymond G. Beausoleil, Nikolas Tezak, Ryan Hamerly, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: Revised
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 1, 054005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5983
abstract: A semiclassical simulation approach is presented for studying quantum noise in large-scale photonic circuits incorporating an ideal Kerr nonlinearity. A circuit solver is used to generate matrices defining a set of stochastic differential equations, in which the resonator field variables represent random samplings of the Wigner quasi-probability distributions. Although the semiclassical approach involves making a large-photon-number approximation, tests on one- and two-resonator circuits indicate satisfactory agreement between the semiclassical and full-quantum simulation results in the parameter regime of interest. The semiclassical model is used to simulate random errors in a large-scale circuit that contains 88 resonators and hundreds of components in total, and functions as a 4-bit ripple counter. The error rate as a function of on-state photon number is examined, and it is observed that the quantum fluctuation amplitudes do not increase as signals propagate through the circuit, an important property for scalability.

id: 1402.6039
title: Quantum phase transition of polaritonic excitations in a multi-excitation coupled array
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Rong-Xin Chen, Huai-Zhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang, Elinor Irish, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6039
abstract: We analyze the quantum phase transition-like behavior in the lowest energy state of a two-site coupled atom-cavity system, where each cavity contains one atom but the total excitation number is not limited to two. Utilizing the variance of the total excitation number to distinguish the insulator and superfluid states, and the variance of the atomic excitation number to identify the polaritonic characteristics of these states, we find that the total excitation number plays a significant role in the lowest-energy-state phase transitions. In both the small hopping regime and the small atom-field interaction regime, we identify an interesting coexisting phase involving characteristics of both photonic superfluid and atomic insulator. For small hopping, we find that the signature of the photonic superfluid state becomes more pronounced with the increase in total excitation number, and that the boundaries of the various phases shift with respect to the case of $N=2$. In the limit of small atom-field interaction, the polaritonic superfluid region becomes broader as the total excitation number increases. We demonstrate that the variance of the total excitation number in a single site has a linear dependence on the total excitation number in the large-detuning limit.

id: 1402.6063
title: Spin state in the propagation of quantum relativistic particles along classical trajectories
authors: Jes¨²s Rubio, Alfredo Luis
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Published in Phys. Rev. A 89, 052128 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6063
abstract: We address the propagation of the spin along classical trajectories for a 1/2-spin particle obeying the Dirac equation with scalar potentials. Focusing on classical trajectories as the exact propagation of wave-function discontinuities we find an explicit spin-transport law for the case of the Dirac oscillator. In the general case we examine the spin propagation along classical trajectories emerging as an approximation of the quantum dynamics via the mechanical analog of the optical eikonal asymptotic approach. Throughout we establish as many parallels as possible with the equivalent situation for the electromagnetic field.

id: 1402.6119
title: What is Time in Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, Contribution to "Geometry and Quantum Theories" Workshop, Florence June 10-11, 2013. Dozen of misprints corrected, two missing references added. Accepted for publication in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Vol. 11 (2014) 1460019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6119
abstract: Time of arrival in quantum mechanics is discussed in two versions: the classical axiomatic "time of arrival operator" introduced by J. Kijowski and the EEQT method. It is suggested that for free particles the two methods may lead to the same result. On the other hand the EEQT method can be easily geometrized within the framework of Galilei-Newton general relativistic quantum mechanics developed by M. Modugno and collaborators, and it can be applied to non-free evolutions. The way of geometrization of irreversible quantum dynamics based on dissipative Liouville equation is suggested.

id: 1402.6144
title: Quantum phenomena modelled by interactions between many classical worlds
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, D.-A. Deckert, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: Published version (including further discussion of interpretation and quantum limit)
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6144
abstract: We investigate whether quantum theory can be understood as the continuum limit of a mechanical theory, in which there is a huge, but finite, number of classical 'worlds', and quantum effects arise solely from a universal interaction between these worlds, without reference to any wave function. Here a `world' means an entire universe with well-defined properties, determined by the classical configuration of its particles and fields. In our approach each world evolves deterministically; probabilities arise due to ignorance as to which world a given observer occupies; and we argue that in the limit of infinitely many worlds the wave function can be recovered (as a secondary object) from the motion of these worlds. We introduce a simple model of such a 'many interacting worlds' approach and show that it can reproduce some generic quantum phenomena---such as Ehrenfest's theorem, wavepacket spreading, barrier tunneling and zero point energy---as a direct consequence of mutual repulsion between worlds. Finally, we perform numerical simulations using our approach. We demonstrate, first, that it can be used to calculate quantum ground states, and second, that it is capable of reproducing, at least qualitatively, the double-slit interference phenomenon.

id: 1402.6172
title: Dynamics of atom-field entanglement in a bimodal cavity
authors: G.L. De?ordi, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 
journal: The European Physical Journal D, 65, 587 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6172
abstract: We investigate some aspects of the dynamics and entanglement of bipartite quantum system (atom-quantized field), coupled to a third ``external" subsystem (quantized field). We make use of the Raman coupled model; a three-level atom in a lambda configuration interacting with two modes of the quantized cavity field. We consider the far off resonance limit, which allows the derivation of an effective Hamiltonian of a two-level atom coupled to the fields. We also make a comparison with the situation in which one of the modes is treated classically rather than prepared in a quantum field (coherent state).

id: 1402.6177
title: On the meaning of an additional hypothesis in the Bell's inequalities
authors: Alejandro A. Hnilo
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6177
abstract: The Bell's inequalities are derived from the hypotheses of Locality, Realism and (what is lesser known) the equality between the factual and the counterfactual time averages of the expectation values of observables. The necessity of a hypothesis additional to Local Realism opens a promising way out to the old controversy between Quantum Mechanics and Local Realism. For, it is possible to speculate that it is this additional hypothesis, and not Local Realism, what is disproved in the experiments reporting the violation of the Bell's inequalities. Yet, there are doubts on how the additional hypothesis may be violated in a physically reasonable process. A simple example showing that this is possible, the relationship between the validity of the additional hypothesis and the validity of the Bell's inequalities, and considerations on its physical meaning, are presented.

id: 1402.6179
title: Quantum atomic lithography via cross-cavity optical Stern-Gerlach setup
authors: C. E. M¨¢ximo, T. B. Batalh?o, R. Bachelard, G. D. de Moraes Neto, M. A. de Ponte, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 2480 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6179
abstract: We present a fully quantum scheme to perform 2D atomic lithography based on a cross-cavity optical Stern-Gerlach setup: an array of two mutually orthogonal cavities crossed by an atomic beam perpendicular to their optical axes, which is made to interact with two identical modes. After deriving an analytical solution for the atomic momentum distribution, we introduce a protocol allowing us to control the atomic deflection by manipulating the amplitudes and phases of the cavity field states.

id: 1402.6197
title: Quantum Metrological Bounds for Vector Parameter
authors: Yu-Ran Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043818 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6197
abstract: Precise measurement is crucial to science and technology. However, the rule of nature imposes various restrictions on the precision that can be achieved depending on specific methods of measurement. In particular, quantum mechanics poses the ultimate limit on precision which can only be approached but never be violated. Depending on analytic techniques, these bounds may not be unique. Here, in view of prior information, we investigate systematically the precision bounds of the total mean-square error of vector parameter estimation which contains $d$ independent parameters. From quantum Ziv-Zakai error bounds, we derive two kinds of quantum metrological bounds for vector parameter estimation, both of which should be satisfied. By these bounds, we show that a constant advantage can be expected via simultaneous estimation strategy over the optimal individual estimation strategy, which solves a long-standing problem. A general framework for obtaining the lower bounds in a noisy system is also proposed.

id: 1402.6205
title: Time local master equation connecting the Born and Markov approximations
authors: Christian Karlewski, Michael Marthaler
comments: 9 pages. 2 figure, published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 104302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6205
abstract: We present an exact expansion of the master equation for an open quantum system. The resulting equation is time local and enables us to calculate clearly defined higher order corrections to the Born-Markov approximation. In particular, we show that non-Markovian terms are of the same order of magnitude as higher order terms in the system-bath coupling. As a result we emphasize that analyzing non-Markovian behaviour of a system implies going beyond Born approximation. Additionally, we address with this approach the initial state problem occurring in non-Markovian master equations.

id: 1402.6216
title: Reduced quantum actions for symmetrical and some separated variables potentials cases
authors: T. Djama
comments: Latex, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6216
abstract: In this paper, we pointed out the separability of the quantum reduced action in 3D into the sum of three 1D reduced actions depending on the variables $x$, $y$ and $z$ respectively, and this was done for the case of a potential that has a cartesian symmetry. This separability was not evident at the first sight. In addition, the 3D-QSHJE is also separable into three 1D-QSHJE. The free particle, the spherical and the cylindrical symmetry cases are not discussed in this paper, however an analogy with the cartesian symmetry case can be down to show the separability of the total reduced actions into the sum of three 1D reduced actions for each case.

id: 1402.6219
title: Quantum Secure Direct Communication using Entanglement and Super Dense Coding
authors: Ola M. Hegazy, Ayman M. Bahaa-Eldin, Yasser H. Dakroury
comments: SECRYPT 2009. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0612114 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6219
abstract: This paper introduces a new quantum protocol for secure direct communication. This protocol is based on Entanglement and Super-Dense coding. In this paper we present some basic definitions of entanglement in quantum mechanics, present how to use the maximally entangled states known as Bell States, and super dense coding technique to achieve secure direct message communication. Finally, we will apply some error models that could affect the transmission of the quantum data on the quantum channels, and how to treat these errors and acquire a safe transmission of the data.

id: 1402.6290
title: Distribution of squeezed states through an atmospheric channel
authors: Christian Peuntinger, Bettina Heim, Christian R. M¨¹ller, Christian Gabriel, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 060502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6290
abstract: Continuous variable quantum states of light are used in quantum information protocols and quantum metrology and known to degrade with loss and added noise. We were able to show the distribution of bright polarization squeezed quantum states of light through an urban free-space channel of 1.6 km length. To measure the squeezed states in this extreme environment, we utilize polarization encoding and a post-selection protocol that is taking into account classical side information stemming from the distribution of transmission values. The successful distribution of continuous variable squeezed states is accentuated by a quantum state tomography, allowing for determining the purity of the state.

id: 1402.6299
title: Necessary and sufficient optimality conditions for classical simulations of quantum communication processes
authors: Alberto Montina, Stefan Wolf
comments: Corrected some typos and replaced the (dim) proof of Theorem 1 with a much more elegant one. This paper is the extended journal version of the conference version arXiv:1401.4126. The journal version contains considerable new material. See comment to the first version for a list of the new material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6299
abstract: We consider the process consisting of preparation, transmission through a quantum channel, and subsequent measurement of quantum states. The communication complexity of the channel is the minimal amount of classical communication required for classically simulating it. Recently, we reduced the computation of this quantity to a convex minimization problem with linear constraints. Every solution of the constraints provides an upper bound on the communication complexity. In this paper, we derive the dual maximization problem of the original one. The feasible points of the dual constraints, which are inequalities, give lower bounds on the communication complexity, as illustrated with an example. The optimal values of the two problems turn out to be equal (zero duality gap). By this property, we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for optimality in terms of a set of equalities and inequalities. We use these conditions and two reasonable but unproven hypotheses to derive the lower bound $n 2^{n-1}$ for a noiseless quantum channel with capacity equal to $n$ qubits. This lower bound can have interesting consequences in the context of the recent debate on the reality of the quantum state.

id: 1402.6392
title: Mechanical Entanglement via Detuned Parametric Amplification
authors: Alex Szorkovszky, Aashish A. Clerk, Andrew C. Doherty, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6392
abstract: We propose two schemes to generate entanglement between a pair of mechanical oscillators using parametric amplification. In contrast to existing parametric drive-based protocols, both schemes operate in the steady-state. Using a detuned parametric drive to maintain equilibrium and to couple orthogonal quadratures, our approach can be viewed as a two-mode extension of previous proposals for parametric squeezing. We find that robust steady-state entanglement is possible for matched oscillators with well-controlled coupling. In addition, one of the proposed schemes is robust to differences in the damping rates of the two oscillators.

id: 1402.6423
title: Quantum Entanglement Establishment between two Strangers
authors: Tzonelih Hwang, Tzu-Han Lin, Shih-Hung Kao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6423
abstract: This paper presents the first quantum entanglement establishment scheme for two strangers, who do not pre-share any secret and even do not have any authentication channel between them. The proposed protocol only requires the help of two dishonest third parties (TPs) to achieve the goal. The security analyses show that the proposed protocol is secure against not only the external eavesdropper's attack, but also the dishonest TP's attack. Because various quantum cryptography protocols require sharing of entanglement between users, the proposed protocol can be useful in these protocols.

id: 1402.6431
title: Hierarchical Theory of Quantum Adiabatic Evolution
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, Biao Wu
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, 29 references
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 123024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6431
abstract: Quantum adiabatic evolution is a dynamical evolution of a quantum system under slow external driving. According to the quantum adiabatic theorem, no transitions occur between non-degenerate instantaneous eigen-energy levels in such a dynamical evolution. However, this is true only when the driving rate is infinitesimally small. For a small nonzero driving rate, there are generally small transition probabilities between the energy levels. We develop a classical mechanics framework to address the small deviations from the quantum adiabatic theorem order by order. A hierarchy of Hamiltonians are constructed iteratively with the zeroth-order Hamiltonian being determined by the original system Hamiltonian. The $k$th-order deviations are governed by a $k$th-order Hamiltonian, which depends on the time derivatives of the adiabatic parameters up to the $k$th-order. Two simple examples, the Landau-Zener model and a spin-1/2 particle in a rotating magnetic field, are used to illustrate our hierarchical theory. Our analysis also exposes a deep, previously unknown connection between classical adiabatic theory and quantum adiabatic theory.

id: 1402.6432
title: All-optical controlled phase gate in quantum dot molecules
authors: Li-Bo Chen, Wen Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6432
abstract: We propose a two-qubit optically controlled phase gate in quantum dot molecules via adiabatic passage and hole tunneling. Our proposal combines the merits of the current generation of vertically stacked self-assembled InAs quantum dots and adiabatic passage. The simulation shows an implementation of the gate with a fidelity exceeding 0.98.

id: 1402.6434
title: Optomechanical steady state entanglement induced by electrical interaction
authors: ChunNian Ren, JianQi Zhang, Libo Chen, YongJian Gu
comments: 5 pages,2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6434
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating remote continuous steady-state entanglement of output light leaked from optomechanical system, in which two mechanical oscillators are coupled through long-range Coulomb interaction. we show that the entanglement of output light is affected by the detuning and the strength of the Coulomb interaction. We also demonstrate that two movable mirrors and two light beams can be entangled in the steady state. We suggest an experimental readout scheme to fully verify the characteristic of entangled state.

id: 1402.6448
title: Interaction-free evolving states of a bipartite system
authors: A. Napoli, M. Guccione, A. Messina, Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6448
abstract: We show that two interacting physical systems may admit entangled pure or non separable mixed states evolving in time as if the mutual interaction hamiltonian were absent. In this paper we define these states Interaction Free Evolving (IFE) states and characterize their existence for a generic binary system described by a time independent Hamiltonian. A comparison between IFE subspace and the decoherence free subspace is reported. The set of all pure IFE states is explicitly constructed for a non homogeneous spin star system model.

id: 1402.6458
title: Adiabatic Series Expansion and Higher-Order Semiclassical Approximations in Scattering Theory
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 345302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6458
abstract: The scattering properties of any complex scattering potential, v:R -> C, can be obtained from the dynamics of a particular non-unitary two-level quantum system S_v. The application of the adiabatic approximation to S_v yields a semiclassical treatment of the scattering problem. We examine the adiabatic series expansion for the evolution operator of S_v and use it to obtain corrections of arbitrary order to the semiclassical formula for the transfer matrix of v. This results in a high-energy approximation scheme that unlike the semiclassical approximation can be applied for potentials with large derivatives.

id: 1402.6522
title: A Quantum-Photonic Base Framework for Describing Attosecond Physicochemical Processes
authors: O.Tapia
comments: 27 pages, 0 figures, QUITEL 2013 presentation with extensions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6522
abstract: Theoretical studies in attosecond physics and chemistry require a full-fledged quantum physical framework including light-field-controlled pulses; this is one hypothesis lying behind the present work. At laboratory level electromagnetic (EM) radiation and matter interaction discloses its quantum nature.

id: 1402.6547
title: Suppression of Decoherence by Periodic Forcing
authors: Volker Bach, Walter de Siqueira Pedra, Marco Merkli, Israel Michael Sigal
comments: To appear in J. Stat. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6547
abstract: We consider a finite-dimensional quantum system coupled to a thermal reservoir and subject to a time-periodic, energy conserving forcing. We show that, if a certain dynamical decoupling condition is fulfilled, then the periodic forcing counteracts the decoherence induced by the reservoir: for small system-reservoir coupling $\lambda$ and small forcing period $T$, the system dynamics is approximated by an energy conserving and non-dissipative dynamics, which preserves coherences. For times up to order $(\lambda T)^{-1}$, the difference between the true and approximated dynamics is of size $\lambda +T$. Our approach is rigorous and combines Floquet and spectral deformation theory. We illustrate our results on the spin-fermion model and recover previously known, heuristically obtained results.

id: 1402.6562
title: Generalized Probability Theories: What determines the structure of quantum theory?
authors: Peter Janotta, Haye Hinrichsen
comments: 39 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 323001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6562
abstract: The framework of generalized probabilistic theories is a powerful tool for studying the foundations of quantum physics. It provides the basis for a variety of recent findings that significantly improve our understanding of the rich physical structure of quantum theory. This review paper tries to present the framework and recent results to a broader readership in an accessible manner. To achieve this, we follow a constructive approach. Starting from few basic physically motivated assumptions we show how a given set of observations can be manifested in an operational theory. Furthermore, we characterize consistency conditions limiting the range of possible extensions. In this framework classical and quantum theory appear as special cases, and the aim is to understand what distinguishes quantum mechanics as the fundamental theory realized in nature. It turns out non-classical features of single systems can equivalently result from higher dimensional classical theories that have been restricted. Entanglement and non-locality, however, are shown to be genuine non-classical features.

id: 1402.6567
title: Quantifying the source of enhancement in experimental continuous variable quantum illumination
authors: Sammy Ragy, Ivano Ruo Berchera, Ivo P. Degiovanni, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris, Gerardo Adesso, Marco Genovese
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: JOSA B 31, 2045 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6567
abstract: A quantum illumination protocol exploits correlated light beams to enhance the probability of detection of a partially reflecting object lying in a very noisy background. Recently a simple photon-number-detection based implementation of a quantum illumination-like scheme has been provided in [Lopaeva {\it et al,}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 153603 (2013)] where the enhancement is preserved despite the loss of non-classicality. In the present paper we investigate the source for quantum advantage in that realization. We introduce an effective two-mode description of the light sources and analyze the mutual information as quantifier of total correlations in the effective two-mode picture. In the relevant regime of a highly thermalized background, we find that the improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio achieved by the entangled sources over the unentangled thermal ones amounts exactly to the ratio of the effective mutual informations of the corresponding sources. More precisely, both quantities tend to a common limit specified by the squared ratio of the respective cross-correlations. A thorough analysis of the experimental data confirms this theoretical result.

id: 1402.6582
title: Aspects of Quantum Energy and Stress in Inhomogeneous Unbounded Dielectric Continua
authors: S. Goto, R. W. Tucker, T. J. Walton
comments: 49 pages, 7 figures, updated to further clarity of material presented and to include additional references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6582
abstract: This article addresses a number of issues associated with the problem of calculating contributions from the electromagnetic quantum induced energy and stress in a stationary material with an inhomogeneous polarizability. After briefly reviewing the conventional approaches developed by Lifshitz el al and more recent attempts by others, we emphasize the need to accommodate the effects due to the classical constitutive properties of the material in any experimental attempt to detect such contributions. Attention is then concentrated on a particular system composed of an ENZ-type (epsilon-near-zero) meta-material, chosen to have an anisotropic and inhomogeneous permittivity confined in an infinitely long perfectly conducting open waveguide. This permits us to deduce from the source-free Maxwell's equations a complete set of harmonic electromagnetic evanescent eigen-modes and eigen-frequencies. Since these solutions prohibit the existence of asymptotic scattering states in the guide an alternative regularization scheme, based on the Euler-Maclaurin formula, enables us to prescribe precise criteria for the extraction of finite quantum expectation values from regularized mode sums together with error bounds on these values. This scheme is used to derive analytic results for regularized energy densities in the guide. The criteria are exploited to construct a numerical scheme that is bench-marked by comparing its output with the analytic results derived from the special properties of the inhomogeneous ENZ medium.

id: 1402.6629
title: Decompositional equivalence: A fundamental symmetry from which quantum theory follows
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures; v2 corrected typos and added some clarifications; v3 corrected a significant error pointed out by a referee, re-wrote introduction, deleted previous 2nd section, now 22 pages with 4 figures, results unchanged; v4 substantially re-written in a more pedagogical style, new figures, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6629
abstract: Decompositional equivalence is the principle that there is no preferred decomposition of the universe into subsystems. It is shown here, by using simple thought experiments, that quantum theory follows from decompositional equivalence together with Landauer's principle. This demonstration raises within physics a question previously left to psychology: how do human - or any - observers agree about what constitutes a "system of interest"?

id: 1402.6674
title: Quantum computation mediated by ancillary qudits and spin coherent states
authors: Timothy J. Proctor, Shane Dooley, Viv Kendon
comments: Minor typos and errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012308 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6674
abstract: Models of universal quantum computation in which the required interactions between register (computational) qubits are mediated by some ancillary system are highly relevant to experimental realisations of a quantum computer. We introduce such a universal model that employs a $d$-dimensional ancillary qudit. The ancilla-register interactions take the form of controlled displacements operators, with a displacement operator defined on the periodic and discrete lattice phase space of a qudit. We show that these interactions can implement controlled phase gates on the register by utilising geometric phases that are created when closed loops are traversed in this phase space. The extra degrees of freedom of the ancilla can be harnessed to reduce the number of operations required for certain gate sequences. In particular, we see that the computational advantages of the quantum bus (qubus) architecture, which employs a field-mode ancilla, are also applicable to this model. We then explore an alternative ancilla-mediated model which employs a spin-ensemble as the ancillary system and again the interactions with the register qubits are via controlled displacement operators, with a displacement operator defined on the Bloch sphere phase space of the spin coherent states of the ensemble. We discuss the computational advantages of this model and its relationship with the qubus architecture.

id: 1402.6710
title: Quantifying entanglement resources
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 50+5 pages, 4 figures, contribution to Special Issue of J Phys A on 50 years of Bell's theorem. Typos corrected, various references added. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 424005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6710
abstract: We present an overview of the quantitative theory of single-copy entanglement in finite-dimensional quantum systems. In particular we emphasize the point of view that different entanglement measures quantify different types of resources which leads to a natural interdependence of entanglement classification and quantification. Apart from the theoretical basis, we outline various methods for obtaining quantitative results on arbitrary mixed states.

id: 1402.6711
title: Operationally-Motivated Uncertainty Relations for Joint Measurability and the Error-Disturbance Tradeoff
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Volkher B. Scholz
comments: welcome. 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6711
abstract: We derive new Heisenberg-type uncertainty relations for both joint measurability and the error-disturbance tradeoff for arbitrary observables of finite-dimensional systems. The relations are formulated in terms of a directly operational quantity, namely the probability of distinguishing the actual operation of a device from its hypothetical ideal, by any possible testing procedure whatsoever. Moreover, they may be directly applied in information processing settings, for example to infer that devices which can faithfully transmit information regarding one observable do not leak any information about conjugate observables to the environment. Though intuitively apparent from Heisenberg's original arguments, only more limited versions of this statement have previously been formalized.

id: 1402.6731
title: Entropy rate of message sources driven by quantum walks
authors: B¨¢lint Koll¨¢r, M¨¢ty¨¢s Koniorczyk
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6731
abstract: The amount of information generated by a discrete time stochastic processes in a single step can be quantified by the entropy rate. We investigate the differences between two discrete time walk models, the discrete time quantum walk and the classical random walk in terms of entropy rate. We develop analytical methods to calculate and approximate it. This allows us to draw conclusions about the differences between classical stochastic and quantum processes in terms of the classical information theory.

id: 1402.6746
title: Quantum Optomechanical Heat Engine
authors: Keye Zhang, Francesco Bariani, Pierre Meystre
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 150602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6746
abstract: We investigate theoretically a quantum optomechanical realization of a heat engine. In a generic optomechanical arrangement the optomechanical coupling between the cavity field and the oscillating end-mirror results in polariton normal mode excitations whose character depends on the pump detuning and the coupling strength. By varying that detuning it is possible to transform their character from phonon-like to photon-like, so that they are predominantly coupled to the thermal reservoir of phonons or photons, respectively. We exploit the fact that the effective temperatures of these two reservoirs are different to produce a Otto cycle along one of the polariton branches. We discuss the basic properties of the system in two different regimes: in the optical domain it is possible to extract work from the thermal energy of a mechanical resonator at finite temperature, while in the microwave range one can in principle exploit the cycle to extract work from the blackbody radiation background coupled to an ultra-cold atomic ensemble.

id: 1402.6914
title: All CHSH polytopes
authors: Stefano Pironio
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424020 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6914
abstract: The correlations that admit a local hidden-variable model are described by a family of polytopes, whose facets are the Bell inequalities. The CHSH inequality is the simplest such Bell inequality and is a facet of every Bell polytope. We investigate for which Bell polytopes the CHSH inequality is also the unique (non-trivial) facet. We prove that the CHSH inequality is the unique facet for all bipartite polytopes where at least one party has a binary choice of dichotomic measurements, irrespective of the number of measurement settings and outcomes for the other party. Based on numerical results, we conjecture that it is also the unique facet for all bipartite polytopes involving two measurements per party where at least one measurement is dichotomic. Finally, we remark that these two situations can be the only ones for which the CHSH inequality is the unique facet, i.e., any polytope that does not correspond to one of these two cases necessarily has facets that are not of the CHSH form. As a byproduct of our approach, we derive a new family of facet inequalities.

id: 1402.6921
title: Quantum Hacking on Quantum Key Distribution using Homodyne Detection
authors: Jing-Zheng Huang, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Paul Jouguet, Christian Weedbrook, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. PRA accepted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6921
abstract: Imperfect devices in commercial quantum key distribution systems open security loopholes that an eavesdropper may exploit. An example of one such imperfection is the wavelength dependent coupling ratio of the fiber beam splitter. Utilizing this loophole, the eavesdropper can vary the transmittances of the fiber beam splitter at the receiver's side by inserting lights with wavelengths different from what is normally used. Here, we propose a wavelength attack on a practical continuous-variable quantum key distribution system using homodyne detection. By inserting light pulses at different wavelengths, this attack allows the eavesdropper to bias the shot noise estimation even if it is done in real time. Based on experimental data, we discuss the feasibility of this attack and suggest a prevention scheme by improving the previously proposed countermeasures.

id: 1402.6946
title: Optimal quantum states for frequency estimation
authors: F. Fr?wis, M. Skotiniotis, B. Kraus, W. D¨¹r
comments: 16 pages + appendices, 7 figures. v2: substantial improvement of presentation; references added
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 083010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6946
abstract: We investigate different quantum parameter estimation scenarios in the presence of noise, and identify optimal probe states. For frequency estimation of local Hamiltonians with dephasing noise, we determine optimal probe states for up to 70 qubits, and determine their key properties. We find that the so-called one-axis twisted spin-squeezed states are only almost optimal, and that optimal states need not to be spin-squeezed. For different kinds of noise models, we investigate whether optimal states in the noiseless case remain superior to product states also in the presence of noise. For certain spatially and temporally correlated noise, we find that product states no longer allow one to reach the standard quantum limit in precision, while certain entangled states do. Our conclusions are based on numerical evidence using efficient numerical algorithms which we developed in order to treat permutational invariant systems.

id: 1402.6959
title: Entanglement between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in a laser-driven molecular system
authors: Mihaela Vatasescu
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063415 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6959
abstract: We investigate the entanglement between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom produced by a vibronic coupling in a molecular system described in the Born-Oppenheimer approximation. Entanglement in a pure state of the Hilbert space $\cal{H}$$=$$\cal{H}$$_{el}$$\bigotimes$$\cal{H}$$_{vib}$ is quantified using the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix and the reduced linear entropy. Expressions for these entanglement measures are derived for the $2 \times N_v$ and $3 \times N_v$ cases of the bipartite entanglement, where 2 and 3 are the dimensions of the electronic Hilbert space $\cal{H}$$_{el}$, and $N_v$ is the dimension of $\cal{H}$$_{vib}$. We study the entanglement dynamics for two electronic states coupled by a laser pulse (a $2 \times N_v$ case), taking as an example a coupling between the $a^3\Sigma_{u}^{+} (6s,6s)$ and $1_g(6s,6p_{3/2})$ states of the Cs$_2$ molecule. The reduced linear entropy expression obtained for the $3 \times N_v$ case is used to follow the entanglement evolution in a scheme proposed for the control of the vibronic dynamics in a Cs$_2$ cold molecule, implying the $a^3\Sigma_{u}^{+}(6s,6s)$, $0_g^-(6s,6p_{3/2})$, and $0_g^-(6s,5d)$ electronic states, which are coupled by a non-adiabatic radial coupling and a sequence of chirped laser pulses.

id: 1402.6960
title: Quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping of matter qubits with coherent multiphoton states
authors: J. M. Torres, J. Z. Bern¨¢d, G. Alber
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6960
abstract: Protocols for probabilistic entanglement-assisted quantum teleportation and for entanglement swapping of material qubits are presented. They are based on a protocol for postselective Bell-state projection which is capable of projecting two material qubits onto a Bell state with the help of ancillary coherent multiphoton states and postselection by balanced homodyne photodetection. Provided this photonic postselection is successful we explore the theoretical possibilities of realizing unit fidelity quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping with $25\%$ success probability. This photon-assisted Bell projection is generated by coupling almost resonantly the two material qubits to single modes of the radiation field in two separate cavities in a Ramsey-type interaction sequence and by measuring the emerged field states in a balanced homodyne detection scenario. As these quantum protocols require basic tools of quantum state engineering of coherent multiphoton states and balanced homodyne photodetection they may offer interesting perspectives in particular for current quantum optical applications in quantum information processing.

id: 1402.6967
title: Efficient out-coupling of high-purity single photons from a coherent quantum dot in a photonic-crystal cavity
authors: K. H. Madsen, S. Ates, J. Liu, A. Javadi, S. M. Albrecht, I. Yeo, S. Stobbe, P. Lodahl
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6967
abstract: We demonstrate a single-photon collection efficiency of $(44.3\pm2.1)\%$ from a quantum dot in a low-Q mode of a photonic-crystal cavity with a single-photon purity of $g^{(2)}(0)=(4\pm5)\%$ recorded above the saturation power. The high efficiency is directly confirmed by detecting up to $962\pm46$ kilocounts per second on a single-photon detector on another quantum dot coupled to the cavity mode. The high collection efficiency is found to be broadband, as is explained by detailed numerical simulations. Cavity-enhanced efficient excitation of quantum dots is obtained through phonon-mediated excitation and under these conditions, single-photon indistinguishability measurements reveal long coherence times reaching $0.77\pm0.19$ ns in a weak-excitation regime. Our work demonstrates that photonic crystals provide a very promising platform for highly integrated generation of coherent single photons including the efficient out-coupling of the photons from the photonic chip.

id: 1402.7004
title: Entanglement of arbitrary spin modes in an expanding universe
authors: Zahra Ebadi, Hossein Mehri-Dehnavi, Behrouz Mirza, Hosein Mohammadzadeh, Robabeh Rahimi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7004
abstract: Pair particle creation is a well-known effect on the domain of field theory in curved space-time. It is shown that the entanglement generations for spin-0 and spin-1/2 modes are different in Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW) space-time. We consider the spin-1 particles in FRW space-time using Duffin-Kemmer-Petiao (DKP) equation and obtain a measure of the generated entanglement. Also, we consider the spin-3/2 particles. We argue that the absolute value of the spin does not play any role in entanglement generation and the differences are due to the bosonic or fermionic properties.

id: 1402.7009
title: Phonon creation by gravitational waves
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn, David Edward Bruschi, Mehdi Ahmadi, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. I. F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller. v2:minor changes. v3: more details on experimental feasibility. Published version
journal: New J. Phys 16 (2014) 085003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7009
abstract: We show that gravitational waves create phonons in a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). A traveling spacetime distortion produces particle creation resonances that correspond to the dynamical Casimir effect in a BEC phononic field contained in a cavity-type trap. We propose to use this effect to detect gravitational waves. The amplitude of the wave can be estimated applying recently developed relativistic quantum metrology techniques. We provide the optimal precision bound on the estimation of the wave's amplitude. Finally, we show that the parameter regime required to detect gravitational waves with this technique could be, in principle, within experimental reach in a medium-term timescale.

id: 1402.7036
title: High contrast qubit interactions using multimode cavity QED
authors: David C. McKay, Ravi Naik, Philip Reinhold, Lev S. Bishop, David I. Schuster
comments: Main text 6 pages, 4 figures. See supplementary info in ancillary files (13 pages, 11 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 080501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7036
abstract: We introduce a new multimode cavity QED architecture for superconducting circuits which can be used to implement photonic memories, more efficient Purcell filters, and quantum simulations of photonic materials. We show that qubit interactions mediated by multimode cavities can have exponentially improved contrast for two qubit gates without sacrificing gate speed. Using two-qubits coupled via a three-mode cavity system we spectroscopically observe multimode strong couplings up to 102MHz and demonstrate suppressed interactions off-resonance of 10kHz when the qubits are ~600MHz detuned from the cavity resonance. We study Landau-Zener transitions in our multimode systems and demonstrate quasi-adiabatic loading of single photons into the multimode cavity in 25ns. We introduce an adiabatic gate protocol to realize a controlled-Z gate between the qubits in 95ns and create a Bell state with 94.7% fidelity. This corresponds to an on/off ratio (gate contrast) of 1000.

id: 1402.7113
title: High-dimensional quantum cryptography with twisted light
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Omar S. Maga?a-Loaiza, Malcolm N. O'Sullivan, Brandon Rodenburg, Mehul Malik, Martin P. J. Lavery, Miles J. Padgett, Daniel J. Gauthier, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033033 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7113
abstract: Quantum key distributions (QKD) systems often rely on polarization of light for encoding, thus limiting the amount of information that can be sent per photon and placing tight bounds on the error that such a system can tolerate. Here we describe a proof-of-principle experiment that indicates the feasibility of high-dimensional QKD based on the transverse structure of the light field, allowing for the transfer of more than 1 bit per photon. Our implementation uses the orbital angular momentum (OAM) of photons and the corresponding mutually unbiased basis of angular position (ANG). Our experiment uses a digital micro-mirror device for the rapid generation of OAM and ANG modes at 4 kHz, and a mode sorter capable of sorting single photons based on their OAM and ANG content with a separation efficiency of 93\%. Through the use of a 7-dimensional alphabet encoded in the OAM and ANG bases, we achieve a channel capacity of 2.05 bits per sifted photon. Our experiment shows that, in addition to having an increased information capacity, QKD systems based on spatial-mode encoding will be more tolerant to errors and thus more robust against eavesdropping attacks.

id: 1402.7115
title: Fine-grained uncertainty relations for several quantum measurements
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Minor improvements. The bibliography is extended. To appear in Quantum Inf. Processing
journal: Quantum Inf. Process., Vol. 14, 783-800 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7115
abstract: We study fine-grained uncertainty relations for several quantum measurements in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. The proposed approach is based on exact calculation or estimation of the spectral norms of corresponding positive matrices. Fine-grained uncertainty relations of the state-independent form are derived for an arbitrary set of mutually unbiased bases. Such relations are extended with a recent notion of mutually unbiased measurements. The case of so-called mutually biased bases is considered in a similar manner. We also discuss a formulation of fine-grained uncertainty relations in the case of generalized measurements. The general approach is then applied to two measurements related to state discrimination. The case of three rank-one projective measurements is further examined in details. In particular, we consider fine-grained uncertainty relations for mutually unbiased bases in three-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1402.7152
title: Non-maximal Tripartite Entanglement Degradation of Dirac and Scalar fields in Non-inertial frames
authors: Salman Khan, Niaz Ali Khan, M.K. Khan
comments: Four Figures in colors
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 61 281(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7152
abstract: The {\pi}-tangle is used to study the behavior of entanglement of a nonmaximal tripartite state of both Dirac and scalar fields in accelerated frame. For Dirac fields, the degree of degradation with acceleration of both one-tangle of accelerated observer and {\pi}-tangle, for the same initial entanglement, is different by just interchanging the values of probability amplitudes. A fraction of both one-tangles and the {\pi}-tangle always survives for any choice of acceleration and the degree of initial entanglement. For scalar field, the one-tangle of accelerated observer depends on the choice of values of probability amplitudes and it vanishes in the range of infinite acceleration, whereas for {\pi}-tangle this is not always true. The dependence of {\pi}-tangle on probability amplitudes varies with acceleration. In the lower range of acceleration, its behavior changes by switching between the values of probability amplitudes and for larger values of acceleration this dependence on probability amplitudes vanishes. Interestingly, unlike bipartite entanglement, the degradation of {\pi}-tangle against acceleration in the case of scalar fields is slower than for Dirac fields.

id: 1402.7166
title: A simpler proof of existence of quantum weak coin flipping with arbitrarily small bias
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Maor Ganz, Iordanis Kerenidis, Lo?ck Magnin
comments: 48 pages, 5 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7166
abstract: Mochon's proof [Moc07] of existence of quantum weak coin flipping with arbitrarily small bias is a fundamental result in quantum cryptography, but at the same time one of the least understood. Though used several times as a black box in important follow-up results [Gan09, CK09, AS10, CK11, KZ13] the result has not been peer-reviewed, its novel techniques (and in particular Kitaev's point game formalism) have not been applied anywhere else, and an explicit protocol is missing. We believe that truly understanding the existence proof and the novel techniques it relies on would constitute a major step in quantum information theory, leading to deeper understanding of entanglement and of quantum protocols in general. In this work, we make a first step in this direction. We simplify parts of Mochon's construction considerably, making about 20 pages of analysis in the original proof superfluous, clarifying some other parts of the proof on the way, and presenting the proof in a way which is conceptually easier to grasp. We believe the resulting proof of existence is easier to understand, more readable, and certainly verifiable. Moreover, we analyze the resources needed to achieve a bias $\epsilon$ and show that the number of qubits is $O(\log 1/\epsilon)$, while the number of rounds is $(1/\epsilon)^{O(1/\epsilon)}$. A true understanding of the proof, including Kitaev's point game techniques and their applicability, as well as completing the task of constructing an explicit (and also simpler and more efficient) protocol, are left to future work.

id: 1402.7185
title: Simulating systems of itinerant spin-carrying particles using arrays of superconducting qubits and resonators
authors: S. Ashhab
comments: 11 pages (two-column), 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7185
abstract: We propose possible approaches for the quantum simulation of itinerant spin-carrying particles in a superconducting qubit-resonator array. The standard Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard setup considered in several recent studies can readily be used as a quantum simulator for a number of relevant phenomena, including the interaction with external magnetic fields and spin-orbit coupling. A more complex setup where multiple qubits and multiple resonator modes are utilized in the simulation gives a higher level of complexity, including the simulation of particles with high spin values and allowing more direct control on processes related to spin-orbit coupling. This proposal could be implemented in state-of-the-art superconducting circuits in the near future.

id: 1402.7193
title: Adaptive hybrid optimal quantum control for imprecisely characterized systems
authors: D. J. Egger, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 240503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7193
abstract: Optimal quantum control theory carries a huge promise for quantum technology. Its experimental application, however, is often hindered by imprecise knowledge of the its input variables, the quantum system's parameters. We show how to overcome this by Adaptive Hybrid Optimal Control (Ad-HOC). This protocol combines open- and closed-loop optimal by first performing a gradient search towards a near-optimal control pulse and then an experimental fidelity measure with a gradient-free method. For typical settings in solid-state quantum information processing, Ad-Hoc enhances gate fidelities by an order of magnitude hence making optimal control theory applicable and useful.

id: 1402.7202
title: Hybrid photonic circuit for multiplexed heralded single photons
authors: Thomas Meany, Lutfi A. Ngah, Matthew J. Collins, Alex S. Clark, Robert J. Williams, Benjamin J. Eggleton, M. J. Steel, Michael J. Withford, Olivier Alibart, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 5 pages, double column, 3 figures
journal: Laser Photonics Rev. 8, No. 3, L42-L46 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7202
abstract: A key resource for quantum optics experiments is an on-demand source of single and multiple photon states at telecommunication wavelengths. This letter presents a heralded single photon source based on a hybrid technology approach, combining high efficiency periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides, low-loss laser inscribed circuits, and fast (>1 MHz) fibre coupled electro-optic switches. Hybrid interfacing different platforms is a promising route to exploiting the advantages of existing technology and has permitted the demonstration of the multiplexing of four identical sources of single photons to one output. Since this is an integrated technology, it provides scalability and can immediately leverage any improvements in transmission, detection and photon production efficiencies.

id: 1402.7222
title: Mechanical PT symmetry in coupled optomechanical systems
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yu-xi Liu, Chang-Pu Sun, Yong Li
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7222
abstract: We propose to realize mechanical parity-time (PT) symmetry in two coupled optomechanical systems. To provide gain to one mechanical resonator and the same amount of damping to the other, the two optical cavities should be driven by a blue- and a red-detuned laser fields, respectively. After adiabatically eliminating the degrees of freedom of the cavity modes, we derive a formula to describe PT symmetry of two coupled mechanical resonators. We further study the experimental feasibility of our proposal and show that the observation of the PT symmetry of the mechanical resonators via two coupled optomechanical systems is within the reach of current experiments.

id: 1402.7250
title: Regularized linearization for quantum nonlinear optical cavities: Application to Degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillators
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Yue Chang, Tao Shi
comments: Comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7250
abstract: Nonlinear optical cavities are crucial both in classical and quantum optics; in particular, nowadays optical parametric oscillators are one of the most versatile and tunable sources of coherent light, as well as the sources of the highest quality quantum-correlated light in the continuous variable regime. Being nonlinear systems, they can be driven through critical points in which a solution ceases to exist in favour of a new one, and it is close to these points where quantum correlations are the strongest. The simplest description of such systems consists in writing the quantum fields as the classical part plus some quantum fluctuations, linearizing then the dynamical equations with respect to the latter; however, such an approach breaks down close to critical points, where it provides unphysical predictions such as infinite photon numbers. On the other hand, techniques going beyond the simple linear description become too complicated especially regarding the evaluation of two-time correlators, which are of major importance to compute observables outside the cavity. In this article we provide a regularized linear description of nonlinear cavities, that is, a linearization procedure yielding physical results, taking the degenerate optical parametric oscillator as the guiding example. The method, which we call self-consistent linearization, is shown to be equivalent to a general Gaussian ansatz for the state of the system, and we compare its predictions with those obtained with available exact (or quasi-exact) methods.

id: 1402.7254
title: Generalizations of the distributed Deutsch-Jozsa promise problem
authors: Jozef Gruska, Daowen Qiu, Shenggen Zheng
comments: we correct some errors of and improve the presentation the previous version. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1309.7739
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7254
abstract: In the {\em distributed Deutsch-Jozsa promise problem}, two parties are to determine whether their respective strings $x,y\in\{0,1\}^n$ are at the {\em Hamming distance} $H(x,y)=0$ or $H(x,y)=\frac{n}{2}$. Buhrman et al. (STOC' 98) proved that the exact {\em quantum communication complexity} of this problem is ${\bf O}(\log {n})$ while the {\em deterministic communication complexity} is ${\bf \Omega}(n)$. This was the first impressive (exponential) gap between quantum and classical communication complexity. In this paper, we generalize the above distributed Deutsch-Jozsa promise problem to determine, for any fixed $\frac{n}{2}\leq k\leq n$, whether $H(x,y)=0$ or $H(x,y)= k$, and show that an exponential gap between exact quantum and deterministic communication complexity still holds if $k$ is an even such that $\frac{1}{2}n\leq k<(1-\lambda) n$, where $0< \lambda<\frac{1}{2}$ is given. We also deal with a promise version of the well-known {\em disjointness} problem and show also that for this promise problem there exists an exponential gap between quantum (and also probabilistic) communication complexity and deterministic communication complexity of the promise version of such a disjointness problem. Finally, some applications to quantum, probabilistic and deterministic finite automata of the results obtained are demonstrated.

id: 1402.7256
title: Implications of protective measurements on de Broglie-Bohm trajectories
authors: A. Drezet
comments: Forthcoming in Gao Shan (ed.) Protective Measurements and Quantum Reality: Toward a New Understanding of Quantum Mechanics, CUP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7256
abstract: Protective measurements which were defined by Aharonov and Vaidman in 1993 played an important role in the discussion about the interpretation of quantum mechanics. In 1999, following an early work by Englert et al., Aharonov et al. wrote an article in which they showed that protective measurements can be used to demonstrate the `surrealism' of Bohmian mechanics. Bohmian mechanics also known as pilot-wave interpretation is certainly the best-known hidden variable interpretation of quantum mechanics. It played a fundamental role in the discovery by Bell of his famous non locality theorem. Therefore, any attacks against pilot-wave interpretation is particularly interesting and instructive to learn something new about the mysterious quantum universe. It is the aim of this chapter to review the debate surrounding protective measurement and pilot-wave and to show if it is possible to reconciliate the different interpretations of the results given in the work by Aharonov et al.

id: 1402.7310
title: Understanding degenerate ground states of a protected quantum circuit in the presence of disorder
authors: Joshua Dempster, Bo Fu, David G. Ferguson, D. I. Schuster, Jens Koch
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7310
abstract: A recent theoretical proposal suggests that a simple circuit utilizing two superinductors may produce a qubit with ground state degeneracy [P. Brooks et al., Phys. Rev. A 87, 052306 (2013)]. We perform a full circuit analysis along with exact diagonalization of the circuit Hamiltonian to elucidate the nature of the spectrum and low-lying wave functions of this $0-\pi$ device. We show that the ground state degeneracy is robust to disorder in charge, flux and critical current as well as insensitive to modest variations in the circuit parameters. Our treatment is non-perturbative, provides access to excited states and matrix elements, and is immediately applicable also to intermediate parameter regimes of experimental interest.

id: 1402.7311
title: A disturbance tradeoff principle for quantum measurements
authors: Prabha Mandayam, M. D. Srinivas
comments: 9 pages, version 2; added section on POVMs; modified title and abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7311
abstract: We demonstrate a fundamental principle of disturbance tradeoff for quantum measurements, along the lines of the celebrated uncertainty principle: The disturbances associated with measurements performed on distinct yet identically prepared ensembles of systems in a pure state cannot all be made arbitrarily small. Indeed, we show that the average of the disturbances associated with a set of projective measurements is strictly greater than zero whenever the associated observables do not have a common eigenvector. For such measurements, we show an equivalence between disturbance tradeoff measured in terms of fidelity and the entropic uncertainty tradeoff formulated in terms of the Tsallis entropy ($T_{2}$). We also investigate the disturbances associated with the class of non-projective measurements, where the difference between the disturbance tradeoff and the uncertainty tradeoff manifests quite clearly.

id: 1402.7330
title: Some non-standard ways to generate SIC-POVMs in dimensions 2 and 3
authors: Gary McConnell
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7330
abstract: The notion of Symmetric Informationally Complete Positive Operator-Valued Measures (SIC-POVMs) arose in physics as a kind of optimal measurement basis for quantum systems. However the question of their existence is equivalent to that of the existence of a maximal set of \emph{complex equiangular lines}. That is to say, given a complex Hilbert space of dimension $d$, what is the maximal number of (complex) lines one can find which all make a common (real) angle with one another, in the sense that the inner products between unit vectors spanning those lines all have a common absolute value? A maximal set would consist of $d^2$ lines all with a common angle of $\arccos{\frac{1}{\sqrt{d+1}}}$. The same question has been posed in the real case and some partial answers are known. But at the time of writing no unifying theoretical result has been found in the real or the complex case: some sporadic low-dimensional numerical constructions have been converted into algebraic solutions but beyond this very little is known. It is conjectured that such structures always arise as orbits of certain fiducial vectors under the action of the Weyl (or generalised Pauli) group. In this paper we point out some new construction methods in the lowest dimensions ($d=2$ and $d=3$). We should mention that the SIC-POVMs so constructed are all unitarily equivalent to previously known SIC-POVMs.

id: 1402.7333
title: Scattering resonances and bound states for strongly interacting Rydberg polaritons
authors: P. Bienias, S. Choi, O. Firstenberg, M. F. Maghrebi, M. Gullans, M. D. Lukin, A.V. Gorshkov, H. P. B¨¹chler
comments: 6 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053804 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7333
abstract: We provide a theoretical framework describing slow-light polaritons interacting via atomic Rydberg states. We use a diagrammatic method to analytically derive the scattering properties of two polaritons. We identify parameter regimes where polariton-polariton interactions are repulsive. Furthermore, in the regime of attractive interactions, we identify multiple two-polariton bound states, calculate their dispersion, and study the resulting scattering resonances. Finally, the two-particle scattering properties allow us to derive the effective low-energy many-body Hamiltonian. This theoretical platform is applicable to ongoing experiments.

id: 1402.7357
title: Diabatic ramping spectroscopy of many-body excited states for trapped-ion quantum simulators
authors: B. Yoshimura, W. C. Campbell, J. K. Freericks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7357
abstract: Due to the experimental time constraints of state of the art quantum simulations with trapped ions, the direct preparation of the ground state by adiabatically ramping the field of a transverse field Ising model becomes more and more difficult as the number of particles increase. We propose a spectroscopy protocol that intentionally creates excitations through diabatic ramping of the transverse field and measures a low-noise observable as a function of time for a constant field to reveal the structure of the coherent dynamics of the resulting many-body states. To simulate the experimental data, noise from counting statistics and decoherence error are added. Compressive sensing is then applied to Fourier transform the simulated data into the frequency domain and extract the the low-lying energy excitation spectrum. By using compressive sensing, the amount of data in time needed to extract this energy spectrum is sharply reduced making such experiments feasible with current technology.

id: 1402.7359
title: Quantum Inference on Bayesian Networks
authors: Guang Hao Low, Theodore J. Yoder, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to PRX
journal: Physical Review A 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7359
abstract: Performing exact inference on Bayesian networks is known to be #P-hard. Typically approximate inference techniques are used instead to sample from the distribution on query variables given the values $e$ of evidence variables. Classically, a single unbiased sample is obtained from a Bayesian network on $n$ variables with at most $m$ parents per node in time $\mathcal{O}(nmP(e)^{-1})$, depending critically on $P(e)$, the probability the evidence might occur in the first place. By implementing a quantum version of rejection sampling, we obtain a square-root speedup, taking $\mathcal{O}(n2^mP(e)^{-\frac12})$ time per sample. We exploit the Bayesian network's graph structure to efficiently construct a quantum state, a q-sample, representing the intended classical distribution, and also to efficiently apply amplitude amplification, the source of our speedup. Thus, our speedup is notable as it is unrelativized -- we count primitive operations and require no blackbox oracle queries.

id: 1402.0038
title: Sensitivity and Entanglement in the Avian Chemical Compass
authors: Yiteng Zhang, Gennady P. Berman, Sabre Kais
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0038
abstract: The Radical Pair Mechanism can help to explain avian orientation and navigation. Some evidence indicates that the intensity of external magnetic fields plays an important role in avian navigation. In this paper, based on a two-stage strategy, we demonstrate that birds could reasonably detect the directions of geomagnetic fields and gradients of these fields using a yield-based chemical compass that is sensitive enough for navigation. Also, we find that the lifetime of entanglement in this proposed compass is angle-dependent and long enough to allow adequate electron transfer between molecules.

id: 1402.0158
title: Dynamical Correspondence in a Generalized Quantum Theory
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 11 pages in Foundations of Physics 2015
journal: Found Phys (2015) 45:525-534
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0158
abstract: In order to figure out why quantum physics needs the complex Hilbert space, many attempts have been made to distinguish the C*-algebras and von Neumann algebras in more general classes of abstractly defined Jordan algebras (JB- and JBW-algebras). One particularly important distinguishing property was identified by Alfsen and Shultz and is the existence of a dynamical correspondence. It reproduces the dual role of the selfadjoint operators as observables and generators of dynamical groups in quantum mechanics. In the paper, this concept is extended to another class of nonassociative algebras, arising from recent studies of the quantum logics with a conditional probability calculus and particularly of those that rule out third-order interference. The conditional probability calculus is a mathematical model of the Lueders-von Neumann quantum measurement process, and third-order interference is a property of the conditional probabilities which was discovered by R. Sorkin in 1994 and which is ruled out by quantum mechanics. It is shown then that the postulates that a dynamical correspondence exists and that the square of any algebra element is positive still characterize, in the class considered, those algebras that emerge from the selfadjoint parts of C*-algebras equipped with the Jordan product. Within this class, the two postulates thus result in ordinary quantum mechanics using the complex Hilbert space or, vice versa, a genuine generalization of quantum theory must omit at least one of them.

id: 1402.0324
title: Extremely quick thermalization in a macroscopic quantum system for a typical nonequilibrium subspace
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Takashi Hara, Hal Tasaki
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0324
abstract: The fact that macroscopic systems approach thermal equilibrium may seem puzzling, for example, because it may seem to conflict with the time-reversibility of the microscopic dynamics. We here prove that in a macroscopic quantum system for a typical choice of "nonequilibrium subspace", any initial state indeed thermalizes, and in fact does so very quickly, on the order of the Boltzmann time $\tau_\mathrm{B}:=h/(k_\mathrm{B}T)$. Therefore what needs to be explained is, not that macroscopic systems approach equilibrium, but that they do so slowly.

id: 1402.0503
title: Direct calculation of the Entanglement Spectrum in Quantum Monte Carlo with application to \textit{ab initio} Hamiltonians
authors: Norm M. Tubman, D. ChangMo Yang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 081116 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0503
abstract: Several algorithms have been proposed to calculate the spatial entanglement spectrum from high order Renyi entropies. In this work we present an alternative approach for computing the entanglement spectrum with quantum Monte Carlo for both continuum and lattice Hamiltonians. This method provides direct access to the matrix elements of the spatially reduced density matrix and we determine an estimator that can be used in variational Monte Carlo as well as other Monte Carlo methods. The algorithm is based on using a generalization of the Swap operator, which can be extended to calculate a general class of density matrices that can include combinations of spin, space, particle and even momentum coordinates. We demonstrate the method by applying it to the Hydrogen and Nitrogen molecules and describe for the first time how the spatial entanglement spectrum encodes a covalent bond that includes all the many body correlations.

id: 1402.0619
title: Precise estimation of critical exponents from real-space renormalization group analysis
authors: Aleksander Kubica, Beni Yoshida
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0619
abstract: We develop a novel real-space renormalization group (RG) scheme which accurately estimates correlation length exponent $\nu$ near criticality of higher-dimensional quantum Ising and Potts models in a transverse field. Our method is remarkably simple (often analytical), grouping only a few spins into a block spin so that renormalized Hamiltonian has a closed form. A previous difficulty of spatial anisotropy and unwanted terms is avoided by incorporating rotational invariance and internal $\mathbb{Z}_q$ symmetries of the Hamiltonian. By applying this scheme to the (2+1)-dim Ising model on a triangular lattice and solving an analytical RG equation, we obtain $\nu\approx 0.6300$. This value is within statistical errors of the current best Monte-Carlo result, 25th-order high-temperature series expansions, $\phi^4$-theory estimation which considers up to seven-loop corrections and experiments performed in low-Earth orbits. We also apply the scheme to higher-dimensional Potts models for which ordinary Monte-Carlo methods are not effective due to strong hysteresis and suppression of quantum fluctuation in a weak first-order phase transition.

id: 1402.0776
title: Permutation symmetry in spinor quantum gases: selection rules, conservation laws, and correlations
authors: Vladimir A. Yurovsky
comments: A citation added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 200406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0776
abstract: Many-body systems of identical arbitrary-spin particles, with separable spin and spatial degrees of freedom, are considered. Their eigenstates can be classified by Young diagrams, corresponding to non-trivial permutation symmetries (beyond the conventional paradigm of symmetric--antisymmetric states). The present work obtains (a) selection rules for additional non-separable (dependent on spins and coordinates) $k$-body interactions: the Young diagrams, associated with the initial and the final states of a transition, can differ by relocation of no more than $k$ boxes between their rows; and (b) correlation rules: eigenstate-averaged local correlations of $k$ particles vanish if $k$ exceeds the number of columns (for bosons) or rows (for fermions) in the associated Young diagram. It also elucidates the physical meaning of the quantities conserved due to permutation symmetry --- in 1929, Dirac identified those with characters of the symmetric group --- relating them to experimentally observable correlations of several particles. The results provide a way to control the formation of entangled states belonging to multidimensional non-Abelian representations of the symmetric group. These states can find applications in quantum computation and metrology.

id: 1402.0786
title: Maslov indices, Poisson brackets, and singular differential forms
authors: Ilya Esterlis, Hal M. Haggard, Austin Hedeman, Robert G. Littlejohn
comments: 5 pages
journal: EPL 106, 50002 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0786
abstract: Maslov indices are integers that appear in semiclassical wave functions and quantization conditions. They are often notoriously difficult to compute. We present methods of computing the Maslov index that rely only on typically elementary Poisson brackets and simple linear algebra. We also present a singular differential form, whose integral along a curve gives the Maslov index of that curve. The form is closed but not exact, and transforms by an exact differential under canonical transformations. We illustrate the method with the $6j$-symbol, which is important in angular momentum theory and in quantum gravity.

id: 1402.0847
title: Generalized Moment Method for Gap Estimation and Quantum Monte Carlo Level Spectroscopy
authors: Hidemaro Suwa, Synge Todo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0847
abstract: We formulate a convergent sequence for the gap estimation in the worldline quantum Monte Carlo method. The ambiguity left in the conventional gap calculation for quantum systems is eliminated. The level spectroscopy from quantum Monte Carlo data is developed as an application of the unbiased gap estimation. From the spectrum analysis, we precisely determine the Kosterlitz-Thouless type quantum phase transition point in the spin-Peierls model as $\lambda_{\rm c} = 0.2245 \pm 0.0017$ for phonon frequency $\omega=1/4$. We demonstrate that the criticality at the transition point is described by the $k=1$ $SU(2)$ Wess-Zumino-Witten model.

id: 1402.0873
title: Detecting quadrupole interactions in ultracold Fermi gases
authors: M. Lahrz, Mikhail Lemeshko, Klaus Sengstock, Christoph Becker, L. Mathey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0873
abstract: We propose to detect quadrupole interactions of neutral ultra-cold atoms via their induced mean-field shift. We consider a Mott insulator state of spin-polarized atoms in a two-dimensional optical square lattice. The quadrupole moments of the atoms are aligned by an external magnetic field. As the alignment angle is varied, the mean-field shift shows a characteristic angular dependence, which constitutes the defining signature of the quadrupole interaction. For the $^{3}P_{2}$ states of Yb and Sr atoms, we find a frequency shift of the order of tens of Hertz, which can be realistically detected in experiment with current technology. We compare our results to the mean-field shift of a spin-polarized quasi-2D Fermi gas in continuum.

id: 1402.0878
title: Energy carries Information
authors: Irfan Ilgin, I-Sheng Yang
comments: version 2, 5 pages, no figures: We thank Douglas Stanford for pointing out a technical mistake in Section III of the previous version. We rewrote that section and partially Section IV. We also made the footnotes appear correctly
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0878
abstract: We show that for every qubit of quantum information, there is a well-defined notion of "the amount of energy that carries it", because it is a conserved quantity. This generalizes to larger systems and any conserved quantites: the eigenvalue spectrum of conserved charges has to be preserved while transferring quantum information. It is possible to "apparently" violate these conservations by losing a small fraction of information, but that must invoke a specific process which requires a large scale coherence. We discuss its implication regarding the black hole information paradox.

id: 1402.0926
title: Diabolical points in multi-scatterer optomechanical systems
authors: Stefano Chesi, Ying-Dan Wang, Jason Twamley
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 7816 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0926
abstract: Diabolical points, which originate from parameter-dependent accidental degeneracies of a system's energy levels, have played a fundamental role in the discovery of the Berry phase as well as in photonics (conical refraction), in chemical dynamics, and more recently in novel materials such as graphene, whose electronic band structure possess Dirac points. Here we discuss diabolical points in an optomechanical system formed by multiple scatterers in an optical cavity with periodic boundary conditions. Such configuration is close to experimental setups using micro-toroidal rings with indentations or near-field scatterers. We find that the optomechanical coupling is no longer an analytic function near the diabolical point and demonstrate the topological phase arising through the mechanical motion. Similar to a Fabry-Perot resonator, the optomechanical coupling can grow with the number of scatterers. We also introduce a minimal quantum model of a diabolical point, which establishes a connection to the motion of an arbitrary-spin particle in a 2D parabolic quantum dot with spin-orbit coupling.

id: 1402.0939
title: NCON: A tensor network contractor for MATLAB
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Glen Evenbly, Sukhwinder Singh, Guifre Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4.1. Contains downloadable software. v1.01: Includes ability to disable checking of inputs, for a slight increase in performance. Substantial text overlap with arXiv:1310.8023: We use many of the same examples to describe the operation of ncon() as we do for the complementary package multienv()
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0939
abstract: A fundamental process in the implementation of any numerical tensor network algorithm is that of contracting a tensor network. In this process, a network made up of multiple tensors connected by summed indices is reduced to a single tensor or a number by evaluating the index sums. This article presents a MATLAB function ncon(), or "Network CONtractor", which accepts as its input a tensor network and a contraction sequence describing how this network may be reduced to a single tensor or number. As its output it returns that single tensor or number. The function ncon() may be obtained by downloading the source of this preprint.

id: 1402.1067
title: Generalised Quantum Waveguides
authors: Stefan Haag, Jonas Lampart, Stefan Teufel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1067
abstract: We study general quantum waveguides and establish explicit effective Hamiltonians for the Laplacian on these spaces. A conventional quantum waveguide is an $\varepsilon$-tubular neighbourhood of a curve in $\mathbb{R}^3$ and the object of interest is the Dirichlet Laplacian on this tube in the asymptotic limit $\varepsilon\to0$. We generalise this by considering fibre bundles $M$ over a $d$-dimensional submanifold $B\subset\mathbb{R}^{d+k}$ with fibres diffeomorphic to $F\subset\mathbb{R}^k$, whose total space is embedded into an $\varepsilon$-neighbourhood of $B$. From this point of view $B$ takes the role of the curve and $F$ that of the disc-shaped cross-section of a conventional quantum waveguide. Our approach allows, among other things, for waveguides whose cross-sections $F$ are deformed along $B$ and also the study of the Laplacian on the boundaries of such waveguides. By applying recent results on the adiabatic limit of Schr\"odinger operators on fibre bundles we show, in particular, that for small energies the dynamics and the spectrum of the Laplacian on $M$ are reflected by the adiabatic approximation associated to the ground state band of the normal Laplacian. We give explicit formulas for the according effective operator on $L^2(B)$ in various scenarios, thereby improving and extending many of the known results on quantum waveguides and quantum layers in $\mathbb{R}^3$.

id: 1402.1082
title: Pseudospectra in non-Hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: D. Krejcirik, P. Siegl, M. Tater, J. Viola
comments: 40 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1082
abstract: We propose giving the mathematical concept of the pseudospectrum a central role in quantum mechanics with non-Hermitian operators. We relate pseudospectral properties to quasi-Hermiticity, similarity to self-adjoint operators, and basis properties of eigenfunctions. The abstract results are illustrated by unexpected wild properties of operators familiar from PT-symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: 1402.1141
title: Quantum Cybernetics and Complex Quantum Systems Science - A Quantum Connectionist Exploration
authors: Carlos Pedro Gon?alves
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1141
abstract: Quantum cybernetics and its connections to complex quantum systems science is addressed from the perspective of complex quantum computing systems. In this way, the notion of an autonomous quantum computing system is introduced in regards to quantum artificial intelligence, and applied to quantum artificial neural networks, considered as autonomous quantum computing systems, which leads to a quantum connectionist framework within quantum cybernetics for complex quantum computing systems. Several examples of quantum feedforward neural networks are addressed in regards to Boolean functions' computation, multilayer quantum computation dynamics, entanglement and quantum complementarity. The examples provide a framework for a reflection on the role of quantum artificial neural networks as a general framework for addressing complex quantum systems that perform network-based quantum computation, possible consequences are drawn regarding quantum technologies, as well as fundamental research in complex quantum systems science and quantum biology.

id: 1402.1147
title: Nanowire photonic crystal waveguides for single-atom trapping and strong light-matter interactions
authors: S.-P. Yu, J. D. Hood, J. A. Muniz, M. J. Martin, Richard Norte, C.-L. Hung, Se¨¢n M. Meenehan, Justin D. Cohen, Oskar Painter, H. J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1147
abstract: We present a comprehensive study of dispersion-engineered nanowire photonic crystal waveguides suitable for experiments in quantum optics and atomic physics with optically trapped atoms. Detailed design methodology and specifications are provided, as are the processing steps used to create silicon nitride waveguides of low optical loss in the near-IR. Measurements of the waveguide optical properties and power-handling capability are also presented.

id: 1402.1201
title: Using Simulated Annealing to Factor Numbers
authors: Eric Lewin Altschuler, Timothy J. Williams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1201
abstract: Almost all public secure communication relies on the inability to factor large numbers. There is no known analytic or classical numeric method to rapidly factor large numbers. Shor[1] has shown that a quantum computer can factor numbers in polynomial time but there is no practical quantum computer that can yet do such computations. We show that a simulated annealing[2] approach can be adapted to find factors of large numbers.

id: 1402.1204
title: Probe of Three-Dimensional Chiral Topological Insulators in an Optical Lattice
authors: Sheng-Tao Wang, Dong-Ling Deng, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, including Supplemental Material, version accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 033002 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1204
abstract: We propose a feasible experimental scheme to realize a three-dimensional chiral topological insulator with cold fermionic atoms in an optical lattice, which is characterized by an integer topological invariant distinct from the conventional $Z_2$ topological insulators and has a remarkable macroscopic zero-energy flat band. To probe its property, we show that its characteristic surface states---the Dirac cones---can be probed through time-of-flight imaging or Bragg spectroscopy and the flat band can be detected via measurement of the atomic density profile in a weak global trap. The realization of this novel topological phase with a flat band in an optical lattice will provide a unique experimental platform to study the interplay between interaction and topology and open new avenues for application of topological states.

id: 1402.1248
title: Frequency Stabilization of a 369 nm Diode Laser by Nonlinear Spectroscopy of Ytterbium Ions in a Discharge
authors: Michael W Lee, Marie Claire Jarratt, Christian Marciniak, Michael J Biercuk
comments: Related papers available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1248
abstract: We demonstrate stabilisation of an ultraviolet diode laser via Doppler free spectroscopy of Ytterbium ions in a discharge. Our technique employs polarization spectroscopy, which produces a natural dispersive lineshape whose zero-crossing is largely immune to environmental drifts, making this signal an ideal absolute frequency reference for Yb$^+$ ion trapping experiments. We stabilise an external-cavity diode laser near 369 nm for cooling Yb$^+$ ions, using amplitude-modulated polarisation spectroscopy and a commercial PID feedback system. We achieve stable, low-drift locking with a standard deviation of measured laser frequency ~400 kHz over 10 minutes, limited by the instantaneous linewidth of the diode laser. These results and the simplicity of our optical setup makes our approach attractive for stabilization of laser sources in atomic-physics applications.

id: 1402.1279
title: Molecular Split-Ring Resonators Based on Metal String Complexes
authors: Yao Shen, Hsin-Yu Ko, Qing Ai, Shie-Ming Peng, Bih-Yaw Jin
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. C 118, 3766 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1279
abstract: Metal string complexes or extended metal atom chains (EMACs) belong to a family of molecules that consist of a linear chain of directly bonded metal atoms embraced helically by four multidentate organic ligands. These four organic ligands are usually made up of repeating pyridyl units, single-nitrogen-substituted heterocyclic annulenes, bridged by independent amido groups. Here, in this paper, we show that these heterocyclic annulenes are actually nanoscale molecular split-ring resonators (SRRs) that can exhibit simultaneous negative electric permittivity and magnetic permeability in the UV-Vis region. Moreover, a monolayer of self-assembled EMACs is a periodic array of molecular SRRs which can be considered as a negative refractive index material. In the molecular scale, where the quantum-size effect is significant, we apply the tight-binding method to obtain the frequency-dependent permittivity and permeability of these molecular SRRs with their tensorial properties carefully considered.

id: 1402.1301
title: Exciton-polariton wakefields in semiconductor microcavities
authors: H. Ter?as. J. T. Mendon?a
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1301
abstract: We consider the excitation of polariton wakefields due to a propagating source in a semiconductor micro cavity. We show that two kinds of wakes are possible, depending on the constituents fraction (either exciton or photon) of the polariton wavefunction. The nature of the wakefields (pure excitonic or polaritonic) can be controled by changing the speed of propagation of the external pump. This process could be used as a diagnostic for the internal parameters of the microcavity.

id: 1402.1307
title: In-line extraction of an ultra-stable frequency signal over an optical fiber link
authors: Anthony Bercy, Sa?da Guellati-Kh¨¦lifa, Fabio Stefani, Giorgio Santarelli, Christian Chardonnet, Paul-Eric Pottie, Olivier Lopez, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1307
abstract: We demonstrate in-line extraction of an ultra-stable frequency signal over an optical link of 92-km of installed telecommunication fibers, following the proposition of G. Grosche in 2010. We show that the residual frequency noise at the extraction end is noticeably below that at the main link output when the extraction is near the input end, as expected from a simple model of the noise compensation. We obtain relative frequency instabilities, expressed as overlapping Allan deviation, of 8x10-16 at 1 s averaging time and a few 10-19 at 1 day. These results are at the state-of-the-art for a link using urban telecommunication fibers. We also propose an improved scheme which delivers an ultra-stable signal of higher power, in order to feed a secondary link. In-line extraction opens the way to a broad distribution of an ultra-stable frequency reference, enabling a wide range of applications beyond metrology.

id: 1402.1325
title: Synchronized Switching in a Josephson Junction Crystal
authors: Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 223603 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1325
abstract: We consider a superconducting coplanar waveguide resonator where the central conductor is interrupted by a series of uniformly spaced Josephson junctions. The device forms an extended medium that is optically nonlinear on the single photon level with normal modes that inherit the full nonlinearity of the junctions but are nonetheless accessible via the resonator ports. For specific plasma frequencies of the junctions a set of normal modes clusters in a narrow band and eventually become entirely degenerate. Upon increasing the intensity of a red detuned drive on these modes, we observe a sharp and synchronized switching from low occupation quantum states to high occupation classical fields, accompanied by a pronounced jump from low to high output intensity.

id: 1402.1381
title: On F and E, in DFT
authors: Paul E. Lammert
comments: 26 pages total
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1381
abstract: Rigorous mathematical foundations of density functional theory are revisited, with some use of infinitesimal (nonstandard) methods. A thorough treatment is given of basic properties of internal energy and ground-state energy functionals along with several improvements and clarifications of known results.A simple metrizable topology is constructed on the space of densities using a hierarchy of spatial partitions. This topology is very weak, but supplemented by control of internal energy, it is, in a rough sense, essentially as strong as $L^1$. Consequently, the internal energy functional $F$ is lower semicontinuous with respect to it. With separation of positive and negative parts of external potentials, very badly behaved, even infinite, positive parts can be handled. Confining potentials are thereby incorporated directly into the density functional framework.

id: 1402.1388
title: Recent progress in quantum simulation using superconducting circuits
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: review paper, 23 pages
journal: J. Low. Temp. Phys. 175, nos. 5/6 (2014) 633-654
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1388
abstract: Quantum systems are notoriously difficult to simulate with classical means. Recently, the idea of using another quantum system - which is experimentally more controllable - as a simulator for the original problem has gained significant momentum. Amongst the experimental platforms studied as quantum simulators, superconducting qubits are one of the most promising, due to relative straightforward scalability, easy design, and integration with standard electronics. Here I review the recent state-of-the art in the field and the prospects for simulating systems ranging from relativistic quantum fields to quantum many-body systems.

id: 1402.1434
title: Spatial separation and entanglement of identical particles
authors: F. D. Cunden, S. Di Martino, P. Facchi, G. Florio
comments: 10 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 12 (2014) 1461001
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1434
abstract: We reconsider the effect of indistinguishability on the reduced density operator of the internal degrees of freedom (tracing out the spatial degrees of freedom) for a quantum system composed of identical particles located in different spatial regions. We explicitly show that if the spin measurements are performed in disjoint spatial regions then there are no constraints on the structure of the reduced state of the system. This implies that the statistics of identical particles has no role from the point of view of separability and entanglement when the measurements are spatially separated. We extend the treatment to the case of n particles and show the connection with some recent criteria for separability based on subalgebras of observables.

id: 1402.1446
title: Realization of the Noncommutative Seiberg-Witten Gauge Theory by Fields in Phase Space
authors: R.G.G. Amorim, F.C. Khanna, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson, A.E. Santana
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1446
abstract: Representations of the Poincar\'{e} symmetry are studied by using a Hilbert space with a phase space content. The states are described by wave functions ( quasi amplitudes of probability) associated with Wigner functions (quasi probability density). The gauge symmetry analysis provides a realization of the Seiberg-Witten gauge theory for noncommutative fields.

id: 1402.1480
title: A Geometric Approach to the Landauer-B¨¹ttiker Formula
authors: R. Ben S?ad, C.-A. Pillet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1480
abstract: We consider an ideal Fermi gas confined to a geometric structure consisting of a central region -- the sample -- connected to several infinitely extended ends -- the reservoirs. Under physically reasonable assumptions on the propagation properties of the one-particle dynamics within these reservoirs, we show that the state of the Fermi gas relaxes to a steady state. We compute the expected value of various current observables in this steady state and express the result in terms of scattering data, thus obtaining a geometric version of the celebrated Landauer-B\"uttiker formula.

id: 1402.1565
title: Multiple Ionization of Neon under soft x-rays: Theory vs Experiment
authors: G. M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 115001
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1565
abstract: We present a rather elaborate theoretical model describing the dynamics of Neon under radiation of photon energies $\sim 93$ eV and pulse duration in the range of 15 fs, within the framework of Lowest non-vanishing Order of Perturbation Theory (LOPT), cast in terms of rate equations. Our model includes sequential as well as direct multiple ionization channels from the 2s and 2p atomic shells, including aspects of fine structure, whereas the stochastic nature of SASE-FEL light pulses is also taken into account. Our predictions for the ionization yields of the different ionic species are in excellent agreement with the related experimental observations at FLASH.

id: 1402.1658
title: Two scenarios for quantum multifractality breakdown
authors: R. Dubertrand, I. Garc¨ªa-Mata, B. Georgeot, O. Giraud, G. Lemari¨¦, J. Martin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor modifications, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 234101 (2014)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1658
abstract: We expose two scenarios for the breakdown of quantum multifractality under the effect of perturbations. In the first scenario, multifractality survives below a certain scale of the quantum fluctuations. In the other one, the fluctuations of the wave functions are changed at every scale and each multifractal dimension smoothly goes to the ergodic value. We use as generic examples a one-dimensional dynamical system and the three-dimensional Anderson model at the metal-insulator transition. Based on our results, we conjecture that the sensitivity of quantum multifractality to perturbation is universal in the sense that it follows one of these two scenarios depending on the perturbation. We also discuss the experimental implications.

id: 1402.1678
title: Decoherence-assisted spectroscopy of a single Mg$^+$ ion
authors: Govinda Clos, Martin Enderlein, Ulrich Warring, Dietrich Leibfried, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 113003 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1678
abstract: We describe a high-resolution spectroscopy method, in which the detection of single excitation events is enhanced by a complete loss of coherence of a superposition of two ground states. Thereby, transitions of a single isolated atom nearly at rest are recorded efficiently with high signal-to-noise ratios. Spectra display symmetric line shapes without stray-light background from spectroscopy probes. We employ this method on a $^{25}$Mg$^+$ ion to measure one, two, and three-photon transition frequencies from the 3S ground state to the 3P, 3D, and 4P excited states, respectively. Our results are relevant for astrophysics and searches for drifts of fundamental constants. Furthermore, the method can be extended to other transitions, isotopes, and species. The currently achieved fractional frequency uncertainty of $5 \times 10^{-9}$ is not limited by the method.

id: 1402.1695
title: Cooling antihydrogen ions for the free-fall experiment GBAR
authors: Laurent Hilico, Jean-Philippe Karr, Albane Douillet, Paul Indelicato, Sebastian Wolf, Ferdinand Schmidt Kaler
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1695
abstract: We discuss an experimental approach allowing to prepare antihydrogen atoms for the GBAR experiment. We study the feasibility of all necessary experimental steps: The capture of incoming $\bar{\rm H}^+$ ions at keV energies in a deep linear RF trap, sympathetic cooling by laser cooled Be$^+$ ions, transfer to a miniaturized trap and Raman sideband cooling of an ion pair to the motional ground state, and further reducing the momentum of the wavepacket by adiabatic opening of the trap. For each step, we point out the experimental challenges and discuss the efficiency and characteristic times, showing that capture and cooling are possible within a few seconds.

id: 1402.1696
title: Effective dynamics of a tracer particle in a dense homogeneous quantum gas
authors: M. Jeblick, D. Mitrouskas, S. Petrat, P. Pickl
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1696
abstract: We investigate the mean field regime of the dynamics of a tracer particle in a homogenous quantum gas. For a bosonic gas, we show that this regime is constrained by the well known requirement of an appropriate mean field scaling of the interaction. For fermions, however, we find an important qualitative difference. Not only are fermions much more homogeneously distributed than bosons but also deviations from the mean are due only to fast degrees of freedom in the gas. This observation leads to an explanation of why a tracer particle behaves freely in the dense homogeneous fermion gas despite of a non-scaled interaction, i.e., despite of non-vanishing statistical fluctuations. Finally, we indicate how the gained insight can be rigorously justified.

id: 1402.1707
title: Atom Interferometry in Space: Thermal Management and Magnetic Shielding
authors: Alexander Milke, Andr¨¦ Kubelka-Lange, Norman G¨¹rlebeck, Benny Rievers, Sven Herrmann, Thilo Schuldt, Claus Braxmaier
comments: v2: minor changes to agree with published version; 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 083105 (2014)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1707
abstract: Atom interferometry is an exciting tool to probe fundamental physics. It is considered especially apt to test the universality of free fall by using two different sorts of atoms. The increasing sensitivity required for this kind of experiment sets severe requirements on its environments, instrument control, and systematic effects. This can partially be mitigated by going to space as was proposed, for example, in the Spacetime Explorer and Quantum Equivalence Principle Space Test (STE-QUEST) mission. However, the requirements on the instrument are still very challenging. For example, the specifications of the STE-QUEST mission imply that the Feshbach coils of the atom interferometer are allowed to change their radius only by about 260 nm or 2.6E-4% due to thermal expansion although they consume an average power of 22 W. Also Earth's magnetic field has to be suppressed by a factor of 10E5. We show in this article that with the right design such thermal and magnetic requirements can indeed be met and that these are not an impediment for the exciting physics possible with atom interferometers in space.

id: 1402.1709
title: Towards quantum dot arrays of entangled photon emitters
authors: Gediminas Juska, Valeria Dimastrodonato, Lorenzo O. Mereni, Agnieszka Gocalinska, Emanuele Pelucchi
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7 527 2013
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1709
abstract: We show that with a new family of pyramidal site-controlled InGaAsN quantum dots it is possible to obtain areas containing as much as 15% of polarization-entangled photon emitters - a major improvement if compared to the small fraction achievable by other quantum dot systems. Entanglement is attested by a two-photon polarization state density matrix and the parameters obtained from it. Emitters showing fidelities up to 0.721+-0.043 were found.

id: 1402.1744
title: Evolution of the magnetization after a local quench in the critical transverse-field Ising chain
authors: F. Igl¨®i, G. Ro¨®sz, L. Turban
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P03023
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1744
abstract: We study the time evolution of the local magnetization in the critical Ising chain in a transverse field after a sudden change of the parameters at a defect. The relaxation of the defect magnetization is algebraic and the corresponding exponent, which is a continuous function of the defect parameters, is calculated exactly. In finite chains the relaxation is oscillating in time and its form is conjectured on the basis of precise numerical calculations.

id: 1402.1773
title: A single-molecule approach to ZnO defect studies: single photons and single defects
authors: N. R. Jungwirth, Y. Y. Pai, H. S. Chang, E. R. MacQuarrie, G. D. Fuchs
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1773
abstract: Investigations that probe defects one at a time offer a unique opportunity to observe properties and dynamics that are washed out of ensemble measurements. Here we present confocal fluorescence measurements of individual defects in Al-doped ZnO nanoparticles and undoped ZnO sputtered films that are excited with sub-bandgap energy light. Photon correlation measurements yield both antibunching and bunching, indicative of single-photon emission from isolated defects that possess a metastable shelving state. The single-photon emission is in the range 560 - 720 nm and typically exhibits two broad spectral peaks separated by approximately 150 meV. The excited state lifetimes range from 1 - 13 ns, consistent with the finite-size and surface effects of nanoparticles and small grains. We also observe discrete jumps in the fluorescence intensity between a bright state and a dark state. The dwell times in each state are exponentially distributed and the average dwell time in the bright (dark) state does (may) depend on the power of the exciting laser. Taken together, our measurements demonstrate the utility of a single-molecule approach to semiconductor defect studies and highlight ZnO as a potential host material for single-defect based applications.

id: 1402.1806
title: The magnetic moments of the proton and the antiproton
authors: S. Ulmer, A. Mooser, K. Blaum, S. Braeuninger, K. Franke, H. Kracke, C. Leiteritz, Y. Matsuda, H. Nagahama, C. Ospelkaus, C. C. Rodegheri, W. Quint, G. Schneider, C. Smorra, S. Van Gorp, J. Walz, Y. Yamazaki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1806
abstract: Recent exciting progress in the preparation and manipulation of the motional quantum states of a single trapped proton enabled the first direct detection of the particle's spin state. Based on this success the proton magnetic moment $\mu_p$ was measured with ppm precision in a Penning trap with a superimposed magnetic field inhomogeneity. An improvement by an additional factor of 1000 in precision is possible by application of the so-called double Penning trap technique. In a recent paper we reported the first demonstration of this method with a single trapped proton, which is a major step towards the first direct high-precision measurement of $\mu_p$. The techniques required for the proton can be directly applied to measure the antiproton magnetic moment $\mu_{\bar{p}}$. An improvement in precision of $\mu_{\bar{p}}$ by more than three orders of magnitude becomes possible, which will provide one of the most sensitive tests of CPT invariance. To achieve this research goal we are currently setting up the Baryon Antibaryon Symmetry Experiment (BASE) at the antiproton decelerator (AD) of CERN.

id: 1402.1868
title: Observation of measurement-induced entanglement and quantum trajectories of remote superconducting qubits
authors: Nicolas Roch, Mollie E. Schwartz, Felix Motzoi, Christopher Macklin, Rajamani Vijay, Andrew W. Eddins, Alexander N. Korotkov, K. Birgitta Whaley, Mohan Sarovar, Irfan Siddiqi
comments: Supplemental material added and minor corrections
journal: Physical Review Letters, 112(17), 170501 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1868
abstract: The creation of a quantum network requires the distribution of coherent information across macroscopic distances. We demonstrate the entanglement of two superconducting qubits, separated by more than a meter of coaxial cable, by designing a joint measurement that probabilistically projects onto an entangled state. By using a continuous measurement scheme, we are further able to observe single quantum trajectories of the joint two-qubit state, confirming the validity of the quantum Bayesian formalism for a cascaded system. Our results allow us to resolve the dynamics of continuous projection onto the entangled manifold, in quantitative agreement with theory.

id: 1402.1923
title: Theoretical Limits of Photovoltaics Efficiency and Possible Improvements by Intuitive Approaches Learned from Photosynthesis and Quantum Coherence
authors: Fahhad H Alharbi, Sabre Kais
comments: 47 pages, 22 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.5093, arXiv:1105.4189 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1923
abstract: In this review, we present and discussed the main trends in photovoltaics with emphasize on the conversion efficiency limits. The theoretical limits of various photovoltaics device concepts are presented and analyzed using a flexible detailed balance model where more discussion emphasize is toward the losses. Also, few lessons from nature and other fields to improve the conversion efficiency in photovoltaics are presented and discussed as well. From photosynthesis, the perfect exciton transport in photosynthetic complexes can be utilized for PVs. Also, we present some lessons learned from other fields like recombination suppression by quantum coherence. For example, the coupling in photosynthetic reaction centers is used to suppress recombination in photocells.

id: 1402.2133
title: Remnant mass and entropy of black holes and modified uncertainty principle
authors: Abhijit Dutta, Sunandan Gangopadhyay
comments: Reference added, To appear in Gen.Rel.Grav
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2133
abstract: In this paper, we study the thermodynamics of black holes using a generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) with a correction term linear order in the momentum uncertainty. The mass-temperature relation and heat capacity are calculated from which critical and remnant masses are obtained. The results are exact and are found to be identical. The entropy expression gives the famous area theorem upto leading order corrections from GUP. In particular, the linear order term in GUP leads to a $\sqrt{A}$ correction to the area theorem. Finally, the area theorem can be expressed in terms of a new variable termed as reduced horizon area only when the calculation is done to the next higher order correction from GUP.

id: 1402.2270
title: Theory of integer quantum Hall polaritons in graphene
authors: F.M.D. Pellegrino, L. Chirolli, Rosario Fazio, V. Giovannetti, Marco Polini
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165406 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2270
abstract: We present a theory of the cavity quantum electrodynamics of the graphene cyclotron resonance. By employing a canonical transformation, we derive an effective Hamiltonian for the system comprised of two neighboring Landau levels dressed by the cavity electromagnetic field (integer quantum Hall polaritons). This generalized Dicke Hamiltonian, which contains terms that are quadratic in the electromagnetic field and respects gauge invariance, is then used to calculate thermodynamic properties of the quantum Hall polariton system. Finally, we demonstrate that the generalized Dicke description fails when the graphene sheet is heavily doped, i.e. when the Landau level spectrum of 2D massless Dirac fermions is approximately harmonic. In this case we `integrate out' the Landau levels in valence band and obtain an effective Hamiltonian for the entire stack of Landau levels in conduction band, as dressed by strong light-matter interactions.

id: 1402.2345
title: Dynamical decoupling design for identifying weakly coupled nuclear spins in a bath
authors: Nan Zhao, J?rg Wrachtrup, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032319 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2345
abstract: Identifying weakly coupled nuclear spins around single electron spins is a key step of implementing quantum information processing using coupled electron-nuclei spin systems or sensing like single spin nuclear magnetic resonance detection using diamond defect spins. Dynamical decoupling control of the center electron spin with periodic pulse sequences [e.g., the Carre-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequence] has been successfully used to identify single nuclear spins and to resolve structure of nuclear spin clusters. Here, we design a new type of pulse sequences by replacing the repetition unit (a single $\pi$-pulse) of the CPMG sequence with a group of nonuniformly-spaced $\pi$-pulses. Using nitrogen-vacancy center system in diamond, we show that the designed pulse sequence improves the resolution of nuclear spin noise spectroscopy, and more information about the surrounding nuclear spins is extracted. The principle of dynamical decoupling design proposed in this paper is useful in many systems (e.g., defect spin qubit in solids, trapped ion and superconducting qubit) for high-resolution noise spectroscopy.

id: 1402.2354
title: Many-body dynamics of dipolar molecules in an optical lattice
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Bryce Gadway, Michael Foss-Feig, Bo Yan, Steven A. Moses, Jacob P. Covey, Norman Y. Yao, Mikhail D. Lukin, Jun Ye, Deborah S. Jin, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 195302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2354
abstract: Understanding the many-body dynamics of isolated quantum systems is one of the central challenges in modern physics. To this end, the direct experimental realization of strongly correlated quantum systems allows one to gain insights into the emergence of complex phenomena. Such insights enable the development of theoretical tools that broaden our understanding. Here, we theoretically model and experimentally probe with Ramsey spectroscopy the quantum dynamics of disordered, dipolar-interacting, ultracold molecules in a partially filled optical lattice. We report the capability to control the dipolar interaction strength, and we demonstrate that the many-body dynamics extends well beyond a nearest-neighbor or mean-field picture, and cannot be quantitatively described using previously available theoretical tools. We develop a novel cluster expansion technique and demonstrate that our theoretical method accurately captures the measured dependence of the spin dynamics on molecule number and on the dipolar interaction strength. In the spirit of quantum simulation, this agreement simultaneously benchmarks the new theoretical method and verifies our microscopic understanding of the experiment. Our findings pave the way for numerous applications in quantum information science, metrology, and condensed matter physics.

id: 1402.2393
title: Stochastic quantum dynamics beyond mean-field
authors: Denis Lacroix, Sakir Ayik
comments: 34 pages, submitted to EPJA-Review section
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2393
abstract: Mean-field approaches where a complex fermionic many-body problem is replaced by an ensemble of independent particles in a self-consistent mean-field can describe many static and dynamical aspects. It generally provides a rather good approximation for the average properties of one-body degrees of freedom. However, the mean-field approximation generally fails to produce quantum fluctuations of collective motion. To overcome this difficulty, noise can be added to the mean-field theory leading to a stochastic description of the many-body problem. In the present work, we summarize recent progress in this field and discuss approaches where fluctuations have been added either to the initial time, like in the Stochastic Mean-Field theory or continuously in time as in the Stochastic Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock. In some cases, the initial problem can even be re-formulated exactly by introducing Quantum Monte-Carlo methods in real-time. The possibility to describe superfluid systems is also invoked. Successes and shortcomings of the different beyond mean-field theories are discussed and illustrated.

id: 1402.2528
title: Stronger constraints on axion from measuring the Casimir interaction by means of dynamic atomic force microscope
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, 1 table. Several corrections and additions have been made in accordance to the version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D, v.89, 075002 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2528
abstract: We calculate the additional force due to two-axion exchange acting in a sphere-disc geometry, used in experiments on measuring the gradient of the Casimir force. With this result, stronger constraints on the pseudoscalar coupling constants of an axion and axion-like particles to a proton and a neutron are obtained over the wide range of axion masses from 0.03mV to 1eV. Among the three experiments with Au-Au, Au-Ni and Ni-Ni boundary surfaces performed by means of dynamic atomic force microscope, major improving is achieved for the experiment with Au-Au test bodies. Here, the constraints obtained are stronger up to a factor of 170, as compared to the previously known ones. The largest strengthening holds for the axion mass 0.3eV.

id: 1402.2566
title: The frequency crossover for the Goos-Hanchen shift
authors: Manoel Araujo, Silvania Carvalho, Stefano De Leo
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 60, 1772-1780 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2566
abstract: For total reflection, the Goos-Hanchen (GH) shift is proportional to the wavelength of the laser beam. At critical angles, such a shift is instead proportional to the square root of the product of the beam waist and wavelength. By using the stationary phase method (SPM) and, when necessary, numerical calculations, we present a detailed analysis of the frequency crossover for the GH shift. The study, done in different incidence regions, sheds new light on the validity of the analytic formulas found in literature.

id: 1402.2602
title: Communication with spatially modulated Light through turbulent Air across Vienna
authors: Mario Krenn, Robert Fickler, Matthias Fink, Johannes Handsteiner, Mehul Malik, Thomas Scheidl, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113028 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2602
abstract: The transverse spatial modes of light offer a large state-space with interesting physical properties. For exploiting it in future long-distance experiments, spatial modes will have to be transmitted over turbulent free-space links. Numerous recent lab-scale experiments have found significant degradation in the mode quality after transmission through simulated turbulence and consecutive coherent detection. Here we experimentally analyze the transmission of one prominent class of spatial modes, the orbital-angular momentum (OAM) modes, through 3 km of strong turbulence over the city of Vienna. Instead of performing a coherent phase-dependent measurement, we employ an incoherent detection scheme which relies on the unambiguous intensity patterns of the different spatial modes. We use a pattern recognition algorithm (an artificial neural network) to identify the characteristic mode pattern displayed on a screen at the receiver. We were able to distinguish between 16 different OAM mode superpositions with only ~1.7% error, and use them to encode and transmit small grey-scale images. Moreover, we found that the relative phase of the superposition modes is not affected by the atmosphere, establishing the feasibility for performing long-distance quantum experiments with the OAM of photons. Our detection method works for other classes of spatial modes with unambiguous intensity patterns as well, and can further be improved by modern techniques of pattern recognition.

id: 1402.2687
title: Rotating Entangled States of an Exchange-Coupled Dimer of Single-Molecule Magnets
authors: S. A. Owerre
comments: 3 figures, 6 pages
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 115, 153901 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2687
abstract: An antiferromagnetically exchange-coupled dimer of single molecule magnets which possesses a large spin tunneling has been investigated. For this system the ground and first excited states are entangled states and the Hamiltonian is effectively similar to that of a two-state system at $2s^{\text{th}}$ order in perturbation theory, thus this system can be mapped to an entangled pseudospin 1/2 particles. We study the effects of interaction and rotation of this system about its staggered easy-axis direction . The corresponding Hamiltonian of a rotated two-state entangled spin system is derived with its exact low-energy eigenstates and eigenvalues. We briefly discuss the effect of a dissipative environment on this rotated two-state system.

id: 1402.2803
title: Phase sensitive quantum interference on forbidden transition in ladder scheme
authors: Gennady A. Koganov, Reuben Shuker
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0807.5019
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2803
abstract: A three level ladder system is analyzed and the coherence of initially electric-dipole forbidden transition is calculated. Due to the presence of two laser fields the initially dipole forbidden transition becomes dynamically permitted due to ac Stark effect. It is shown that such transitions exhibit quantum-interference-related phenomena, such as electromagnetically induced transparency, gain without inversion and enhanced refractive index. Gain and dispersion characteristics of such transitions strongly depend upon the relative phase between the driving and the probe fields. Unlike allowed transitions, gain/absorption behavior of ac-Stark allowed transitions exhibit antisymmetric feature on the Rabi sidebands. It is found that absorption/gain spectra possess extremely narrow sub-natural resonances on these ac Stark allowed forbidden transitions. An interesting finding is simultaneous existence of gain and negative dispersion at Autler-Townes transition which may lead to both reduction of the group velocity and amplification of light.

id: 1402.3004
title: Perturbing free motions on hyper spheres without degeneracy lift
authors: A. Pallares-Rivera, F. de J. Rosales-Aldape, M. Kirchbach
comments: 14 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1305.1281
journal: J.Phys. A:Math.Theor. 47 (2014) 085303
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3004
abstract: We consider quantum motion on S3 perturbed by the trigonometric Scarf potential (Scarf I) with one internal quantized dimensionless parameter, l, the ordinary orbital angular momentum value, and another, continuous parameter, b, through which an external scale is introduced. We argue that a loss of the geometric hyper-spherical so(4) symmetry of the free motion occurs that leaves intact the unperturbed hydrogen-like degeneracy patterns characterizing the spectrum under discussion. The argument is based on the observation that the expansions of the Scarf I wave functions for fixed l-values in the basis of properly identified $so(4)$ representation functions are power series in the perturbation parameter, b, in which carrier spaces of dimensionality (K+1)^2 with K varying as K\in [l, N-1], and N being the principal quantum number of the Scarf I potential problem, contribute up to the order O(b^(N-1-K)). Nonetheless, the degeneracy patterns can still be interpreted as a consequence of an effective so(4) symmetry, i.e. a symmetry realized at the level of the dynamic of the system, in so far as from the perspective of the eigenvalue problem, the Scarf I results are equivalently obtained from a Hamiltonian with matrix elements of polynomials in a properly identified so(4) Casimir operator. The scheme applies to any dimension, d.

id: 1402.3067
title: A Bayesian Characterization of Relative Entropy
authors: John C. Baez, Tobias Fritz
comments: 32 pages, minor revision
journal: Theory and Applications of Categories, Vol. 29, 2014, No. 16, pp 421-456
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3067
abstract: We give a new characterization of relative entropy, also known as the Kullback-Leibler divergence. We use a number of interesting categories related to probability theory. In particular, we consider a category FinStat where an object is a finite set equipped with a probability distribution, while a morphism is a measure-preserving function $f: X \to Y$ together with a stochastic right inverse $s: Y \to X$. The function $f$ can be thought of as a measurement process, while s provides a hypothesis about the state of the measured system given the result of a measurement. Given this data we can define the entropy of the probability distribution on $X$ relative to the "prior" given by pushing the probability distribution on $Y$ forwards along $s$. We say that $s$ is "optimal" if these distributions agree. We show that any convex linear, lower semicontinuous functor from FinStat to the additive monoid $[0,\infty]$ which vanishes when $s$ is optimal must be a scalar multiple of this relative entropy. Our proof is independent of all earlier characterizations, but inspired by the work of Petz.

id: 1402.3128
title: Probing dipole-forbidden autoionizing states by isolated attosecond pulses
authors: Wei-Chun Chu, Toru Morishita, C. D. Lin
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 033427 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3128
abstract: We propose a general technique to retrieve the information of dipole-forbidden resonances in the autoionizing region. In the simulation, a helium atom is pumped by an isolated attosecond pulse in the extreme ultraviolet (EUV) combined with a few-femtosecond laser pulse. The excited wave packet consists of the $^1S$, $^1P$, and $^1D$ states, including the background continua, near the $2s2p(^1P)$ doubly excited state. The resultant electron spectra with various laser intensities and time delays between the EUV and laser pulses are obtained by a multilevel model and an ab initio time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation calculation. By taking the ab initio calculation as a "virtual measurement", the dipole-forbidden resonances are characterized by the multilevel model. We found that in contrast to the common assumption, the nonresonant coupling between the continua plays a significant role in the time-delayed electron spectra, which shows the correlation effect between photoelectrons before they leave the core. This technique takes the advantages of ultrashort pulses uniquely and would be a timely test for the current attosecond technology.

id: 1402.3132
title: Veselago lensing with ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Martin Leder, Christopher Grossert, Martin Weitz
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3327 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3132
abstract: Veselago pointed out that electromagnetic wave theory allows for materials with a negative index of refraction, in which most known optical phenomena would be reversed. A slab of such a material can focus light by negative refraction, an imaging technique strikingly different from conventional positive refractive index optics, where curved surfaces bend the rays to form an image of an object. Here we demonstrate Veselago lensing for matter waves, using ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. A relativistic, i.e. photon-like, dispersion relation for rubidium atoms is realized with a bichromatic optical lattice potential. We rely on a Raman $\pi$-pulse technique to transfer atoms between two different branches of the dispersion relation, resulting in a focusing completely analogous to the effect described by Veselago for light waves. Future prospects of the demonstrated effects include novel sub-de Broglie wave imaging applications.

id: 1402.3248
title: Using thermal boundary conditions to engineer the quantum state of a bulk magnet
authors: M. A. Schmidt, D. M. Silevitch, G. Aeppli, T. F. Rosenbaum
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in PNAS
journal: PNAS v111 p3689-3694 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3248
abstract: The degree of contact between a system and the external environment can alter dramatically its proclivity to quantum mechanical modes of relaxation. We show that controlling the thermal coupling of cubic centimeter-sized crystals of the Ising magnet $LiHo_xY_{1-x}F_4$ to a heat bath can be used to tune the system between a glassy state dominated by thermal excitations over energy barriers and a state with the hallmarks of a quantum spin liquid. Application of a magnetic field transverse to the Ising axis introduces both random magnetic fields and quantum fluctuations, which can retard and speed the annealing process, respectively, thereby providing a mechanism for continuous tuning between the destination states. The non-linear response of the system explicitly demonstrates quantum interference between internal and external relaxation pathways.

id: 1402.3265
title: Back-Scattering Properties of a Waveguide-Coupled Array of Atoms in the Strongly Non-Paraxial Regime
authors: D. Reitz, C. Sayrin, B. Albrecht, I. Mazets, R. Mitsch, P. Schneeweiss, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 031804(R) (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3265
abstract: We experimentally investigate the back-scattering properties of an array of atoms that is evanescently coupled to an optical nanofiber in the strongly non-paraxial regime. We observe that the power and the polarization of the back-scattered light depend on the nanofiber-guided excitation field in a way that significantly deviates from the predictions of a simple model based on two-level atoms and a scalar waveguide. Even though it has been widely used in previous experimental and theoretical studies of waveguide-coupled quantum emitters, this simple model is thus in general not adequate even for a qualitative description of such systems. We develop an ab initio model which includes the multi-level structure of the atoms and the full vectorial properties of the guided field and find very good agreement with our data.

id: 1402.3290
title: On a digital quantum description of physical space versus the continuum description
authors: Ronald J. Adler
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3290
abstract: The continuum of real numbers has served well as a model for physical space in mechanics and field theories. However it is a well-motivated and popular idea that at the fundamental Planck scale the combination of gravitational and quantum effects forces us to re-evaluate the concept of space (and time), and some sort of discreteness or granularity is expected. Here we study a cubic grid of points representing fundamental volumes of space and derive the spectra of momenta and wave number, which are not generally proportional to each other. The momentum is bounded and discrete for a finite grid. The uncertainty principle must be modified to reflect small scale spatial non-locality but it is consistent with the standard uncertainty principle in the continuum limit. We only consider kinematics in this work, and do not discuss time or energy or dynamical evolution.

id: 1402.3380
title: The approach to equilibrium in a macroscopic quantum system for a typical nonequilibrium subspace
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Takashi Hara, Hal Tasaki
comments: 37 pages, 1 figure. Many improvements have been made in version 2; appendix A is new
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3380
abstract: We study the problem of the approach to equilibrium in a macroscopic quantum system in an abstract setting. We prove that, for a typical choice of "nonequilibrium subspace", any initial state (from the energy shell) thermalizes, and in fact does so very quickly, on the order of the Boltzmann time $\tau__\mathrm{B}:=h/(k_\mathrm{B}T)$. This apparently unrealistic, but mathematically rigorous, conclusion has the important physical implication that the moderately slow decay observed in reality is not typical in the present setting. The fact that macroscopic systems approach thermal equilibrium may seem puzzling, for example, because it may seem to conflict with the time-reversibility of the microscopic dynamics. According the present result, what needs to be explained is, not that macroscopic systems approach equilibrium, but that they do so slowly. Mathematically our result is based on an interesting property of the maximum eigenvalue of the Hadamard product of a positive semi-definite matrix and a random projection matrix. The recent exact formula by Collins for the integral with respect to the Haar measure of the unitary group plays an essential role in our proof.

id: 1402.3386
title: Enhanced quantum coherence in graphene caused by Pd cluster deposition
authors: Yuyuan Qin, Junhao Han, Guoping Guo, Yongping Du, Zhaoguo Li, You Song, Li Pi, Xuefeng Wang, Xiangang Wan, Min Han, Fengqi Song
comments: in press (APL)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3386
abstract: We report on the unexpected increase in the dephasing lengths of a graphene sheet caused by the deposition of Pd nanoclusters, as demonstrated by weak localization measurements. The dephasing lengths reached saturated values at low temperatures. Theoretical calculations indicate the p-type charge transfer from the Pd clusters, which contributes more carriers. The saturated values of dephasing lengths often depend on both the carrier concentration and mean free path. Although some impurities are increased as revealed by decreased mobilities, the intense charge transfer leads to the improved saturated values and subsequent improved dephasing lengths.

id: 1402.3390
title: Isotope shifts of natural Sr+ measured by laser fluorescence in a sympathetically cooled Coulomb crystal
authors: Brice Dubost, Romain Dubessy, Benjamin Szymanski, Samuel Guibal, Jean-Pierre Likforman, Luca Guidoni
comments: 19 pages; 5 figures; accepted on Phys. Rev. A (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3390
abstract: We measured by laser spectroscopy the isotope shifts between naturally-occurring even-isotopes of strontium ions for both the $5s\,\,^2S_{1/2}\to 5p\,\,^2P_{1/2}$ (violet) and the $4d\,\,^2D_{3/2}\to 5p\,\,^2P_{1/2}$ (infrared) dipole-allowed optical transitions. Fluorescence spectra were taken by simultaneous measurements on a two-component Coulomb crystal in a linear Paul trap containing $10^3$--$10^4$ laser-cooled Sr$^+$ ions. The isotope shifts are extracted from the experimental spectra by fitting the data with the analytical solution of the optical Bloch equations describing a three-level atom in interaction with two laser beams. This technique allowed us to increase the precision with respect to previously reported data obtained by optogalvanic spectroscopy or fast atomic-beam techniques. The results for the $5s\,\,^2S_{1/2}\to 5p\,\,^2P_{1/2}$ transition are $\nu_{88}-\nu_{84}=+378(4)$ MHz and $\nu_{88}-\nu_{86}=+170(3)$ MHz, in agreement with previously reported measurements. In the case of the previously unexplored $4d\,\,^2D_{3/2}\to 5p\,\,^2P_{1/2}$ transition we find $\nu_{88}-\nu_{84}=-828(4)$ MHz and $\nu_{88}-\nu_{86}=-402(2)$ MHz. These results provide more data for stringent tests of theoretical calculations of the isotope shifts of alkali-metal-like atoms. Moreover, they simplify the identification and the addressing of Sr$^+$ isotopes for ion frequency standards or quantum-information-processing applications in the case of multi-isotope ion strings.

id: 1402.3397
title: Magnetic ordering of three-component ultracold fermionic mixtures in optical lattices
authors: Andrii Sotnikov, Walter Hofstetter
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3397
abstract: We study finite-temperature magnetic phases of three-component mixtures of ultracold fermions with repulsive interactions in optical lattices with simple cubic or square geometry by means of dynamical mean-field theory (DMFT). We focus on the case of one particle per site (1/3 band filling) at moderate interaction strength, where we observe a sequence of thermal phase transitions into two- and three-sublattice ordered states by means of the unrestricted real-space generalization of DMFT. From our quantitative analysis we conclude that long-range ordering in three-component mixtures should be observable at comparable temperatures as in two-component mixtures.

id: 1402.3496
title: Work Cost of Thermal Operations in Quantum and Nano Thermodynamics
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Presented at "Noise Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale, 2013"
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3496
abstract: Adopting a resource theory framework of thermodynamics for quantum and nano systems pioneered by Janzing et al. [Int. J. Th. Phys. 39, 2717 (2000)], we formulate the cost in useful work of transforming one resource state into another as a linear program of convex optimization. This approach is based on the characterization of thermal quasiorder given by Janzing et al. and later by Horodecki and Oppenheim [Nat. Comm. 4, 2059 (2013)]. Both characterizations are related to an extended version of majorization studied by Ruch, Schranner, and Seligman under the name mixing distance [J. Chem. Phys. 69, 386 (1978)].

id: 1402.3541
title: A Compact Formula for Rotations as Spin Matrix Polynomials
authors: Thomas L. Curtright, David B. Fairlie, Cosmas K. Zachos
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 084, 15 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3541
abstract: Group elements of SU(2) are expressed in closed form as finite polynomials of the Lie algebra generators, for all definite spin representations of the rotation group. The simple explicit result exhibits connections between group theory, combinatorics, and Fourier analysis, especially in the large spin limit. Salient intuitive features of the formula are illustrated and discussed.

id: 1402.3589
title: 1983 paper on entanglement entropy: "On the Entropy of the Vacuum outside a Horizon"
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: This is a verbatim copy of a paper published originally in 1983, before the existence of "arXiv". Also available at this http URL
journal: Tenth International Conference on General Relativity and Gravitation (held Padova, 4-9 July, 1983), Contributed Papers, vol. II, pp. 734-736
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3589
abstract: I introduce the concept of *entanglement entropy* (as it's now called) and point out that it follows an *area law* which renders it a suitable source of black hole entropy. I also suggest to conceive the latter as residing on the horizon at approximately one bit per "Planckian plaquette".

id: 1402.3596
title: Nonlinear optomechanics in the stationary regime
authors: C. Doolin, B.D. Hauer, P.H. Kim, A.J.R. MacDonald, H. Ramp, J.P. Davis
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053838 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3596
abstract: We have observed nonlinear transduction of the thermomechanical motion of a nanomechanical resonator when detected as laser transmission through a sideband unresolved optomechanical cavity. Nonlinear detection mechanisms are of considerable interest as special cases allow for quantum nondemolition measurements of the mechanical resonator's energy. We investigate the origin of the nonlinearity in the optomechanical detection apparatus and derive a theoretical framework for the nonlinear signal transduction, and the optical spring effect, from both nonlinearities in the optical transfer function and second order optomechanical coupling. By measuring the dependence of the linear and nonlinear signal transduction -- as well as the mechanical frequency shift -- on laser detuning from optical resonance, we provide estimates of the contributions from the linear and quadratic optomechanical couplings.

id: 1402.3762
title: Schwinger's Quantum Action Principle. I. From Dirac's Formulation through Feynman's Path Integrals to the Schwinger-Keldysh Method
authors: K. A. Milton
comments: 49 pages, 8 figures, submitted to EPJ H
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3762
abstract: Starting from the earlier notions of stationary action principles, we show how Schwinger's Quantum Action Principle descended from Dirac's formulation, which independently led Feynman to his path-integral formulation of quantum mechanics. The connection between the two is brought out, and applications are discussed. The Keldysh-Schwinger time-cycle method of extracting matrix elements is described. Part II will discuss the variational formulation of quantum electrodynamics and the development of source theory.

id: 1402.3777
title: Effect of pairwise Dipole - Dipole interaction among three atoms Systems
authors: P Anantha Lakshmi, Ashoka Vudayagiri, Shaik Ahmed
comments: 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3777
abstract: We present analysis of a system of three two-level atoms interacting with each other through the dipole-dipole interaction. The interaction manifests between excited state of one of the atoms and the ground state of its nearest neighbour. Steady state populations of the density matrix elements are presented and are compared with a situation when only two atoms are present. It can be noticed that the third atom modifies the behaviour of the three atoms. Two configurations are analysed, one in which the three atoms are in a line, with no interaction between atoms at the end points and the other in which the atoms form a closed loop with each atom interacting with both its neighbours.

id: 1402.3813
title: Newton-Schr?dinger Equations are not derivable from General Relativity + Quantum Field Theory
authors: C. Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3813
abstract: In this note we show that Newton-Schr\"odinger Equations (NSEs) [arXiv:1210.0457 and references therein] do not follow from general relativity (GR) and quantum field theory (QFT) by way of two considerations: 1) Taking the nonrelativistic limit of the semiclassical Einstein equation, the central equation of relativistic semiclassical gravity, a fully covariant theory based on GR+QFT with self-consistent backreaction of quantum matter on the spacetime dynamics; 2) Working out a model [see C. Anastopoulos and B. L. Hu, Class. Quant. Grav. 30, 165007 (2013), arXiv:1305.5231] with a matter scalar field interacting with weak gravity, in procedures analogous to the derivation of the nonrelativistic limit of quantum electrodynamics. We conclude that the coupling of classical gravity with quantum matter can only be via mean fields, there are no $N$-particle NSEs and theories based on Newton-Schr\"odinger equations assume unknown physics.

id: 1402.3816
title: Particle in a field of two centers in prolate spheroidal coordinates: integrability and solvability
authors: Willard Miller, Jr, Alexander V Turbiner
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3816
abstract: We analyze one particle, two-center quantum problems which admit separation of variables in prolate spheroidal coordinates, a natural restriction satisfied by the H$_2^+$ molecular ion. The symmetry operator is constructed explicitly. We give the details of the Hamiltonian reduction of the 3D system to a 2D system with modified potential that is separable in elliptic coordinates. The potentials for which there is double-periodicity of the Schr\"odinger operator in the space of prolate spheroidal coordinates, including one for the H$_2^+$ molecular ion, are indicated. We study possible potentials that admit exact-solvability is as well as all models known to us with the (quasi)-exact-solvability property for the separation equations. We find deep connections between second-order superintegrable and conformally superintegrable systems and these tractable problems. In particular we derive a general 4-parameter expression for a model potential that is always integrable and is conformally superintegrable for some parameter choices.

id: 1402.3848
title: Electric charge is a magnetic dipole when placed in a background magnetic field
authors: T. C. Adorno, D. M. Gitman, A. E. Shabad
comments: 
journal: Physical Review D 89, 047504 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3848
abstract: It is demonstrated, owing to the nonlinearity of QED, that a static charge placed in a strong magnetic field\ $B$\ is a magnetic dipole (besides remaining an electric monopole, as well). Its magnetic moment grows linearly with $B$ as long as the latter remains smaller than the characteristic value of $1.2\cdot 10^{13}\unit{G}$ but tends to a constant as $B$ exceeds that value. The force acting on a densely charged object by the dipole magnetic field of a neutron star is estimated.

id: 1402.3885
title: Full quantum mechanical analysis of atomic three-grating Mach-Zehnder interferometry
authors: A. S. Sanz, M. Davidovic, M. Bozic
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures (remarkably improved version)
journal: Ann. Phys. 353, 205 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.3885
abstract: Atomic three-grating Mach-Zehnder interferometry constitutes an important tool to probe fundamental aspects of the quantum theory. There is, however, a remarkable gap in the literature between the oversimplified models and robust numerical simulations considered to describe the corresponding experiments. Consequently, the former usually lead to paradoxical scenarios, such as the wave-particle dual behavior of atoms, while the latter make difficult the data analysis in simple terms. Here these issues are tackled by means of a simple grating working model consisting of evenly-spaced Gaussian slits. As is shown, this model suffices to explore and explain such experiments both analytically and numerically, giving a good account of the full atomic journey inside the interferometer, and hence contributing to make less mystic the physics involved. More specifically, it provides a clear and unambiguous picture of the wavefront splitting that takes place inside the interferometer, illustrating how the momentum along each emerging diffraction order is well defined even though the wave function itself still displays a rather complex shape. To this end, the local transverse momentum is also introduced in this context as a reliable analytical tool. The splitting, apart from being a key issue to understand atomic Mach-Zehnder interferometry, also demonstrates at a fundamental level how wave and particle aspects are always present in the experiment, without incurring in any contradiction or interpretive paradox. On the other hand, at a practical level, the generality and versatility of the model and methodology presented, makes them suitable to attack analogous problems in a simple manner after a convenient tuning.

id: 1402.4032
title: Harmonic inversion analysis of exceptional points in resonance spectra
authors: Jacob Fuchs, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 125304 (2014)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4032
abstract: The spectra of, e.g. open quantum systems are typically given as the superposition of resonances with a Lorentzian line shape, where each resonance is related to a simple pole in the complex energy domain. However, at exceptional points two or more resonances are degenerate and the resulting non-Lorentzian line shapes are related to higher order poles in the complex energy domain. In the Fourier-transform time domain an $n$-th order exceptional point is characterised by a non-exponentially decaying time signal given as the product of an exponential function and a polynomial of degree $n-1$. The complex positions and amplitudes of the non-degenerate resonances can be determined with high accuracy by application of the nonlinear harmonic inversion method to the real-valued resonance spectra. We extend the harmonic inversion method to include the analysis of exceptional points. The technique yields, in the energy domain, the amplitudes of the higher order poles contributing to the spectra, and, in the time domain, the coefficients of the polynomial characterising the non-exponential decay of the time signal. The extended harmonic inversion method is demonstrated on two examples, viz. the analysis of exceptional points in resonance spectra of the hydrogen atom in crossed magnetic and electric fields, and an exceptional point occurring in the dynamics of a single particle in a time-dependent harmonic trap.

id: 1402.4065
title: Are atomic clocks slowing down? Possible connection between the quantum and the cosmos: A feasible experimental test of objective realism
authors: R. Ramanathan
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4065
abstract: An alternative to the current accepted model of expanding universe is presented. The proposal is anchored in the objective realist, stochastic formulation of quantum mechanics wherein the Planck constant plays the role of a diffusion constant which need not be an universal constant for all epochs. This underlying noise is charecterised by a very high initial value of the Planck constant which gradually decreased over the epochs gone by, finally reaching its present value .It is this decrease in the strength of the Planck constant that causes a spectral red shift with the passage of time .The compatibility of this proposal with some cosmological data is shown.Feasible spectroscopic measurement of a specific spectral line frequency done over a period of a few years can decisively either validate or invalidate the proposal in a terrestrially bound experiment. This proposal predicts a slowing down of atomic clocks by nearly 2. 10^-18 s with respect to every preceding second. A positive experimental outcome will validate the objective realist basis of quantum physics as advocated by Einstein and many others.

id: 1402.4077
title: Demonstration of a strong Rydberg blockade in three-atom systems with anisotropic interactions
authors: Daniel Barredo, Sylvain Ravets, Henning Labuhn, Lucas B¨¦guin, Aline Vernier, Florence Nogrette, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, supplemental material (including 1 figure)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 183002 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4077
abstract: We study the Rydberg blockade in a system of three atoms arranged in different 2D geometries (linear and triangular configurations). In the strong blockade regime, we observe high-contrast, coherent collective oscillations of the single excitation probability, and an almost perfect van der Waals blockade. Our data is consistent with a total population in doubly and triply excited states below 2%. In the partial blockade regime, we directly observe the anisotropy of the van der Waals interactions between $|nD\rangle$ Rydberg states in the triangular configuration. A simple model, that only uses independently measured two-body van der Waals interactions, fully reproduces the dynamics of the system without any adjustable parameter. These results are extremely promising for scalable quantum information processing and quantum simulation with neutral atoms.

id: 1402.4167
title: Observation of suppression of light scattering induced by dipole-dipole interactions in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: J. Pellegrino, R. Bourgain, S. Jennewein, Y.R.P. Sortais, S.D. Jenkins, J. Ruostekoski, A. Browaeys
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 133602 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4167
abstract: We study the emergence of collective scattering in the presence of dipole-dipole interactions when we illuminate a cold cloud of rubidium atoms with a near-resonant and weak intensity laser. The size of the atomic sample is comparable to the wavelength of light. When we gradually increase the atom number from 1 to 450, we observe a broadening of the line, a small red shift and, consistently with these, a strong suppression of the scattered light with respect to the noninteracting atom case. Numerical simulations, which include the internal atomic level structure, agree with the data.

id: 1402.4175
title: Perturbation Theory for Parent Hamiltonians of Matrix Product States
authors: Oleg Szehr, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 20 pages
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics: ISSN 0022-4715, 2015
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4175
abstract: This article investigates the stability of the ground state subspace of a canonical parent Hamiltonian of a Matrix product state against local perturbations. We prove that the spectral gap of such a Hamiltonian remains stable under weak local perturbations even in the thermodynamic limit, where the entire perturbation might not be bounded. Our discussion is based on preceding work by D.A. Yarotsky that develops a perturbation theory for relatively bounded quantum perturbation of classical Hamiltonians. We exploit a renormalization procedure, which on large scale transforms the parent Hamiltonian of a Matrix product state into a classical Hamiltonian plus some perturbation. We can thus extend D.A. Yarotsky's results to provide a perturbation theory for parent Hamiltonians of Matrix product states and recover some of the findings of independent contributions by S. Michalakis et al. [arXiv:1109.1588] and J. I. Cirac et al. [arXiv:1306.4003].

id: 1402.4292
title: On the reduction criterion for random quantum states
authors: Maria Anastasia Jivulescu, Nicolae Lupa, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 112203 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4292
abstract: In this paper we study the reduction criterion for detecting entanglement of large dimensional bipartite quantum systems. We first obtain an explicit formula for the moments of a random quantum state to which the reduction criterion has been applied. We show that the empirical eigenvalue distribution of this random matrix converges strongly to a limit that we compute, in three different asymptotic regimes. We then employ tools from free probability to study the asymptotic positivity of the reduction operators. Finally, we compare the reduction criterion with other entanglement criteria, via thresholds.

id: 1402.4335
title: Formation of classical crystals of dipolar particles in a helical geometry
authors: J. K. Pedersen, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures, revised version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 165103
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4335
abstract: We consider crystal formation of particles with dipole-dipole interactions that are confined to move in a one-dimensional helical geometry with their dipole moments oriented along the symmetry axis of the confining helix. The stable classical lowest energy configurations are found to be chain structures for a large range of pitch-to-radius ratios for relatively low density of dipoles and a moderate total number of particles. The classical normal mode spectra support the chain interpretation both through structure and the distinct degeneracies depending discretely on the number of dipoles per revolution. A larger total number of dipoles leads to a clusterization where the dipolar chains move closer to each other. This implies a change in the local density and the emergence of two length scales, one for the cluster size and one for the inter-cluster distance along the helix. Starting from three dipoles per revolution, this implies a breaking of the initial periodicity to form a cluster of two chains close together and a third chain removed from the cluster. This is driven by the competition between in-chain and out-of-chain interactions, or alternatively the side-by-side repulsion and the head-to-tail attraction in the system. The speed of sound propagates along the chains. It is independent of the number of chains although depending on geometry.

id: 1402.4518
title: Cherenkov friction on a neutral particle moving parallel to a dielectric
authors: Gregor Pieplow, Carsten Henkel
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4518
abstract: Based on a fully relativistic framework and the assumption of local equilibrium, we describe a simple mechanism of quantum friction for a particle moving parallel to a dielectric. The Cherenkov effect explains how the bare ground state becomes globally unstable and how fluctuations of the electromagnetic field and the particle's dipole are converted into pairs of excitations. Modelling the particle as a silver nano-sphere, we investigate the spectrum of the force and its velocity dependence. We find that the damping of the plasmon resonance in the silver particle has a relatively strong impact near the Cherenkov threshold velocity. We also present an expansion of the friction force near the threshold velocity for both damped and undamped particles.

id: 1402.4584
title: Dirac electron in graphene under supersymmetry generated magnetic fields
authors: Bikashkali Midya, David J Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 47, 285302 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4584
abstract: We use supersymmetry transformations to obtain new one parameter family of inhomogeneous magnetic fields $\mathbf{B} = \widetilde{\mathcal{B}}(x,\lambda) \hat{e}_z$ for which the massless Dirac electron possesses exact solution. The inhomogeneity appearing in $\widetilde{\mathcal{B}}(x,\lambda)$ can be controlled by the parameter $\lambda$. The obtained magnetic fields are interpreted as deformed variants of some physically attainable well known magnetic fields. A particular example, when a constant magnetic field is deformed, is considered to show that equidistant Landau levels exist even in the presence of an infinite number of specially designed inhomogeneous magnetic fields.

id: 1402.4587
title: Unconventional photon blockade in doubly resonant microcavities with second-order nonlinearity
authors: Dario Gerace, Vincenzo Savona
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 031803(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4587
abstract: It is shown that non-centrosymmetric materials with bulk second-order nonlinear susceptibility can be used to generate strongly antibunched radiation at an arbitrary wavelength, solely determined by the resonant behavior of suitably engineered coupled microcavities. The proposed scheme exploits the unconventional photon blockade of a coherent driving field at the input of a coupled cavity system, where one of the two cavities is engineered to resonate at both fundamental and second harmonic frequencies, respectively. Remarkably, the unconventional blockade mechanism occurs with reasonably low quality factors at both harmonics, and does not require a sharp doubly-resonant condition for the second cavity, thus proving its feasibility with current semiconductor technology.

id: 1402.4596
title: Backaction-Driven Transport of Bloch Oscillating Atoms in Ring Cavities
authors: J. Goldwin, B. Prasanna Venkatesh, D. H. J. O'Dell
comments: Published version: 5 pages, 4 figures; Supplementary Material included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 073003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4596
abstract: We predict that an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate strongly coupled to an intracavity optical lattice can undergo resonant tunneling and directed transport when a constant and uniform bias force is applied. The bias force induces Bloch oscillations, causing amplitude and phase modulation of the lattice which resonantly modifies the site-to-site tunneling. For the right choice of parameters a net atomic current is generated. The transport velocity can be oriented oppositely to the bias force, with its amplitude and direction controlled by the detuning between the pump laser and the cavity. The transport can also be enhanced through imbalanced pumping of the two counter-propagating running wave cavity modes. Our results add to the cold atoms quantum simulation toolbox, with implications for quantum sensing and metrology.

id: 1402.4674
title: Semi-analytical model for nonlinear light propagation in strongly interacting Rydberg gases
authors: M. G?rttner, S. Whitlock, D. W. Sch?nleber, J. Evers
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063407 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4674
abstract: Rate equation models are extensively used to describe the many-body states of laser driven atomic gases. We show that the properties of the rate equation model used to describe nonlinear optical effects arising in interacting Rydberg gases can be understood by considering the excitation of individual super-atoms. From this we deduce a simple semi-analytic model that accurately describes the Rydberg density and optical susceptibility for different dimensionalities. We identify the previously reported universal dependence of the susceptibility on the Rydberg excited fraction as an intrinsic property of the rate equation model that is rooted in one-body properties. Benchmarking against exact master equation calculations, we identify regimes in which the semi-analytic model is particularly reliable. The performance of the model improves in the presence of dephasing which destroys higher order atomic coherences.

id: 1402.4764
title: Reality of the wave function and quantum entanglement
authors: Mani Bhaumik
comments: 17 pages, further clarification added
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4764
abstract: The intrinsic fluctuations of the underlying, immutable quantum fields that fill all space and time can support the element of reality of a wave function in quantum mechanics. The mysterious non-locality of quantum entanglement may also be understood in terms of these inherent quantum fluctuations, ever-present at the most fundamental level of the universe.

id: 1402.4847
title: Spatial adiabatic passage processes in sonic crystals with linear defects
authors: Ricard Menchon-Enrich, Jordi Mompart, Veronica Ahufinger
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 094304 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4847
abstract: We investigate spatial adiabatic passage processes for sound waves propagation in sonic crystals, consisting of steel cylinders embedded in a water host medium, that present two linear defects. This work constitutes an extension of the well-known quantum optical rapid adiabatic passage technique to the field of sound propagation. Several spatial adiabatic passage devices are proposed, by appropriately designing the geometry of the two linear defects along the propagation direction, to work as a coherent multifrequency adiabatic splitter, a phase difference analyzer and a coherent multifrequency adiabatic coupler. These devices are robust in front of fluctuations of the geometric parameter values.

id: 1402.4973
title: Surpassing Wigner's causality bound in relativistic scattering with zero-range interaction
authors: Vladimir Pascalutsa
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4973
abstract: It is shown that the relativistic zero-range potential scattering surpasses Wigner's causality bound, while being consistent with causality. The relativistic theory shows in addition a richer analytic structure, such as a $K$-matrix pole necessarily accompanying the bound-state solution. Implications of these results for the effective-field theory of nuclear forces are briefly considered.

id: 1402.5015
title: Entanglement in low-energy states of the random-hopping model
authors: Giovanni Ram¨ªrez, Javier Rodr¨ªguez-Laguna, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P07003
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5015
abstract: We study the low-energy states of the 1D random-hopping model in the strong disordered regime. The entanglement structure is shown to depend solely on the probability distribution for the length of the effective bonds $P(l_b)$, whose scaling and finite-size behavior are established using renormalization-group arguments and a simple model based on random permutations. Parity oscillations are absent in the von Neumann entropy with periodic boundary conditions, but appear in the higher moments of the distribution, such as the variance. The particle-hole excited states leave the bond-structure and the entanglement untouched. Nonetheless, particle addition or removal deletes bonds and leads to an effective saturation of entanglement at an effective block size given by the expected value for the longest bond.

id: 1402.5033
title: Waiting time distributions of noninteracting fermions on a tight-binding chain
authors: Konrad H. Thomas, Christian Flindt
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 245420 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5033
abstract: We consider the distribution of waiting times between non-interacting fermions on a tight-binding chain. We calculate the waiting time distribution for a quantum point contact and find a cross-over from Wigner-Dyson statistics at full transmission to Poisson statistics close to pinch-off as predicted by scattering theory. In addition, we consider several quantum dot structures for which we can associate oscillations in the waiting time distributions to internal energy scales of the scatterers. A detailed comparison with scattering theory and generalized master equations is provided. We focus on mesoscopic conductors, but our tight-binding models may also be realized in cold atomic gases.

id: 1402.5070
title: A theory of emergent quantum mechanics
authors: Ricardo Gallego Torrom¨¦
comments: Minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5070
abstract: Cartan-Randers dynamical systems, a particular class of first order ordinary differential dynamical systems, are considered as mathematical description for deterministic emergent quantum mechanics. We show that in such framework local diffeomorphism invariance, reversibility of the effective quantum dynamics and a covariant maximal universal acceleration emerge from a fundamental classical, deterministic and local (in a novel sense) dynamics. Starting from the elements of Cartan-Randers models, a phenomenological Hilbert space is constructed and associated with the space of wave functions of quantum mechanics. A geometric description of spontaneous reduction of the quantum state is described. The mechanism is applied heuristically to the problem of a quantum particle passing through two small slits. Furthermore, the same geometric mechanism is shown to imply the boundness from below of the matter Hamiltonian. The mechanism also provides an explanation for the weak equivalence principle. This fact, together with the local Lorentz invariance of the models and diffeomorphism invariance of the interaction driving the reduction, suggest that the reduction of the quantum state is driven by a gravitational type interaction. Moreover, since such interaction appears only in the concentration domain of the internal dynamics, it must be associated with a classical interaction.

id: 1402.5141
title: Long-time behavior of periodically driven isolated interacting lattice systems
authors: Luca D'Alessio, Marcos Rigol
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041048 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5141
abstract: We study the dynamics of isolated interacting spin chains that are periodically driven by sudden quenches. Using full exact diagonalization of finite chains, we show that these systems exhibit three distinct regimes. For short driving periods, the Floquet Hamiltonian is well approximated by the time-averaged Hamiltonian, while for long periods the evolution operator exhibits properties of random matrices of a Circular Ensemble (CE). In-between, there is a crossover regime. Based on a finite-size scaling analysis and analytic arguments we argue that, for thermodynamically large systems and non-vanishing driving periods, the evolution operator always exhibits properties of CE random matrices. Consequently, the Floquet Hamiltonian is nonlocal and has multi-body interactions; and the driving leads to the equivalent of an infinite temperature state at long times. These results are connected to the breakdown of the Magnus expansion and are expected to hold beyond the specific lattice model considered.

id: 1402.5172
title: Alternation in Quantum Programming: From Superposition of Data to Superposition of Programs
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Nengkun Yu, Yuan Feng
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1209.4379
journal: 
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5172
abstract: We extract a novel quantum programming paradigm - superposition of programs - from the design idea of a popular class of quantum algorithms, namely quantum walk-based algorithms. The generality of this paradigm is guaranteed by the universality of quantum walks as a computational model. A new quantum programming language QGCL is then proposed to support the paradigm of superposition of programs. This language can be seen as a quantum extension of Dijkstra's GCL (Guarded Command Language). Surprisingly, alternation in GCL splits into two different notions in the quantum setting: classical alternation (of quantum programs) and quantum alternation, with the latter being introduced in QGCL for the first time. Quantum alternation is the key program construct for realizing the paradigm of superposition of programs. The denotational semantics of QGCL are defined by introducing a new mathematical tool called the guarded composition of operator-valued functions. Then the weakest precondition semantics of QGCL can straightforwardly derived. Another very useful program construct in realizing the quantum programming paradigm of superposition of programs, called quantum choice, can be easily defined in terms of quantum alternation. The relation between quantum choices and probabilistic choices is clarified through defining the notion of local variables. We derive a family of algebraic laws for QGCL programs that can be used in program verification, transformations and compilation. The expressive power of QGCL is illustrated by several examples where various variants and generalizations of quantum walks are conveniently expressed using quantum alternation and quantum choice. We believe that quantum programming with quantum alternation and choice will play an important role in further exploiting the power of quantum computing.

id: 1402.5217
title: Lie Groups of Jacobi polynomials and Wigner d-matrices
authors: E. Celeghini, M.A. del Olmo, M.A. Velasco
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1307.7380
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5217
abstract: A symmetry $SU(2,2)$ group in terms of ladder operators is presented for the Jacobi polynomials, $J_{n}^{(\alpha,\beta)}(x)$, and the Wigner $d_j$-matrices where the spins $j=n+(\alpha+\beta)/2$ integer and half-integer are considered together. A unitary irreducible representation of $SU(2,2)$ is constructed and subgroups of physical interest are discussed. The Universal Enveloping Algebra of $su(2,2)$ also allows to construct group structures $(SU(1,1), SO(3,2), Spin(3,2))$ whose representations separate integers and half-integers values of the spin $j$. Appropriate $L^2$--functions spaces are realized inside the support spaces of all these representations. Operators acting on these $L^2$-functions spaces belong thus to the corresponding Universal Enveloping Algebra.

id: 1402.5242
title: Strong coupling of an Er3+ doped YAlO3 crystal to a superconducting resonator
authors: A. Tkalcec, S. Probst, D. Rieger, H. Rotzinger, S. W¨¹nsch, N. Kukharchyk, A. D. Wieck, M. Siegel, A. V. Ustinov, P. Bushev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 075112 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5242
abstract: Quantum memories are integral parts of both quantum computers and quantum communication networks. Naturally, such a memory is embedded into a hybrid quantum architecture, which has to meet the requirements of fast gates, long coherence times and long distance communication. Erbium doped crystals are well suited as a microwave quantum memory for superconducting circuits with additional access to the optical telecom C-band around 1.55 {\mu}m. Here, we report on circuit QED experiments with an Er3+:YAlO3 crystal and demonstrate strong coupling to a superconducting lumped element resonator. The low magnetic anisotropy of the host crystal allows for attaining the strong coupling regime at relatively low magnetic fields, which are compatible with superconducting circuits. In addition, Ce3+ impurities were detected in the crystal, which showed strong coupling as well.

id: 1402.5325
title: Singular inverse-square potential: renormalization and self-adjoint extensions for medium to weak coupling
authors: Djamil Bouaziz, Michel Bawin
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A.89, 022113 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5325
abstract: We study the radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a particle of mass $m$ in the field of the inverse-square potential $\alpha/r^{2}$ in the medium-weak-coupling region, i.e., with $-1/4\leq2m\alpha/\hbar^{2}\leq3/4$. By using the renormalization method of Beane \textit{et} \textit{al.,}with two regularization potentials, a spherical square well and a spherical $\delta$ shell, we illustrate that the procedure of renormalization is independent of the choice of the regularization counterterm. We show that, in the aforementioned range of the coupling constant $\alpha$, there exists at most one bound state, in complete agreement with the method of self-adjoint extensions. We explicitly show that this bound state is due to the attractive square-well and delta-function counterterms present in the renormalization scheme. Our result for $2m\alpha/\hbar^{2}=-1/4$ is in contradiction with some results in the literature.

id: 1402.5329
title: Single-atom trapping in holographic 2D arrays of microtraps with arbitrary geometries
authors: Florence Nogrette, Henning Labuhn, Sylvain Ravets, Daniel Barredo, Lucas B¨¦guin, Aline Vernier, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021034 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5329
abstract: We demonstrate single-atom trapping in two-dimensional arrays of microtraps with arbitrary geometries. We generate the arrays using a Spatial Light Modulator (SLM), with which we imprint an appropriate phase pattern on an optical dipole trap beam prior to focusing. We trap single $^{87}{\rm Rb}$ atoms in the sites of arrays containing up to $\sim100$ microtraps separated by distances as small as $3\;\mu$m, with complex structures such as triangular, honeycomb or kagome lattices. Using a closed-loop optimization of the uniformity of the trap depths ensures that all trapping sites are equivalent. This versatile system opens appealing applications in quantum information processing and quantum simulation, e.g. for simulating frustrated quantum magnetism using Rydberg atoms.

id: 1402.5620
title: Interpreting Attoclock Measurements of Tunnelling Times
authors: Lisa Torlina, Felipe Morales, Jivesh Kaushal, Harm Geert Muller, Igor Ivanov, Anatoli Kheifets, Alejandro Zielinski, Armin Scrinzi, Suren Sukiasyan, Misha Ivanov, Olga Smirnova
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures, 3 appendixes
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5620
abstract: Resolving in time the dynamics of light absorption by atoms and molecules, and the electronic rearrangement this induces, is among the most challenging goals of attosecond spectroscopy. The attoclock is an elegant approach to this problem, which encodes ionization times in the strong-field regime. However, the accurate reconstruction of these times from experimental data presents a formidable theoretical challenge. Here, we solve this problem by combining analytical theory with ab-initio numerical simulations. We apply our theory to numerical attoclock experiments on the hydrogen atom to extract ionization time delays and analyse their nature. Strong field ionization is often viewed as optical tunnelling through the barrier created by the field and the core potential. We show that, in the hydrogen atom, optical tunnelling is instantaneous. By calibrating the attoclock using the hydrogen atom, our method opens the way to identify possible delays associated with multielectron dynamics during strong-field ionization.

id: 1402.5664
title: Rabi oscillations of solitons in spin-chains: a new route to quantum computation and communication
authors: Sylvain Bertaina, Charles-Emmanuel Dutoit, Johan Van Tol, Martin Dressel, Bernard Barbara, Anatoli Stepanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5664
abstract: We provide the first evidence for coherence and Rabi oscillations of spin-solitons pinned by the local breaking of translational symmetry in isotropic Heisenberg chains (simple antiferromagnetic-N\'{e}el or spin-Peierls).We show that these correlated spin systems made of hundreds of coupled spin bear an overall spin S=1/2 and can be manipulated as a single spin. This is clearly contrary to all known spin-qubits which are paramagnetic centres, highly diluted to prevent decoherence. These results offer an alternative approach for spin-qubits paving the way for the implementation of a new type of quantum computer.

id: 1402.5674
title: Computational Complexity and Black Hole Horizons
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 44 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5674
abstract: Computational complexity is essential to understanding the properties of black hole horizons. The problem of Alice creating a firewall behind the horizon of Bob's black hole is a problem of computational complexity. In general we find that while creating firewalls is possible, it is extremely difficult and probably impossible for black holes that form in sudden collapse, and then evaporate. On the other hand if the radiation is bottled up then after an exponentially long period of time firewalls may be common. It is possible that gravity will provide tools to study problems of complexity; especially the range of complexity between scrambling and exponential complexity.

id: 1402.5704
title: Generalized energy measurements and modified transient quantum fluctuation theorems
authors: Gentaro Watanabe, B. Prasanna Venkatesh, Peter Talkner
comments: 7 pages, published in Phys. Rev. E as an Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 052116 (2014) [Editors' Suggestion]
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5704
abstract: Determining the work which is supplied to a system by an external agent, provides a crucial step in any experimental realization of transient fluctuation relations. This, however, poses a problem for quantum systems, where the standard procedure requires the projective measurement of energy at the beginning and the end of the protocol. Unfortunately, projective measurements, which are preferable from the point of view of theory, seem to be difficult to implement experimentally. We demonstrate that, when using a particular type of generalized energy measurements, the resulting work statistics is simply related to that of projective measurements. This relation between the two work statistics entails the existence of modified transient fluctuation relations. The modifications are exclusively determined by the errors incurred in the generalized energy measurements. They are universal in the sense that they do not depend on the force protocol. Particularly simple expressions for the modified Crooks relation and Jarzynski equality are found for Gaussian energy measurements. These can be obtained by a sequence of sufficiently many generalized measurements which need not be Gaussian. In accordance with the central limit theorem, this leads to an effective error reduction in the individual measurements, and even yields a projective measurement in the limit of infinite repetitions.

id: 1402.5802
title: Multichannel Quantum Defect Theory of Strontium Rydberg Series
authors: C L Vaillant, M P A Jones, R M Potvliege
comments: 22 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 155001
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5802
abstract: Using the reactance matrix approach, we systematically develop new multichannel quantum defect theory models for the singlet and triplet S, P, D and F states of strontium based on improved energy level measurements. The new models reveal additional insights into the character of doubly excited perturber states, and the improved energy level measurements for certain series allow fine structure to be resolved for those series' perturbers. Comparison between the predictions of the new models and those of previous empirical and \emph{ab initio} studies reveals good agreement with most series, however some discrepancies are highlighted. Using the multichannel quantum defect theory wave functions derived from our models we calculate other observables such as Land\'e $g_J$-factors and radiative lifetimes. The analysis reveals the impact of perturbers on the Rydberg state properties of divalent atoms, highlighting the importance of including two-electron effects in the calculations of these properties. The work enables future investigations of properties such as Stark maps and long-range interactions of Rydberg states of strontium.

id: 1402.5825
title: Radiative nonrecoil nuclear finite size corrections of order $¦Á(Z¦Á)^5$ to the hyperfine splitting of S-states in muonic hydrogen
authors: R.N. Faustov, A.P. Martynenko, G.A. Martynenko, V.V. Sorokin
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5825
abstract: On the basis of quasipotential method in quantum electrodynamics we calculate nuclear finite size radiative corrections of order $\alpha(Z\alpha)^5$ to the hyperfine structure of S-wave energy levels in muonic hydrogen and muonic deuterium. For the construction of the particle interaction operator we employ the projection operators on the particle bound states with definite spins. The calculation is performed in the infrared safe Fried-Yennie gauge. Modern experimental data on the electromagnetic form factors of the proton and deuteron are used.

id: 1402.5926
title: Painlev¨¦ IV Coherent States
authors: David Bermudez, Alonso Contreras-Astorga, David J. Fern¨¢ndez C
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5926
abstract: A simple way to find solutions of the Painlev\'e IV equation is by identifying Hamiltonian systems with third-order differential ladder operators. Some of these systems can be obtained by applying supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY QM) to the harmonic oscillator. In this work, we will construct families of coherent states for such subset of SUSY partner Hamiltonians which are connected with the Painlev\'e IV equation. First, these coherent states are built up as eigenstates of the annihilation operator, then as displaced versions of the extremal states, both involving the third-order ladder operators, and finally as extremal states which are also displaced but now using the so called linearized ladder operators. To each SUSY partner Hamiltonian corresponds two families of coherent states: one inside the infinite subspace associated with the isospectral part of the spectrum and another one in the finite subspace generated by the states created through the SUSY technique.

id: 1402.5943
title: Geometric scaling of Efimov states in a $^{6}\textrm{Li}$-$^{133}\textrm{Cs}$ mixture
authors: Shih-Kuang Tung, Karina Jimenez-Garcia, Jacob Johansen, Colin V. Parker, Cheng Chin
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures including supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 240402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5943
abstract: In few-body physics, Efimov states are an infinite series of three-body bound states that obey universal discrete scaling symmetry when pairwise interactions are resonantly enhanced. Despite abundant reports of Efimov states in recent cold atom experiments, direct observation of the discrete scaling symmetry remains an elusive goal. Here we report the observation of three consecutive Efimov resonances in a heteronuclear Li-Cs mixture near a broad interspecies Feshbach resonance. The positions of the resonances closely follow a geometric series $1$, $\lambda$, $\lambda^2$. The observed scaling constant $\lambda_{\rm exp} = 4.9(4)$ is in good agreement with the predicted value of 4.88.

id: 1402.5966
title: Multiscale Analysis and Optimisation of Photosynthetic Solar Energy Systems
authors: Andrew K. Ringsmuth
comments: PhD Thesis, Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland. 278 pages, 44 figures, 3 published papers included. Detailed abstract on page i
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5966
abstract: This work asks how light harvesting in photosynthetic systems can be optimised for economically scalable, sustainable energy production. Hierarchy theory is introduced as a system-analysis and optimisation tool better able to handle multiscale, multiprocess complexities in photosynthetic energetics compared with standard linear-process analysis. Within this framework, new insights are given into relationships between composition, structure and energetics at the scale of the thylakoid membrane, and also into how components at different scales cooperate under functional objectives of the whole photosynthetic system. Combining these reductionistic and holistic analyses creates a platform for modelling multiscale-optimal, idealised photosynthetic systems in silico.

id: 1402.6086
title: Persistent currents in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate confined in a ring potential
authors: J. Smyrnakis, M. Magiropoulos, Nikolaos K. Efremidis, G. M. Kavoulakis
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 215302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6086
abstract: We present variational and numerical solutions for the problem of stability of persistent currents in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate of distinguishable atoms which rotate in a ring potential. We consider the general class of solutions of constant density in the two components separately, thus providing an alternative approach of the solution of the same problem given recently by Zhigang Wu and Eugene Zaremba [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 88}, 063640 (2013)]. Our approach provides a physically transparent solution of this delicate problem. Finally, we give a unified and simple picture of the lowest-energy state of the system for large values of the coupling.

id: 1402.6117
title: Spectral asymptotics of a strong $¦Ä'$ interaction supported by a surface
authors: Pavel Exner, Michal jex
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6117
abstract: We derive asymptotic expansion for the spectrum of Hamiltonians with a strong attractive $\delta'$ interaction supported by a smooth surface in $\R^3$, either infinite and asymptotically planar, or compact and closed. Its second term is found to be determined by a Schr\"odinger type operator with an effective potential expressed in terms of the interaction support curvatures.

id: 1402.6139
title: A quantum mechanical NMR simulation algorithm for protein-scale spin systems
authors: Luke J. Edwards, D.V. Savostyanov, Z.T. Welderufael, Donghan Lee, Ilya Kuprov
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 243 (2014) 107-113
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6139
abstract: Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is one of the few remaining areas of physical chemistry for which polynomially scaling simulation methods have not so far been available. Here, we report such a method and illustrate its performance by simulating common 2D and 3D liquid state NMR experiments (including accurate description of spin relaxation processes) on isotopically enriched human ubiquitin - a protein containing over a thousand nuclear spins forming an irregular polycyclic three-dimensional coupling lattice. The algorithm uses careful tailoring of the density operator space to only include nuclear spin states that are populated to a significant extent. The reduced state space is generated by analyzing spin connectivity and decoherence properties: rapidly relaxing states as well as correlations between topologically remote spins are dropped from the basis set. In the examples provided, the resulting reduction in the quantum mechanical simulation time is by many orders of magnitude.

id: 1402.6153
title: Trapping neutral atoms in the field of a vortex pinned by a superconducting nano-disc
authors: Vladimir Sokolovsky, Daniel Rohrlich, Baruch Horovitz
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053422 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6153
abstract: Atom chips made of superconducting material can generate magnetic traps with significantly reduced noise. Recently, several designs for superconducting chips have been theoretically analyzed and experimentally tested, for cases with many vortices considered as an average vortex density. Here we show theoretically, for the first time, how the magnetic field of a $\it single$ vortex, pinned by a superconducting nano-disc of radius $\sim$100 nm and combined with an external bias field parallel to the disc surface, yields a closed 3D trap for cold atoms. The size of the trap, and its height above the superconductor surface, are typically tens or hundreds of nanometers. We estimate the average lifetime $\tau$ of $^{87}$Rb (rubidium) atoms (subject to thermal escape and Majorana spin flips) in the range 0.05-1.0 ms. Next, we model the trap in a quantum adiabatic approximation and apply Fermi's rule to estimate the lifetime of $^{87}$Rb atoms in the ground state of this trap. We obtain similar lifetimes $\tau$ as in the semiclassical estimate, in the range 0.05-3.5 ms. We find that $\tau$ depends on the gradient $B_0$ of the vortex's magnetic field according to $\tau \sim(B_0)^{-2/3}$.

id: 1402.6161
title: Observation of the Second Triatomic Resonance in Efimov's Scenario
authors: Bo Huang, Leonid A. Sidorenkov, Rudolf Grimm, Jeremy M. Hutson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, 1 supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 190401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6161
abstract: We report the observation of a three-body recombination resonance in an ultracold gas of cesium atoms at a very large negative value of the $s$-wave scattering length. The resonance is identified as the second triatomic Efimov resonance, which corresponds to the situation where the first excited Efimov state appears at the threshold of three free atoms. This observation, together with a finite-temperature analysis and the known first resonance, allows the most accurate demonstration to date of the discrete scaling behavior at the heart of Efimov physics. For the system of three identical bosons, we obtain a scaling factor of $21.0(1.3)$, close to the ideal value of $22.7$.

id: 1402.6199
title: Non-self-adjoint hamiltonians defined by Riesz bases
authors: F. Bagarello, A. Inoue, C. Trapani
comments: in press in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6199
abstract: We discuss some features of non-self-adjoint Hamiltonians with real discrete simple spectrum under the assumption that the eigenvectors form a Riesz basis of Hilbert space. Among other things, {we give conditions under which these Hamiltonians} can be factorized in terms of generalized lowering and raising operators.

id: 1402.6221
title: Thermodynamic anomalies in the presence of dissipation: from the free particle to the harmonic oscillator
authors: Robert Adamietz, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Ulrich Weiss
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 87, 90 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6221
abstract: A free particle coupled to a heat bath can exhibit a number of thermodynamic anomalies like a negative specific heat or reentrant classicality. These low-temperature phenomena are expected to be modified at very low temperatures where finite-size effects associated with the discreteness of the energy spectrum become relevant. In this paper, we explore in which form the thermodynamic anomalies of the free damped particle appear for a damped harmonic oscillator. Since the discreteness of the oscillator's energy spectrum is fully accounted for, the results are valid for arbitrary temperatures. As expected, they are in agreement with the third law of thermodynamics and indicate how the thermodynamic anomalies of the free damped particle can be reconciled with the third law. Particular attention is paid to the transition from the harmonic oscillator to the free particle when the limit of the oscillator frequency to zero is taken.

id: 1402.6275
title: Power broadening effects on Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in $^{20}$Ne vapor
authors: Boaz Lubotzky, David Shwa, Tao Kong, Nadav Katz, Guy Ron
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6275
abstract: We report here the first observation of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in $^{20}$Ne. The power broadening of the EIT linewidth is measured as a function of neon pressure and RF excitation power. Doppler effects on the EIT broadening are found even at low pressures and low intensities, where the linewidth should be governed only by homogeneous effects.

id: 1402.6285
title: An Analog Model for Light Propagation in Semiclassical Gravity
authors: C. H. G. Bessa, V. A. De Lorenci, L. H. Ford
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024036 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6285
abstract: We treat a model based upon nonlinear optics for the semiclassical gravitational effects of quantum fields upon light propagation. Our model uses a nonlinear material with a nonzero third order polarizability. Here a probe light pulse satisfies a wave equation containing the expectation value of the squared electric field. This expectation value depends upon the presence of lower frequency quanta, the background field, and modifies the effective index of refraction, and hence the speed of the probe pulse. If the mean squared electric field is positive, then the pulse is slowed, which is analogous to the gravitational effects of ordinary matter. Such matter satisfies the null energy condition and produce gravitational lensing and time delay. If the mean squared field is negative, then the pulse has a higher speed than in the absence of the background field. This is analogous to the gravitational effects of exotic matter, such as stress tensor expectation values with locally negative energy densities, which lead to repulsive gravitational effects, such as defocussing and time advance. We give some estimates of the magnitude of the effects in our model, and find that they may be large enough to be observable. We also briefly discuss the possibility that the mean squared electric field could be produced by the Casimir vacuum near a reflecting boundary.

id: 1402.6286
title: Improved Recovery Guarantees for Phase Retrieval from Coded Diffraction Patterns
authors: David Gross, Felix Krahmer, Richard Kueng
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6286
abstract: In this work we analyze the problem of phase retrieval from Fourier measurements with random diffraction patterns. To this end, we consider the recently introduced PhaseLift algorithm, which expresses the problem in the language of convex optimization. We provide recovery guarantees which require O(log^2 d) different diffraction patterns, thus improving on recent results by Candes et al. [arXiv:1310.3240], which require O(log^4 d) different patterns.

id: 1402.6351
title: A cavity-mediated quantum CPHASE gate between NV spin qubits in diamond
authors: Guido Burkard, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6351
abstract: While long spin coherence times and efficient single-qubit quantum control have been implemented successfully in nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond, the controlled coupling of remote NV spin qubits remains challenging. Here, we propose and analyze a controlled-phase (CPHASE) gate for the spins of two NV centers embedded in a common optical cavity and driven by two off-resonant lasers. In combination with previously demonstrated single-qubit gates, CPHASE allows for arbitrary quantum computations. The coupling of the NV spin to the cavity mode is based upon Raman transitions via the NV excited states and can be controlled with the laser intensities and relative phase. We find characteristic laser frequencies at which a laser photon is only scattered into the cavity mode if the NV center spin is $|m_s=0\rangle$, and not in the case $|m_s=-1\rangle$, or vice versa. The scattered photon can be reabsorbed by another selectively driven NV center and generate a conditional phase (CPHASE) gate. Gate times below 20 ns are within reach, several orders of magnitude shorter than typical NV spin coherence times. The separation between the two NV centers is only limited by the extension of the cavity.

id: 1402.6380
title: Combined state-adding and state-deleting approaches to type III multi-step rationally-extended potentials: applications to ladder operators and superintegrability
authors: Ian Marquette, Christiane Quesne
comments: 46 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 112103 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6380
abstract: Type III multi-step rationally-extended harmonic oscillator and radial harmonic oscillator potentials, characterized by a set of $k$ integers $m_1$, $m_2$, \ldots, $m_k$, such that $m_1 < m_2 < \cdots < m_k$ with $m_i$ even (resp.\ odd) for $i$ odd (resp.\ even), are considered. The state-adding and state-deleting approaches to these potentials in a supersymmetric quantum mechanical framework are combined to construct new ladder operators. The eigenstates of the Hamiltonians are shown to separate into $m_k+1$ infinite-dimensional unitary irreducible representations of the corresponding polynomial Heisenberg algebras. These ladder operators are then used to build a higher-order integral of motion for seven new infinite families of superintegrable two-dimensional systems separable in cartesian coordinates. The finite-dimensional unitary irreducible representations of the polynomial algebras of such systems are directly determined from the ladder operator action on the constituent one-dimensional Hamiltonian eigenstates and provide an algebraic derivation of the superintegrable systems whole spectrum including the level total degeneracies.

id: 1402.6482
title: Optical instabilities and spontaneous light emission by polarizable moving matter
authors: Mario G. Silveirinha
comments: under review since 10th of Jan. 2014
journal: Phys. Rev. X, 4, 031013, 2014
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6482
abstract: One of the most extraordinary manifestations of the coupling of the optical field and matter is the emission of light by charged particles passing through a dielectric medium: the Vavilov-Cherenkov effect. In this article, it is theoretically predicted that a related phenomenon may be observed when neutral fast polarizable particles travel near a metal surface supporting surface plasmon polaritons. Rather dramatically, it is found that at some critical velocity, even if the initial optical field is vanishingly small, the system may become unstable and may start spontaneously emitting light such that in some initial time window the optical field grows exponentially with time.

id: 1402.6486
title: Drag dynamics in one-dimensional Fermi systems
authors: Jun'ichi Ozaki, Masaki Tezuka, Norio Kawakami
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6486
abstract: We study drag dynamics of several fermions in a fermion cloud in one-dimensional continuous systems, with particular emphasis on the non-trivial quantum many-body effects in systems whose parameters change gradually in real time. We adopt the Fermi--Hubbard model and the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method to calculate the drag force on a trapped fermion cluster in a cloud of another fermions species with contact interaction. A non-trivial peak in the resistance force is observed in the large cloud density region, and it is suggested that some momentum redistribution processes have a crucial role in the excitation process. We propose a simplified model which explains the detail of the excitation process and also the origin of the resistance peak. This model emphasizes the difference between the full-quantum calculation and the semiclassical calculation, which is the quantum effects, in slow dynamics of many-body systems bound in a fermion cloud.

id: 1402.6487
title: A "fair sampling" perspective on an apparent violation of duality
authors: Eliot Bolduc, Jonathan Leach, Filippo M. Miatto, Gerd Leuchs, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6487
abstract: In the event in which a quantum mechanical particle can pass from an initial state to a final state along two possible paths, the duality principle states that "the simultaneous observation of wave and particle behavior is prohibited". [M. O. Scully, B.-G. Englert, and H. Walther. Nature, 351:111-116, 1991.] emphasized the importance of additional degrees of freedom in the context of complementarity. In this paper, we show how the consequences of duality change when allowing for biased sampling, that is, postselected measurements on specific degrees of freedom of the environment of the two-path state. Our work contributes to the explanation of previous experimental apparent violations of duality [R. Menzel, D. Puhlmann, A. Heuer, and W. P. Schleich. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 109(24):9314-9319, 2012.] and opens up the way for novel experimental tests of duality.

id: 1402.6584
title: Gravitational Decoherence, Alternative Quantum Theories and Semiclassical Gravity
authors: B. L. Hu
comments: 18 pages. Invited talk at the Second International Conference on Emergent Quantum Mechanics, Vienna, October 3-6, 2013. Note: this arXiv version is more up to date than that which will appear in J. Phys. (Conf. Ser.)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6584
abstract: In this report we discuss three aspects: 1) Semiclassical gravity theory (SCG): 4 levels of theories describing the interaction of quantum matter with classical gravity; 2) Alternative Quantum Theories: Discerning those which are derivable from general relativity (GR) plus quantum field theory (QFT) from those which are not; 3) Gravitational Decoherence: Derivation of a master equation and examination of the assumptions which led to the claims of observational possibilities. We list three sets of corresponding problems worthy of pursuit: a) Newton-Schr\"odinger Equations in relation to SCG; b) Master equation of gravity-induced effects serving as discriminator of 2); and c) Role of gravity in macroscopic quantum phenomena.

id: 1402.6700
title: Heralded magnetism in non-Hermitian atomic systems
authors: Tony E. Lee, Ching-Kit Chan
comments: 7 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6700
abstract: Quantum phase transitions are usually studied in terms of Hermitian Hamiltonians. However, cold-atom experiments are intrinsically non-Hermitian due to spontaneous decay. Here, we show that non-Hermitian systems exhibit quantum phase transitions that are beyond the paradigm of Hermitian physics. We consider the non-Hermitian XY model, which can be implemented using three-level atoms with spontaneous decay. We exactly solve the model in one dimension and show that there is a quantum phase transition from short-range order to quasi-long-range order despite the absence of a continuous symmetry in the Hamiltonian. The ordered phase has a frustrated spin pattern. The critical exponent $\nu$ can be 1 or 1/2. Our results can be seen experimentally with trapped ions, cavity QED, and atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1402.6768
title: A Convergent control strategy for quantum systems
authors: Shuang Cong, Yuesheng Lou, Jianxiu Liu, Sen Kuang
comments: 15 pages
journal: Journal of Systems Science and Information, Vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 255-266 June 2014
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6768
abstract: In the interaction picture, a sufficient and necessary condition that guarantees the convergence of closed quantum control system is proposed in this paper. Theoretical derivation and the proof show that it is possible to achieve the convergence to the target state by constructing an observable operator in an energy function and selecting control Hamiltonians. Numerical simulation experiments on a four-level system verify the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.

id: 1402.6847
title: Induced self-stabilization in fractional quantum Hall states of light
authors: Eliot Kapit, Mohammad Hafezi, Steven H. Simon
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031039 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6847
abstract: Recent progress in nanoscale quantum optics and superconducting qubits has made the creation of strongly correlated, and even topologically ordered, states of photons a real possibility. Many of these states are gapped and exhibit anyon excitations, which could be used for a robust form of quantum information processing. However, while numerous qubit array proposals exist to engineer the Hamiltonian for these systems, the question of how to stabilize the many-body ground state of these photonic quantum simulators against photon losses remains largely unanswered. We here propose a simple mechanism which achieves this goal for abelian and non-abelian fractional quantum Hall states of light. Our construction uses a uniform two-photon drive field to couple the qubits of the primary lattice with an auxiliary ``shadow" lattice, composed of qubits with a much faster loss rate than the qubits of the primary quantum simulator itself. This coupling causes hole states created by photon losses to be rapidly refilled, and the system's many-body gap prevents further photons from being added once the strongly correlated ground state is reached. The fractional quantum Hall state (with a small, transient population of quasihole excitations) is thus the most stable state of the system, and all other configurations will relax toward it over time. The physics described here could be implemented in a circuit QED architecture, and the device parameters needed for our scheme to succeed are in reach of current technology. We also propose a simple 6 qubit device, which could easily be built in the near future, that can act as a proof of principle for our scheme.

id: 1402.6858
title: Spectral density of the quantum Ising model in two fields: Gaussian and multi-Gaussian approximations
authors: Y.Y. Atas, E. Bogomolny
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6858
abstract: Spectral density of quantum Ising model in two fields for large but finite number of spins $N$, is discussed in detail. When all coupling constants are of the same order, spectral densities in the bulk are well approximated by a Gaussian function which is typical behaviour for many-body models with short-range interactions. The main part of the paper is devoted to the investigation of a different characteristic case when spectral densities have peaks related with strong degeneracies of unperturbed states in certain limits of coupling constants. In the strict limit $N\to\infty$, peaks overlap and disappear but for values of $N$ accessible in numerical calculations they often strongly influence spectral densities and other quantities as well. A simple method is developed which permits to find general approximation formulae for multi-peak structure of spectral density in good agreement with numerics.

id: 1402.6875
title: Imaging single Rydberg electrons in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Tomasz Karpiuk, Miros?aw Brewczyk, Kazimierz Rz??ewski, Anita Gaj, Jonathan B. Balewski, Alexander T. Krupp, Michael Schlagm¨¹ller, Robert L?w, Sebastian Hofferberth, Tilman Pfau
comments: New J. Phys., accepted
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6875
abstract: The quantum mechanical states of electrons in atoms and molecules are distinct orbitals, which are fundamental for our understanding of atoms, molecules and solids. Electronic orbitals determine a wide range of basic atomic properties, allowing also for the explanation of many chemical processes. Here, we propose a novel technique to optically image the shape of electron orbitals of neutral atoms using electron-phonon coupling in a Bose-Einstein condensate. To validate our model we carefully analyze the impact of a single Rydberg electron onto a condensate and compare the results to experimental data. Our scheme requires only well-established experimental techniques that are readily available and allows for the direct capture of textbook-like spatial images of single electronic orbitals in a single shot experiment.

id: 1402.6929
title: Ground state cooling of mechanical motion in the unresolved sideband regime by use of optomechanically induced transparency
authors: Teemu Ojanen, Kjetil Borkje
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures. v2: Added new subsections on exact results + 2 new figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013824 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6929
abstract: We present a scheme for cooling mechanical motion to the ground state in an optomechanical system. Unlike standard sideband cooling, this scheme applies to the so-called unresolved sideband regime, where the resonance frequency of the mechanical mode is much smaller than the cavity linewidth. Ground state cooling becomes possible when assuming the presence of an additional, auxiliary mechanical mode and exploiting the effect of optomechanically induced transparency. We first consider a system where one optical cavity interacts with two mechanical modes, and show that ground state cooling of the unresolved mechanical mode is possible when the auxiliary mode is in the resolved sideband regime. We then present a modified setup involving two cavity modes, where both mechanical modes are allowed to be in the unresolved sideband regime.

id: 1402.6997
title: Casimir densities from coexisting vacua
authors: S. Bellucci, A. A. Saharian, A. H. Yeranyan
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 105006 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.6997
abstract: Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values (VEVs) of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor are investigated for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling in a spherically symmetric static background geometry described by two distinct metric tensors inside and outside a spherical boundary. The exterior and interior geometries can correspond to different vacuum states of the same theory. In the region outside the sphere, the contributions in the VEVs, induced by the interior geometry, are explicitly separated. For the special case of the Minkowskian exterior geometry, the asymptotics of the VEVs near the boundary and at large distances are discussed in detail. In particular, it has been shown that the divergences on the boundary are weaker than in the problem of a spherical boundary in Minkowski spacetime with Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions. As an application of general results, dS and AdS spaces are considered as examples of the interior geometry. For AdS interior there are no bound states. In the case of dS geometry and for nonminimally coupled fields, bound states appear for a radius of the separating boundary sufficiently close to the dS horizon. Starting from a critical value of the radius the Minkowskian vacuum in the exterior region becomes unstable. For small values of the AdS curvature radius, to the leading order, the VEVs in the exterior region coincide with those for a spherical boundary in Minkowski spacetime with Dirichlet boundary condition. The exceptions are the cases of minimal and conformal couplings: for a minimal coupling the VEVs are reduced to the case with Neumann boundary condition, whereas for a conformally coupled field there is no reduction to Dirichlet or Neumann results.

id: 1402.7031
title: Energy transfer efficiency in the FMO complex strongly coupled to a vibronic mode
authors: Lev Mourokh, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7031
abstract: Using methods of condensed matter and statistical physics, we examine the transport of excitons through the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex from a receiving antenna to a reaction center. Writing the equations of motion for the exciton creation/annihilation operators, we are able to describe the exciton dynamics, even in the regime when the reorganization energy is of the order of the intra-system couplings. In particular, we obtain the well-known quantum oscillations of the site populations. We determine the exciton transfer efficiency in the presence of a quenching field and protein environment. While the majority of the protein vibronic modes are treated as a heat bath, we address the situation when specific modes are strongly coupled to excitons and examine the effects of these modes on the quantum oscillations and the energy transfer efficiency. We find that, for the vibronic frequencies below 16 meV, the exciton transfer is drastically suppressed. We attribute this effect to the formation of "polaronic states" where the exciton is transferred back and forth between the two pigments with the absorption/emission of the vibronic quanta, instead of proceeding to the reaction center. The same effect suppresses the quantum beating at the vibronic frequency of 25 meV. We also show that the efficiency of the energy transfer can be enhanced when the vibronic mode strongly couples to the third pigment only, instead of coupling to the entire system.

id: 1402.7051
title: Symbol correspondences for spin systems
authors: Pedro de M Rios, Eldar Straume
comments: Research Monograph, 171 pages (book format, preliminary version)
journal: Symbol Correspondences for Spin Systems, Birkhauser, Basel, 2014 (ix+200pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7051
abstract: The present monograph explores the correspondence between quantum and classical mechanics in the particular context of spin systems, that is, SU(2)-symmetric mechanical systems. Here, a detailed presentation of quantum spin-j systems, with emphasis on the SO(3)-invariant decomposition of their operator algebras, is followed by an introduction to the Poisson algebra of the classical spin system and a similarly detailed presentation of its SO(3)-invariant decomposition. Subsequently, this monograph proceeds with a detailed and systematic study of general quantum-classical symbol correspondences for spin-j systems and their induced twisted products of functions on the 2-sphere. This original systematic presentation culminates with the study of twisted products in the asymptotic limit of high spin numbers. In the context of spin systems, it shows how classical mechanics may or may not emerge as an asymptotic limit of quantum mechanics.

id: 1402.7056
title: Jarzynski equality and the second law of thermodynamics beyond the weak-coupling limit: The quantum Brownian oscillator
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7056
abstract: We consider a time-dependent quantum linear oscillator coupled to a bath at an arbitrary strength. We then introduce a generalized Jarzynski equality (GJE) which includes the terms reflecting the system-bath coupling. This enables us to study systematically the coupling effect on the linear oscillator in a non-equilibrium process. This is also associated with the second law of thermodynamics beyond the weak-coupling limit. We next take into consideration the GJE in the classical limit. By this generalization we show that the Jarzynski equality in its original form can be associated with the second law, in both quantal and classical domains, only in the vanishingly small coupling regime.

id: 1402.7140
title: Storing quantum information for 30 seconds in a nanoelectronic device
authors: Juha T. Muhonen, Juan P. Dehollain, Arne Laucht, Fay E. Hudson, Takeharu Sekiguchi, Kohei M. Itoh, David N. Jamieson, Jeffrey C. McCallum, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: 
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 9, 986 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7140
abstract: The spin of an electron or a nucleus in a semiconductor [1] naturally implements the unit of quantum information -- the qubit -- while providing a technological link to the established electronics industry [2]. The solid-state environment, however, may provide deleterious interactions between the qubit and the nuclear spins of surrounding atoms [3], or charge and spin fluctuators in defects, oxides and interfaces [4]. For group IV materials such as silicon, enrichment of the spin-zero 28-Si isotope drastically reduces spin-bath decoherence [5]. Experiments on bulk spin ensembles in 28-Si crystals have indeed demonstrated extraordinary coherence times [6-8]. However, it remained unclear whether these would persist at the single-spin level, in gated nanostructures near amorphous interfaces. Here we present the coherent operation of individual 31-P electron and nuclear spin qubits in a top-gated nanostructure, fabricated on an isotopically engineered 28-Si substrate. We report new benchmarks for coherence time (> 30 seconds) and control fidelity (> 99.99%) of any single qubit in solid state, and perform a detailed noise spectroscopy [9] to demonstrate that -- contrary to widespread belief -- the coherence is not limited by the proximity to an interface. Our results represent a fundamental advance in control and understanding of spin qubits in nanostructures.

id: 1402.7146
title: Coherent perfect absorption of path entangled single photons
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express 22, 20936 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7146
abstract: We examine the question of coherent perfect absorption (CPA) of single photons, and more generally, of the quantum fields by a {\it macroscopic} medium. We show the CPA of path entangled single photons in a Fabry-Perot interferometer containing an absorptive medium. The frequency of perfect absorption can be controlled by changing the interferometer parameters like the reflectivity and the complex dielectric constant of the material. We exhibit similar results for path entangled photons in micro-ring resonators. For entangled fields like the ones produced by a down converter the CPA aspect is evident in phase sensitive detection schemes such as in measurements of the squeezing spectrum.

id: 1402.7148
title: Single-shot readout and relaxation of singlet/triplet states in exchange-coupled $^{31}$P electron spins in silicon
authors: Juan P. Dehollain, Juha T. Muhonen, Kuan Y. Tan, Andr¨¦ Saraiva, David N. Jamieson, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: Main: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supp.Mat: 1 page, 1 figure. Final version with journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 236801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7148
abstract: We present the experimental observation of a large exchange coupling $J \approx 300$ $\mu$eV between two $^{31}$P electron spin qubits in silicon. The singlet and triplet states of the coupled spins are monitored in real time by a Single-Electron Transistor, which detects ionization from tunnel-rate-dependent processes in the coupled spin system, yielding single-shot readout fidelities above 95%. The triplet to singlet relaxation time $T_1 \approx 4$ ms at zero magnetic field agrees with the theoretical prediction for $J$-coupled $^{31}$P dimers in silicon. The time evolution of the 2-electron state populations gives further insight into the valley-orbit eigenstates of the donor dimer, valley selection rules and relaxation rates, and the role of hyperfine interactions. These results pave the way to the realization of 2-qubit quantum logic gates with spins in silicon, and highlight the necessity to adopt gating schemes compatible with weak $J$-coupling strengths.

id: 1402.7187
title: Entanglement detection in coupled particle plasmons
authors: Javier del Pino, Johannes Feist, F.J. Garc¨ªa-Vidal, Juan Jose Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 8 pages (6 main text + 2 supplemental), 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 216805 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7187
abstract: When in close contact, plasmonic resonances interact and become strongly correlated. In this work we develop a quantum mechanical model, using the language of continuous variables and quantum information, for an array of coupled particle plasmons. This model predicts that when the coupling strength between plasmons approaches or surpasses the local dissipation, a sizable amount of entanglement is stored in the collective modes of the array. We also prove that entanglement manifests itself in far-field images of the plasmonic modes, through the statistics of the quadratures of the field, in what constitutes a novel family of entanglement witnesses. This protocol is so robust that it is indeed independent of whether our own model is correct. Finally, we estimate the amount of entanglement, the coupling strength and the correlation properties for a system that consists of two or more coupled nanospheres of silver, showing evidence that our predictions could be tested using present-day state-of-the-art technology.

id: 1402.7191
title: Position and momentum uncertainties of a particle in a V-shaped potential under the minimal length uncertainty relation
authors: Zachary Lewis, Ahmed Roman, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 24 pages revtex4-1, 36 pdf figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7191
abstract: We calculate the uncertainties in the position and momentum of a particle in the 1D potential V(x)=F|x|, F>0, when the position and momentum operators obey the deformed commutation relation [x,p]=i\hbar(1+\beta p^2), \beta>0. As in the harmonic oscillator case, which was investigated in a previous publication, the Hamiltonian H_1 = p^2/2m + F|x| admits discrete positive energy eigenstates for both positive and negative mass. The uncertainties for the positive mass states behave as \Delta x ~ 1/\Delta p as in the \beta=0 limit. For the negative mass states, however, in contrast to the harmonic oscillator case where we had \Delta x ~ \Delta p, both \Delta x and \Delta p diverge. We argue that the existence of the negative mass states and the divergence of their uncertainties can be understood by taking the classical limit of the theory. Comparison of our results is made with previous work by Benczik.

id: 1402.7217
title: Manipulating Rydberg atoms close to surfaces at cryogenic temperatures
authors: Tobias Thiele, Stefan Filipp, Josef Anton Agner, Hansj¨¹rg Schmutz, Johannes Deiglmayr, Mathias Stammeier, Pitt Allmendinger, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Merkt, Andreas Wallraff
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013414 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7217
abstract: Helium atoms in Rydberg states have been manipulated coherently with microwave radiation pulses near a gold surface and near a superconducting NbTiN surface at a temperature of $3 \text{K}$. The experiments were carried out with a skimmed supersonic beam of metastable $(1\text{s})^1(2\text{s})^1\, {}^1\text{S}_0$ helium atoms excited with laser radiation to $n\text{p}$ Rydberg levels with principal quantum number $n$ between $30$ and $40$. The separation between the cold surface and the center of the collimated beam is adjustable down to $250 \mu\text{m}$. Short-lived $n\text{p}$ Rydberg levels were coherently transferred to the long-lived $n\text{s}$ state to avoid radiative decay of the Rydberg atoms between the photoexcitation region and the region above the cold surfaces. Further coherent manipulation of the $n\text{s}$ Rydberg levels with pulsed microwave radiation above the surfaces enabled measurements of stray electric fields and allowed us to study the decoherence of the atomic ensemble. Adsorption of residual gas onto the surfaces and the resulting slow build-up of stray fields was minimized by controlling the temperature of the surface and monitoring the partial pressures of H$_2$O, N$_2$, O$_2$ and CO$_2$ in the experimental chamber during the cool-down. Compensation of the stray electric fields to levels below $100 \text{mV}/\text{cm}$ was achieved over a region of $6 \text{mm}$ along the beam-propagation direction which, for the $1770 \text{m}/\text{s}$ beam velocity, implies the possibility to preserve the coherence of the atomic sample for several microseconds above the cold surfaces.

id: 1402.7241
title: Symmetric Tamm-Dancoff q-oscillator: representation, quasi-Fibonacci nature, accidental degeneracy and coherent states
authors: Won Sang Chung, A.M. Gavrilik, I.I. Kachurik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 14 pages; v2: minor revision, references and paragraph in Conclusions added, accepted for publication in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 305304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7241
abstract: In this paper we propose a symmetric q-deformed Tamm-Dancoff (S-TD) oscillator algebra and study its representation, coordinate realization, and main properties. In particular, the non-Fibonacci (more exactly, quasi-Fibonacci) nature of S-TD oscillator is established, the possibility of relating it to certain p,q-deformed oscillator family shown, the occurrence of the pairwise accidental degeneracy proven. We also find the coherent state for the S-TD oscillator and show that it satisfies completeness relation. Main advantage of the S-TD model over usual Tamm-Dancoff oscillator is that due to (q<-->q^{-1})- symmetry it admits not only real, but also complex (phase-like) values of the deformation parameter q.

id: 1402.7306
title: Nonassociative geometry and twist deformations in non-geometric string theory
authors: Dionysios Mylonas, Peter Schupp, Richard J. Szabo
comments: 28 pages; Based on lectures given at ICMP 2013, 21-26 October, 2013, Londrina, Brazil; to appear in Proceedings of Science
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7306
abstract: We describe nonassociative deformations of geometry probed by closed strings in non-geometric flux compactifications of string theory. We show that these non-geometric backgrounds can be geometrised through the dynamics of open membranes whose boundaries propagate in the phase space of the target space compactification, equiped with a twisted Poisson structure. The effective membrane target space is determined by the standard Courant algebroid over the target space twisted by an abelian gerbe in momentum space. Quantization of the membrane sigma-model leads to a proper quantization of the non-geometric background, which we relate to Kontsevich's formalism of global deformation quantization that constructs a noncommutative nonassociative star product on phase space. We construct Seiberg-Witten type maps between associative and nonassociative backgrounds, and show how they may realise a nonassociative deformation of gravity. We also explain how this approach is related to the quantization of certain Lie 2-algebras canonically associated to the twisted Courant algebroid, and cochain twist quantization using suitable quasi-Hopf algebras of symmetries in the phase space description of R-space which constructs a Drinfel'd twist with non-trivial 3-cocycle. We illustrate and apply our formalism to present a consistent phase space formulation of nonassociative quantum mechanics.

id: 1402.7367
title: Qubit architecture with high coherence and fast tunable coupling
authors: Yu Chen, C. Neill, P. Roushan, N. Leung, M. Fang, R. Barends, J. Kelly, B. Campbell, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, A. Dunsworth, E. Jeffrey, A. Megrant, J. Y. Mutus, P. J. J. O'Malley, C. M. Quintana, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, Michael R. Geller, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 220502(2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.7367
abstract: We introduce a superconducting qubit architecture that combines high-coherence qubits and tunable qubit-qubit coupling. With the ability to set the coupling to zero, we demonstrate that this architecture is protected from the frequency crowding problems that arise from fixed coupling. More importantly, the coupling can be tuned dynamically with nanosecond resolution, making this architecture a versatile platform with applications ranging from quantum logic gates to quantum simulation. We illustrate the advantages of dynamic coupling by implementing a novel adiabatic controlled-Z gate, at a speed approaching that of single-qubit gates. Integrating coherence and scalable control, our "gmon" architecture is a promising path towards large-scale quantum computation and simulation.

id: 1402.5921
title: A quantum theory of distance along a curve
authors: Ronald J. Adler
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures; includes added reference and acknowledgements, corrected typos and phrases, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.5921
abstract: We present a quantum theory of distances along a curve, based on a linear line element that is equal to the operator square root of the quadratic metric of Riemannian geometry. Since the linear line element is an operator, we treat it according to the rules of quantum mechanics and interpret its eigenvalues as physically observable distances; the distance eigenvalues are naturally quantized. There are both positive and negative eigenvalues, which requires interpretation. Multi-element curves are defined as direct sums of line elements, and behave much like systems of spin half electrons in a magnetic field. For a curve of many elements an entropy and energy and temperature are quite naturally defined, leading via standard statistical thermodynamics to a relation between the most probable curve length and temperature. That relation may be viewed as a universal heat-shrinking property of curves. At this stage of the theory we do not include bodies or particles in the mix, do not suggest field equations for the quantum geometry, and questions of interpretation remain. The theory might conceivably be testable using observations of the early Universe, when the temperature of space was presumably quite high. In particular cosmogenesis may be thought of as time stopping at an infinite temperature as we go backwards in time to the beginning.

id: 1402.4008
title: A case study of spin-$1$ Heisenberg model in a triangular lattice
authors: M. Moreno-Cardoner, H. Perrin, S. Paganelli, G. De Chiara, A. Sanpera
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX 4. The abstract and conclusions have been modified and the manuscript has been extended
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 144409 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.4008
abstract: We study the spin-$1$ model in a triangular lattice in presence of a uniaxial anisotropy field using a Cluster Mean-Field approach (CMF). The interplay between antiferromagnetic exchange, lattice geometry and anisotropy forces Gutzwiller mean-field approaches to fail in a certain region of the phase diagram. There, the CMF yields two supersolid (SS) phases compatible with those present in the spin-$1/2$ XXZ model onto which the spin-$1$ system maps. Between these two SS phases, the three-sublattice order is broken and the results of the CMF depend heavily on the geometry and size of the cluster. We discuss the possible presence of a spin liquid in this region.

id: 1402.0800
title: More on Asymptotic behaviors of 9j Coefficients
authors: Brian Kleszyk, Larry Zamick
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. C89,044322 (2014)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.0800
abstract: Previouslywe noted in numerical calculations that a certain unitary ninej coefficient U9j =((jj)^{2j} (jj)^{2j} | (jj)^{2j} (jj) ^{(2j-2)})^{I} decreases with increasing j and for small I the decrease is of the form C j^{m} e^{-\alpha j} . The exponential decay dominates. It is here shown that \alpha = 4 ln(2) and m=3/2.

