id: 1403.0009
title: Teleportation of entanglement over 143 km
authors: Thomas Herbst, Thomas Scheidl, Matthias Fink, Johannes Handsteiner, Bernhard Wittmann, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0009
abstract: As a direct consequence of the no-cloning theorem, the deterministic amplification as in classical communication is impossible for quantum states. This calls for more advanced techniques in a future global quantum network, e.g. for cloud quantum computing. A unique solution is the teleportation of an entangled state, i.e. entanglement swapping, representing the central resource to relay entanglement between distant nodes. Together with entanglement purification and a quantum memory it constitutes a so-called quantum repeater. Since the aforementioned building blocks have been individually demonstrated in laboratory setups only, the applicability of the required technology in real-world scenarios remained to be proven. Here we present a free-space entanglement-swapping experiment between the Canary Islands of La Palma and Tenerife, verifying the presence of quantum entanglement between two previously independent photons separated by 143 km. We obtained an expectation value for the entanglement-witness operator, more than 6 standard deviations beyond the classical limit. By consecutive generation of the two required photon pairs and space-like separation of the relevant measurement events, we also showed the feasibility of the swapping protocol in a long-distance scenario, where the independence of the nodes is highly demanded. Since our results already allow for efficient implementation of entanglement purification, we anticipate our assay to lay the ground for a fully-fledged quantum repeater over a realistic high-loss and even turbulent quantum channel.

id: 1403.0014
title: Quantum Mechanics as Classical Physics
authors: Charles Sebens
comments: 25 pages
journal: Philosophy of Science, Vol. 82, No. 2 (April 2015), pp. 266-291
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0014
abstract: Here I explore a novel no-collapse interpretation of quantum mechanics which combines aspects of two familiar and well-developed alternatives, Bohmian mechanics and the many-worlds interpretation. Despite reproducing the empirical predictions of quantum mechanics, the theory looks surprisingly classical. All there is at the fundamental level are particles interacting via Newtonian forces. There is no wave function. However, there are many worlds.

id: 1403.0016
title: Wave-particle duality from stochastic electrodynamics
authors: Cesar A. D¨ªaz Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0016
abstract: The wave-particle duality is one of the most mysterious phenomena of the quantum theory, in this paper first it's studied the rise of the wave properties of matter from the theory of stochastic electrodynamics (SED), in which de Broglie's idea of a guiding wave that follows the particle and determine its trajectory is taken back. In the frame of the theory (SED) this wave is of electromagnetic character and is a traveling wave that propagates within the zero point field (ZPF) which according the SED is a classic electromagnetic field that permeates all universe. The wave rise from the interaction between the background field and the particle that moves with certain velocity. Then, I expose the results of numerical simulations in which the behavior of the ZPF in a two slit diffraction experiment is calculated and a series of macroscopic experiments that shows behaviors similar to the ones described by the SED. Both, simulations and experiments give us a better physical understanding of the guiding wave and of the wave properties of quantum particles

id: 1403.0031
title: Universal quantum gates on microwave photons assisted by circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Ming Hua, Ming-Jie Tao, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012328 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0031
abstract: Based on a microwave-photon quantum processor with two superconducting resonators coupled to one transmon qutrit, we construct the controlled-phase (c-phase) gate on microwave-photon-resonator qudits, by combination of the photon-number-dependent frequency-shift effect on the transmon qutrit by the first resonator and the resonant operation between the qutrit and the second resonator. This distinct feature provides us a useful way to achieve the c-phase gate on the two resonator qudits with a higher fidelity and a shorter operation time, compared with the previous proposals. The fidelity of our c-phase gate can reach 99.51% within 93 ns. Moreover, our device can be extended easily to construct the three-qudit gates on three resonator qudits, far different from the existing proposals. Our controlled-controlled-phase gate on three resonator qudits is accomplished with the assistance of a transmon qutrit and its fidelity can reach 92.92% within 124.64 ns.

id: 1403.0035
title: Optimal quantum control using randomized benchmarking
authors: J. Kelly, R. Barends, B. Campbell, Y. Chen, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, A. Dunsworth, A. G. Fowler, I.-C. Hoi, E. Jeffrey, A. Megrant, J. Mutus, C. Neill, P. J. J. O`Malley, C. Quintana, P. Roushan, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures including supplementary
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 240504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0035
abstract: We present a method for optimizing quantum control in experimental systems, using a subset of randomized benchmarking measurements to rapidly infer error. This is demonstrated to improve single- and two-qubit gates, minimize gate bleedthrough, where a gate mechanism can cause errors on subsequent gates, and identify control crosstalk in superconducting qubits. This method is able to correct parameters to where control errors no longer dominate, and is suitable for automated and closed-loop optimization of experimental systems.

id: 1403.0049
title: Steady-state Mechanical Squeezing in an Optomechanical System via Duffing Nonlinearity
authors: Xin-You L¨¹, Jie-Qiao Liao, Lin Tian, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013834 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0049
abstract: Quantum squeezing in mechanical systems is not only a key signature of macroscopic quantum effects, but can also be utilized to advance the metrology of weak forces. Here we show that strong mechanical squeezing in the steady state can be generated in an optomechanical system with mechanical nonlinearity and red-detuned monochromatic driving on the cavity mode. The squeezing is achieved as the joint effect of nonlinearity-induced parametric amplification and cavity cooling, and is robust against thermal fluctuations of the mechanical mode.

id: 1403.0069
title: Why the Quantitative Condition Fails to Reveal Quantum Adiabaticity
authors: Dafa Li, Man-Hong Yung
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure; accepted by New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16 053023 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0069
abstract: The quantitative adiabatic condition (QAC), or quantitative condition, is a convenient (a priori) tool for estimating the adiabaticity of quantum evolutions. However, the range of the applicability of QAC is not well understood. It has been shown that QAC can become insufficient for guaranteeing the validity of the adiabatic approximation, but under what conditions the QAC would become necessary has become controversial. Furthermore, it is believed that the inability for the QAC to reveal quantum adiabaticity is due to induced resonant transitions. However, it is not clear how to quantify these transitions in general. Here we present a progress to this problem by finding an exact relation that can reveal how transition amplitudes are related to QAC directly. As a posteriori condition for quantum adiabaticity, our result is universally applicable to any (nondegenerate) quantum system and gives a clear picture on how QAC could become insufficient or unnecessary for the adiabatic approximation, which is a problem that has gained considerable interest in the literature in recent years.

id: 1403.0073
title: Local quanta, unitary inequivalence, and vacuum entanglement
authors: Matias Rodriguez-Vazquez, Marco del Rey, Hans Westman, Juan Leon
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 351, 112-137, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0073
abstract: In this work we develop a formalism for describing localised quanta for a real-valued Klein-Gordon field in a one-dimensional box $[0, R]$. We quantise the field using non-stationary local modes which, at some arbitrarily chosen initial time, are completely localised within the left or the right side of the box. In this concrete set-up we directly face the problems inherent to a notion of local field excitations, usually thought of as elementary particles. Specifically, by computing the Bogoliubov coefficients relating local and standard (global) quantizations, we show that the local quantisation yields a Fock space $\mathfrak F^L$ which is unitarily inequivalent to the standard one $\mathfrak F^G$. In spite of this, we find that the local creators and annihilators remain well defined in the global Fock space $\mathfrak F^G$, and so do the local number operators associated to the left and right partitions of the box. We end up with a useful mathematical toolbox to analyse and characterise local features of quantum states in $\mathfrak F^G$. Specifically, an analysis of the global vacuum state $|0_G\rangle\in\mathfrak F^G$ in terms of local number operators shows, as expected, the existence of entanglement between the left and right regions of the box. The local vacuum $|0_L\rangle\in\mathfrak F^L$, on the contrary, has a very different character. It is neither cyclic nor separating and displays no entanglement. Further analysis shows that the global vacuum also exhibits a distribution of local excitations reminiscent, in some respects, of a thermal bath. We discuss how the mathematical tools developed herein may open new ways for the analysis of fundamental problems in local quantum field theory.

id: 1403.0082
title: A weak-value model for virtual particles supplying the electric current in graphene: the minimal conductivity and the Schwinger mechanism
authors: Kazuhiro Yokota, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 073003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0082
abstract: We propose a model for the electric current in graphene in which electric carriers are supplied by virtual particles allowed by the uncertainty relations. The process to make a virtual particle real is described by a weak value of a group velocity: the velocity is requisite for the electric field to give the virtual particle the appropriate changes of both energy and momentum. With the weak value, we approximately estimate the electric current, considering the ballistic transport of the electric carriers. The current shows the quasi-Ohimic with the minimal conductivity of the order of e^2/h per channel. Crossing a certain ballistic time scale, it is brought to obey the Schwinger mechanism.

id: 1403.0116
title: Heisenberg versus standard scaling in quantum metrology with Markov generated states and monitored environment
authors: Catalin Catana, Madalin Guta
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, improved presentation, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0116
abstract: Finding optimal and noise robust probe states is a key problem in quantum metrology. In this paper we propose Markov dynamics as a possible mechanism for generating such states, and show how the Heisenberg scaling emerges for systems with multiple `dynamical phases' (stationary states), and noiseless channels. We model noisy channels by coupling the Markov output to `environment' ancillas, and consider the scenario where the environment is monitored to increase the quantum Fisher information of the output. In this setup we find that the survival of the Heisenberg limit depends on whether the environment receives `which phase' information about the memory system.

id: 1403.0143
title: Preventing detector blinding attack and other random number generator attacks on quantum cryptography by use of an explicit random number generator
authors: Mario Stip?evi?
comments: Improved strategy. 5 pages, 1 figure, 2 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0143
abstract: A particularly successful detector blinding attack has been recently demonstrated on various quantum key distribution (QKD) systems, performing for the first time an undetectable and complete recovery of the key. In this paper two original contributions are given to understanding and prevention of this attack.

id: 1403.0145
title: Does Chance Hide Necessity ? A Reevaluation of the Debate 'Determinism - Indeterminism' in the Light of Quantum Mechanics and Probability Theory
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: 139 pages, PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0145
abstract: In this PhD thesis the ancient question of determinism ('Does every event have a cause ?') will be re-examined. In the philosophy of science and physics communities the orthodox position states that the physical world is indeterministic: quantum events would have no causes but happen by irreducible chance. Arguably the clearest theorem that leads to this conclusion is Bell's theorem. The commonly accepted 'solution' to the theorem is 'indeterminism', in agreement with the Copenhagen interpretation. Here it is recalled that indeterminism is not really a physical but rather a philosophical hypothesis, and that it has counterintuitive and far-reaching implications. At the same time another solution to Bell's theorem exists, often termed 'superdeterminism' or 'total determinism'. Superdeterminism appears to be a philosophical position that is centuries and probably millennia old: it is for instance Spinoza's determinism. If Bell's theorem has both indeterministic and deterministic solutions, choosing between determinism and indeterminism is a philosophical question, not a matter of physical experimentation, as is widely believed. If it is impossible to use physics for deciding between both positions, it is legitimate to ask which philosophical theories are of help. Here it is argued that probability theory - more precisely the interpretation of probability - is instrumental for advancing the debate. It appears that the hypothesis of determinism allows to answer a series of precise questions from probability theory, while indeterminism remains silent for these questions. From this point of view determinism appears to be the most reasonable assumption, after all.

id: 1403.0203
title: Quantum delayed-choice with a Schr?dinger cat-like beam splitter
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng, Li-Tuo Shen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0203
abstract: Whether a quantum system behaves as a particle or as a wave depends on the choice of the experimental setup, as illustrated by the delayed-choice experiments. In the previous quantum version of delayed choice experiments the wave and particle behavior of a photon is correlated with the state of an ancilla controlling the transformation performed by the output beam splitter of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, while the beam splitter itself is a classical object. The quantum nature of the photon's behavior is verified via violation of Bell inequality. Here we suggest a fundamentally distinct quantum delayed choice experiment, in which the behavior of an atom is entangled with the amplitude of a coherent field, which acts as a genuine quantum beam splitter in the Ramsey interferometer. The quantum behavior of this beam splitter can be verified by the oscillation and negative values of its Wigner function. Our proposal not only offers a way around the Bell test obstacle, but also allows observation of the transition from the quantum to classical device.

id: 1403.0226
title: Characterization and Control of Quantum Spin Chains and Rings
authors: Sophie Schirmer, Frank Langbein
comments: to appear in ISCCSP 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0226
abstract: Information flow in quantum spin networks is considered. Two types of control -- temporal bang-bang switching control and control by varying spatial degrees of freedom -- are explored and shown to be effective in speeding up information transfer and increasing transfer fidelities. The control is model-based and therefore relies on accurate knowledge of the system parameters. An efficient protocol for simultaneous identification of the coupling strength and the exact number of spins in a chain is presented.

id: 1403.0270
title: Quantum Random State Generation with Predefined Entanglement Constraint
authors: Anmer Daskin, Ananth Grama, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 12, No. 5 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0270
abstract: Entanglement plays an important role in quantum communication, algorithms, and error correction. Schmidt coefficients are correlated to the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix. These eigenvalues are used in Von Neumann entropy to quantify the amount of the bipartite entanglement. In this paper, we map the Schmidt basis and the associated coefficients to quantum circuits to generate random quantum states. We also show that it is possible to adjust the entanglement between subsystems by changing the quantum gates corresponding to the Schmidt coefficients. In this manner, random quantum states with predefined bipartite entanglement amounts can be generated using random Schmidt basis. This provides a technique for generating equivalent quantum states for given weighted graph states, which are very useful in the study of entanglement, quantum computing, and quantum error correction.

id: 1403.0302
title: Energy eigenfunctions for position-dependent mass particles in a new class of molecular hamiltonians
authors: H. R. Christiansen, M. S. Cunha
comments: 31 pages, 17 figures, 4 tables. Some references corrected. Accepted for publication in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 092102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0302
abstract: Based on recent results on quasi-exactly solvable Schrodinger equations, we review a new phenomenological potential class lately reported. In the present paper we consider the quantum differential equations resulting from position dependent mass (PDM) particles. We focus on the PDM version of the hyperbolic potential $V(x) = {a}~\text{sech}^2x + {b}~\text{sech}^4x$, which we address analytically with no restrictions on the parameters and the energies. This is the celebrated Manning potential, a double-well widely known in molecular physics, until now not investigated for PDM. We also evaluate the PDM version of the sixth power hyperbolic potential $V(x) = {a}~{\text{sech}^6x}+b~{\text{sech}^4x}$ for which we could find exact expressions under some special settings. Finally, we address a triple-well case $V(x) = {a}~{\text{sech}^6x}+b~{\text{sech}^4x}+c~\text{sech}^2x$ of particular interest for its connection to the new trends in atomtronics. The PDM Schrodinger equations studied in the present paper yield analytical eigenfunctions in terms of local Heun functions in its confluents forms. In all the cases PDM particles are more likely tunneling than ordinary ones. In addition, a merging of eigenstates has been observed when the mass becomes nonuniform.

id: 1403.0313
title: Fine-grained uncertainty relation under the relativistic motion
authors: Jun Feng, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Mark D. Gould, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0313
abstract: One of the most important features of quantum theory is the uncertainty principle. Amount various uncertainty relations, the profound Fine-Grained Uncertainty Relation (FGUR) is used to distinguish the uncertainty inherent in obtaining any combination of outcomes for different measurements. In this paper, we explore this uncertainty relation in relativistic regime. For observer undergoes an uniform acceleration who immersed in an Unruh thermal bath, we show that the uncertainty bound is dependent on the acceleration parameter and choice of Unruh modes. Dramatically, we find that the measurements in Mutually Unbiased Bases (MUBs), sharing same uncertainty bound in inertial frame, could be distinguished from each other for a noninertial observer. On the other hand, once the Unruh decoherence is prevented by utilizing the cavity, the entanglement could be generated from nonuniform motion. We show that, for the observer restricted in a single rigid cavity, the uncertainty exhibits a periodic evolution with respect to the duration of the acceleration and the uncertainty bounds can be degraded by the entanglement generation during particular epoch. With properly chosen cavity parameters, the uncertainty bounds could be protected. Otherwise, the measurements in different MUBs could be distinguished due to the relativistic motion of cavity. Implications of our results for gravitation and thermodynamics are discussed.

id: 1403.0314
title: Casimir interaction between spherical and planar plasma sheets
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0314
abstract: We consider the interaction between a spherical plasma sheet and a planar plasma sheet due to the vacuum fluctuations of electromagnetic fields. We use the mode summation approach to derive the Casimir interaction energy and study its asymptotic behaviors. In the small separation regime, we confirm the proximity force approximation and calculate the first correction beyond the proximity force approximation. This study has potential application to model Casimir interaction between objects made of materials that can be modeled by plasma sheets such as graphene sheets.

id: 1403.0340
title: Stochastic Qubits
authors: Abdallah Smida, Mahmoud Hachemane, Amel-Hiba Hamici
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because of Projection measurement tacit usage (while generalized one should have been used)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0340
abstract: A new concept of qubits is given by considering entanglement of ordinary quibits with quantum measuring devices (micro-detectors). They are called stochastic qubits since they are generalized coherent states used in the stochastic (phase space) quantum theory. Entanglement is realized through the coupling of angular momenta $l$ and $\sigma$, where the micro-detector has $l=0,1$ and the qubit spin is $\sigma=1/2$. In both cases, the stochastic qubit has total spin $J=1/2$ and is entangled only when $l=1$. In this case, Stochastic Bell states have been defined and teleportation has been studied. They resemble conventional ones. When the micro-detecors have only two states, Stochastic qudits have rather been used. Here, Stochastic Bell states have also been defined and teleportation is possible for special states only. In the last step of this teleportation, Bob will have to transform the qubit only, or the micro-detector only, to recover Alice state.

id: 1403.0367
title: Comment on "Experimental Test of Error-Disturbance Uncertainty Relations by Weak Measurement"
authors: P. Busch, P. Lahti, R.F. Werner
comments: In this version an ambiguous formulation has been rephrased to clarify that the authors of the Brisbane experiment (Ref. [9]) have not adopted Ozawa's erroneous attribution to Heisenberg of a wrong "error-disturbance relation"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0367
abstract: In this comment on the paper by F. Kaneda, S.-Y. Baek, M. Ozawa and K. Edamatsu [Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 020402, 2014, arXiv:1308.5868], we point out that the claim of having refuted Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation is unfounded since it is based on the choice of unsuitable and operationally problematical quantifications of measurement error and disturbance. As we have shown elsewhere [PRL 111, 160405, 2013], for appropriate choices of operational measures of error and disturbance, Heisenberg's heuristic relation can be turned into a precise inequality which is a rigorous consequence of quantum mechanics.

id: 1403.0368
title: Comment on "Noise and Disturbance in Quantum Measurements: An Information-Theoretic Approach"
authors: P. Busch, P. Lahti, R.F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0368
abstract: In this comment on the work of F. Buscemi, M.J.W. Hall, M. Ozawa and M.M. Wilde [PRL 112, 050401, 2014, arXiv:1310.6603], we point out a misrepresentation of measures of error and disturbance introduced in our recent work [PRL 111, 160405, 2013, arXiv:1306.1565] as being "purely formal, with no operational counterparts". We also exhibit an tension in the authors' message, in that their main result is an error-disturbance relation for state-independent measures, but its importance is declared to be limited to discrete variables. In contrast, we point out the separate roles played by such relations for either state-dependent or state-independent measures of error and disturbance.

id: 1403.0384
title: A note on multi-time equations in quantum mechanics
authors: Ali Sanayei
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0384
abstract: The main aim of this note is to show that the formalism of multi-time equations in quantum mechanics meant to represent a manifestly Lorentz-invariant theory suffers from at least three imperfections: (1) It does not cover those physical systems for which the Schr\"odinger picture of quantum mechanics does not exist. (2) The integrabiliy condition which has been proposed in the formalism does not imply as necessary that for every partial Hamiltonian there exists a Schr\"odinger equation. (3) The formalism does not generally allow for interactions even in a non-relativistic multi-particle quantum system.

id: 1403.0418
title: Quantum steering ellipsoids, extremal physical states and monogamy
authors: Antony Milne, Sania Jevtic, David Jennings, Howard Wiseman, Terry Rudolph
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures. Published version with correction given in New J. Phys. 17, 019501 (2015) incorporated
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 083017 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0418
abstract: Any two-qubit state can be faithfully represented by a steering ellipsoid inside the Bloch sphere, but not every ellipsoid inside the Bloch sphere corresponds to a two-qubit state. We give necessary and sufficient conditions for when the geometric data describe a physical state and investigate maximal volume ellipsoids lying on the physical-unphysical boundary. We derive monogamy relations for steering that are strictly stronger than the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters (CKW) inequality for monogamy of concurrence. The CKW result is thus found to follow from the simple perspective of steering ellipsoid geometry. Remarkably, we can also use steering ellipsoids to derive non-trivial results in classical Euclidean geometry, extending Euler's inequality for the circumradius and inradius of a triangle.

id: 1403.0432
title: Tomography of a multimode quantum black box
authors: Ilya A. Fedorov, Aleksey K. Fedorov, Yury V. Kurochkin, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 043063 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0432
abstract: We report a technique for experimental characterization of an $M$-mode quantum optical process, generalizing the single-mode coherent-state quantum-process tomography method [M. Lobino et al., Science 322, 563 (2008); A. Anis and A.I. Lvovsky, New J. Phys. 14, 105021 (2012)]. By measuring effect of the process on multi-mode coherent states via balanced homodyne tomography, we obtain the process tensor in the Fock basis. This rank-$4M$ tensor, which predicts the effect of the process on an arbitrary density matrix, is iteratively reconstructed directly from the experimental data via the maximum-likelihood method. We demonstrate the capabilities of our method using the example of a beam splitter, reconstructing its process tensor within the subspace spanned by the first three Fock states. In spite of using purely classical probe states, we recover quantum properties of this optical element, in particular the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect.

id: 1403.0452
title: Ehrenfest principle and unitary dynamics of quantum-classical systems with general potential interaction
authors: M. Radonjic, D.B. Popovic, S. Prvanovic, N. Buric
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 024104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0452
abstract: Representation of classical dynamics by unitary transformations has been used to develop unified description of hybrid classical-quantum systems with particular type of interaction, and to formulate abstract systems interpolating between classical and quantum ones. We solved the problem of unitary description of two interpolating systems with general potential interaction. The general solution is used to show that with arbitrary potential interaction between the two interpolating systems the evolution of the so called unobservable variables is decoupled from that of the observable ones if and only if the interpolation parameters in the two interpolating systems are equal.

id: 1403.0455
title: Orbits of hybrid systems as qualitative indicators of quantum dynamics
authors: N. Buric, D.B. Popovic, M. Radonjic, S. Prvanovic
comments: Accepted in Phys.Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0455
abstract: Hamiltonian theory of hybrid quantum-classical systems is used to study dynamics of the classical subsystem coupled to different types of quantum systems. It is shown that the qualitative properties of orbits of the classical subsystem clearly indicate if the quantum subsystem does or does not have additional conserved observables.

id: 1403.0459
title: Space time symmetry in quantum mechanics
authors: Zinkoo Yun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0459
abstract: New prescription to treat position and time equally in quantum mechanics is presented. Using this prescription, we could successfully derive some interesting formulae such as time-of-arrival for a free particle and quantum tunneling formula. The physical interpretation will be discussed.

id: 1403.0469
title: Local Realistic Model of Bell Theorem Experiment and Alternative Model of Quantum Measurement
authors: Paul J. Werbos
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, 28 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0469
abstract: A previous paper demonstrated that two local, realistic models based on Markov Random Fields (MRF) across space time do replicate the correct, tested predictions of quantum mechanics for simple Bell Theorem experiments. This paper demonstrates a third such model, MRF3, which is more plausible physically, making contact with the physics of polarizers. It shows how to translate that type of model into an equivalent quantum mechanical model, which requires an augmentation to the usual measurement operator now used to represent polarizers in such experiments. The validity of that augmentation may be testable in experiments involving three or four photons, with relevance to quantum computing and communication.

id: 1403.0470
title: A note on the joint measurability of POVMs and its implications for contextuality
authors: Ravi Kunjwal
comments: are welcome! This note may be revised further in due course
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0470
abstract: The purpose of this note is to clarify the logical relationship between joint measurability and contextuality for quantum observables in view of recent developments [1-4].

id: 1403.0501
title: Casimir Effect of Scalar Massive Field
authors: Sonia Mobassem
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0501
abstract: The energy momentum tensor is used to introduce the Casimir force of the massive scalar field acting on a nonpenetrating surface. This expression can be used to evaluate the vacuum force by employing the appropriate field operators. To simplify our formalism we also relates the vacuum force expression to the imaginary part of the Green function via the fluctuation dissipation theorem and Kubo formula. This allows one to evaluate the vacuum force without resorting to the process of field quantization. These two approaches are used to calculate the attractive force between two nonpenetrating plates. Special attention is paid to the generalization of the formalism to D + 1 space-time dimensions.

id: 1403.0539
title: Critical coupling and coherent perfect absorption for ranges of energies due to a complex gain and loss symmetric system
authors: Mohammad Hasan, Ananya Ghatak, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 344, 17 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0539
abstract: We consider a non-Hermitian medium with a gain and loss symmetric, exponentially damped potential distribution to demonstrate different scattering features analytically. The condition for critical coupling (CC) for unidirectional wave and coherent perfect absorption (CPA) for bidirectional waves are obtained analytically for this system. The energy points at which total absorption occurs are shown to be the spectral singular points for the time reversed system. The possible energies at which CC occurs for left and right incidence are different. We further obtain periodic intervals with increasing periodicity of energy for CC and CPA to occur in this system.

id: 1403.0543
title: Quantum tunneling and evolution speed in an exactly solvable coupled double-well system
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 23 pages, 16 figures, revised Fig. 16 with changed title
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0543
abstract: Exact analytical calculations of eigenvalues and eigenstates are presented for quantum coupled double-well (DW) systems with Razavy's hyperbolic potential. With the use of four kinds of initial wavepackets, we have calculated the tunneling period $T$ and the orthogonality time $\tau$ which signifies a time interval for an initial state to evolve to its orthogonal state. We discuss the coupling dependence of $T$ and $\tau$, and the relation between $\tau$ and the concurrence $C$ which is a typical measure of the entanglement in two qubits. Our calculations have shown that it is not clear whether the speed of quantum evolution may be measured by $T$ or $\tau$ and that the evolution speed measured by $\tau$ (or $T$) is not necessarily increased with increasing $C$. This is in contrast with the earlier study [V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd and L. Maccone, Europhys. Lett. {\bf 62} (2003) 615] which pointed out that the evolution speed measured by $\tau$ is enhanced by the entanglement in the two-level model.

id: 1403.0550
title: Relativistic spin operators in various electromagnetic environments
authors: Heiko Bauke, Sven Ahrens, Christoph H. Keitel, Rainer Grobe
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 89, article 052101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0550
abstract: Different operators have been suggested in the literature to describe the electron's spin degree of freedom within the relativistic Dirac theory. We compare concrete predictions of the various proposed relativistic spin operators in different physical situations. In particular, we investigate the so-called Pauli, Foldy-Wouthuysen, Czachor, Frenkel, Chakrabarti, Pryce, and Fradkin-Good spin operators. We demonstrate that when a quantum system interacts with electromagnetic potentials the various spin operators predict different expectation values. This is explicitly illustrated for the scattering dynamics at a potential step and in a standing laser field and also for energy eigenstates of hydrogenic ions. Therefore, one may distinguish between the proposed relativistic spin operators experimentally.

id: 1403.0611
title: The data aggregation problem in quantum hypothesis testing
authors: Simone Cialdi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 69, 7 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0611
abstract: We discuss the implications of quantum-classical Yule-Simpson effect for quantum hypothesis testing in the presence of noise, and provide an experimental demonstration of its occurrence in the problem of discriminating which polarization quantum measurement has been actually performed by a detector box designed to measure linear polarization of single-photon states along a fixed but unknown direction.

id: 1403.0620
title: Time-delayed feedback control of the Dicke-Hepp-Lieb superradiant quantum phase transition
authors: Wassilij Kopylov, Clive Emary, Eckehard Sch?ll, Tobias Brandes
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17 013040 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0620
abstract: We apply the time-delayed Pyragas control scheme to the dissipative Dicke model via a modulation of the atom-field-coupling. The feedback creates an infinite sequence of non-equilibrium phases with fixed points and limit cycles in the primary superradiant regime. We analyse this Hopf bifurcation scenario as a function of delay time and feedback strength, and determine analytical conditions for the phase boundaries.

id: 1403.0629
title: Out of equilibrium thermodynamics of quantum harmonic chains
authors: A. Carlisle, L. Mazzola, M. Campisi, J. Goold, F. L. Semi?o, A. Ferraro, F. Plastina, V. Vedral, G. De Chiara, M. Paternostro
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0629
abstract: The thermodynamic implications for the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of quantum systems are to date largely unexplored, especially for quantum many-body systems. In this paper we investigate the paradigmatic case of an array of nearest-neighbor coupled quantum harmonic oscillators interacting with a thermal bath and subjected to a quench of the inter-oscillator coupling strength. We study the work done on the system and its irreversible counterpart, and characterize analytically the fluctuation relations of the ensuing out-of-equilibrium dynamics. Finally, we showcase an interesting functional link between the dissipated work produced across a two-element chain and their degree of general quantum correlations. Our results suggest that, for the specific model at hand, the non-classical features of a harmonic system can influence significantly its thermodynamics.

id: 1403.0657
title: PT-Symmetric Phonon Laser
authors: H. Jing, Sahin K. Ozdemir, Xin-You Lv, Jing Zhang, Lan Yang, Franco Nori
comments: 8pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 113, 053604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0657
abstract: By exploiting recent developments associated with coupled microcavities, we introduce the concept of PT-symmetric phonon laser with balanced gain and loss. This is accomplished by introducing gain to one of the microcavities such that it balances the passive loss of the other. In the vicinity of the gain-loss balance, a strong nonlinear relation emerges between the intracavity photon intensity and the input power. This then leads to a giant enhancement of both optical pressure and mechanical gain, resulting in a highly efficient phonon-lasing action. These results provide a promising approach for manipulating optomechanical systems through PT-symmetric concepts. Potential applications range from enhancing mechanical cooling to designing phonon-laser amplifiers.

id: 1403.0659
title: How does light move? - Determining the flow of light without destroying interference
authors: M. Davidovic, A. S. Sanz
comments: 7 pages, 1 explanatory box + 2 figures
journal: Europhysics News 44(6), 33 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0659
abstract: Young's two-slit experiment constitutes the paradigm of quantum complementarity. According to the complementarity principle, complementary aspects of quantum systems cannot be measured at the same time by the same experiment. This has been a long debate in quantum mechanics since its inception. But, is this a true constraint? In 2011, an astounding realization of this experiment showed that perhaps this is not the case and the boundaries to our understanding of the quantum world are still far away.

id: 1403.0673
title: Density matrix and fidelity estimation of multiphoton entanglement via phaselift
authors: Yiping Lu, Qing Zhao
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0673
abstract: The experiments of multi-photon entanglements have been made by some groups, including Pan's group (Ref.[2],[3],[5]). Obviously, the increase number of the photon would cause a dramatically increase in the dimension of the measurement matrix, which result in a great consumption of time in the measurements. From a practical view, we wish to gain the most information through as little measurements as possible for the multi-photon entanglements. The low rank matrix recovery (LRMR) provides such a possibility to resolve all the issues of the measurement matrix based on less data. In this paper, we would like to verify that whether the LRMR works for six qubits and eight photons in comparison to the data given by Pan's group, i.e. we input a fraction of the data to calculate all of others. Through exploring their density matrix, fidelity and visibility, we find that the results remain consistent with the data provided by Pan's group, which allows us to confirm that the LRMR can simplify experimental measure- ments for more photons. In particular, we find that very limited data would also give excellent support to the experiment for fidelity when low rank, pure state, sparse or position information are utilized. Our analytical calculations confirm that LRMR would generalize to multi-photon state entanglement.

id: 1403.0723
title: Three solvable matrix models of a quantum catastrophe
authors: Geza Levai, Frantisek Ruzicka, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 53 (2014) 2875 - 2890
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0723
abstract: Three classes of finite-dimensional models of quantum systems exhibiting spectral degeneracies called quantum catastrophes are described in detail. Computer-assisted symbolic manipulation techniques are shown unexpectedly efficient for the purpose.

id: 1403.0737
title: Transformations of symmetric multipartite Gaussian states by Gaussian LOCC
authors: Ond?ej ?ernot¨ªk, Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0737
abstract: Multipartite quantum correlations, in spite of years of intensive research, still leave many questions unanswered. While bipartite entanglement is relatively well understood for Gaussian states, the complexity of mere qualitative characterization grows rapidly with increasing number of parties. Here, we present two schemes for transformations of multipartite permutation invariant Gaussian states by Gaussian local operations and classical communication. To this end, we use a scheme for possible experimental realization, making use of the fact, that in this picture, the whole N - partite state can be described using two separable modes. Numerically, we study entanglement transformations of tripartite states. Finally, we look at the effect our protocols have on fidelity of assisted quantum teleportation and find that while adding correlated noise does not affect the fidelity at all, there is strong evidence that partial non-demolition measurement leads to a drop in teleportation fidelity.

id: 1403.0790
title: Bell's inequality and extremal nonlocal box from Hardy's test for nonlocality
authors: Sixia Yu
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 424023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0790
abstract: Bell showed 50 years ago that quantum theory is nonlocal via his celebrated inequalities, turning the issue of quantum nonlocality from a matter of taste into a matter of test. Years later, Hardy proposed a test for nonlocality without inequality, which is a kind of "something-versus-nothing" argument. Hardy's test for $n$ particles induces an $n$-partite Bell's inequality with two dichotomic local measurements for each observer, which has been shown to be violated by all entangled pure states. Our first result is to show that the Bell-Hardy inequality arising form Hardy's nonlocality test is tight for an arbitrary number of parties, i.e., it defines a facet of the Bell polytope in the given scenario. On the other hand quantum theory is not that nonlocal since it forbids signaling and even not as nonlocal as allowed by non-signaling conditions, i.e., quantum mechanical predictions form a strict subset of the so called non-signaling polytope. In the scenario of each observer measuring two dichotomic observables, Fritz established a duality between the Bell polytope and the non-signaling polytope: tight Bell's inequalities, the facets of the Bell polytope, are in a one-to-one correspondence with extremal non-signaling boxes, the vertices of the non-signaling polytope. Our second result is to provide an alternative and more direct formula for this duality. As an example, the tight Bell-Hardy inequality gives rise to an extremal non-signaling box that serves as a natural multipartite generalization of Popescu-Rohrlich box.

id: 1403.0805
title: Creating and manipulating entangled optical qubits in the frequency domain
authors: Laurent Olislager, Erik Woodhead, Kien Phan Huy, Jean-Marc Merolla, Philippe Emplit, Serge Massar
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0805
abstract: Radio-frequency phase modulation of frequency entangled photons leads to a two-photon interference pattern in the frequency domain. In recent experiments, the pattern was measured with narrow-band frequency filters which select photons belonging to a given frequency bin. Here we show how photons can be grouped into even and odd frequencies by using periodic frequency filters called interleavers. In our theoretical analysis we show how this reduces the high-dimensional photon state to an effective two-dimensional state. This is of interest for applications such as quantum cryptography or low-dimensional tests of quantum nonlocality. We then report an experimental realization of this proposal. The observed two-photon interference pattern and violation of the CHSH inequality -- the simplest binary-outcome Bell inequality -- are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions.

id: 1403.0825
title: Numerical solutions of the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation and WKB like representations for one dimensional wave functions
authors: Mario Fusco Girard
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0825
abstract: By means of numerical solutions of the quantum Hamilton Jacobi equation, a general WKB-like representation for one-dimensional wave functions is obtained. This representation is unique in the classically forbidden regions, while in the allowed one, each wave function corresponds to a one parameter family of solutions of the QHJE. The method has been applied to various systems, with different energies and initial conditions. In all investigated cases, the wave functions so obtained accurately reproduce the solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation, analytically or numerically computed by other ways. Some results for harmonic oscillator and radial Coulomb motion are presented.

id: 1403.0884
title: Real-time particle-detection probabilities in accelerated macroscopic detectors
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0884
abstract: We construct the detection rate for particle detectors moving along non-inertial trajectories and interacting with quantum fields. The detectors described here are characterized by the presence of records of observation throughout their history, so that the detection rate corresponds to directly measurable quantities. This is in contrast to past treatments of detectors, which actually refer to probes, i.e., microscopic systems from which we extract information only after their interaction has been completed. Our treatment incorporates the irreversibility due to the creation of macroscopic records of observation. The key result is a real-time description of particle detection and a rigorously defined time-local probability density function (PDF). The PDF depends on the scale $\sigma$ of the temporal coarse-graining that is necessary for the formation of a macroscopic record. The evaluation of the PDF for Unruh-DeWitt detectors along different types of trajectory shows that only paths with at least one characteristic time-scale much smaller than $\sigma$ lead to appreciable particle detection. Our approach allows for averaging over fast motions and thus predicts a constant detection rate for all fast periodic motions.

id: 1403.0915
title: On the 150th anniversary of Maxwell equations
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0915
abstract: In this lecture we discuss some interesting developments in the modern theory of electromagnetic field(s). In particular, by using the methods developed in Dirac's constraint dynamics we derive the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the free electromagnetic field. The electromagnetic field that arises only contains combinations of transverse photons and does not include any scalar and/or longitudinal photons. This approach is also used to determine and investigate the actual symmetry of the free electromagnetic field. Then we discuss the Majorana representation of the Maxwell equations, the symmetric form of Maxwell equations and an original approach to electrodynamics called the "scalar electrodynamics".

id: 1403.0943
title: Evolutionary Algorithms for Hard Quantum Control
authors: Ehsan Zahedinejad, Sophie Schirmer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0943
abstract: Although quantum control typically relies on greedy (local) optimization, traps (irregular critical points) in the control landscape can make optimization hard by foiling local search strategies. We demonstrate the failure of greedy algorithms to realize two fast quantum computing gates: a qutrit phase gate and a controlled-not gate. Then we show that our evolutionary algorithm circumvents the trap to deliver effective quantum control in both instances. Even when greedy algorithms succeed, our evolutionary algorithm delivers a superior control procedure because less time resolution is required for the control sequence.

id: 1403.0955
title: Upper bounds on the quantum Fisher Information in the presence of general dephasing
authors: Katarzyna Macieszczak
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0955
abstract: We derive upper bounds on the quantum Fisher information in interferometry with $N$ subsystems, e.g. two-level atoms or Gaussian modes, in the presence of arbitrarily correlated Gaussian dephasing including independent and collective dephasing. The derived upper bound enables us to analyse the Fisher information asymptotic behaviour when $N\rightarrow\infty$. Dephasing introduces random phases to subsystems dynamics, which lowers the precision of estimating the phase difference $\phi$ in an interferometer. The method presented uses Bayesian estimation of the random phases and eliminates dephasing noise by calculating their weighted arithmetic mean, which correponds to the phase $\phi$ estimated in interferometry.

id: 1403.1022
title: Quasithermodynamic Representation of the Pauli Markov equation and their possible applications
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1022
abstract: We demonstrate that the extensive class of open Markov quantum systems describing by the Pauli master equation can be represented in so- called quasithermodynamic form .Such representation has certain advantages in many respects for example it allows one to specify precisely the parameter region in which the relaxation of the system in question to its stationary state occurs monotonically.With a view to illustrate possible applications of such representation we consider concrete Markov model that has in our opinion self-dependent interest namely the explanation of important and well established by numerous experiments the Yerkes-Dodson law in psychology

id: 1403.1042
title: Transfer of different types of optical qubits over a lossy environment
authors: Hoyong Kim, Jinwoo Park, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, minor revisions, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1042
abstract: We compare three different types of optical qubits for information transfer via quantum teleportation and direction transmission under photon losses. The three types of qubits are (1) qubits using the vacuum and the single-photon (VSP) states, (2) single-photon qubits using polarization degrees of freedom, i.e., polarized single-photon (PSP) qubits, and (3) coherent-state qubits that use two coherent states with opposite phases as the qubit basis. Our analysis shows that the teleportation scheme outperforms the direct transmission for most of cases as far as fidelities are concerned. Overall, VSP qubits are found to be the most efficient for both the direct transmission and teleportation under photon loss effects. The coherent-state qubits are more robust than PSP qubits either when their amplitudes are small as $|\alpha| \lesssim 1.22$ or when photon loss effects are strong. Our results would provide useful and timely information for the development of practical optical quantum information processing particularly in the context of hybrid architectures.

id: 1403.1044
title: Quantum state engineering by click counting
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043829 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1044
abstract: We derive an analytical description for the quantum state preparation using systems of on-off detectors. Our method will apply the true click statistics of such detector systems. In particular, we consider heralded quantum state preparation using correlated light fields, photon addition and photon subtraction processes. Using a post-selection procedure to a particular number of clicks of the detector system, the output states reveal a variety of quantum features. The rigorous description allows the identification and characterization of fundamentally unavoidable attenuations within given processes. We also generalize a known scenario of noiseless amplification with click detectors for the purpose of the preparation of various types of nonclassical states of light. Our exact results are useful for the choice of experimental parameters to realize a target state.

id: 1403.1050
title: Coherent coupling of molecular resonators with a micro-cavity mode
authors: Atef Shalabney, Jino George, James A. Hutchison, Guido Pupillo, Cyriaque Genet, Thomas W. Ebbesen
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures (including Supplementary Information file)
journal: Nature Communications 6, 5981 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1050
abstract: The optical hybridization of the electronic states in strongly coupled molecule-cavity systems have revealed unique properties such as lasing, room temperature polariton condensation, and the modification of excited electronic landscapes involved in molecular isomerization. Here we show that molecular vibrational modes of the electronic ground state can also be coherently coupled with a micro-cavity mode at room temperature, given the low vibrational thermal occupation factors associated with molecular vibrations, and the collective coupling of a large ensemble of molecules immersed within the cavity mode volume. This enables the enhancement of the collective Rabi-exchange rate with respect to the single oscillator coupling strength. The possibility of inducing large shifts in the vibrational frequency of selected molecular bonds should have immediate consequences for chemistry.

id: 1403.1069
title: A class of symmetric Bell diagonal entanglement witnesses - a geometric perspective
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 14 pages; Submission to Special Issue of J. Phys. A celebrating 50 years of Bell-nonlocality
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424033 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1069
abstract: We provide a class of Bell diagonal entanglement witnesses displaying an additional local symmetry -- a maximal commutative subgroup of the unitary group U(n). Remarkably, this class of witnesses is parameterized by a torus being a maximal commutative subgroup of an orthogonal group SO(n-1). It is shown that a generic element from the class defines an indecomposable entanglement witness. The paper provides a geometric perspective for some aspects of the entanglement theory and an interesting interplay between group theory and block-positive operators.

id: 1403.1084
title: Protective Measurement, Postseletion and the Heisenberg Representation
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen
comments: Forthcoming in Shan Gao (Ed.) "Protective Measurements and Quantum Reality: Toward a New Understanding of Quantum Mechanics", CUP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1084
abstract: Classical ergodicity retains its meaning in the quantum realm when the employed measurement is protective. This unique measuring technique is reexamined in the case of post-selection, giving rise to novel insights studied in the Heisenberg representation. Quantum statistical mechanics is then briefly described in terms of two-state density operators.

id: 1403.1096
title: Time-dependent Semiclassics for Ultracold Bosons
authors: Lena Simon, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1096
abstract: We study the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of ultracold bosons in a double- and triple-well potential within the Bose-Hubbard model by means of the semiclassical Herman-Kluk propagator and compare the results to the frequently applied "classical dynamics" calculation in terms of the truncated Wigner approximation (TWA). For the double-well system we find the semiclassical results in excellent agreement with the numerically exact ones, while the TWA is not able to reproduce any revivals of the wave function. The triple-well system turns out to be more difficult to handle due to the irregularity of the corresponding classical phase space. Here, deviations of the TWA from the exact dynamics appear even for short times, while better agreement is obtained using the semiclassical approach presented in this article.

id: 1403.1097
title: Quantum secret sharing based on local distinguishability
authors: Ramij Rahaman, Matthew G. Parker
comments: 7 pages, Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022330 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1097
abstract: In this paper we analyze the (im)possibility of the exact distinguishability of orthogonal multipartite entangled states under {\em restricted local operation and classical communication}. Based on this local distinguishability analysis we propose a new scheme for quantum secret sharing (QSS). Our QSS scheme is quite general and cost efficient compared to other schemes. In our scheme no joint quantum operation is needed to reconstruct the secret. We also present an interesting $(2,n)$-threshold QSS scheme, where any two cooperating players, one from each of two disjoint groups of players, can always reconstruct the secret. This QSS scheme is quite uncommon, as most $(k,n)$-threshold schemes have the restriction $k\geq\lceil\frac{n}{2}\rceil$.

id: 1403.1108
title: Ranks and eigenvalues of states with prescribed reduced states
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Xuefeng Wang
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1108
abstract: For a quantum state represented as an $n\times n$ density matrix $\sigma \in M_n$, let ${\cal S}(\sigma)$ be the compact convex set of quantum states $\rho = (\rho_{ij}) \in M_{m\cdot n}$ with the first partial trace equal to $\sigma$, i.e., ${\rm tr}_1(\rho) = \rho_{11} + \cdots + \rho_{mm} = \sigma$. It is known that if $m \ge n$ then there is a rank one matrix $\rho \in {\cal S}(\sigma)$ satisfying ${\rm tr}_1(\rho) = \sigma$. If $m < n$, there may not be rank one matrix in ${\cal S}(\sigma)$. In this paper, we determine the ranks of the elements and ranks of the extreme points of the set ${\cal S}$ We also determine $\rho^* \in {\cal S}(\sigma)$ with rank bounded by $k$ such that $\|{\rm tr}_1\rho^*) - \sigma\|$ is minimum for a given unitary similarity invariant norm $\|\cdot\|$. Furthermore, the relation between the eigenvalues of $\sigma$ and those of $\rho \in {\cal S}(\sigma)$ is analyzed. Extension of our results and open problems will be mentioned.

id: 1403.1123
title: Canonical operators and the optimal concentration of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: Gokhan Torun, Ali Yildiz
comments: 15 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev A 89, 032320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1123
abstract: It is well known that quantum states that can be transformed into each other by local unitary transformations are equal from the information theoretic point of view. This defines equivalence classes of states and allows one to write any state with the minimal number of parameters called the canonical form of the state. We define the equivalence classes of local measurements such that local operations which transform states from one equivalence class into another with the same probability are equivalent. This equivalence relation allows one to write the operators with the minimal number of parameters, which we call canonical operators, and hence the use of the canonical operators simplifies the optimal manipulation of quantum states. We use the canonical local operators for the concentration of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and obtain the optimal concentration protocols in terms of the unitary invariants of quantum states, namely, the bipartite concurrences and the three-tangle.

id: 1403.1144
title: Entanglement in fermion systems and quantum metrology
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 26 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1144
abstract: Entanglement in fermion many-body systems is studied using a generalized definition of separability based on partitions of the set of observables, rather than on particle tensor products. In this way, the characterizing properties of non-separable fermion states can be explicitly analyzed, allowing a precise description of the geometric structure of the corresponding state space. These results have direct applications in fermion quantum metrology: sub-shot noise accuracy in parameter estimation can be obtained without the need of a preliminary state entangling operation.

id: 1403.1146
title: Why I am not a QBist
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Added remarks and clarifications; forthcoming in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1146
abstract: Quantum Bayesianism, or QBism, is a recent development of the epistemic view of quantum states, according to which the state vector represents knowledge about a quantum system, rather than the true state of the system. QBism explicitly adopts the subjective view of probability, wherein probability assignments express an agent's personal degrees of belief about an event. QBists claim that most if not all conceptual problems of quantum mechanics vanish if we simply take a proper epistemic and probabilistic perspective. Although this judgement is largely subjective and logically consistent, I explain why I do not share it.

id: 1403.1147
title: Quantum Teleportation through Noisy Channels with Multi-Qubit GHZ States
authors: Pakhshan Espoukeh, Pouria Pedram
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Inf Process 13 (2014) 1789
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1147
abstract: We investigate two-party quantum teleportation through noisy channels for multi-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and find which state loses less quantum information in the process. The dynamics of states is described by the master equation with the noisy channels that lead to the quantum channels to be mixed states. We analytically solve the Lindblad equation for $n$-qubit GHZ states $n\in\{4,5,6\}$ where Lindblad operators correspond to the Pauli matrices and describe the decoherence of states. Using the average fidelity we show that 3GHZ state is more robust than $n$GHZ state under most noisy channels. However, $n$GHZ state preserves same quantum information with respect to EPR and 3GHZ states where the noise is in $x$ direction in which the fidelity remains unchanged. We explicitly show that Jung ${\it et\, al.}$ conjecture [Phys. Rev. A ${\bf 78}$, 012312 (2008)], namely, "average fidelity with same-axis noisy channels are in general larger than average fidelity with different-axis noisy channels" is not valid for 3GHZ and 4GHZ states.

id: 1403.1188
title: A Novel Radiation to Test Foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Pisin Chen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1188
abstract: We point out that a new mechanism for radiation should exist if the Bohm theory of quantum mechanics is taken seriously. By traversing a quantum potential, an electron will necessarily be accelerated and radiate. For an illustration, we show that in the double-slit experiment this radiation yields a characteristic spectrum and a distinct pattern on the screen that is complementary to the pattern of the electrons. Experimentally, either the existence or the nonexistence of such a radiation would have important implications for the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: 1403.1192
title: Estimation of atomic interaction parameters by photon counting
authors: Alexander Holm Kiilerich, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 89, 052110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1192
abstract: Detection of radiation signals is at the heart of precision metrology and sensing. In this article we show how the fluctuations in photon counting signals can be exploited to optimally extract information about the physical parameters that govern the dynamics of the emitter. For a simple two-level emitter subject to photon counting, we show that the Fisher information and the Cram\'er- Rao sensitivity bound based on the full detection record can be evaluated from the waiting time distribution in the fluorescence signal which can, in turn, be calculated for both perfect and imperfect detectors by a quantum trajectory analysis. We provide an optimal estimator achieving that bound.

id: 1403.1201
title: Correction of Arbitrary Errors in Population Inversion of Quantum Systems by Universal Composite Pulses
authors: Genko T. Genov, Daniel Schraft, Thomas Halfmann, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1201
abstract: We introduce universal broadband composite pulse sequences for robust high-fidelity population inversion in two-state quantum systems, which compensate deviations in any experimental parameter (e.g. pulse amplitude, pulse duration, detuning from resonance, Stark shifts, unwanted frequency chirp, etc.) and are applicable with any pulse shape. We demonstrate the efficiency and universality of these composite pulses by experimental data on rephasing of atomic coherences in a $\text{Pr}^{3+}\text{:}\text{Y}_2\text{SiO}_5$ crystal.

id: 1403.1295
title: Nonsignaling quantum random access code boxes
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Antoni W¨®jcik
comments: 3 pages, new proof that two bits of communication are necessary
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1295
abstract: As one knows, Popescu Rohrlich box allows to simulate random access code with support of one bit -- a task impossible both in quantum and classical world. We propose a quantum analogue of this phenomenon. Namely, we define an analogue of random access code, where instead of classical bits, one encodes qubits. We provide a quantum no-signalling box that if supported with two classical bits, allows to simulate a quantum version of random access code. We show that two bits are necessary. We also point out that quantum random access code cannot be fully quantum: when superposition of two opposite decisions "which qubit" is input, the output will be in a mixed state rather than in a superposition of states.

id: 1403.1296
title: A triple point in 3-level systems
authors: E. Nahmad-Achar, S. Cordero, R. L¨®pez-Pe?a, O. Casta?os
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1296
abstract: The energy spectrum of a 3-level atomic system in the $\Xi$-configuration is studied. This configuration presents a triple point independently of the number of atoms, which remains in the thermo- dynamic limit. This means that in a vicinity of this point any quantum fluctuation will drastically change the composition of the ground state of the system. We study the expectation values of the atomic population of each level, the number of photons, and the probability distribution of photons at the triple point.

id: 1403.1315
title: Dissipative optomechanical squeezing of light
authors: Andreas Kronwald, Florian Marquardt, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 063058
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1315
abstract: We discuss a simple yet surprisingly effective mechanism which allows the generation of squeezed output light from an optomechanical cavity. In contrast to the well known mechanism of "ponderomotive squeezing", our scheme generates squeezed output light by explicitly using the dissipative nature of the mechanical resonator. We show that our scheme has many advantages over ponderomotive squeezing; in particular, it is far more effective in the good cavity limit commonly used in experiments. Furthermore, the squeezing generated in our approach can be directly used to enhance the intrinsic measurement sensitivity of the optomechanical cavity; one does not have to feed the squeezed light into a separate measurement device. As our scheme is very general, it could also e.g. be implemented using superconducting circuits.

id: 1403.1333
title: The Zeno limit in frequency estimation with non-Markovian environments
authors: Katarzyna Macieszczak
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1333
abstract: We prove the Zeno limit $N^{3/2}$ of the quantum Fisher information for frequency estimation with a general initial state of $N$ two-level atoms in the presence of local non-Markovian dephasing noise, which was demonstrated for a GHZ state by A. W. Chin, S. F. Huelga, M. B. Plenio (2012). For collective dephasing we prove that non-Markovian noise allows for better scaling for both correlated and uncorelated states. The quantum enhancement in precision is at least as good as in the local case.

id: 1403.1340
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and optical memories in an optomechanical system with $N$ membranes
authors: Sumei Huang, Mankei Tsang
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1340
abstract: We study the propagation of a weak probe field through an optomechanical system in which $N$ nearly degenerate mechanical membranes are inside a Febry-Perot cavity, and couple dispersively to an intracavity field. We derive a general analytical expression for the output probe field. We show that the in-phase quadrature of the output probe field can exhibit multiple electromagnetically induced transparency with at most $N$ narrow transparency windows. We find that the superluminal light can be achieved with at most $N$ different negative group velocities at the transparency windows. Moreover, by using a time-dependent strong coupling pulse, we numerically simulate the storage and retrieval of a weak Gaussian-shaped probe pulse in an optical cavity with two nearly degenerate mechanical resonators.

id: 1403.1367
title: Werner gap in presence of simple coloured noise
authors: Minh Cong Tran, Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, published in JPA's special issue '50 years of Bell's theorem'
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 424025 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1367
abstract: A `Werner gap' is the range of relevant parameters characterising a quantum state for which it is both entangled and admits local hidden variable model. Werner showed that the gap becomes maximal for entanglement mixed with white noise if subsystems have infinitely many levels. Here we study pure entangled states mixed with simple coloured noise modelled as a single pure product state. We provide an explicit local hidden variable model for quantum correlations of some states of this family and give hints that likely there is a model for all quantum predictions. This demonstrates essentially maximal Werner gap already for two qubits. Additionally to fundamental interest the study has implications for quantum computation and communication.

id: 1403.1378
title: Dissipative Landau-Zener level crossing subject to continuous measurement: Excitation despite decay
authors: Pinja Haikka, Klaus Molmer
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1378
abstract: The Landau-Zener formula provides an analytical expression for the final excitation of a quantum system after passage of an avoided crossing of two energy levels. If the two levels correspond to a ground state, and to an excited state which is subject to radiative decay, the probability of exciting the system by adiabatic passage of the level crossing is reduced. In this article we use a stochastic master equation to study the level crossing dynamics when the system is subject to continuous probing of the emitted radiation. The measurement backaction on the system associated with the fluctuating homodyne detection record alters the level crossing dynamics, leading to significant excitation in spite of decay and imperfect transfer.

id: 1403.1392
title: Equilibration in low-dimensional quantum matrix models
authors: R. H¨¹bener, Y. Sekino, J. Eisert
comments: 5+2 pages, 2 figures
journal: JHEP 2015, 166 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1392
abstract: Matrix models play an important role in studies of quantum gravity, being candidates for a formulation of M-theory, but are notoriously difficult to solve. In this work, we present a fresh approach by introducing a novel exact model provably equivalent with low-dimensional bosonic matrix models. In this equivalent model significant local structure becomes apparent and it can serve as a simple toy model for analytical and precise numerical study. We derive a substantial part of the low energy spectrum, find a conserved charge, and are able to derive numerically the Regge trajectories. To exemplify the usefulness of the approach, we address questions of equilibration starting from a non-equilibrium situation, building upon an intuition from quantum information. We finally discuss possible generalizations of the approach.

id: 1403.1397
title: Precision measurements with photon-subtracted or photon-added Gaussian states
authors: Daniel Braun, Pu Jian, Olivier Pinel, Nicolas Treps
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013821 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1397
abstract: Photon-subtracted and photon-added Gaussian states are amongst the simplest non-Gaussian states that are experimentally available. It is generally believed that they are some of the best candidates to enhance sensitivity in parameter extraction. We derive here the quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound for such states and find that for large photon numbers photon-subtraction or -addition only leads to a small correction of the quantum Fisher information (QFI). On the other hand a divergence of the QFI appears for very small squeezing in the limit of vanishing photon number in the case of photon subtraction, implying an arbitrarily precise measurement with almost no light. However, at least for the standard and experimentally established preparation scheme, the decreasing success probability of the preparation in that limit exactly cancels the divergence, leading to finite sensitivity per square root of Hertz, when the duration of the preparation is taken into account.

id: 1403.1416
title: Quantum mechanical analogy and supersymmetry of electromagnetic wave modes in planar waveguides
authors: H. P. Laba, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033826 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1416
abstract: We study an analogue of the equations describing TE and TM modes in a planar waveguide with an arbitrary continuous dependence of the electric permittivity and magnetic permeability on coordinates with the stationary Schr\"odinger equation. The effective potential energies involved in the Schr\"odinger equation for TE and TM modes are found. In general, the effective potential energies for TE and TM modes are different but in the limit of a weak dependence of the permittivity and permeability on coordinates they coincide. In the case when the product of a position-dependent permittivity and permeability is constant, it means that the refractive index is constant, we find that the TE and TM modes are described by the supersymmtric quantum mechanics.

id: 1403.1424
title: A lower bound of quantum conditional mutual information
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX, published version. The missed second author is also added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 415303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1424
abstract: In this paper, a lower bound of quantum conditional mutual information is obtained by employing the Peierls-Bogoliubov inequality and Golden Thompson inequality. Comparison with the bounds obtained by other researchers indicates that our result is independent of any measurements. It may give some new insights over squashed entanglement and perturbations of Markov chain states.

id: 1403.1438
title: Verified Delegated Quantum Computing with One Pure Qubit
authors: Theodoros Kapourniotis, Elham Kashefi, Animesh Datta
comments: 31 pages, 3 figures, fixed numbering of theorems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1438
abstract: While building a universal quantum computer remains challenging, devices of restricted power such as the so-called one pure qubit model have attracted considerable attention. An important step in the construction of these limited quantum computational devices is the understanding of whether the verification of the computation within these models could be also performed in the restricted scheme. Encoding via blindness (a cryptographic protocol for delegated computing) has proven successful for the verification of universal quantum computation with a restricted verifier. In this paper, we present the adaptation of this approach to the one pure qubit model, and present the first feasible scheme for the verification of delegated one pure qubit model of quantum computing.

id: 1403.1464
title: On the description of subsystems in relativistic hypersurface Bohmian mechanics
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Matthias Lienert
comments: 15 pages
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 470:20140181 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1464
abstract: A candidate for a realistic relativistic quantum theory is the hypersurface Bohm-Dirac model. Its formulation uses a foliation of spacetime into space-like hypersurfaces. This structure may well arise from the universal wave function itself, entailing the relativistic character of the theory despite the appearance of a preferred foliation. However, to apply the theory and to make contact with the usual quantum formalism one needs a framework for the description of subsystems. The presence of spin together with the foliation renders the subsystem description more complicated as compared to the non-relativistic case with spin. In this paper, we provide such a framework in terms of an appropriate conditional density matrix and an effective wave function as well as clarify their relation, thereby generalizing previous subsystem descriptions in the non-relativistic case.

id: 1403.1490
title: Quantum correlations expressed as information and entropic inequalities for composite and noncomposite systems
authors: Margarita A Man'ko, Vladimir I Man'ko
comments: 14 pages, to be published in J. Phys. Conf. Ser. in the Proceedings of the XVI Symposium "Symmetries in Science" (Bregenz, Austria, July 21--26, 2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1490
abstract: For noncomposite systems in classical and quantum domains, we obtain new inequalities such as the subadditivity and strong subadditivity conditions for Shannon entropies and information determined by the probability distributions and for von Neumann entropies of quantum states determined by the density operators. We extend the relations of Shannon and Tsallis entropies to the entropies of conditional probability distributions known for composite systems to the case of noncomposite systems. We give a review of the approach to construct the tomographic-probability distributions for qudit systems and present the entropic and information inequalities for spin tomograms, as well as the subadditivity and strong subadditivity conditions for tomograms of the both noncomposite and composite system states.

id: 1403.1524
title: High-fidelity preparation, gates, memory and readout of a trapped-ion quantum bit
authors: T. P. Harty, D. T. C. Allcock, C. J. Ballance, L. Guidoni, H. A. Janacek, N. M. Linke, D. N. Stacey, D. M. Lucas
comments: Supplementary Information included. 6 nines, 7 figures, 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 220501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1524
abstract: We implement all single-qubit operations with fidelities significantly above the minimum threshold required for fault-tolerant quantum computing, using a trapped-ion qubit stored in hyperfine "atomic clock" states of $^{43}$Ca$^+$. We measure a combined qubit state preparation and single-shot readout fidelity of 99.93%, a memory coherence time of $T^*_2=50$ seconds, and an average single-qubit gate fidelity of 99.9999%. These results are achieved in a room-temperature microfabricated surface trap, without the use of magnetic field shielding or dynamic decoupling techniques to overcome technical noise.

id: 1403.1539
title: Improving Quantum Algorithms for Quantum Chemistry
authors: M. B. Hastings, D. Wecker, B. Bauer, M. Troyer
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures; v2: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1539
abstract: We present several improvements to the standard Trotter-Suzuki based algorithms used in the simulation of quantum chemistry on a quantum computer. First, we modify how Jordan-Wigner transformations are implemented to reduce their cost from linear or logarithmic in the number of orbitals to a constant. Our modification does not require additional ancilla qubits. Then, we demonstrate how many operations can be parallelized, leading to a further linear decrease in the parallel depth of the circuit, at the cost of a small constant factor increase in number of qubits required. Thirdly, we modify the term order in the Trotter-Suzuki decomposition, significantly reducing the error at given Trotter-Suzuki timestep. A final improvement modifies the Hamiltonian to reduce errors introduced by the non-zero Trotter-Suzuki timestep. All of these techniques are validated using numerical simulation and detailed gate counts are given for realistic molecules.

id: 1403.1540
title: Deviations from reversible dynamics in a qubit-oscillator system coupled to a very small environment
authors: A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 
journal: Physica A 402, 209 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1540
abstract: In this contribution it is considered a simple and solvable model consisting of a qubit in interaction with an oscillator exposed to a very small "environment" (a second qubit). An isolated qubit-oscillator system having the oscillator initially in one of its energy eigenstates exhibits Rabi oscillations, an evidence of coherent quantum behaviour. It is shown here in which way the coupling to a small "environment" disrupts such regular behaviour, leading to a quasi-periodic dynamics for the qubit linear entropy. In particular, it is found that the linear entropy is very sensitive to the amount of mixedness of the "environment". For completeness, fluctuations in the oscillator energy are also taken into account.

id: 1403.1557
title: When does "Time" become "Observable" ?
authors: Tadashi Fujimoto
comments: 9 pages, The Ryukoku Journal of Humanities and Science, Vol.35 No.2, March, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1557
abstract: We investigate some spectral properties of time operators which are obtained through Canonical Commutation Relation (CCR) and Positive Operator Valued Measure (POVM) of quantum physics. In addition, we re-interpret the spectral properties of time operators from the standpoint of the Copenhagen Interpretation, especially, of W.Heisenberg.

id: 1403.1588
title: Difficult instances of the counting problem for 2-quantum-SAT are very atypical
authors: Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures. Fixed errata concerning frustrated figure eights (relating to the junction probability), and the threshold for a decoupled regime on bond-percolated 3D cubic lattices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1588
abstract: The problem 2-quantum-satisfiability (2-QSAT) is the generalisation of the 2-CNF-SAT problem to quantum bits, and is equivalent to determining whether or not a spin-1/2 Hamiltonian with two-body terms is frustration-free. Similarly to the classical problem 2-SAT, the counting problem #2-QSAT of determining the size (i.e. the dimension) of the set of satisfying states is #P-complete. However, if we consider random instances of #2-QSAT in which constraints are sampled from the Haar measure, intractible instances have measure zero. An apparent reason for this is that almost all two-qubit constraints are entangled, which more readily give rise to long-range constraints. We investigate under which conditions product constraints also give rise to efficiently solvable families of #2-QSAT instances. We consider #2-QSAT involving only discrete distributions over tensor product operators, which interpolates between classical #2-SAT and #2-QSAT involving arbitrary product constraints. We find that such instances of #2-QSAT, defined on Erdos--Renyi graphs or bond-percolated lattices, are asymptotically almost surely efficiently solvable except to the extent that they are biased to resemble monotone instances of #2-SAT.

id: 1403.1590
title: Protective measurements and the PBR theorem
authors: Guy Hetzroni, Daniel Rohrlich
comments: To appear in Protective Measurement: Towards a New Understanding of Quantum Mechanics, ed. Shan Gao
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1590
abstract: Protective measurements illustrate how Yakir Aharonov's fundamental insights into quantum theory yield new experimental paradigms that allow us to test quantum mechanics in ways that were not possible before. As for quantum theory itself, protective measurements demonstrate that a quantum state describes a single system, not only an ensemble of systems, and reveal a rich ontology in the quantum state of a single system. We discuss in what sense protective measurements anticipate the theorem of Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph (PBR), stating that, if quantum predictions are correct, then two distinct quantum states cannot represent the same physical reality.

id: 1403.1598
title: How the Quantum Sorites Phenomenon Strengthens Bell's Argument
authors: Malcolm R. Forster
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1598
abstract: Recently, Colbeck and Renner (2011) [arXiv:1005.5173] published a theorem that appears to be stronger than the Bell (1964) theorem in a way that is more significant than the other variations of Bell's theorem that have been published in the 50 years since Bell's theorem. Colbeck and Renner themselves do not relate their theorem directly to Bell's theorem, so here I present a version of the Colbeck-Renner theorem that makes the relationship explicit.

id: 1403.1608
title: A magneto-optic modulator with unit quantum effciency
authors: Lewis A. Williamson, Yu-Hui Chen, Jevon J. Longdell
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 203601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1608
abstract: We propose a device for the reversible and quiet conversion of microwave photons to optical sideband photons, that can reach 100% quantum effciency. The device is based on an erbium doped crystal placed in both an optical and microwave resonator. We show that effcient conversion can be achieved so long as the product of the optical and microwave cooperativity factors can be made large. We argue achieving this regime is feasible with current technology and we discuss a possible implementation.

id: 1403.1658
title: Highly-mixed measurement-based quantum computing and the one clean qubit model
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1658
abstract: We show that a highly-mixed state in terms of a large min-entropy is useless as a resource state for measurement-based quantum computation in the sense that if a classically efficiently verifiable problem is efficiently solved with such a highly-mixed measurement-based quantum computation then such a problem can also be classically efficiently solved. We derive a similar result also for the DQC1$_k$ model, which is a generalized version of the DQC1 model where $k$ output qubits are measured. We also show that the measurement-based quantum computing on a highly-mixed resource state in terms of the von Neumann entropy, and DQC1$_k$ model are useless in another sense that the mutual information between the computation results and inputs is very small.

id: 1403.1690
title: EPR paradox and quantum steering in a three-mode optomechanical system
authors: Qiongyi He, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1690
abstract: We study multi-partite entanglement, the generation of EPR states and quantum steering in a three-mode optomechanical system composed of an atomic ensemble located inside a single-mode cavity with a movable mirror. The cavity mode is driven by a short laser pulse, has a nonlinear parametric-type interaction with the mirror and a linear beamsplitter-type interaction with the atomic ensemble. There is no direct interaction of the mirror with the atomic ensemble. A threshold effect for the dynamics of the system is found, above which the system works as an amplifier and below which as an attenuator of the output fields. The threshold is determined by the ratio of the coupling strengths of the cavity mode to the mirror and to the atomic ensemble. It is shown that above the threshold the system effectively behaves as a two-mode system in which a perfect bipartite EPR state can be generated, while it is impossible below the threshold. Furthermore, a fully inseparable tripartite entanglement and even further a genuine tripartite entanglement can be produced above and below the threshold. In addition, we consider quantum steering and examine the monogamy relations that quantify the amount of bipartite steering that can be shared between different modes. It is found that the mirror is more capable for steering of entanglement than the cavity mode. The two way steering is found between the mirror and the atomic ensemble despite the fact that they are not directly coupled to each other, while it is impossible between the output of cavity mode and the ensemble which are directly coupled to each other.

id: 1403.1698
title: Zero-dynamics principle for perfect quantum memory in linear networks
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Matthew R. James
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 16, 073032 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1698
abstract: In this paper, we study a general linear networked system that contains a tunable memory subsystem; that is, it is decoupled from an optical field for state transportation during the storage process, while it couples to the field during the writing or reading process. The input is given by a single photon state or a coherent state in a pulsed light field. We then completely and explicitly characterize the condition required on the pulse shape achieving the perfect state transfer from the light field to the memory subsystem. The key idea to obtain this result is the use of zero-dynamics principle, which in our case means that, for perfect state transfer, the output field during the writing process must be a vacuum. A useful interpretation of the result in terms of the transfer function is also given. Moreover, a four-nodes network composed of atomic ensembles is studied as an example, demonstrating how the input field state is transferred to the memory subsystem and how the input pulse shape to be engineered for perfect memory looks like.

id: 1403.1786
title: Examples of Enhanced Quantization: Bosons, Fermions, and Anyons
authors: T. C. Adorno, J. R Klauder
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1786
abstract: Enhanced quantization offers a different classical/quantum connection than that of canonical quantization in which $\hbar >0$ throughout. This result arises when the only allowed Hilbert space vectors allowed in the quantum action functional are coherent states, which leads to the classical action functional augmented by additional terms of order $\hbar$. Canonical coherent states are defined by unitary transformations of a fixed, fiducial vector. While Gaussian vectors are commonly used as fiducial vectors, they cannot be used for all systems. We focus on choosing fiducial vectors for several systems including bosons, fermions, and anyons.

id: 1403.1825
title: Symmetric Halves of the 8/33-Probability that the Joint State of Two Quantum Bits is Disentangled
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 9 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1825
abstract: Compelling evidence-though yet no formal proof--has been adduced that the probability that a generic two-qubit state ($\rho$) is separable is $\frac{8}{33}$ (arXiv:1301.6617, arXiv:1109.2560, arXiv:0704.3723). Proceeding in related analytical frameworks, using a further determinantal moment formula of C. Dunkl (Appendix), we reach the conclusion that one-half of this probability arises when the determinantal inequality $|\rho^{PT}|>|\rho|$, where $PT$ denotes the partial transpose, is satisfied, and, the other half, when $|\rho|>|\rho^{PT}|$. These probabilities are taken with respect to the flat, Hilbert-Schmidt measure on the fifteen-dimensional convex set of $4 \times 4$ density matrices. We find fully parallel bisection/equipartition results for the previously adduced, as well, two-"re[al]bit" and two-"quater[nionic]bit"separability probabilities of $\frac{29}{64}$ and $\frac{26}{323}$, respectively. The computational results reported lend strong support to those obtained earlier--including the "concise formula" that yields them--most conspicuously amongst those findings being the $\frac{29}{64}, \frac{8}{33}$ and $\frac{26}{323}$ probabilities noted.

id: 1403.1860
title: Nonlinear pi phase shift for single fiber-guided photons interacting with a single atom
authors: J¨¹rgen Volz, Michael Scheucher, Christian Junge, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1860
abstract: Realizing a strong interaction between individual optical photons is an important objective of research in quantum science and technology. Since photons do not interact directly, this goal requires, e.g., an optical medium in which the light experiences a phase shift that depends nonlinearly on the photon number. Once the additional phase shift for two photons reaches pi, such an ultra-strong nonlinearity could even enable the direct implementation of high-fidelity quantum logic operations. However, the nonlinear response of standard optical media is many orders of magnitude too weak for this task. Here, we demonstrate the realization of an optical fiber-based nonlinearity that leads to an additional two-photon phase shift close to the ideal value of pi. Our scheme employs a whispering-gallery-mode resonator, interfaced by an optical nanofiber, where the presence of a single rubidium atom in the resonator results in a strongly nonlinear response. We experimentally show that this results in entanglement of initially independent incident photons. The demonstration of this ultra-strong nonlinearity in a fiber-integrated system is a decisive step towards scalable quantum logics with optical photons.

id: 1403.1917
title: Generation of 1.5 ¦Ìm discrete frequency entangled two-photon state in polarization maintaining fibers
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Chenzhi Yuan, Yidong Huang, Jiangde Peng
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be appeared in Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 7, pp. 2109-2112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1917
abstract: In this Letter, the generation of 1.5 {\mu}m discrete frequency entangled two-photon state is realized based on a piece of commercial polarization maintaining fiber (PMF). It is connected with a polarization beam splitter to realize a modified Sagnac fiber loop (MSFL). Correlated two-photon states are generated through spontaneous four wave-mixing process along the two propagation directions of the MSFL, and output from the MSFL with orthogonal polarizations. The quantum interference of them is realized through a 45{\deg} polarization collimation between polarization axes of PMFs inside and outside the MSFL, while the phase difference of them is controlled by the polarization state of the pump light. The frequency entangled property of the two-photon state is demonstrated by a spatial quantum beating experiment with a fringe visibility of (98.2+/-1.3)%, without subtracting the accidental coincidence counts. The proposed scheme generates 1.5 {\mu}m discrete frequency entangled two-photon state in a polarization maintaining way, which is desired in practical quantum light sources.

id: 1403.1964
title: Generation of macroscopic singlet states in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: N. Behbood, F. Martin Ciurana, G. Colangelo, M. Napolitano, Geza Toth, R.J. Sewell, M.W. Mitchell
comments: 7 figures, colour online
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 093601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1964
abstract: We report the generation of a macroscopic singlet state in a cold atomic sample via quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement induced spin squeezing. We observe 3 dB of spin squeezing and detect entanglement of up to $5.5\times10^5 $ atoms with $5\sigma$ statistical significance using a generalized spin squeezing inequality. The degree of squeezing implies at least 50% of the atoms have formed singlets, while the response to a magnetic field gradient indicates entanglement bonds at all length scales, a characteristic of quantum spin liquids.

id: 1403.1976
title: Quantum recurrence and fractional dynamic localization in ac-driven perfect state transfer Hamiltonians
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 figures, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 345 (2014) 63
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1976
abstract: Quantum recurrence and dynamic localization are investigated in a class of ac-driven tight-binding Hamiltonians, the Krawtchouk quantum chain, which in the undriven case provides a paradigmatic Hamiltonian model that realizes perfect quantum state transfer and mirror inversion. The equivalence between the the ac-driven single-particle Krawtchouk Hamiltonian $\hat{H}(t)$ and the non-interacting ac-driven bosonic junction Hamiltonian enables to determine in a closed form the quasi energy spectrum of $\hat{H}(t)$ and the conditions for exact wave packet reconstruction (dynamic localization). In particular, we show that quantum recurrence, which is predicted by the general quantum recurrence theorem, is {\it exact} for the Krawtchouk quantum chain in a dense range of the driving amplitude. Exact quantum recurrence provides perfect wave packet reconstruction at a frequency which is {\it fractional} than the driving frequency, a phenomenon that can be referred to as fractional dynamic localization.

id: 1403.2007
title: Radiation from a moving planar dipole layer: patch potentials vs dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Cesar D. Fosco, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2007
abstract: We study the classical electromagnetic radiation due to the presence of a dipole layer on a plane that performs a bounded motion along its normal direction, to the first non-trivial order in the amplitude of that motion. We show that the total emitted power may be written in terms of the dipole layer autocorrelation function. We then apply the general expression for the emitted power to cases where the dipole layer models the presence of patch potentials, comparing the magnitude of the emitted radiation with that coming from the quantum vacuum in the presence of a moving perfect conductor (dynamical Casimir effect).

id: 1403.2017
title: Sum Over Histories: Discrete Step Interpretation
authors: Muhammad Adeel Ajaib
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2017
abstract: We study the transition of a particle between two points such that the particle takes discrete spatial steps in this transition. We analyze how the sum over histories interpretation of quantum mechanics can be implemented in this scenario. We show that the Euclidean propagator of a free particle is recovered if the minimum space interval is of the order or greater than the De Broglie's wavelength of the particle. We also describe the statistical ensembles that model this transition. Furthermore, we discuss a possible extension of this model to 2-dimensions which serves as an example to extend it to any number of spatial dimensions.

id: 1403.2084
title: Nonlinear interaction between two heralded single photons
authors: T. Guerreiro, A. Martin, B. Sanguinetti, J. S. Pelc, C. Langrock, M. M. Fejer, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden, N. Sangouard, R. T. Thew
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 173601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2084
abstract: Harnessing nonlinearities strong enough to allow two single photons to interact with one another is not only a fascinating challenge but is central to numerous advanced applications in quantum information science. Currently, all known approaches are extremely challenging although a few have led to experimental realisations with attenuated classical laser light. This has included cross-phase modulation with weak classical light in atomic ensembles and optical fibres, converting incident laser light into a non-classical stream of photon or Rydberg blockades as well as all-optical switches with attenuated classical light in various atomic systems. Here we report the observation of a nonlinear parametric interaction between two true single photons. Single photons are initially generated by heralding one photon from each of two independent spontaneous parametric downconversion sources. The two heralded single photons are subsequently combined in a nonlinear waveguide where they are converted into a single photon with a higher energy. Our approach highlights the potential for quantum nonlinear optics with integrated devices, and as the photons are at telecom wavelengths, it is well adapted to applications in quantum communication.

id: 1403.2121
title: Quantum Mechanics of a Simulated Tri-hydrogen Dication
authors: M.L. Glasser
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2121
abstract: The Schroedinger equation is solved exactly within the Born-Oppenheimer approximation for a simulacrum of the $H_3^{++}$-ion. The ion is assumed to form an isosceles triangle and the ground state energy is obtained over its geometrical parameter space. No multi-center molecular integrations are required. We indicate how the approximation to the actual molecule can be improved systematically.

id: 1403.2139
title: Mapping of Topological Quantum Circuits to Physical Hardware
authors: Alexandru Paler, Simon J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto, Ilia Polian
comments: 16 Pages, 8 Figures, to Appear Sci. Rep
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4657 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2139
abstract: Topological quantum computation is a promising technique to achieve large-scale, error-corrected computation. Quantum hardware is used to create a large, 3-dimensional lattice of entangled qubits while performing computation requires strategic measurement in accordance with a topological circuit specification. The specification is a geometric structure that defines encoded information and fault-tolerant operations. The compilation of a topological circuit is one important aspect of programming a quantum computer, another is the mapping of the topological circuit into the operations performed by the hardware. Each qubit has to be controlled, and measurement results are needed to propagate encoded quantum information from input to output. In this work, we introduce an algorithm for mapping an topological circuit to the operations needed by the physical hardware. We determine the control commands for each qubit in the computer and the relevant measurements that are needed to track information as it moves through the circuit.

id: 1403.2156
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Probes
authors: Pinja Haikka, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures. To appear in a special volume of OSID on open systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2156
abstract: We review the most recent developments in the theory of open quantum systems focusing on situations in which the reservoir memory effects, due to long-lasting and non-negligible correlations between system and environment, play a crucial role. These systems are often referred to as non-Markovian systems. After a brief summary of different measures of non-Markovianity that have been introduced over the last few years we restrict our analysis to the investigation of information flow between system and environment. Within this framework we introduce an important application of non-Markovianity, namely its use as a quantum probe of complex quantum systems. To illustrate this point we consider quantum probes of ultracold gases, spin chains, and trapped ion crystals and show how properties of these systems can be extracted by means of non-Markovianity measures.

id: 1403.2172
title: Inseparability Criterion Using Higher-Order Schr?dinger-Robertson Uncertainty Relation
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Junghee Ryu, Jeongho Bang, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 656 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2172
abstract: We formulate an inseparability criterion based on the recently derived generalized Schr\"odinger-Robertson uncertainty relation (SRUR) [Ivan {\it et al.} J. Phys. A :Math. Theor. {\bf 45}, 195305 (2012)] together with the negativity of partial transpose (PT). This generalized SRUR systematically deals with two orthogonal quadrature amplitudes to higher-orders, so is relevant to characterize non-Gaussian quantum statistics. We first present a method that relies on the single-mode marginal distribution of two-mode fields under PT followed by beam-splitting operation. We then extend the SRUR to two-mode cases and develop a full two-mode version of inseparability criterion. We find that our formulation can be useful to detect entanglement of non-Gaussian states even when, e.g., the entropic criterion that also involves higher-order moments fails.

id: 1403.2177
title: A Nonlinear Schr?dinger Wave Equation With Linear Quantum Behavior
authors: Chris D. Richardson, Peter Schlagheck, John Martin, Nicolas Vandewalle, Thierry Bastin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2177
abstract: We show that a nonlinear Schr\"odinger wave equation can reproduce all the features of linear quantum mechanics. This nonlinear wave equation is obtained by exploring, in a uniform language, the transition from fully classical theory governed by a nonlinear classical wave equation to quantum theory. The classical wave equation includes a nonlinear classicality enforcing potential which when eliminated transforms the wave equation into the linear Schr\"odinger equation. We show that it is not necessary to completely cancel this nonlinearity to recover the linear behavior of quantum mechanics. Scaling the classicality enforcing potential is sufficient to have quantum-like features appear and is equivalent to scaling Planck's constant.

id: 1403.2216
title: Braiding fluxes in Pauli Hamiltonian
authors: O. Kenneth, J.E. Avron
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics (2014), vol. 349, pp. 325-349
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2216
abstract: Aharonov and Casher showed that Pauli Hamiltonians in two dimensions have gapless zero modes. We study the adiabatic evolution of these modes under the slow motion of $N$ fluxons with fluxes $\Phi_a\in\mathbb{R}$. The positions, $\mathbf{r}_a\in\mathbb{R}^2$, of the fluxons are viewed as controls. We are interested in the holonomies associated with closed paths in the space of controls. The holonomies can sometimes be abelian, but in general are not. They can sometimes be topological, but in general are not. We analyze some of the special cases and some of the general ones. Our most interesting results concern the cases where holonomy turns out to be topological which is the case when all the fluxons are subcritical, $\Phi_a<1$, and the number of zero modes is $D=N-1$. If $N\ge3$ it is also non-abelian. In the special case that the fluxons carry identical fluxes the resulting anyons satisfy the Burau representations of the braid group.

id: 1403.2228
title: Global Symmetry is Unnecessary for Fast Quantum Search
authors: Jonatan Janmark, David A. Meyer, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2228
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm can be formulated as a quantum particle randomly walking on the (highly symmetric) complete graph, with one vertex marked by a nonzero potential. From an initial equal superposition, the state evolves in a two-dimensional subspace. Strongly regular graphs have a local symmetry that ensures that the state evolves in a \emph{three}-dimensional subspace, but most have no \emph{global} symmetry. Using degenerate perturbation theory, we show that quantum random walk search on known families of strongly regular graphs nevertheless achieves the full quantum speedup of $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$, disproving the intuition that fast quantum search requires global symmetry.

id: 1403.2233
title: Subadditivity condition for spin-tomograms and density matrices of arbitrary composite and noncomposite qudit systems
authors: V. N. Chernega, O. V. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2233
abstract: New quantum entropic inequality for states of system of n >_ 1 qudits is obtained. The inequality has the form of quantum subadditivity condition of bipartite qudit system and coincides with this subadditivity condition for the system of two qudits. The general statement on existence of the subadditivity condition for arbitrary probability distribution and arbitrary qudit-system tomogram is formulated. The nonlinear quantum channels creating the entangled states from separable ones are discussed.

id: 1403.2248
title: Electromagnetic field quantization in the presence of a rotating body
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Vahid Ameri
comments: 14 pages, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2248
abstract: Starting from a Lagrangian, the electromagnetic field is quantized in the presence of a body rotating along its axis of symmetry. Response functions and fluctuation-dissipation relations are obtained. A general formula for rotational friction and power radiated by a rotating dielectric body is obtained in terms of the dyadic Green's tensor. Hamiltonian is determined and possible generalizations are discussed. As an example, the rotational friction and power radiated by a spherical dielectric in the vicinity of a semi-infinite dielectric plane is obtained and discussed in some limiting cases.

id: 1403.2261
title: Negativity witness for the quantum ergodic conjecture
authors: Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2261
abstract: For an ergodic system, the time average of a classical observable coincides with that obtained via the Liouville probability density, a delta-function on the energy shell. Reinterpreting this distribution as a Wigner function, that is, the Weyl representation of a density operator, the quantum ergodic conjecture identifies this classical construction as an approximate representation of the quantum eigenstate of the same energy. It is found that this reasonable hypothesis, as far as expectations for observables are concerned, does not satisfy the requirement of positivity, so that the delta-function on the shell cannot be a true Wigner function. This result was first presented by N. Balazs for the special case of a single degree of freedom, such that the system is simultaneously integrable and ergodic. Here, it is shown, for a delta-function on an arbitrary curved energy shell in a $2N$-dimensional phase space, that there exists a positive operator for which the conjectured Wigner function predicts a negative expectation.

id: 1403.2299
title: Anderson wall and Bloch oscillations in molecular rotation
authors: Johannes Flo?, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2299
abstract: We describe a universal behavior of linear molecules excited by a periodic train of short laser pulses under quantum resonance conditions. In a rigid rotor the resonance causes an unlimited ballistic growth of the angular momentum. We show that the centrifugal distortion of rotating molecules eventually halts the growth, by causing Anderson localization beyond a critical value of the angular momentum -- the Anderson wall. Its position solely depends on the molecular rotational constants and lies in the range of a few tens of hbar. Below the wall, rotational excitation oscillates with the number of pulses due to a mechanism similar to Bloch oscillations in crystalline solids. We suggest optical experiments capable of observing the rotational Anderson wall and Bloch oscillations at near-ambient conditions with the help of existing laser technology.

id: 1403.2313
title: A Quantum Phase Representation of Heisenberg Limits and a Minimally Resourced Quantum Phase Estimator
authors: Scott Roger Shepard, Frederick Ira Moxley III, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2313
abstract: Within the quantum phase representation we derive Heisenberg limits, in closed form, for N00N states and two other classes of states that can perform better in terms of local performance metrics relevant for multiply-peaked distributions. One of these can also enhance the super-resolution factor beyond that of a N00N state of the same power, at the expense of diminished fringe visibility. An accurate phase estimation algorithm, which can be applied to the minimally resourced apparatus of a standard interferometer, is shown to be resilient to the presence of additive white-Gaussian noise (AWGN). In the limit of no AWGN the algorithm achieves over nine digits of accuracy for the case of a four-photon N00N state - orders of magnitude below its Heisenberg limit.

id: 1403.2321
title: Perturbative approach to the dynamics of a trapped ion interacting with a light field
authors: Vittorio Penna, Francesco Raffa
comments: 9 pages, to appear on J.Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2321
abstract: We present a second-order perturbative analysis of the model describing a two-level trapped ion interacting with a traveling laser field, in the Lamb-Dicke regime. Unlike the customary approach, based on the interaction picture and the rotating wave approximation, we reduce the original Hamiltonian to a time-independent model, unitarily equivalent to a spin-boson model, which features a form well suited to apply the perturbation theory. We determine the first and second-order corrections of eigenstates and eigenvalues. By varying the interaction parameters we identify four regimes characterized by different eigenvalue distributions (possibly including level doublets) and suggest the presence of an intermediate regime where the spectrum undergoes macroscopic changes. In this regime, where the perturbation approach does not hold, our reduced Hamiltonian is shown to reproduce the Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 1403.2362
title: How the result of a single coin toss can turn out to be 100 heads
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joshua Combes
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2362
abstract: We show that the phenomenon of anomalous weak values is not limited to quantum theory. In particular, we show that the same features occur in a simple model of a coin subject to a form of classical backaction with pre- and post-selection. This provides evidence that weak values are not inherently quantum, but rather a purely statistical feature of pre- and post-selection with disturbance.

id: 1403.2368
title: Wavepacket dynamics in a quantum double-well system with Razavy's potential coupled to a harmonic oscillator
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 24 pages, 18 figures, revised text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2368
abstract: We have studied wavepacket dynamics in the Razavy hyperbolic double-well (DW) potential which is coupled to a harmonic oscillator (HO) by linear and quadratic interactions. Taking into account the lowest two states of DW and $(N+1)$ states of HO ($N=1$ to 10), we evaluate eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the composite system. An analytical calculation is made for $N=1$ and numerical calculations are performed for $1 < N \leq 10$. Quantum tunneling of wavepackets is realized between two bottoms of composite potential $U(x,y)$ where $x$ and $y$ denote coordinates in DW and HO potentials, respectively. It has been shown that with increasing $N$ and/or the coupling strength, the tunneling period is considerably increased. Phase space plots of $\langle x \rangle$ vs. $\langle p_x \rangle$ and $\langle y \rangle$ vs. $\langle p_y \rangle$ are elliptic, where $\langle \cdot \rangle$ denotes an expectation value for the two-term wavepacket. This result is quite different from the relevant one previously obtained for the quartic DW potential with the use of the quantum phase space representation [Babyuk, arXiv:0208070]. Similarity and difference between results calculated for linear and quadratic couplings, and the uncertainty relation in the model are discussed.

id: 1403.2374
title: Quantum States as Ordinary Information
authors: Ken Wharton
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Information, v.5 p.190-208 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2374
abstract: Despite various parallels between quantum states and ordinary information, quantum no-go-theorems have convinced many that there is no realistic framework that might underly quantum theory, no reality that quantum states can represent knowledge *about*. This paper develops the case that there is a plausible underlying reality: one actual spacetime-based history, although with behavior that appears strange when analyzed dynamically (one time-slice at a time). By using a simple model with no dynamical laws, it becomes evident that this behavior is actually quite natural when analyzed "all-at-once" (as in classical action principles). From this perspective, traditional quantum states would represent incomplete information about possible spacetime histories, conditional on the future measurement geometry. Without dynamical laws imposing additional restrictions, those histories can have a classical probability distribution, where exactly one history can be said to represent an underlying reality.

id: 1403.2376
title: Quantum Fisher Information of W States in Decoherence Channels
authors: Fatih Ozaydin
comments: 3 pages, 1 (eps) figure. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2376
abstract: We study the quantum Fisher information (QFI) of W states analytically with respect to SU(2) rotations in the basic decoherence channels i.e. depolarizing (DPC), amplitude damping (ADC) and phase damping (PDC), and present the interesting behavior of QFI of W states, especially when compared to that of GHZ states [Ma et al., Phys. Rev. A, 84, 022302 (2011)]. We find that when initially pure W states are under decoherence, i) DPC: as decoherence starts and increases, QFI smoothly decays; ii) ADC: just as decoherence starts, QFI exhibits a sudden drop to the shot noise level and as decoherence increases, QFI continues to decrease to zero and then increases back to the shot noise level; iii) PDC: just as decoherence starts, a sudden death of QFI occurs and QFI remains zero for any rate of decoherence, therefore W states in phase damping channel do not provide phase sensitivity. We also find that, on the contrary to GHZ states, pure or decohered W states are not sensitive with respect to rotations in z direction and the sensitivities with respect to rotations in x and y directions are equal to each other, implying no sudden change points of QFI due to competition between directions.

id: 1403.2402
title: Graph states as ground states of two-body frustration-free Hamiltonians
authors: Andrew S. Darmawan, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome; v2 published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 073013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2402
abstract: The framework of measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) allows us to view the ground states of local Hamiltonians as potential resources for universal quantum computation. A central goal in this field is to find models with ground states that are universal for MBQC and that are also natural in the sense that they involve only two-body interactions and have a small local Hilbert space dimension. Graph states are the original resource states for MBQC, and while it is not possible to obtain graph states as exact ground states of two-body Hamiltonians here we construct two-body frustration-free Hamiltonians that have arbitrarily good approximations of graph states as unique ground states. The construction involves taking a two-body frustration-free model that has a ground state convertible to a graph state with stochastic local operations, then deforming the model such that its ground state is close to a graph state. Each graph state qubit resides in a subspace of a higher dimensional particle. This deformation can be applied to two-body frustration-free Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) models, yielding Hamiltonians that are exactly solvable with exact tensor network expressions for ground states. For the star-lattice AKLT model, the ground state of which is not expected to be a universal resource for MBQC, applying such a deformation appears to enhance the computational power of the ground state, promoting it to a universal resource for MBQC. Transitions in computational power, similar to percolation phase transitions, can be observed when Hamiltonians are deformed in this way. Improving the fidelity of the ground state comes at the cost of a shrinking gap. While analytically proving gap properties for these types of models is difficult in general, we provide a detailed analysis of the deformation of a spin-1 AKLT state to a linear graph state.

id: 1403.2437
title: Thermal and non-thermal signatures of the Unruh effect in Casimir-Polder forces
authors: J. Marino, A. Noto, R. Passante
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2437
abstract: We show that Casimir-Polder forces between two relativistic uniformly accelerated atoms exhibit a transition from the short distance thermal-like behavior predicted by the Unruh effect, to a long distance non-thermal behavior, associated with the breakdown of a local inertial description of the system. This phenomenology extends the Unruh thermal response detected by a single accelerated observer to an accelerated spatially extended system of two particles, and we identify the characteristic length scale for this crossover with the inverse of the proper acceleration of the two atoms. Our results are derived separating at fourth order in perturbation theory the contributions of vacuum fluctuations and radiation reaction field to the Casimir-Polder interaction between two atoms moving in two generic stationary trajectories separated by a constant distance, and linearly coupled to a scalar field. The field can be assumed in its vacuum state or at finite temperature, resulting in a general method for the computation of Casimir-Polder forces in stationary regimes.

id: 1403.2446
title: Observable measure of quantum coherence in finite dimensional systems
authors: Davide Girolami
comments: 5+2 pages, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 170401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2446
abstract: Quantum coherence is the key resource for quantum technology, with applications in quantum optics, information processing, metrology and cryptography. Yet, there is no universally efficient method for quantifying coherence either in theoretical or in experimental practice. I introduce a framework for measuring quantum coherence in finite dimensional systems. I define a theoretical measure which satisfies the reliability criteria established in the context of quantum resource theories. Then, I present an experimental scheme implementable with current technology which evaluates the quantum coherence of an unknown state of a d-dimensional system by performing two programmable measurements on an ancillary qubit, in place of the $O(d^2)$ direct measurements required by full state reconstruction. The result yields a benchmark for monitoring quantum effects in complex systems, e.g. certifying non-classicality in quantum communication and simulation protocols and probing the quantum behaviour of biological complexes.

id: 1403.2478
title: Enhancement of the security of a practical continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution system by manipulating the intensity of the local oscillator
authors: Xiang-Chun Ma, Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Ming Gui, Yan-Li Zhou, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2478
abstract: In a practical continuous-variable quantum-key distribution (CVQKD), the fluctuations of the local oscillator (LO) not only make the normalization of Bob's measurement outcomes difficult, but also can change the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of an imperfect balanced homodyne detector (BHD), which may lead the security of a practical system of CVQKD to be compromised severely. In this paper, we propose that the LO intensity can be manipulated by the legitimate parties, i.e., being tuned and stabilized to a required constant value, to eliminate the impact of LO fluctuations and defeat Eve's potential attack on the LO. Moreover, we show that the secret key rate can be increased over a noisy channel, especially the channels of metropolitan QKD networks, by tuning the intensity of LO and thus the SNR of a practical BHD to an optimal value, and we find that, counterintuitively, the requirement on BHD (i.e., high detection efficiency and low electronic noise) can also be reduced in this case. To realize this manipulation, we give a schematic setup which thus can be used to enhance the security of a practical CVQKD system.

id: 1403.2490
title: Gates for one-way quantum computation based on Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement
authors: Shuhong Hao, Xiaowei Deng, Xiaolong Su, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2490
abstract: Single-mode squeezing and Fourier transformation operations are two essential logical gates in continuous-variable quantum computation, which have been experimentally implemented by means of an optical four-mode cluster state. In this paper, we present a simpler and more efficient protocol based on the use of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen two-mode entangled states to realize the same operations. The theoretical calculations and the experimental results demonstrate that the presented scheme not only decreases the requirement to the resource quantum states at the largest extent but also enhances significantly the squeezing degree and the fidelity of the resultant modes under an identical resource condition. That is because in our system the influence of the excess noises deriving from the imperfect squeezing of the resource states is degraded. The gate operations applying two-mode entanglement can be utilized as a basic element in a future quantum computer involving a large-scale cluster state.

id: 1403.2493
title: Ising interaction between two qubits composed of the highest magnetic quantum number states through magnetic dipole-dipole interaction
authors: Sang Jae Yun, Jaewan Kim, Chang Hee Nam
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 075501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2493
abstract: In quantum information processing, one of the most useful interaction between qubits is the Ising type interaction. We propose a scheme to implement the exact Ising interaction through magnetic dipole-dipole interaction. Although magnetic dipolar interaction is Heisenberg type in general, this interaction can bring about the exact mathematical form of the Ising interaction if qubit levels are chosen among the highest magnetic quantum number states. Real physical systems to which our scheme can be applied include rotational states of molecules, hyperfine states of atoms, or electronic states of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. We analyze the feasibility of our scheme for these systems. For example, when the hyperfine levels of rubidium 87 atoms are chosen as qubits and the distance of the two atoms is 0.1 micrometer, controlled-Z gate time will be 8.5 ms. We suggest diverse search and study to achieve optimal implementation of this scheme.

id: 1403.2509
title: Information and communication in polygon theories
authors: Serge Massar, Manas K. Patra
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2509
abstract: Generalized probabilistic theories (GPT) provide a framework in which one can formulate physical theories that includes classical and quantum theories, but also many other alternative theories. In order to compare different GPTs, we advocate an approach in which one views a state in a GPT as a resource, and quantifies the cost of interconverting between different such resources. We illustrate this approach on polygon theories (Janotta et al. New J. Phys 13, 063024, 2011) that interpolate (as the number n of edges of the polygon increases) between a classical trit (when n=3) and a real quantum bit (when n=infinity). Our main results are that simulating the transmission of a single n-gon state requires more than one qubit, or more than log(log(n)) bits, and that n-gon states with n odd cannot be simulated by n'-gon states with n' even (for all n,n'). These results are obtained by showing that the classical capacity of a single n-gon state with n even is 1 bit, whereas it is larger than 1 bit when n is odd; by showing that transmitting a single n-gon state with n even violates information causality; and by showing studying the communication complexity cost of the nondeterministic not equal function using n-gon states.

id: 1403.2524
title: The use of Braid operators for implementing entangled large n-QUBITS Bell states (n>2)
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2524
abstract: Braid theories are applied to quantum computation processes, where to each crossing in the Braid diagram a unitary Yang-Baxter operator R is associated, representing either a Braiding matrix or a universal quantum gate. By operating with Braid operators on the computational basis of n-QUBITS states, orthonormal entangled states are obtained, referred here as general Bell states. The 3-QUBITS Bell states are explicitly developed and the present methods are generalized to any n-QUBITS system. The quantum properties of the general Bell states are analyzed and these properties are related to concurrence

id: 1403.2543
title: Second-order asymptotics for source coding, dense coding and pure-state entanglement conversions
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Felix Leditzky
comments: 52 pages, 2 figures; v3: some new mathematical results added, the section on source coding elaborated and minor typos corrected; v4: published version
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 61, no. 1, pp. 582-608, Jan. 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2543
abstract: We introduce two variants of the information spectrum relative entropy defined by Tomamichel and Hayashi which have the particular advantage of satisfying the data-processing inequality, i.e. monotonicity under quantum operations. This property allows us to obtain one-shot bounds for various information-processing tasks in terms of these quantities. Moreover, these relative entropies have a second order asymptotic expansion, which in turn yields tight second order asymptotics for optimal rates of these tasks in the i.i.d. setting. The tasks studied in this paper are fixed-length quantum source coding, noisy dense coding, entanglement concentration, pure-state entanglement dilution, and transmission of information through a classical-quantum channel. In the latter case, we retrieve the second order asymptotics obtained by Tomamichel and Tan. Our results also yield the known second order asymptotics of fixed-length classical source coding derived by Hayashi. The second order asymptotics of entanglement concentration and dilution provide a refinement of the inefficiency of these protocols - a quantity which, in the case of entanglement dilution, was studied by Harrow and Lo. We prove how the discrepancy between the optimal rates of these two processes in the second order implies the irreversibility of entanglement concentration established by Kumagai and Hayashi. In addition, the spectral divergence rates of the Information Spectrum Approach (ISA) can be retrieved from our relative entropies in the asymptotic limit. This enables us to directly obtain the more general results of the ISA from our one-shot bounds.

id: 1403.2579
title: Spectral analysis for cascade-emission-based quantum communication in atomic ensembles
authors: H. H. Jen
comments: Ten figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 165504 (15pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2579
abstract: The ladder configuration of atomic levels provides a source for telecom photons (signal) from the upper atomic transition. \ For rubidium and cesium atoms, the signal field has the range around 1.3-1.5 $\mu$m that can be coupled to an optical fiber and transmitted to a remote location. \ Cascade emission may result in pairs of photons, the signal entangled with the subsequently emitted infrared photon (idler) from the lower atomic transition.\ This correlated two-photon source is potentially useful in the (Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller) DLCZ protocol for the quantum repeater.\ We implement the cascade emission to construct a modified DLCZ quantum repeater and investigate the role of time-frequency entanglement in the protocol.\ The dependence of protocol on photon-number resolving and non-resolving detectors is also studied.\ We find that frequency entanglement deteriorates the performance but the harmful effect can be diminished by using shorter pump pulses to generate the cascade emission.\ An optimal cascade-emission-based DLCZ scheme is realized by applying a pure two-photon source in addition to using detectors of perfect quantum efficiency.

id: 1403.2593
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity in three-level systems using Lie transforms
authors: S. Mart¨ªnez-Garaot, E. Torrontegui, Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2593
abstract: Sped-up protocols (shortcuts to adiabaticity) that drive a system quickly to the same populations than a slow adiabatic process may involve Hamiltonian terms difficult to realize in practice. We use the dynamical symmetry of the Hamiltonian to find, by means of Lie transforms, alternative Hamiltonians that achieve the same goals without the problematic terms. We apply this technique to three-level systems (two interacting bosons in a double well, and beam splitters with two and three output channels) driven by Hamiltonians that belong to the four-dimensional algebra U3S3.

id: 1403.2635
title: Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) Quantum Photonic Waveguide Circuits
authors: Jianwei Wang, Alberto Santamato, Pisu Jiang, Damien Bonneau, Erman Engin, Joshua W. Silverstone, Matthias Lermer, Johannes Beetz, Martin Kamp, Sven Hofling, Michael G. Tanner, Chandra M. Natarajan, Robert H. Hadfield, Sander N. Dorenbos, Val Zwiller, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2635
abstract: Integrated quantum photonics is a promising approach for future practical and large-scale quantum information processing technologies, with the prospect of on-chip generation, manipulation and measurement of complex quantum states of light. The gallium arsenide (GaAs) material system is a promising technology platform, and has already successfully demonstrated key components including waveguide integrated single-photon sources and integrated single-photon detectors. However, quantum circuits capable of manipulating quantum states of light have so far not been investigated in this material system. Here, we report GaAs photonic circuits for the manipulation of single-photon and two-photon states. Two-photon quantum interference with a visibility of 94.9 +/- 1.3% was observed in GaAs directional couplers. Classical and quantum interference fringes with visibilities of 98.6 +/- 1.3% and 84.4 +/- 1.5% respectively were demonstrated in Mach-Zehnder interferometers exploiting the electro-optic Pockels effect. This work paves the way for a fully integrated quantum technology platform based on the GaAs material system.

id: 1403.2646
title: The linearity of quantum mechanics from the perspective of Hamiltonian cellular automata
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 9 pages. Invited talk for the symposium on "Emergent Quantum Mechanics", EmQM13 (Vienna, October 2013); to appear in JPCS
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 504 (2014) 012004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2646
abstract: We discuss the action principle and resulting Hamiltonian equations of motion for a class of integer-valued cellular automata introduced recently [1]. Employing sampling theory, these deterministic finite-difference equations are mapped reversibly on continuum equations describing a set of bandwidth limited harmonic oscillators. They represent the Schroedinger equation. However, modifications reflecting the bandwidth limit are incorporated, i.e., the presence of a time (or length) scale. When this discreteness scale is taken to zero, the usual results are obtained. Thus, the linearity of quantum mechanics can be traced to the postulated action principle of such cellular automata and its conservation laws to discrete ones. The cellular automaton conservation laws are in one-to-one correspondence with those of the related quantum mechanical model, while admissible symmetries are not.

id: 1403.2674
title: The Feynman problem and Fermionic entanglement: Fermionic theory versus qubit theory
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Franco Manessi, Paolo Perinotti, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 46 pages, review about the "Feynman problem". Fixed many typos
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, 29 (2014) 1430025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2674
abstract: The present paper is both a review on the Feynman problem, and an original research presentation on the relations between Fermionic theories and qubits theories, both regarded in the novel framework of operational probabilistic theories. The most relevant results about the Feynman problem of simulating Fermions with qubits are reviewed, and in the light of the new original results the problem is solved. The answer is twofold. On the computational side the two theories are equivalent, as shown by Bravyi and Kitaev (Ann. Phys. 298.1 (2002): 210-226). On the operational side the quantum theory of qubits and the quantum theory of Fermions are different, mostly in the notion of locality, with striking consequences on entanglement. Thus the emulation does not respect locality, as it was suspected by Feynman (Int. J. Theor. Phys. 21.6 (1982): 467-488).

id: 1403.2676
title: Spatial search by continuous-time quantum walks on crystal lattices
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Yimin Ge
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052337 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2676
abstract: We consider the problem of searching a general $d$-dimensional lattice of $N$ vertices for a single marked item using a continuous-time quantum walk. We demand locality, but allow the walk to vary periodically on a small scale. By constructing lattice Hamiltonians exhibiting Dirac points in their dispersion relations and exploiting the linear behaviour near a Dirac point, we develop algorithms that solve the problem in a time of $O(\sqrt N)$ for $d>2$ and $O(\sqrt N \log N)$ in $d=2$. In particular, we show that such algorithms exist even for hypercubic lattices in any dimension. Unlike previous continuous-time quantum walk algorithms on hypercubic lattices in low dimensions, our approach does not use external memory.

id: 1403.2706
title: Spin squeezing in an ensemble of quadrupolar nuclei NMR system
authors: R. Auccaise, A. G. Araujo-Ferreira, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, T. J. Bonagamba, I. Roditi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2706
abstract: We have characterized spin-squeezed states produced at a temperature of $26^\circ{\mathrm C}$ on a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) quadrupolar system. The implementation is carried out in an ensemble of $^{133}$Cs nuclei with spin $I=7/2$ of a lyotropic liquid crystal sample. We identify the source of spin squeezing due to the interaction between the quadrupole moment of the nuclei and the electric field gradients internally present in the molecules. We use the spin angular momentum representation to describe formally the nonlinear operators that produce the spin squeezing. The quantitative and qualitatively characterization of the spin squeezing phenomena is performed through a squeezing parameter and squeezing angle developed for the two-mode BEC system, and, as well, by the Wigner quasi-probability distribution function. The generality of the present experimental scheme indicates its potential applications on solid state physics.

id: 1403.2734
title: Fault-tolerant conversion between the Steane and Reed-Muller quantum codes
authors: Jonas T. Anderson, Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 080501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2734
abstract: Steane's 7-qubit quantum error-correcting code admits a set of fault-tolerant gates that generate the Clifford group, which in itself is not universal for quantum computation. The 15-qubit Reed-Muller code also does not admit a universal fault-tolerant gate set but possesses fault-tolerant T and control-control-Z gates. Combined with the Clifford group, either of these two gates generate a universal set. Here, we combine these two features by demonstrating how to fault-tolerantly convert between these two codes, providing a new method to realize universal fault-tolerant quantum computation. One interpretation of our result is that both codes correspond to the same subsystem code in different gauges. Our scheme extends to the entire family of quantum Reed-Muller codes.

id: 1403.2735
title: A Derivation of the Quantized Electromagnetic Field Using Complex Dirac Delta Functions
authors: Robert J Ducharme
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2735
abstract: It is shown a complex function $\Phi$ defined to be the product of a real Gaussian function and a complex Dirac delta function satisfies the Cauchy-Riemann equations. It is also shown these harmonic $\Phi$-functions can be included in the solution of the classical electromagnetic field equations to generate the quantum field as a many-particle solution such that the $\Phi$-functions represent the particle states. Creation and destruction operators are defined as usual to add or subtract photons from the particle states. The orbital angular momentum of the $\Phi$-states is interpreted as spin since it emerges from a point source that must be circularly polarized as a requirement of the gauge condition.

id: 1403.2738
title: On the unpredictability of individual quantum measurement outcomes
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude, Karl Svozil
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2738
abstract: We develop a general, non-probabilistic model of prediction which is suitable for assessing the (un)predictability of individual physical events. We use this model to provide, for the first time, a rigorous proof of the unpredictability of a class of individual quantum measurement outcomes, a well-known quantum attribute postulated or claimed for a long time. We prove that quantum indeterminism - formally modelled as value indefiniteness - is incompatible with the supposition of predictability: measurements of value indefinite observables are unpredictable. The proof makes essential use of a strengthened form of the Kochen-Specker theorem proven previously to identify value indefinite observables. This form of quantum unpredictability, like the Kochen-Specker theorem, relies on three assumptions: compatibility with quantum mechanical predictions, non-contextuality, and the value definiteness of observables corresponding to the preparation basis of a quantum state. We explore the relation between unpredictability and incomputability and show that the unpredictability of individual measurements of a value indefinite quantum observable complements, and is independent of, the global strong incomputability of any sequence of outcomes of this particular quantum experiment. Finally, we discuss a real model of hypercomputation whose computational power has yet to be determined, as well as further open problems.

id: 1403.2781
title: Quantum correlated heat engine with nonlinear spin-spin interactions
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Ali ?. C. Hardal, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 032102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2781
abstract: We propose a four level quantum heat engine in Otto cycle with a working substance of two spins subject to an external magnetic field and coupled to each other by a one-axis twisting spin squeezing nonlinear interaction. We calculate the positive work and the efficiency of the engine for different parameter regimes. In particular, we investigate the effects of quantum correlations at the end of the two isochoric processes of the Otto cycle, as measured by the entanglement of formation and quantum discord, on the work extraction and efficiency. The regimes where the quantum correlations could enhance the efficiency and work extraction are characterized.

id: 1403.2791
title: Maudlin's Challenge Refuted: A Reply to Lewis
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: To appear in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2791
abstract: Lewis has recently argued that Maudlin's contingent absorber experiment remains a significant problem for the Transactional Interpretation (TI). He argues that the only straightforward way to resolve the challenge is by describing the absorbers as offer waves, and asserts that this is a previously unnoticed aspect of the challenge for TI. This argument is refuted in two basic ways: (i) it is noted that the Maudlin experiment cannot be meaningfully recast with absorbers described by quantum states; instead the author replaces it with an ordinary which-way experiment; and (ii) the extant rebuttals to the Maudlin challenge in its original form are not in fact subject to the alleged flaws that Lewis ascribes to them. This paper further seeks to clarify the issues raised in Lewis' presentation concerning the distinction between quantum systems and macroscopic objects in TI. It is noted that the latest, possibilist version of TI (PTI) has no ambiguity concerning macroscopic absorbers. In particular, macroscopic objects are not subject to indeterminate trajectories, since they are continually undergoing collapse. It is concluded that the Maudlin challenge poses no significant problem for the transactional interpretation.

id: 1403.2811
title: On the equivalence of Clauser-Horne and Eberhard inequality based tests
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Sven Ramelow, Rupert Ursin, Bernhard Wittmann, Johannes Kofler, Irina Basieva
comments: a few misprints were corrected
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2811
abstract: Recently, the results of the first experimental test for entangled photons closing the detection loophole (also referred to as the fair sampling loophole) were published (Vienna, 2013). From the theoretical viewpoint the main distinguishing feature of this long-aspired experiment was that the Eberhard inequality was used. Almost simultaneously another experiment closing this loophole was performed (Urbana-Champaign, 2013) and it was based on the Clauser-Horne inequality (for probabilities). The aim of this note is to analyze the mathematical and experimental equivalence of tests based on the Eberhard inequality and various forms on the Clauser-Horne inequality. The structure of the mathematical equivalence is nontrivial. In particular, it is necessary to distinguish between algebraic and statistical equivalence. Although the tests based on these inequalities are algebraically equivalent, they need not be equivalent statistically, i.e., theoretically the level of statistical significance can drop under transition from one test to another (at least for finite samples). Nevertheless, the data collected in the Vienna-test implies not only a statistically significant violation of the Eberhard inequality, but also of the Clauser-Horne inequality (in the ratio-rate form): for both a violation $>60\sigma.$

id: 1403.2823
title: Detection-Enhanced Steady State Entanglement with Ions
authors: C. D. B. Bentley, A. R. R. Carvalho, D. Kielpinski, J. J. Hope
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 040501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2823
abstract: Driven dissipative steady state entanglement schemes take advantage of coupling to the environment to robustly prepare highly entangled states. We present a scheme for two trapped ions to generate a maximally entangled steady state with fidelity above 0.99, appropriate for use in quantum protocols. Furthermore, we extend the scheme by introducing detection of our dissipation process, significantly enhancing the fidelity. Our scheme is robust to anomalous heating and requires no sympathetic cooling.

id: 1403.2824
title: Position-momentum uncertainty products
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Indresh Yadav
comments: Modified version, no Figures, one Table, 8 pages, to appear in Eur. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2824
abstract: We point out two interesting features of position-momentum uncertainty product: $U=\Delta x \Delta p$. We show that two special (non-differentiable) eigenstates of the Schr{\"o}dinger operator with the Dirac Delta potential $[V(x)=-V_0 \delta(x)],V_0>0$, also satisfy the Heisenberg's uncertainty principle by yielding $U> \frac{\hbar}{2}$. One of these eigenstates is a zero-energy and zero-curvature bound state.

id: 1403.2827
title: A genetic-algorithm-based method to find the unitary transformations for any de- sired quantum computation and application to a one-bit oracle decision problem
authors: Jeongho Bang, Seokwon Yoo
comments: Published version
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 65, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2827
abstract: We propose a genetic-algorithm-based method to find the unitary transformations for any desired quantum computation. We formulate a simple genetic algorithm by introducing the "genetic parameter vector" of the unitary transformations to be found. In the genetic algorithm process, all components of the genetic parameter vectors are supposed to evolve to the solution parameters of the unitary transformations. We apply our method to find the optimal unitary transformations and to generalize the corresponding quantum algorithms for a realistic problem, the one-bit oracle decision problem, or the often-called Deutsch problem. By numerical simulations, we can faithfully find the appropriate unitary transformations to solve the problem by using our method. We analyze the quantum algorithms identified by the found unitary transformations and generalize the variant models of the original Deutsch's algorithm.

id: 1403.2886
title: Theory of filtered type-II PDC in the continuous-variable domain: Quantifying the impacts of filtering
authors: Andreas Christ, Cosmo Lupo, Matthias Reichelt, Torsten Meier, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2886
abstract: Parametric down-conversion (PDC) forms one of the basic building blocks for quantum optical experiments. However, the intrinsic multimode spectral-temporal structure of pulsed PDC often poses a severe hindrance for the direct implementation of the heralding of pure single-photon states or, for example, continuous-variable entanglement distillation experiments. To get rid of multimode effects narrowband frequency filtering is frequently applied to achieve a single-mode behavior. A rigorous theoretical description to accurately describe the effects of filtering on PDC, however, is still missing. To date, the theoretical models of filtered PDC are rooted in the discrete-variable domain and only account for filtering in the low gain regime, where only a few photon pairs are emitted at any single point in time. In this paper we extend these theoretical descriptions and put forward a simple model, which is able to accurately describe the effects of filtering on PDC in the continuous-variable domain. This developed straightforward theoretical framework enables us to accurately quantify the trade-off between suppression of higher-order modes, reduced purity and lowered Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement, when narrowband filters are applied to multimode type-II PDC.

id: 1403.2939
title: Enhancing robustness of multiparty quantum correlations using weak measurement
authors: Uttam Singh, Utkarsh Mishra, Himadri Shekhar Dhar
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 350, 50 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2939
abstract: Multipartite quantum correlations are important resources for the development of quantum information and computation protocols. However, the resourcefulness of multipartite quantum correlations in practical settings is limited by its fragility under decoherence due to environmental interactions. Though there exist protocols to protect bipartite entanglement under decoherence, the implementation of such protocols for multipartite quantum correlations has not been sufficiently explored. Here, we study the effect of local amplitude damping channel on the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, and use a protocol of optimal reversal quantum weak measurement to protect the multipartite quantum correlations. We observe that the weak measurement reversal protocol enhances the robustness of multipartite quantum correlations. Further it increases the critical damping value that corresponds to entanglement sudden death. To emphasize the efficacy of the technique in protection of multipartite quantum correlation, we investigate two proximately related quantum communication tasks, namely, quantum teleportation in a one sender, many receivers setting and multiparty quantum information splitting, through a local amplitude damping channel. We observe an increase in the average fidelity of both the quantum communication tasks under the weak measurement reversal protocol. The method may prove beneficial, for combating external interactions, in other quantum information tasks using multipartite resources.

id: 1403.2959
title: Geometric Discord Of the Jaynes-Cummings Model: Pure Dephasing Regime
authors: Sina Hamedani Raja, Hamidreza Mohammadi, S. Javad Akhtarshenas
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures. appears in Eur. Phys. J. D 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2959
abstract: In this paper, the dynamical behaviour of the geometric discord of a system consisting of a two-level atom interacting with a quantised radiation field described by the Jaynes-Cummings model has been studied. The evolution of the system has been considered in the pure dephasing regime when the field is initially in a general pure state and the atom is initially in a mixed state. Dynamics of the geometric discord, as a measure of non-classical correlation, has been compared with the dynamics of negativity, as a measure of quantum entanglement. In particular, the influence of different parameters of system such as detuning and mixedness of the initial atomic state on the dynamics of geometric discord has been evaluated for when the field is initially in coherent and number states. It is shown that for asymptotically large times, the steady state geometric discord of the system presents a non-zero optimum value at some intermediate value of detuning.

id: 1403.2975
title: Optimal ancilla-free Clifford+T approximation of z-rotations
authors: Neil J. Ross, Peter Selinger
comments: 38 pages. New in v2: added a section on approximation up to a phase
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2975
abstract: We consider the problem of decomposing arbitrary single-qubit z-rotations into ancilla-free Clifford+T circuits, up to given epsilon. We present a new efficient algorithm for solving this problem optimally, i.e., for finding the shortest possible circuit whatsoever for the given problem instance. The algorithm requires a factoring oracle (such as a quantum computer). Even in the absence of a factoring oracle, the algorithm is still near-optimal: In this case, it finds a solution of T-count m + O(log(log(1/epsilon))), where m is the T-count of the second-to-optimal solution. In the typical case, this yields circuit decompositions of T-count 3log_2(1/epsilon) + O(log(log(1/epsilon))).

id: 1403.2982
title: Can quantum systems succumb to their own (gravitational) attraction?
authors: Samuel Colin, Thomas Durt, Ralph Willox
comments: 58 pages, 14 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31 (2014) 245003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2982
abstract: The gravitational interaction is generally considered to be too weak to be easily submitted to systematic experimental investigation in the quantum, microscopic, domain. In this paper we attempt to remedy this situation by considering the gravitational influence exerted by a crystalline nanosphere of mesoscopic size on itself, in the semi-classical, mean field, regime. We study in depth the self-localisation process induced by the corresponding non-linear potential of (gravitational) self-interaction. In particular, we characterize the stability of the associated self-collapsed ground state and estimate the magnitude of the corrections that are due to the internal structure of the object (this includes size-effects and corrections due to the discrete, atomic, structure of the sphere). Finally, we derive an approximated, gaussian, dynamics which mimics several essential features of the self-gravitating dynamics and, based on numerical results derived from this model, we propose a concrete experimental setting which we believe might, in the foreseeable future, reveal the existence of gravitational self-interaction effects.

id: 1403.2992
title: Coherent Cancellation of Backaction Noise in optomechanical Force Measurements
authors: Maximilian H. Wimmer, Daniel Steinmeyer, Klemens Hammerer, Mich¨¨le Heurs
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053836 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2992
abstract: Optomechanical detectors have reached the standard quantum limit in position and force sensing where measurement backaction noise starts to be the limiting factor for the sensitivity. A strategy to circumvent measurement backaction, and surpass the standard quantum limit, has been suggested by M. Tsang and C. Caves in Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 123601 (2010). We provide a detailed analysis of this method and assess its benefits, requirements, and limitations. We conclude that a proof-of-principle demonstration based on a micro-optomechanical system is demanding, but possible. However, for parameters relevant to gravitational wave detectors the requirements for backaction evasion appear to be prohibitive.

id: 1403.2999
title: Measurement-based tailoring of Anderson localization of partially coherent light
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Jan Pe?ina Jr., Juan P. Torres
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, additional corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053808 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2999
abstract: We put forward an experimental configuration to observe transverse Anderson localization of partially coherent light beams with a tunable degree of first-order coherence. The scheme makes use of entangled photons propagating in disordered waveguide arrays, and is based on the unique relationship between the degree of entanglement of a pair of photons and the coherence properties of the individual photons constituting the pair. The scheme can be readily implemented with current waveguide-on-a-chip technology, and surprisingly, the tunability of the coherence properties of the individual photons is done at the measurement stage, without resorting changes of the light source itself.

id: 1403.3033
title: Overcompleteness and unlike closure relations
authors: Fernando Parisio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3033
abstract: One says that a set $\{ |v\rangle\}$ is an overcomplete "basis" of a system's Hilbert space if a proper subset $\{|\nu\rangle\} \subset \{|v\rangle\}$ suffices to represent an arbitrary ket. Although less explored, the fact that $\langle v| v'\rangle$ is usually finite and non-zero for any pair $v,v'$ may be equally relevant in the context of coherent states $\{|z\rangle\}$. First we illustrate this point with a simple, but non-trivial example in $\mathbb{R}^2$. In the Hilbert space of a quantum particle the standard coherent-state resolution of unity is written in terms of a phase-space integration of the outer product $|z\rangle \langle z|$. Because no pair of coherent states is orthogonal, one can represent the closure relation in non-standard ways, in terms of a single phase-space integration of the "unlike" outer product $|z'\rangle \langle z|$, $z'\ne z$. This makes it possible, for instance, to write a formal expression for a phase-space path integral in terms of weak energy values.

id: 1403.3069
title: Which multiphoton states are related via linear optics?
authors: Piotr Migda?, Javier Rodr¨ªguez-Laguna, Micha? Oszmaniec, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures; minor changes (3 new citations, a remark on fermionic systems)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062329 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3069
abstract: We investigate which pure states of $n$ photons in $d$ modes can be transformed into each other via linear optics, without post-selection. In other words, we study the local unitary (LU) equivalence classes of symmetric many-qudit states. Writing our state as $f^\dagger|\Omega\rangle$, with $f^\dagger$ a homogeneous polynomial in the mode creation operators, we propose two sets of LU-invariants: (a) spectral invariants, which are the eigenvalues of the operator $ff^\dagger$, and (b) moments, each given by the norm of the symmetric component of a tensor power of the initial state, which can be computed as vacuum expectation values of $f^k(f^\dagger)^k$. We provide scheme for experimental measurement of the later, as related to the post-selection probability of creating state $f^{\dagger k}|\Omega\rangle$ from $k$ copies of $f^{\dagger}|\Omega\rangle$.

id: 1403.3085
title: Nonlinear (Anharmonic) Casimir Oscillator
authors: Habibollah Razmi, Mohammad Reza Mohammadi, Mahnaz Abdollahi, Seyed Mahdi Fazeli
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. Nano Lett., Vol. 1, No. 1, January 2011, pp. 17-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3085
abstract: We want to study the dynamics of a simple linear harmonic micro spring which is under the influence of the quantum Casimir force/pressure and thus behaves as a (an) nonlinear (anharmonic) Casimir oscillator. Generally,the equation of motion of this nonlinear micromechanical Casimir oscillator has no exact solvable (analytical)solution and the turning point(s) of the system has (have) no fixed position(s); however, for particular values of the stiffness of the micro spring and at appropriately well-chosen distance scales and conditions, there is (are) approximately sinusoidal solution(s) for the problem (the variable turning points are collected in a very small interval of positions). This, as a simple and elementary plan, may be useful in controlling the Casimir stiction problem in micromechanical devices.

id: 1403.3122
title: Relativistic Quantum Cryptography
authors: I. V. Radchenko, K. S. Kravtsov, S. P. Kulik, S. N. Molotkov
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett., vol. 11, no. 6, 065203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3122
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a concept of secret key exchange supported by fundamentals of quantum physics. Its perfect realization offers unconditional key security, however, known practical schemes are potentially vulnerable if the quantum channel loss exceeds a certain realization-specific bound. This discrepancy is caused by the fact that any practical photon source has a non-zero probability of emitting two or more photons at a time, while theory needs exactly one. We report an essentially different QKD scheme based on both quantum physics and theory of relativity. It works flawlessly with practical photon sources at arbitrary large channel loss. Our scheme is naturally tailored for free-space optical channels, and may be used in ground-to-satellite communications, where losses are prohibitively large and unpredictable for conventional QKD.

id: 1403.3178
title: Entanglement of Identical Particles
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, K. Titimbo
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, 21 (2014) 1440003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3178
abstract: Unlike for bipartite states consisting of distinguishable particles, in the case of identical parties the notion of entanglement is still under debate. In the following, we review two different approaches to the entanglement of systems consisting of two Bosons or Fermions; the first approach is based on the particle aspect typical of first quantization and identifies separable pure states as those that allow to assign two orthogonal single particle vector states to both parties. The second approach makes full use of the mode aspect of second quantization whereby separability can be formulated as absence of non-local correlation among two different sets of modes. While the first approach applies to pure states only, the second one is more general and characterizes generic entangled states. In the following, we shall show that the mode-based approach indeed contains the particle-based one.

id: 1403.3180
title: Simultaneous suppression of time and energy uncertainties in a single-photon frequency comb state
authors: Changliang Ren, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 9 pages, including 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3180
abstract: A single photon prepared in a time-energy state described by a frequency comb combines the extreme precision of energy defined by a single tooth of the comb with a high sensitivity to small shifts in time defined by the narrowness of a single pulse in the long sequence of pulses that describe the frequency comb state in the time domain. We show how this simultaneous suppression of time and energy uncertainties can be described by a separation of scales and compare this with the suppression of uncertainties in the two particle correlations of an entangled state. To illustrate the sensitivity of the frequency comb states to small shifts in time and frequency, we consider the Hong-Ou-Mandel dips observed in two-photon interference when both time- and frequency shifts between the input photons are varied. It is shown that the interference of two photons in equivalent frequency comb states results in a two dimensional Hong-Ou-Mandel dip that is narrow in both time and frequency, while the corresponding entangled photon pairs are only sensitive to temporal shifts. Frequency comb states thus represent a unique and different approach towards quantum operations beyond the uncertainty limit.

id: 1403.3187
title: Fano-Feshbach resonances in two-channel scattering around exceptional points
authors: W D Heiss, G Wunner
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3187
abstract: It is well known that in open quantum systems resonances can coalesce at an exceptional point, where both the energies {\em and} the wave functions coincide. In contrast to the usual behaviour of the scattering amplitude at one resonance, the coalescence of two resonances invokes a pole of second order in the Green's function, in addition to the usual first order pole. We show that the interference due to the two pole terms of different order gives rise to patterns in the scattering cross section which closely resemble Fano-Feshbach resonances. We demonstrate this by extending previous work on the analogy of Fano-Feshbach resonances to classical resonances in a system of two driven coupled damped harmonic oscillators.

id: 1403.3189
title: Wigner function and the probability representation of quantum states
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 4 p, contribution to the Proceedings of the conference "Wigner 111 - Colourful and Deep (November 11-13 Budapest, Hungary)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3189
abstract: The relation of the Wigner function with the fair probability distribution called tomographic distribution or quantum tomogram associated with the quantum state is reviewed. The connection of the tomographic picture of quantum mechanics with the integral Radon transform of the Wigner quasidistribution is discussed. The Wigner--Moyal equation for the Wigner function is presented in the form of kinetic equation for the tomographic probability distribution both in quantum mechanics and in the classical limit of the Liouville equation. The calculation of moments of physical observables in terms of integrals with the state tomographic probability distributions is constructed having a standard form of averaging in the probability theory. New uncertainty relations for the position and momentum are written in terms of optical tomograms suitable for direct experimental check. Some recent experiments on checking the uncertainty relations including the entropic uncertainty relations are discussed.

id: 1403.3203
title: Incoherent Control of the Retinal Isomerization in Rhodopsin
authors: Felix Lucas, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 058301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3203
abstract: We propose to control the retinal photoisomerization yield through the back-action dynamics imparted by a nonselective optical measurement of the molecular electronic state. This incoherent effect is easier to implement than comparable coherent pulse shaping techniques, and is also robust to environmental noise. A numerical simulation of the quantum dynamics shows that the isomerization yield of this important biomolecule can be substantially increased above the natural limit.

id: 1403.3270
title: Software-defined Quantum Communication Systems
authors: Travis S. Humble, Ronald J. Sadlier
comments: Extension of Proc. SPIE 8875, 88750R (2013)
journal: Optical Engineering 53, 086103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3270
abstract: Quantum communication systems harness modern physics through state-of-the-art optical engineering to provide revolutionary capabilities. An important concern for quantum communication engineering is designing and prototyping these systems to evaluate proposed capabilities. We apply the paradigm of software-defined communication for engineering quantum communication systems to facilitate rapid prototyping and prototype comparisons. We detail how to decompose quantum communication terminals into functional layers defining hardware, software, and middleware concerns, and we describe how each layer behaves. Using the super-dense coding protocol as an example, we describe implementations of both the transmitter and receiver, and we present results from numerical simulations of the behavior. We conclude that software-defined quantum communication provides a robust framework in which to explore the large design space offered by this new regime of communication.

id: 1403.3295
title: Relational causality and classical probability: Grounding quantum phenomenology in a superclassical theory
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures; talk presented at the 2nd international symposium on "Emergent Quantum Mechanics" (Vienna, Austria, 3-6 October, 2013), this http URL To be published in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2014)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2014) 504 012006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3295
abstract: By introducing the concepts of "superclassicality" and "relational causality", it is shown here that the velocity field emerging from an n-slit system can be calculated as an average classical velocity field with suitable weightings per channel. No deviation from classical probability theory is necessary in order to arrive at the resulting probability distributions. In addition, we can directly show that when translating the thus obtained expression for said velocity field into a more familiar quantum language, one immediately derives the basic postulate of the de Broglie-Bohm theory, i.e. the guidance equation, and, as a corollary, the exact expression for the quantum mechanical probability density current. Some other direct consequences of this result will be discussed, such as an explanation of Born's rule and Sorkin's first and higher order sum rules, respectively.

id: 1403.3326
title: Macroscopic approach to the Casimir friction force
authors: V.V. Nesterenko, A.V. Nesterenko
comments: 8 pages, no figures, no tables, REVTeX4-1, The paper is considerably extended, new results are obtained, presentation is improved
journal: JETP Lett. 99, 581 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3326
abstract: The general formula is derived for the vacuum friction force between two parallel perfectly flat planes bounding two material media separated by a vacuum gap and moving relative to each other with a constant velocity $\mathbf{v}$. The material media are described in the framework of macroscopic electrodynamics whereas the nonzero temperature and dissipation are taken into account by making use of the Kubo formulae from non-equilibrium statistical thermodynamics. The formula obtained provides a rigorous basis for calculation of the vacuum friction force within the quantum field theory methods in the condensed matter physics. The revealed $v$-dependence of the vacuum friction force proves to be the following: for zero temperature ($T=0$) it is proportional to $(v/c)^3$ and for $T>0$ this force is linear in $(v/c)$.

id: 1403.3353
title: A Bayesian quasi-probability approach to inferring the past of quantum observables
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v2: 10 pages, 6 figures, expanded and improved the proof and the discussions, added more examples, figures, and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3353
abstract: I describe a method of inferring the past of quantum observables given the initial state and the subsequent measurement results using Wigner quasi-probability representations. The method is proved to be compatible with logic for large subclasses of quantum systems, including those that involve incompatible observables and can still exhibit some quantum features, such as the uncertainty relation, measurement backaction, and entanglement.

id: 1403.3357
title: Maximally nonlocal theories cannot be maximally random
authors: Gonzalo de la Torre, Matty J. Hoban, Chirag Dhara, Giuseppe Prettico, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 5+6 pages, no figures. Second version with further introductory material and slightly altered structure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 160502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3357
abstract: Correlations that violate a Bell Inequality are said to be nonlocal, i.e. they do not admit a local and deterministic explanation. Great effort has been devoted to study how the amount of nonlocality (as measured by a Bell inequality violation) serves to quantify the amount of randomness present in observed correlations. In this work we reverse this research program and ask what do the randomness certification capabilities of a theory tell us about the nonlocality of that theory. We find that, contrary to initial intuition, maximally nonlocal theories cannot allow maximal randomness certification. We go on and show that quantum theory, in contrast, permits certification of maximal randomness in all dichotomic scenarios. We hence pose the question of whether quantum theory is optimal for randomness, i.e. is it the most nonlocal theory that allows maximal randomness certification? We answer this question in the negative by identifying a larger-than-quantum set of correlations capable of this feat. Not only are these results relevant to understanding quantum mechanics' fundamental features, but also put fundamental restrictions on device-independent protocols based on the no-signaling principle.

id: 1403.3432
title: Phase space tomography of cold-atoms dynamics in a weakly corrugated potential
authors: Shuyu Zhou, Julien Chab¨¦, Ran Salem, Tal David, David Groswasser, Mark Keil, Yonathan Japha, Ron Folman
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 033620 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3432
abstract: We demonstrate tomographic reconstruction of the phase space distribution of atoms oscillating in a harmonic trap with weak potential corrugation caused by nanoscale imperfections in an atom chip. We find that deformations in these distributions are highly sensitive to anharmonic components of the potential. They are explained in terms of angular velocity dispersion of isoenergetic phase space trajectories. We show that the method is applicable for probing classical and quantum dynamics of cold atoms, and we note its importance for future technological applications.

id: 1403.3433
title: Generalized multi-photon quantum interference
authors: Max Tillmann, Si-Hui Tan, Sarah E. Stoeckl, Barry C. Sanders, Hubert de Guise, Ren¨¦ Heilmann, Stefan Nolte, Alexander Szameit, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3433
abstract: Non-classical interference of photons lies at the heart of optical quantum information processing. This effect is exploited in universal quantum gates as well as in purpose-built quantum computers that solve the BosonSampling problem. Although non-classical interference is often associated with perfectly indistinguishable photons this only represents the degenerate case, hard to achieve under realistic experimental conditions. Here we exploit tunable distinguishability to reveal the full spectrum of multi-photon non-classical interference. This we investigate in theory and experiment by controlling the delay times of three photons injected into an integrated interferometric network. We derive the entire coincidence landscape and identify transition matrix immanants as ideally suited functions to describe the generalized case of input photons with arbitrary distinguishability. We introduce a compact description by utilizing a natural basis which decouples the input state from the interferometric network, thereby providing a useful tool for even larger photon numbers.

id: 1403.3463
title: Generation and tomography of arbitrary qubit states in a transient collective atomic excitation
authors: Travis Brannan, Zhongzhong Qin, Andrew MacRae, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 5447 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3463
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of heralded Fock-basis qubits $(a|0\rangle + b|1\rangle)$ from transient collective spin excitations in a hot atomic vapor. The collective spin excitation is heralded by Raman-scattered photons in a four-wave mixing process seeded by a weak coherent optical excitation. The amplitude and phase of the seed field allow arbitrary control over the qubit coefficients. The state of the ensemble is read out optically and then characterized using balanced homodyne tomography. This work represents a step towards quantum engineering of collective atomic spin states.

id: 1403.3485
title: A Bright Solitonic Matter-Wave Interferometer
authors: Gordon D. McDonald, Carlos C. N. Kuhn, Kyle S. Hardman, Shayne Bennetts, Patrick J. Everitt, Paul A. Altin, John E. Debs, John D. Close, Nicholas P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 113, 013002, 2nd July 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3485
abstract: We present the first realisation of a solitonic atom interferometer. A Bose-Einstein condensate of $1\times10^4$ atoms of rubidium-85 is loaded into a horizontal optical waveguide. Through the use of a Feshbach resonance, the $s$-wave scattering length of the $^{85}$Rb atoms is tuned to a small negative value. This attractive atomic interaction then balances the inherent matter-wave dispersion, creating a bright solitonic matter wave. A Mach-Zehnder interferometer is constructed by driving Bragg transitions with the use of an optical lattice co-linear with the waveguide. Matter wave propagation and interferometric fringe visibility are compared across a range of $s$-wave scattering values including repulsive, attractive and non-interacting values. The solitonic matter wave is found to significantly increase fringe visibility even compared with a non-interacting cloud.

id: 1403.3497
title: Nonlocal quantum gate on quantum continuous variables with minimum resources
authors: Shota Yokoyama, Ryuji Ukai, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3497
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate, with an all-optical setup, a nonlocal deterministic quantum non-demolition interaction gate applicable to quantum states at nodes separated by a physical distance and connected by classical communication channels. The gate implementation, based on entangled states shared in advance, local operations, and classical communication, runs completely in parallel fashion at both the local nodes, requiring minimum resource. The nondemolition character of the gate up to the local unitary squeezing is veri?ed by the analysis using several coherent states. A genuine quantum nature of the gate is con?rmed by the capability of deterministically producing an entangled state at the output from two separable input states. The all-optical nonlocal gate operation can be potentially incorporated into distributed quantum computing with atomic or solid state systems as a cross-processor unitary operation.

id: 1403.3512
title: Surface plasmons in a metal nanowire coupled to colloidal quantum dots: Scattering properties and quantum entanglement
authors: Guang-Yin Chen, Neill Lambert, Chung-Hsien Chou, Yueh-Nan Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3512
abstract: We investigate coherent single surface-plasmon transport in a metal nanowire strongly coupled to two colloidal quantum dots. Analytical expressions are obtained for the transmission and reflection coefficients by solving the corresponding eigenvalue equation. Remote entanglement of the wave functions of the two quantum dots can be created if the inter-dot distance is equal to a multiple half-wavelength of the surface plasmon. Furthermore, by applying classical laser pulses to the quantum dots, the entangled states can be stored in metastable states which are decoupled from the surface plasmons.

id: 1403.3523
title: Geometric quantum pumping in the presence of dissipation
authors: Juzar Thingna, Peter H?nggi, Rosario Fazio, Michele Campisi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. v2 accepted by PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 094517 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3523
abstract: The charge transported when a quantum pump is adiabatically driven by time-dependent external forces in presence of dissipation is given by the line integral of a pumping field $\mathbf{F}$. We give a general expression of $\mathbf{F}$ in terms of quantum correlation functions evaluated at fixed external forces. Hence, an advantage of our method is that it transforms the original time-dependent problem into an autonomous one. Yet another advantage is that the curl of $\mathbf{F}$ gives immediate visual information about the geometric structures governing dissipative quantum pumping. This can be used in a wide range of experimental cases, including electron pumps based on quantum dots and Cooper-pair pumps based on superconducting devices. Applied to a Cooper-pair sluice, we find an intriguing dissipation-induced enhancement of charge pumping, reversals of current, and emergence of asymmetries. This geometric method thus enables one to unveil a plethora of beneficial, dissipation-assisted operation protocols.

id: 1403.3527
title: Derivation of Quantum Theory from Feynman's Rules
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3527
abstract: Feynman's formulation of quantum theory is remarkable in its combination of formal simplicity and computational power. However, as a formulation of the abstract structure of quantum theory, it is incomplete as it does not account for most of the fundamental mathematical structure of the standard von Neumann-Dirac formalism such as the unitary evolution of quantum states. In this paper, we show how to reconstruct the entirety of the finite-dimensional quantum formalism starting from Feynman's rules with the aid of a single new physical postulate, the no-disturbance postulate. This postulate states that a particular class of measurements have no effect on the outcome probabilities of subsequent measurements performed. We also show how it is possible to derive both the amplitude rule for composite systems of distinguishable subsystems and Dirac's amplitude-action rule, each from a single elementary and natural assumption, by making use of the fact that these assumptions must be consistent with Feynman's rules.

id: 1403.3533
title: Quantum linear network coding as one-way quantum computation
authors: Niel de Beaudrap, Martin Roetteler
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. Minor revisions to presentation & bibliography
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3533
abstract: Network coding is a technique to maximize communication rates within a network, in communication protocols for simultaneous multi-party transmission of information. Linear network codes are examples of such protocols in which the local computations performed at the nodes in the network are limited to linear transformations of their input data (represented as elements of a ring, such as the integers modulo 2). The quantum linear network coding protocols of Kobayashi et al [arXiv:0908.1457 and arXiv:1002.4583] coherently simulate classical linear network codes, using supplemental classical communication. We demonstrate that these protocols correspond in a natural way to measurement-based quantum computations with graph states over over qudits [arXiv:quant-ph/0301052, arXiv:quant-ph/0603226, and arXiv:0704.1263] having a structure directly related to the network.

id: 1403.3582
title: Symmetrization for Quantum Networks: a continuous-time approach
authors: Francesci Ticozzi, Luca Mazarella, Alain Sarlette
comments: submitted to MTNS 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3582
abstract: In this paper we propose a continuous-time, dissipative Markov dynamics that asymptotically drives a network of n-dimensional quantum systems to the set of states that are invariant under the action of the subsystem permutation group. The Lindblad-type generator of the dynamics is built with two-body subsystem swap operators, thus satisfying locality constraints, and preserve symmetric observables. The potential use of the proposed generator in combination with local control and measurement actions is illustrated with two applications: the generation of a global pure state and the estimation of the network size.

id: 1403.3588
title: The Non-Signalling theorem in generalizations of Bell's theorem
authors: Jan Walleczek, Gerhard Groessing
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; talk presented at the 2nd international symposium on "Emergent Quantum Mechanics" (Vienna, Austria, 3-6 October, 2013), (this http URL) To be published in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2014)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2014) 504 012001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3588
abstract: Does "epistemic non-signalling" ensure the peaceful coexistence of special relativity and quantum nonlocality? The possibility of an affirmative answer is of great importance to deterministic approaches to quantum mechanics given recent developments towards generalizations of Bell's theorem. By generalizations of Bell's theorem we here mean efforts that seek to demonstrate the impossibility of any deterministic theories to obey the predictions of Bell's theorem, including even nonlocal hidden-variables theories such as de Broglie-Bohm theory. The present work offers arguments showing why such efforts towards generalization may fall short of their stated goal. In particular, we reject the use of the non-signalling theorem as an argument against the logical possibility of deterministic quantum theories. We proceed by presenting an entirely informal treatment of key physical and metaphysical assumptions, and of their interrelationship, in attempts seeking to generalize Bell's theorem on the basis of an ontic, foundational interpretation of the non-signalling theorem. We here argue that the non-signalling theorem must instead be viewed as an epistemic, phenomenological, or operational theorem i.e. one that refers exclusively to what epistemic agents can, or rather cannot, do. That is, we emphasize that the non-signalling theorem is a theorem about the operational inability of epistemic agents, e.g. human observers, to signal information. A major reason in favor of our conclusion is that any definition of signalling or of non-signalling invariably requires a reference to epistemic agents, and what these agents can actually measure and report; otherwise, the non-signalling theorem would equal a general "no-influence" theorem.

id: 1403.3637
title: Nonlinearity-Induced Entanglement Stability in a Qubit-Oscillator System
authors: V¨ªctor Montenegro, Alessandro Ferraro, Sougato Bose
comments: v2: 11 pages, 10 figures (based on the reviewed version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013829 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3637
abstract: We propose a system composed of a qubit interacting with a quartic (undriven) nonlinear oscillator (NLO) through a conditional displacement Hamiltonian. We show that even a modest nonlinear perturbation in the NLO potential can enhance and stabilize the quantum entanglement dynamically generated between the qubit and the NLO. In absence of the nonlinearity the entanglement between the qubit and the oscillator is known to periodically oscillate between 0 and 1, whereas the nonlinearity suppresses the dynamical decay of entanglement once it is generated. While the generation of entanglement is due to the superposition principle combined with conditional displacements in the NLO, as noted in several works before, the improvements in this entanglement is because of the squeezing and other complex processes induced by two- and four-phonon interactions. Finally, we have solved the Markovian master equation, and even in this open case the system preserves the previous features and remain robust.

id: 1403.3647
title: Heisenberg Limit Superradiant Superresolving Metrology
authors: Da-Wei Wang, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 083601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3647
abstract: We propose a superradiant metrology technique to achieve the Heisenberg limit super-resolving displacement measurement by encoding multiple light momenta into a three-level atomic ensemble. We use $2N$ coherent pulses to prepare a single excitation superradiant state in a superposition of two timed Dicke states that are $4N$ light momenta apart in momentum space. The phase difference between these two states induced by a uniform displacement of the atomic ensemble has $1/4N$ sensitivity. Experiments are proposed in crystals and in ultracold atoms.

id: 1403.3652
title: Many-Body Interactions with Tunable-Coupling Transmon Qubits
authors: A. Mezzacapo, L. Lamata, S. Filipp, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages + supplemental material, 4+1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 050501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3652
abstract: The efficient implementation of many-body interactions in superconducting circuits allows for the realization of multipartite entanglement and topological codes, as well as the efficient simulation of highly correlated fermionic systems. We propose the engineering of fast multiqubit interactions with tunable transmon-resonator couplings. This dynamics is obtained by the modulation of magnetic fluxes threading superconducting quantum interference device loops embedded in the transmon devices. We consider the feasibility of the proposed implementation in a realistic scenario and discuss potential applications.

id: 1403.3662
title: In-Vacuum Active Electronics for Microfabricated Ion Traps
authors: Nicholas D. Guise, Spencer D. Fallek, Harley Hayden, C-S Pai, Curtis Volin, K. R. Brown, J. True Merrill, Alexa W. Harter, Jason M. Amini, Lisa M. Lust, Kelly Muldoon, Doug Carlson, Jerry Budach
comments: 8 pages, 15 figures; slight revisions following journal review
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 063101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3662
abstract: The advent of microfabricated ion traps for the quantum information community has allowed research groups to build traps that incorporate an unprecedented number of trapping zones. However, as device complexity has grown, the number of digital-to-analog converter (DAC) channels needed to control these devices has grown as well, with some of the largest trap assemblies now requiring nearly one hundred DAC channels. Providing electrical connections for these channels into a vacuum chamber can be bulky and difficult to scale beyond the current numbers of trap electrodes. This paper reports on the development and testing of an in-vacuum DAC system that uses only 9 vacuum feedthrough connections to control a 78-electrode microfabricated ion trap. The system is characterized by trapping single and multiple $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions. The measured axial mode stability, ion heating rates, and transport fidelities for a trapped ion are comparable to systems with external(air-side) commercial DACs.

id: 1403.3686
title: Closed form solution of Lindblad master equations without gain
authors: Juan Mauricio Torres
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052133 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3686
abstract: We present a closed form solution to the eigenvalue problem of a class of master equations that describe open quantum system with loss and dephasing but without gain. The method relies on the existence of a conserved number of excitation in the Hamiltonian part and that none of the Lindblad operators describe an excitation of the system. In the absence of dephasing Lindblad operators, the eigensystem of the Liouville operator can be constructed from the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian used in the quantum jump approach. Open versions of spin chains, the Tavis-Cummings model and coupled Harmonic oscillators without gain can be solved using this technique.

id: 1403.3696
title: Modular Entanglement of Atomic Qubits using both Photons and Phonons
authors: D. Hucul, I.V. Inlek, G. Vittorini, C. Crocker, S. Debnath, S. M. Clark, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3696
abstract: Quantum entanglement is the central resource behind applications in quantum information science, from quantum computers and simulators of complex quantum systems to metrology and secure communication. All of these applications require the quantum control of large networks of quantum bits (qubits) to realize gains and speedups over conventional devices. However, propagating quantum entanglement generally becomes difficult or impossible as the system grows in size, owing to the inevitable decoherence from the complexity of connections between the qubits and increased couplings to the environment. Here, we demonstrate the first step in a modular approach to scaling entanglement by utilizing a hierarchy of quantum buses on a collection of three atomic ion qubits stored in two remote ion trap modules. Entanglement within a module is achieved with deterministic near-field interactions through phonons, and remote entanglement between modules is achieved through a probabilistic interaction through photons. This minimal system allows us to address generic issues in synchronization and scalability of entanglement with multiple buses, while pointing the way toward a modular large-scale quantum computer architecture that promises less spectral crowding and less decoherence. We generate this modular entanglement faster than the observed qubit decoherence rate, thus the system can be scaled to much larger dimensions by adding more modules.

id: 1403.3703
title: Thermalization properties at mK temperatures of a nanoscale optomechanical resonator with acoustic-bandgap shield
authors: Sean M. Meenehan, Justin D. Cohen, Simon Groeblacher, Jeff T. Hill, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Markus Aspelmeyer, Oskar Painter
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3703
abstract: Optical measurements of a nanoscale silicon optomechanical crystal cavity with a mechanical resonance frequency of 3.6GHz are performed at sub-kelvin temperatures. We infer optical-absorption-induced heating and damping of the mechanical resonator from measurements of phonon occupancy and motional sideband asymmetry. At the lowest probe power and lowest fridge temperature (10mK), the localized mechanical resonance is found to couple at a rate of 400Hz (Q=9x10^6) to a thermal bath of temperature 270mK. These measurements indicate that silicon optomechanical crystals cooled to millikelvin temperatures should be suitable for a variety of experiments involving coherent coupling between photons and phonons at the single quanta level.

id: 1403.3704
title: Spontaneous emission in a silicon charge qubit
authors: Khoi T. Nguyen, N. Tobias Jacobson, Michael P. Lilly, Nathaniel C. Bishop, Erik Nielsen, Joel R. Wendt, J. Dominguez, T. Pluym, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3704
abstract: The interaction between a qubit and its environment provides a channel for energy relaxation which has an energy-dependent timescale governed by the specific coupling mechanism. We measure the rate of inelastic decay in a Si MOS double quantum dot (DQD) charge qubit through sensing the charge state's response to non-adiabatic driving of its excited state population. The charge distribution is sensed remotely in the weak measurement regime. We extract emission rates down to kHz frequencies by measuring the variation of the non-equilibrium charge occupancy as a function of amplitude and dwell times between non-adiabatic pulses. Our measurement of the energy-dependent relaxation rate provides a fingerprint of the relaxation mechanism, indicating that relaxation rates for this Si MOS DQD are consistent with coupling to deformation acoustic phonons.

id: 1403.3705
title: Fermionic Wave Functions on Unordered Configurations
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, James Taylor, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 29 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3705
abstract: Quantum mechanical wave functions of N identical fermions are usually represented as anti-symmetric functions of ordered configurations. Leinaas and Myrheim proposed how a fermionic wave function can be represented as a function of unordered configurations, which is desirable as the ordering is artificial and unphysical. In this approach, the wave function is a cross-section of a particular Hermitian vector bundle over the configuration space, which we call the fermionic line bundle. Here, we provide a justification for Leinaas and Myrheim's proposal, that is, a justification for regarding cross-sections of the fermionic line bundle as equivalent to anti-symmetric functions of ordered configurations. In fact, we propose a general notion of equivalence of two quantum theories on the same configuration space; it is based on specifying a quantum theory as a triple $(\mathscr{H},H,Q)$ (``quantum triple'') consisting of a Hilbert space $\mathscr{H}$, a Hamiltonian $H$, and a family of position operators (technically, a projection-valued measure on configuration space acting on $\mathscr{H}$).

id: 1403.3711
title: Tensor product extension of entanglement witnesses and their connection with measurement device independent entanglement
authors: A. Rutkowski, P. Horodecki
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 378, 2043-2047 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3711
abstract: We provide a new extension of entanglement witnesses for $\mathbb{C}^{d_{1}}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d_{2}}$ systems. Our construction preserves the properties of indecomposability and spanning property of entanglement witnesses. We show how our concept of extended entanglement witnesses is connected with the idea of measurement device independent entanglement witnesses.

id: 1403.3725
title: Quantum set algebra for quantum set theory
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3725
abstract: Quantum field theory can be physically regularized by modularizing it on several levels of aggregation. Since computation is already thoroughly modularized, physical experiments are treated here as quantum relativistic cellular computations with spins for cells, address, memory, and control registers. For regularity the modules are taken to be iterated Fermi-Dirac assemblies. These are shown to be spins in various dimensions. Bose statistics are expressed as approximations to the Palev statistics of pairs of Fermi-Dirac quanta.

id: 1403.3726
title: Quantum field theory in quantum set algebra
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3726
abstract: A modular quantum architecture is given for the space-time, particles, and fields of the Standard Model and General Relativity. It assumes a right-handed neutrino, so that based on their multiplet structure all fundamental fermions have isospin 1/2. This opens the possibility that the Higgs field can be identified with the Yang $i$-field of 1947. The quantum gravitational metric form proposed is a quantification of the Killing form of the quantum space-time cell. There is no trace of the black hole phenomenon at the one-cell quantum level.

id: 1403.3737
title: Phase diagram study of a dimerized spin-S zig-zag ladder
authors: J.M. Matera, C.A. Lamas
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Some typos were corrected, and notation was clarified
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 (2014) 326004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3737
abstract: The phase diagram of a frustrated spin-$S$ zig-zag ladder is studied through different numerical and analytical methods. We show that for arbitrary $S$, there is a family of Hamiltonians for which a fully-dimerized state is an exact ground state, being the Majumdar-Ghosh point a particular member of the family. We show that the system presents a transition between a dimerized phase to a N\'eel-like phase for $S=1/2$, and spiral phases can appear for large $S$. The phase diagram is characterized by means of a generalization of the usual Mean Field Approximation (MFA). The novelty in the present implementation is to consider the strongest coupled sites as the unit cell. The gap and the excitation spectrum is analyzed through the Random Phase Approximation (RPA). Also, a perturbative treatment to obtain the critical points is discussed. Comparisons of the results with numerical methods like DMRG are also presented.

id: 1403.3820
title: New inequalities for quantum von Neumann and tomographic mutual information
authors: V.I. Man'ko, L.A Markovich
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3820
abstract: Entropic inequalities related to the quantum mutual information for bipartite system and tomographic mutual information is studied for Werner state of two qubits. Quantum correlations corresponding to entanglement properties of the qubits in Werner state are discussed.

id: 1403.3822
title: Entropic Dynamics: an Inference Approach to Quantum Theory, Time and Measurement
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: Invited paper presented at the EmQM13 Workshop on Emergent Quantum Mechanics, Austrian Academy of Sciences (October 3-6, 2013, Vienna)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3822
abstract: We review the derivation of quantum theory as an application of entropic methods of inference. The new contribution in this paper is a streamlined derivation of the Schr\"odinger equation based on a different choice of microstates and constraints.

id: 1403.3828
title: Randomized Graph States and their Entanglement Properties
authors: Jun-Yi Wu, Matteo Rossi, Hermann Kampermann, Simone Severini, Leong Chuan Kwek, Chiara Macchiavello, Dagmar Bru?
comments: This is the published version. We have added some text to clarify our results, corrected typos in references, and made some minor style modifications according to the journal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89:052335 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3828
abstract: We introduce a class of mixed multiqubit states, that corresponds to a randomized version of graph states. Such states arise when a graph state is prepared with noisy or imperfect controlled-Z gates. We study the entanglement features of these states by investigating both bipartite and genuine multipartite entanglement. Bipartite entanglement is studied via the concepts of connectedness and persistency, which are related to measurement based quantum computation. The presence of multipartite entanglement is instead revealed by the use of witness operators which are subsequently adapted to study nonlocal properties through the violation of suitable Bell inequalities. We also present results on the entanglement detection of particular randomized graph states, by deriving explicit thresholds for entanglement and nonlocality in terms of the noise parameter that characterizes the controlled-Z gates exploited for their generation. Finally, we propose a method to further improve the detection of genuine multipartite entanglement in this class of states.

id: 1403.3830
title: Discriminating single-photon states unambiguously in high dimensions
authors: Megan Agnew, Eliot Bolduc, Kevin J. Resch, Sonja Franke-Arnold, Jonathan Leach
comments: 4 pages + 3 pages supplementary, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3830
abstract: The ability to uniquely identify a quantum state is integral to quantum science, but for non-orthogonal states, quantum mechanics precludes deterministic, error-free discrimination. However, using the non-deterministic protocol of unambiguous state discrimination (USD) enables error-free differentiation of states, at the cost of a lower frequency of success. We discriminate experimentally between non-orthogonal, high-dimensional states encoded in single photons; our results range from dimension $d=2$ to $d=14$. We quantify the performance of our method by comparing the total measured error rate to the theoretical rate predicted by minimum-error state discrimination. For the chosen states, we find a lower error rate by more than one standard deviation for dimensions up to $d=12$. This method will find immediate application in high-dimensional implementations of quantum information protocols, such as quantum cryptography.

id: 1403.3840
title: Mirror symmetry in the energy spectra of $n$-level systems
authors: S. Cordero, O. Casta?os, R. L¨®pez--Pe?a, E. Nahmad--Achar
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3840
abstract: The energy spectrum of a system of $N_a$ atoms of $n$ levels interacting with a one-mode electromagnetic field is studied in the dipole and rotating wave approximations. We find that, under the resonant condition, it exhibits a mirror symmetry with respect to the energy $E=M$ where $M$ the total number of excitations. Thus, for any eigenstate $|\psi_M^{+}\rangle$ with energy $E=M+{\cal E}$ there exists a related eigenstate $|\psi_M^{-}\rangle$ with energy $E=M-{\cal E}$ via the unitary parity operator in the number of photons . This is independent of the dipolar coupling between the levels. We give explicit examples for $3$-level systems.

id: 1403.3854
title: Lagrangian approach to the semi-relativistic electron dynamics in the mean-field approximation
authors: Anant Dixit, Yannick Hinschberger, Jens Zamanian, Giovanni Manfredi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3854
abstract: We derive a mean-field model that is based on a two-component Pauli-like equation and incorporates quantum, spin, and relativistic effects up to second order in $1/c$. Using a Lagrangian approach, we obtain the self-consistent charge and current densities that act as sources in the Maxwell equations. A physical interpretation is provided for the second-order corrections to the sources. The Maxwell equations are also expanded to the same order. The resulting self-consistent model constitutes a suitable semi-relativistic approximation to the full Dirac-Maxwell equations.

id: 1403.3892
title: Dynamics of entangled states in squeezed reservoirs
authors: Khalid Aloufi, Smail Bougouffa, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 11 pages double column and 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3892
abstract: Dynamics of entangled states of two independent single-mode cavities in squeezed reservoirs is investigated in the context of matching of the correlations contained in the entangled states to those contained in the squeezed reservoir. We illustrate our considerations by examining the time evolution of entanglement of single and double excitation NOON and EPR states. A comparison is made when each cavity is coupled to own reservoir or both cavities are coupled to a common reservoir. It is shown that the evolution of the initial entanglement and transfer of entanglement from the squeezed reservoir to the cavity modes depend crucially on the matching of the initial correlations to that contained in the squeezed reservoir. In particular, it is found that initially entangled modes with correlations different from the reservoir correlations prevent the transfer of the correlations from the squeezed field to the modes. In addition, we find that the transient entanglement exhibits several features unique to quantum nature of squeezing. In particular, we show that in the case of separate squeezed reservoirs a variation of the decay time of the initial entanglement with the squeezing phase is unique to quantum squeezing. In the case of a common reservoir a recurrence of entanglement occurs and we find that this feature also results from the reservoir correlations unique to quantum squeezing. There is no revival of entanglement when the modes interact with a classically squeezed field.

id: 1403.4003
title: Arbitrary control of coherent dynamics for distant qubits in a quantum network
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng, Chui-Ping Yang, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4003
abstract: We show that the coherent coupling of atomic qubits at distant nodes of a quantum network, composed of several cavities linked by optical fibers, can be arbitrarily controlled via the selective pairing of Raman transitions. The adiabatic elimination of the atomic excited states and photonic states leads to selective qubit-qubit interactions, which would have important applications in quantum information processing. Quantum gates between any pair of distant qubits and parallel two-qubit operations on selected qubit pairs can be implemented through suitable choices of the parameters of the external fields. The selective pairing of Raman transitions also allows the generation of spin chains and cluster states without the requirement that the cavity-fiber coupling be smaller than the detunings of the Raman transitions.

id: 1403.4004
title: Experimental demonstration of error-insensitive approximate universal-NOT gates
authors: Sang Min Lee, Jeongho Bang, Heonoh Kim, Hyunseok Jeong, Jinhyoung Lee, Han Seb Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4004
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate an approximate universal-NOT (U-NOT) operation that is robust against operational errors. In our proposal, the U-NOT operation is composed of stochastic unitary operations represented by the vertices of regular polyhedrons. The operation is designed to be robust against random operational errors by increasing the number of unitary operations (i.e., reference axes). Remarkably, no increase in the total number of measurements nor additional resources are required to perform the U-NOT operation. Our method can be applied in general to reduce operational errors to an arbitrary degree of precision when approximating any anti-unitary operation in a stochastic manner.

id: 1403.4007
title: Scalable boson-sampling with time-bin encoding using a loop-based architecture
authors: Keith R. Motes, Alexei Gilchrist, Jonathan P. Dowling, Peter P. Rohde
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4007
abstract: We present an architecture for arbitrarily scalable boson-sampling using two nested fiber loops. The architecture has fixed experimental complexity, irrespective of the size of the desired interferometer, whose scale is limited only by fiber and switch loss rates. The architecture employs time-bin encoding, whereby the incident photons form a pulse train, which enters the loops. Dynamically controlled loop coupling ratios allow the construction of the arbitrary linear optics interferometers required for boson-sampling. The architecture employs only a single point of interference and may thus be easier to stabilize than other approaches. The scheme has polynomial complexity and could be realized using demonstrated present-day technologies.

id: 1403.4037
title: Possible realization of entanglement, logical gates and quantum information transfer with superconducting-quantum-interference-device qubits in cavity QED
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 042311 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4037
abstract: We present a scheme to achieve maximally entangled states, controlled phase-shift gate, and SWAP gate for two superconducting-quantum-interference-device (SQUID) qubits, by placing SQUIDs in a microwave cavity. We also show how to transfer quantum information from one SQUID qubit to another. In this scheme, no transfer of quantum information between the SQUIDs and the cavity is required, the cavity field is only virtually excited and thus the requirement on the quality factor of the cavity is greatly relaxed.

id: 1403.4066
title: Observing a Quantum Phase Transition by Measuring a Single Spin
authors: Manuel Gessner, Michael Ramm, Hartmut Haeffner, Andreas Buchleitner, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 107, 40005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4066
abstract: We show that the ground-state quantum correlations of an Ising model can be detected by monitoring the time evolution of a single spin alone, and that the critical point of a quantum phase transition is detected through a maximum of a suitably defined observable. A proposed implementation with trapped ions realizes an experimental probe of quantum phase transitions which is based on quantum correlations and scalable for large system sizes.

id: 1403.4076
title: Single-step implementation of a multiple-target-qubit controlled phase gate without need of classical pulses
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Feng-Yang Zhang, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters 39 (11), 3312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4076
abstract: We propose a simple method for realizing a multiqubit phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ target qubits, by using three-level quantum systems (i.e., qutrits) coupled to a cavity or resonator. The gate can be implemented using one operational step and without need of classical pulses, and no photon is populated during the operation. Thus, the gate operation is greatly simplified and decoherence from the cavity decay is much reduced, when compared with the previous proposals. In addition, the operation time is independent of the number of qubits and no adjustment of the qutrit level spacings or the cavity frequency is needed during the operation.

id: 1403.4080
title: Multiparameter Heisenberg limit
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: first draft
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4080
abstract: Using a quantum version of the Bell-Ziv-Zakai bound, I derive a Heisenberg limit to multiparameter estimation for any Gaussian prior probability density. The mean-square error lower bound is shown to have a universal quadratic scaling with respect to a quantum resource, such as the average photon number in the case of optical phase estimation, suitably weighted by the prior covariance matrix.

id: 1403.4140
title: Fast-forward scaling in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Kazutaka Takahashi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4140
abstract: Time evolution of quantum systems is accelerated by the fast-forward scaling. We reformulate the method to study systems in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. For several simple systems, we explicitly construct the acceleration potential. We also use our formulation to accelerate the adiabatic dynamics. Applying the method to the transitionless quantum driving, we find that the fast-forward potential can be understood as a counterdiabatic term.

id: 1403.4145
title: Photon-echo-based quantum memory for optical squeezed states
authors: Miao-Xin Wu, Ming-Feng Wang, Yi-Zhuang Zheng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4145
abstract: The ability to efficiently realize storage and readout of optical squeezed states plays a key roll in continuous-variables quantum information processing. Here we study the quantum memory (QM) for squeezed state of propagating light in atoms based on the hybrid photon echo re-phasing (HYPER). The optical quantum state is recorded in two sublevels of the ground state of an atomic ensemble to realize long-lived QM. Taking into account the noise effect due to atomic decay, our estimation indicates that, with currently available technique, high fidelities larger than the classical fidelity threshold 81.5 % are obtainable. Our work provides some practical guidance for realization of efficient and faithful photon-echo-based memory for squeezed light.

id: 1403.4147
title: Higher-order interference and single-system postulates characterizing quantum theory
authors: Howard Barnum, Markus P. Mueller, Cozmin Ududec
comments: 21 + 6 pages, 1 figure. v4: published version (includes several minor corrections)
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 123029 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4147
abstract: We present a new characterization of quantum theory in terms of simple physical principles that is different from previous ones in two important respects: first, it only refers to properties of single systems without any assumptions on the composition of many systems; and second, it is closer to experiment by having absence of higher-order interference as a postulate, which is currently the subject of experimental investigation. We give three postulates -- no higher-order interference, classical decomposability of states, and strong symmetry -- and prove that the only non-classical operational probabilistic theories satisfying them are real, complex, and quaternionic quantum theory, together with 3-level octonionic quantum theory and ball state spaces of arbitrary dimension. Then we show that adding observability of energy as a fourth postulate yields complex quantum theory as the unique solution, relating the emergence of the complex numbers to the possibility of Hamiltonian dynamics. We also show that there may be interesting non-quantum theories satisfying only the first two of our postulates, which would allow for higher-order interference in experiments while still respecting the contextuality analogue of the local orthogonality principle.

id: 1403.4161
title: Thermal balance and photon-number quantization in layered structures
authors: Mikko Partanen, Teppo H?yrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 033831 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4161
abstract: The quantization of the electromagnetic field in lossy and dispersive dielectric media has been widely studied during the last few decades. However, several aspects of energy transfer and its relation to consistently defining position-dependent ladder operators for the electromagnetic field in nonequilibrium conditions have partly escaped the attention. In this work we define the position-dependent ladder operators and an effective local photon-number operator that are consistent with the canonical commutation relations and use these concepts to describe the energy transfer and thermal balance in layered geometries. This approach results in a position-dependent photon-number concept that is simple and consistent with classical energy conservation arguments. The operators are formed by first calculating the vector potential operator using Green's function formalism and Langevin noise source operators related to the medium and its temperature, and then defining the corresponding position-dependent annihilation operator that is required to satisfy the canonical commutation relations in arbitrary geometry. Our results suggest that the effective photon number associated with the electric field is generally position dependent and enables a straightforward method to calculate the energy transfer rate between the field and the local medium. In particular, our results predict that the effective photon number in a vacuum cavity formed between two lossy material layers can oscillate as a function of the position suggesting that also the local field temperature oscillates. These oscillations are expected to be directly observable using relatively straightforward experimental setups in which the field-matter interaction is dominated by the coupling to the electric field.

id: 1403.4194
title: Quantum non-Gaussian Depth of Single-Photon States
authors: Ivo Straka, Ana Predojevi?, Tobias Huber, Luk¨¢? Lachman, Lorenz Butschek, Martina Mikov¨¢, Michal Mi?uda, Glenn S. Solomon, Gregor Weihs, Miroslav Je?ek, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 1 onion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 223603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4194
abstract: We introduce and experimentally explore the concept of quantum non-Gaussian depth of single-photon states with a positive Wigner function. The depth measures the robustness of a single-photon state against optical losses. The directly witnessed quantum non-Gaussianity withstands significant attenuation, exhibiting a depth of 18 dB, while the nonclassicality remains unchanged. Quantum non-Gaussian depth is an experimentally approachable quantity that is much more robust than the negativity of the Wigner function. Furthermore, we use it to reveal significant differences between otherwise strongly nonclassical single-photon sources.

id: 1403.4204
title: PT-symmetry breaking with divergent potentials: lattice and continuum cases
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Derek D. Scott, Avadh Saxena
comments: Revised text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4204
abstract: We investigate the parity- and time-reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$)-symmetry breaking in lattice models in the presence of long-ranged, non-hermitian, $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potentials that remain finite or become divergent in the continuum limit. By scaling analysis of the fragile $\mathcal{PT}$ threshold for an open finite lattice, we show that continuum loss-gain potentials $V_\alpha(x)\propto i |x|^\alpha \mathrm{sign}(x)$ have a positive $\mathcal{PT}$-breaking threshold for $\alpha>-2$, and a zero threshold for $\alpha\leq -2$. When $\alpha<0$ localized states with complex (conjugate) energies in the continuum energy-band occur at higher loss-gain strengths. We investigate the signatures of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry breaking in coupled waveguides, and show that the emergence of localized states dramatically shortens the relevant time-scale in the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry broken region.

id: 1403.4228
title: Consistency Tests of Classical and Quantum Models for a Quantum Annealer
authors: Tameem Albash, Walter Vinci, Anurag Mishra, Paul A. Warburton, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 36 pages, 36 figures. v2: Addresses the issues raised in arXiv:1404.6499. v3. Paper reorganized for clarity of presentation, but results have not change since v2. v4: Updated title, author order, abstract, and manuscript to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042314 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4228
abstract: Recently the question of whether the D-Wave processors exhibit large-scale quantum behavior or can be described by a classical model has attracted significant interest. In this work we address this question by studying a 503 qubit D-Wave Two device in the "black box" model, i.e., by studying its input-output behavior. Our work generalizes an approach introduced in Boixo et al. [Nat. Commun. 4, 2067 (2013)], and uses groups of up to 20 qubits to realize a transverse Ising model evolution with a ground state degeneracy whose distribution acts as a sensitive probe that distinguishes classical and quantum models for the D-Wave device. Our findings rule out all classical models proposed to date for the device and provide evidence that an open system quantum dynamical description of the device that starts from a quantized energy level structure is well justified, even in the presence of relevant thermal excitations and a small value of the ratio of the single-qubit decoherence time to the annealing time.

id: 1403.4235
title: Entanglement and reduction in two-photon correlations
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 31 (4), 765-770 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4235
abstract: For a number of basic experiments on two-photon intensity correlations it is pointed out that the results, which are usually explained in terms of the formalism of canonical field quantization, can also be explained in terms of quantum wave packets, where reduction and entanglement are taken into account.

id: 1403.4239
title: On the eigenvalues of some non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with space-time symmetry
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4239
abstract: We calculate the eigenvalues of some two-dimensional non-Hermitian Hamiltonians by means of a pseudospectral method and straightforward diagonalization of the Hamiltonian matrix in a suitable basis set. Both sets of results agree remarkably well but differ considerably from the eigenvalues obtained some time ago by other authors. In particular, we do not observe the multiple phase transitions claimed to occur in one of the anharmonic oscillators.

id: 1403.4261
title: Locality and universality of quantum memory effects
authors: B.-H. Liu, S. Wi?mann, X.-M. Hu, C. Zhang, Y.-F. Huang, C.-F. Li, G.-C. Guo, A. Karlsson, J. Piilo, H.-P. Breuer
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4261
abstract: Recently, a series of different measures quantifying memory effects in the quantum dynamics of open systems has been proposed. Here, we derive a mathematical representation for the non-Markovianity measure based on the exchange of information between the open system and its environment which substantially simplifies its numerical and experimental determination, and fully reveals the locality and universality of non-Markovianity in the quantum state space. We further illustrate the application of this representation by means of an all-optical experiment which allows the measurement of the degree of memory effects in a photonic quantum process with high accuracy.

id: 1403.4280
title: Quantum bidding in Bridge
authors: S. Muhammad, A. Tavakoli, M. Kurant, M. Pawlowski, M. Zukowski, M. Bourennane
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021047 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4280
abstract: Quantum methods allow to reduce communication complexity of some computational tasks, with several separated partners, beyond classical constraints. Nevertheless, experimental demonstrations of this fact are thus far limited to some abstract problems, far away from real-life tasks. We show here, and demonstrate experimentally, that the power of reduction of communication complexity can be harnessed to gain advantage in famous, immensely popular, card game - Bridge. The essence of a winning strategy in Bridge is efficient communication between the partners. The rules of the game allow only specific form of communication, of a very low complexity (effectively one has a strong limitations on number of exchanged bits). Surprisingly, our quantum technique is not violating the existing rules of the game (as there is no increase in information flow). We show that our quantum Bridge auction corresponds to a biased nonlocal Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) game, which is equivalent to a $2\to 1$ quantum random access code. Thus our experiment is also a realization of such protocols. However, this correspondence is not full which enables the Bridge players to have efficient strategies regardless of the quality of their detectors.

id: 1403.4341
title: Optomechanical-like coupling between superconducting resonators
authors: J.R. Johansson, G. Johansson, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053833 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4341
abstract: We propose and analyze a circuit that implements a nonlinear coupling between two superconducting microwave resonators. The resonators are coupled through a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) that terminates one of the resonators. This produces a nonlinear interaction on the standard optomechanical form, where the quadrature of one resonator couples to the photon number of the other resonator. The circuit therefore allows for all-electrical realizations of analogs to optomechanical systems, with coupling that can be both strong and tunable. We estimate the coupling strengths that should be attainable with the proposed device, and we find that the device is a promising candidate for realizing the single-photon strong-coupling regime. As a potential application, we discuss implementations of networks of nonlinearly-coupled microwave resonators, which could be used in microwave-photon based quantum simulation.

id: 1403.4344
title: Debugging Quantum Processes Using Monitoring Measurements
authors: Yangjia Li, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 7 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Software Engineering (cs.SE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4344
abstract: Since observation on a quantum system may cause the system state collapse, it is usually hard to find a way to monitor a quantum process, which is a quantum system that continuously evolves. We propose a protocol that can debug a quantum process by monitoring, but not disturb the evolution of the system. This protocol consists of an error detector and a debugging strategy. The detector is a projection operator that is orthogonal to the anticipated system state at a sequence of time points, and the strategy is used to specify these time points. As an example, we show how to debug the computational process of quantum search using this protocol. By applying the Skolem--Mahler--Lech theorem in algebraic number theory, we find an algorithm to construct all of the debugging protocols for quantum processes of time independent Hamiltonians.

id: 1403.4365
title: Quantum simulation of topological Majorana bound states and their universal quantum operations using charge-qubit arrays
authors: Ting Mao, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012336 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4365
abstract: Majorana bound states have been a focus of condensed matter research for their potential applications in topological quantum computation. Here we utilize two charge-qubit arrays to explicitly simulate a DIII class one-dimensional superconductor model where Majorana end states can appear. Combined with one braiding operation, universal single-qubit operations on a Majorana-based qubit can be implemented by a controllable inductive coupling between two charge qubits at the ends of the arrays. We further show that in a similar way, a controlled-NOT gate for two topological qubits can be simulated in four charge-qubit arrays. Although the current scheme may not truly realize topological quantum operations, we elaborate that the operations in charge-qubit arrays are indeed robust against certain local perturbations.

id: 1403.4383
title: Quantum Properties of a Which-Way Detector
authors: J. S. Oliveira Filho, R. Rossi Jr., M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4383
abstract: We explore quantum properties of a which-way detector using three versions of an idealized two slit arrangements. Firstly we derive complementarity relations for the detector; secondly we show how the "experiment" may be altered in such a way that using single position measurement on the screen we can obtain quantum erasure. Finally we show how to construct a superposition of "wave" and "particle" components.

id: 1403.4397
title: Demonstration of coherent time-frequency Schmidt mode selection using dispersion-engineered frequency conversion
authors: Benjamin Brecht, Andreas Eckstein, Raimund Ricken, Viktor Quiring, Hubertus Suche, Linda Sansoni, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 030302(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4397
abstract: Time-frequency Schmidt (TFS) modes of ultrafast quantum states are naturally compatible with high bit-rate integrated quantum communication networks. Thus they offer an attractive alternative for the realization of high dimensional quantum optics. Here, we present a quantum pulse gate based on dispersion-engineered ultrafast frequency conversion in a nonlinear optical waveguide, which is a key element for harnessing the potential of TFS modes. We experimentally retrieve the modal spectral-temporal structure of our device and demonstrate a single-mode operation fidelity of 80\%, which is limited by experimental shortcomings. In addition, we retrieve a conversion efficiency of 87.7\% with a high signal-to-noise ratio of 8.8 when operating the quantum pulse gate at the single-photon level.

id: 1403.4417
title: Is Bell inequality violated once measurement independence is relaxed?
authors: Minsu Kim, Jinhyoung Lee, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4417
abstract: It has been believed that statistical inequality such as Bell inequality should be modified once measurement independence (MI), the assumption that observers can freely choose measurement settings without changing the probability distribution of hidden variables, is relaxed. However, we show that there exists the possibility that Bell inequality is still valid even if MI is relaxed. MI is only a sufficient condition to derive Bell inequality when both determinism and setting independence, usually called as local realism, are satisfied. We thus propose a new condition necessary and sufficient for deriving Bell inequality, called as concealed measurement dependence.

id: 1403.4432
title: Anisotropic quantum scattering in two dimensions
authors: Eugene A. Koval, Oksana A. Koval, Vladimir S. Melezhik
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4432
abstract: We study the quantum scattering in two spatial dimensions (2D). Our computational scheme allows to quantitatively analyze the scattering parameters for the strong anisotropy of the interaction potential. High efficiency of the method is demonstrated for the 2D scattering on the cylindrical potential with the elliptical base and dipole-dipole collisions in the plane. We reproduce the result for the 2D scattering of polarized dipoles in binary collisions obtained recently by Ticknor [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 032702 (2011)] and the 2D collisions of unpolarized dipoles.

id: 1403.4459
title: Conditions for an experimental Boson-sampling computer to disprove the Extended Church-Turing thesis
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: Fully revised version. 5 pages (in the two-column format) of the main text and 3 pages of appendices; no figures; minor correction in the last sentence of the Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4459
abstract: We give a set of sufficient conditions on the experimental Boson-Sampling computer to satisfy Theorem 1.3 of Aaronson & Arkhipov (Theory of Computing \textbf{9}, 143 (2013)) stating a computational problem whose simulation on a classical computer would collapse the polynomial hierarchy of the computational complexity to the third level. This implies that such an experimental device is in conflict with the Extended Church-Turing thesis. In practical terms, we give a set of sufficient conditions for the scalability of the experimental Boson-Sampling computer beyond the power of the classical computers. The derived conditions can be also used for devising efficient verification tests of the Boson-Sampling computer.

id: 1403.4465
title: Non-absorbing high-efficiency counter for itinerant microwave photons
authors: Bixuan Fan, G?ran Johansson, Joshua Combes, G. J. Milburn, Thomas M. Stace
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 035132 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4465
abstract: Detecting an itinerant microwave photon with high efficiency is an outstanding problem in microwave photonics and its applications. We present a scheme to detect an itinerant microwave photon in a transmission line via the nonlinearity provided by a transmon in a driven microwave resonator. With a single transmon we achieve 84% distinguishability between zero and one microwave photons and 90% distinguishability with two cascaded transmons by performing continuous measurements on the output field of the resonator. We also show how the measurement diminishes coherence in the photon number basis thereby illustrating a fundamental principle of quantum measurement: the higher the measurement efficiency, the faster is the decoherence.

id: 1403.4506
title: Optimizing phase estimation algorithms for diamond spin magnetometry
authors: N. M. Nusran, M. V. Gurudev Dutt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4506
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical and numerical study discussing the application and optimization of phase estimation algorithms (PEAs) to diamond spin magnetometry. We compare standard Ramsey magnetometry, the non-adaptive PEA (NAPEA) and quantum PEA (QPEA) incorporating error-checking. Our results show that the NAPEA requires lower measurement fidelity, has better dynamic range, and greater consistency in sensitivity. We elucidate the importance of dynamic range to Ramsey magnetic imaging with diamond spins, and introduce the application of PEAs to time-dependent magnetometry.

id: 1403.4542
title: Detecting multiparticle entanglement of Dicke states
authors: Bernd L¨¹cke, Jan Peise, Giuseppe Vitagliano, Jan Arlt, Luis Santos, Geza Toth, Carsten Klempt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 155304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4542
abstract: Recent experiments demonstrate the production of many thousands of neutral atoms entangled in their spin degrees of freedom. We present a criterion for estimating the amount of entanglement based on a measurement of the global spin. It outperforms previous criteria and applies to a wide class of entangled states, including Dicke states. Experimentally, we produce a Dicke-like state using spin dynamics in a Bose-Einstein condensate. Our criterion proves that it contains at least genuine 28-particle entanglement. We infer a generalized squeezing parameter of -11.4(5) dB.

id: 1403.4559
title: Event-based simulation of neutron experiments: interference, entanglement and uncertainty relations
authors: Kristel Michielsen, Hans De Raedt
comments: Invited paper presented at the EmQM13 Workshop on Emergent Quantum Mechanics, Austrian Academy of Sciences (October 3-6, 2013, Vienna)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4559
abstract: We discuss a discrete-event simulation approach, which has been shown to give a unified cause-and-effect description of many quantum optics and single-neutron interferometry experiments. The event-based simulation algorithm does not require the knowledge of the solution of a wave equation of the whole system, yet reproduces the corresponding statistical distributions by generating detection events one-by-one. It is showm that single-particle interference and entanglement, two important quantum phenomena, emerge via information exchange between individual particles and devices such as beam splitters, polarizers and detectors. We demonstrate this by reproducing the results of several single-neutron interferometry experiments, including one that demonstrates interference and one that demonstrates the violation of a Bell-type inequality. We also present event-based simulation results of a single neutron experiment designed to test the validity of Ozawa's universally valid error-disturbance relation, an uncertainty relation derived using the theory of general quantum measurements.

id: 1403.4562
title: Spectral properties of attractive bosons in a ring lattice including a single-site potential
authors: Michele Cavaletto, Vittorio Penna
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 115308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4562
abstract: The ground-state properties of attractive bosons trapped in a ring lattice including a single attractive potential well with an adjustable depth are investigated. The energy spectrum is reconstructed both in the strong-interaction limit and in the superfluid regime within the Bogoliubov picture. The analytical results thus obtained are compared with those found numerically from the exact Hamiltonian, in order to identify the regions in the parameter space where this picture is effective. The single potential introduced is the simplest way to break the translational symmetry and to observe, through a completely analytical approach, how the absence of symmetry affects the properties of the low-excited eigenstates of the system. This model gives a first insight into the properties of systems including more complex potentials.

id: 1403.4580
title: Electron channeling, de Broglie's clock and the relativistic time operator
authors: M. Bauer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4580
abstract: Electron channeling in silicon crystals has brought forward the possibility of having detected a particle's "internal clock", as an intrinsic oscillation with de Broglie's frequency. The transmission probability along a major axial direction is reduced with respect to neighboring angles, except for a sharp peak at the atomic row direction. The pattern observed is a "W" instead of a "U". This central peak is attributed to a process known as "rosette motion", in which the crossing of successive atoms would be related to the de Broglie frequency. A classical multiple scattering calculation found that, to represent the experimental results, the interaction frequency had to be about twice the de Broglie's clock frequency; that is, the "Zitterbewegung" frequency. In the present paper, the observed characteristics of this process are shown to be consistent with a free particle quantum mechanical motion described by Dirac's Hamiltonian, albeit with an effective mass resulting from the interaction with the crystal atoms. The introduction of a self-adjoint dynamic time operator provides the connection with an internal "system time", the de Broglie clock.

id: 1403.4584
title: Discrete-event simulation of uncertainty in single-neutron experiments
authors: Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen
comments: 
journal: Published in Front. Physics 2:14 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4584
abstract: A discrete-event simulation approach which provides a cause-and-effect description of many experiments with photons and neutrons exhibiting interference and entanglement is applied to a recent single-neutron experiment that tests (generalizations of) Heisenberg's uncertainty relation. The event-based simulation algorithm reproduces the results of the quantum theoretical description of the experiment but does not require the knowledge of the solution of a wave equation nor does it rely on concepts of quantum theory. In particular, the data satisfies uncertainty relations derived in the context of quantum theory.

id: 1403.4598
title: The relativistic quantum hydrodynamic representation of Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4598
abstract: The quantum hydrodynamic-like equations for two real variables (i.e., the phase and the amplitude of the wave function) of the relativistic Klein-Gordon equation are derived in the present paper. The paper also shows that in classical limit the hydrodynamic Klein-Gordon equations lead to the Madelung pseudo-potential [1] as well as to the quantum pseudo potential for a charged particle given by Janossy [2] and by Bialynicki et al [3]. The origin of the non-local interactions of quantum mechanics in the hydrodynamic model are discussed both for free and charged particles.

id: 1403.4621
title: Almost quantum correlations
authors: Miguel Navascu¨¦s, Yelena Guryanova, Matty J. Hoban, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 15+2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nature Communications 6, 6288 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4621
abstract: There have been a number of attempts to derive the set of quantum non-local correlations from reasonable physical principles. Here we introduce $\tilde{Q}$, a set of multipartite supra-quantum correlations that has appeared under different names in fields as diverse as graph theory, quantum gravity and quantum information science. We argue that $\tilde{Q}$ may correspond to the set of correlations of a reasonable physical theory, in which case the research program to reconstruct quantum theory from device-independent principles is met with strong obstacles. In support of this conjecture, we prove that $\tilde{Q}$ is closed under classical operations and satisfies the physical principles of Non-Trivial Communication Complexity, No Advantage for Nonlocal Computation, Macroscopic Locality and Local Orthogonality. We also review numerical evidence that almost quantum correlations satisfy Information Causality.

id: 1403.4632
title: Experimental bath engineering for quantitative studies of quantum control
authors: A. Soare, H. Ball, D. Hayes, X. Zhen, M. C. Jarratt, J. Sastrawan, H. Uys, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related manuscripts at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4632
abstract: We develop and demonstrate a technique to engineer universal unitary baths in quantum systems. Using the correspondence between unitary decoherence due to ambient environmental noise and errors in a control system for quantum bits, we show how a wide variety of relevant classical error models may be realized through In-Phase/Quadrature modulation on a vector signal generator producing a resonant carrier signal. We demonstrate our approach through high-bandwidth modulation of the 12.6 GHz carrier appropriate for trapped $^{171}$Yb$^{+}$ ions. Experiments demonstrate the reduction of coherent lifetime in the system in the presence of an engineered bath, with the observed $T_{2}$ scaling as predicted by a quantitative model described herein. These techniques form the basis of a toolkit for quantitative tests of quantum control protocols, helping experimentalists characterize the performance of their quantum coherent systems.

id: 1403.4643
title: Information Content of Elementary Systems as a Physical Principle
authors: L. Czekaj, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4643
abstract: Quantum physics has remarkable characteristics such as quantum correlations, uncertainty relations, no cloning, which give rise to an interpretative and conceptual gap between the classical and the quantum world. To provide more unified framework generalized probabilistic theories were formulated. Recently, it turned out that such theories include so called "postquantum" ones which share many of the typical quantum characteristics but predict supraquantum effects such as correlations stronger than quantum ones. As a result one faces even more dramatic gap between classical/quantum and post-quantum world. Therefore it is imperative to search for information principles characterizing physical theories. In recent years, several principles has been proposed, however all of the principles considered so far do not involve uncertainty constraints. Here, we introduce an elementary system information content principle (ICP) whose basic ingredient is the phenomenon of Heisenberg uncertainty. The principle states that the amount of non-redundant information which may be extracted from a given system is bounded by a perfectly decodable information content of the system. We show that this new principle is respected by classical and quantum theories and is violated by hidden variable theories as well as post-quantum ones: p-GNST and polygon theories. We also illustrate how the principle can be applied to composite systems. Remarkably, ICP can be more sensitive than Tsirelson's bound: it allows to rule out even some theories which do not violate Tsirelson's bound. The elementary system character of ICP suggests that it might be one of the fundamental bricks of Nature.

id: 1403.4649
title: Single-photon Spectra in Quantum Optomechanics
authors: Imran M. Mirza, S.J. van Enk
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043831 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4649
abstract: We consider how a single photon can probe the quantum nature of a moving mirror in the context of quantum optomechanics. In particular, we demonstrate how the single-photon spectrum reveals resonances that depend on how many phonons are created as well as on the strength of the mirror-photon interaction. A dressed-state picture is used to explain positions and relative strengths of those resonances. The time-dependent spectrum shows how the resonances are built up over time by the photon interacting with the moving mirror.

id: 1403.4659
title: Physics of quantum measurement and its interdisciplinary applications
authors: Masahiro Morikawa, Akika Nakamichi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4659
abstract: Quantum dynamics of the collective mode and individual particles on a ring is studied as the simplest model of projective quantum measurement. In this model, the collective mode measures an individual single quantum system. The heart of the model is the wide separation of time scales which yields the distinction of classical and quantum degrees of freedom beyond the standard Gross-Pitaevskii equation. In some restricted cases we derive the Born probability rule. This model is the quantum mechanics version of the effective action method in quantum field theory, which describes the origin of the primordial density fluctuation as classical variables. It turns out that the classical version of this same model successfully describes the dynamics of geomagnetic variation including the polarity flips over 160 million years. The essence of this description is again the coexistence of the wide separated time scales.

id: 1403.4660
title: Entanglement distillation for quantum communication network with atomic-ensemble memories
authors: Tao Li, Guo-Jian Yang, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, one column
journal: Opt. Express 22, 23897 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4660
abstract: Atomic ensembles are effective memory nodes for quantum communication network due to the long coherence time and the collective enhancement effect for the nonlinear interaction between an ensemble and a photon. Here we investigate the possibility of achieving the entanglement distillation for nonlocal atomic ensembles by the input-output process of a single photon as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We give an optimal entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for two-atomic-ensemble systems in a partially entangled pure state with known parameters and an efficient ECP for the systems in an unknown partially entangled pure state with a nondestructive parity-check detector (PCD). For the systems in a mixed entangled state, we introduce an entanglement purification protocol with PCDs. These entanglement distillation protocols have high fidelity and efficiency with current experimental techniques, and they are useful for quantum communication network with atomic-ensemble memories.

id: 1403.4676
title: Hall conductance and topological invariant for open systems
authors: H. Z. Shen, W. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 33 manuscript pages, 4 figures, this http URL
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6455 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4676
abstract: The Hall conductivity given by the Kubo formula is a linear response of the quantum transverse transport to a weak electric field. It has been intensively studied for a quantum system without decoherence, but it is barely explored for systems subject to decoherence. In this paper, we develop a formalism to deal with this issue for topological insulators. The Hall conductance for a topological insulator coupled to an environment is derived, the derivation is based on a linear response theory of open system. As an application, the Hall conductance of a two-band topological insulator and a two-dimensional lattice is presented and discussed.

id: 1403.4687
title: Equivalence of wave-particle duality to entropic uncertainty
authors: Patrick J. Coles, J?drzej Kaniewski, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 9 + 16 pages, 8 figures. v2 presents a more complete and more general framework for wave-particle duality relations, as well as a more detailed analysis of the literature
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5814 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4687
abstract: Interferometers capture a basic mystery of quantum mechanics: a single particle can exhibit wave behavior, yet that wave behavior disappears when one tries to determine the particle's path inside the interferometer. This idea has been formulated quantitively as an inequality, e.g., by Englert and Jaeger, Shimony, and Vaidman, which upper bounds the sum of the interference visibility and the path distinguishability. Such wave-particle duality relations (WPDRs) are often thought to be conceptually inequivalent to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, although this has been debated. Here we show that WPDRs correspond precisely to a modern formulation of the uncertainty principle in terms of entropies, namely the min- and max-entropies. This observation unifies two fundamental concepts in quantum mechanics. Furthermore, it leads to a robust framework for deriving novel WPDRs by applying entropic uncertainty relations to interferometric models. As an illustration, we derive a novel relation that captures the coherence in a quantum beam splitter.

id: 1403.4737
title: $Z_N$ symmetric chiral Rabi model: a new $N$-level system
authors: Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: 5 pages, no figures. This amended version states the differences between this model and the one in ref.[42], adds acknowledgements and some references, and corrects some misprints
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 347 (2014), 122-129
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4737
abstract: We present a new tractable quantum Rabi model for $N$-level atoms by extending the $\mathbb Z_2$ symmetry of the two-state Rabi model. The Hamiltonian is $\mathbb Z_N$ symmetric and allows the parameters in the level separation terms to be complex while remaining hermitian. This latter property means that the new model is {\em chiral}, which makes it differ from any existing $N$-state Rabi models in the literature. The $\mathbb Z_N$ symmetry provides partial diagonalization of the general Hamiltonian. The exact isolated (i.e. exceptional) energies of the model have the Rabi-like form but are $N$-fold degenerate. For the three-state case ($N=3$), we obtain three transcendental functions whose zeros give the regular (i.e. non-exceptional) energies of the model.

id: 1403.4765
title: There is entanglement in the primes
authors: Jos¨¦ Ignacio Latorre, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 30 pages, 11 Figs. Addition of two references and correction of typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4765
abstract: Large series of prime numbers can be superposed on a single quantum register and then analyzed in full parallelism. The construction of this Prime state is efficient, as it hinges on the use of a quantum version of any efficient primality test. We show that the Prime state turns out to be very entangled as shown by the scaling properties of purity, Renyi entropy and von Neumann entropy. An analytical approximation to these measures of entanglement can be obtained from the detailed analysis of the entanglement spectrum of the Prime state, which in turn produces new insights in the Hardy-Littlewood conjecture for the pairwise distribution of primes. The extension of these ideas to a Twin Prime state shows that this new state is even more entangled than the Prime state, obeying majorization relations. We further discuss the construction of quantum states that encompass relevant series of numbers and opens the possibility of applying quantum computation to Arithmetics in novel ways.

id: 1403.4800
title: Dicke super-radiance as non-destructive probe for super-fluidity in optical lattices
authors: Nicolai ten Brinke, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 3 pages RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4800
abstract: We study Dicke super-radiance as collective and coherent absorption and emission of photons from an ensemble of ultra-cold atoms in an optical lattice. Since this process depends on the coherence properties of the atoms (e.g., super-fluidity), it can be used as a probe for their quantum state. This detection method is less invasive than time-of-flight experiments or direct (projective) measurements of the atom number (or parity) per lattice site, which both destroy properties of the quantum state such as phase coherence.

id: 1403.4801
title: Coherence rephasing combined with spin-wave storage using chirped control pulses
authors: Gabor Demeter
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063806 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4801
abstract: Photon-echo based optical quantum memory schemes often employ intermediate steps to transform optical coherences to spin coherences for longer storage times. We analyze a scheme that uses three identical chirped control pulses for coherence rephasing in an inhomogeneously broadened ensemble of three-level $\Lambda$-systems. The pulses induce a cyclic permutation of the atomic populations in the adiabatic regime. Optical coherences created by a signal pulse are stored as spin coherences at an intermediate time interval, and are rephased for echo emission when the ensemble is returned to the initial state. Echo emission during a possible partial rephasing when the medium is inverted can be suppressed with an appropriate choice of control pulse wavevectors. We demonstrate that the scheme works in an optically dense ensemble, despite control pulse distortions during propagation. It integrates conveniently the spin-wave storage step into memory schemes based on a second rephasing of the atomic coherences.

id: 1403.4841
title: 3/4-efficient Bell measurement with passive linear optics and unentangled ancillae
authors: Fabian Ewert, Peter van Loock
comments: 5+3 pages, 2 figures. Comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4841
abstract: It is well known that an unambiguous discrimination of the four optically encoded Bell states is possible with a probability of $50\%$ at best, when using static, passive linear optics and arbitrarily many vacuum mode ancillae. By adding unentangled single-photon ancillae, we are able to surpass this limit and reach a success probability of at least $75\%$. We discuss the error robustness of the proposed scheme and a generalization to reach a success probability arbitrarily close to $100\%$.

id: 1403.4855
title: Gravitational parameter estimation in a waveguide
authors: Jason Doukas, Luke Westwood, Daniele Faccio, Andrea Di Falco, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024022 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4855
abstract: We investigate the intrinsic uncertainty in the accuracy to which a static spacetime can be measured from scattering experiments. In particular, we focus on the Schwarzschild black hole and a spatially kinked metric that has some mathematical resemblance to an expanding universe. Under selected conditions we find that the scattering problem can be framed in terms of a lossy bosonic channel, which allows us to identify shot-noise scaling as the ultimate scaling-limit to the estimation of the spacetimes. Fock state probes with particle counting measurements attain this ultimate scaling limit and the scaling constants for each spacetime are computed and compared to the practical strategies of coherent state probes with heterodyne and homodyne measurements. A promising avenue to analyze the quantum-limit of the analogue spacetimes in optical waveguides is suggested.

id: 1403.4857
title: Photonic quantum walk in a single beam with twisted light
authors: Filippo Cardano, Francesco Massa, Ebrahim Karimi, Sergei Slussarenko, Domenico Paparo, Corrado de Lisio, Fabio Sciarrino, Enrico Santamato, Lorenzo Marrucci
comments: Main article (7 pages, 4 figures) and Supplementary Information (7 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Science Advances 1, e1500087 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4857
abstract: Inspired by the classical phenomenon of random walk, the concept of quantum walk has emerged recently as a powerful platform for the dynamical simulation of complex quantum systems, entanglement production and universal quantum computation. Such a wide perspective motivates a renewing search for efficient, scalable and stable implementations of this quantum process. Photonic approaches have hitherto mainly focused on multi-path schemes, requiring interferometric stability and a number of optical elements that scales quadratically with the number of steps. Here we report the experimental realization of a quantum walk taking place in the orbital angular momentum space of light, both for a single photon and for two simultaneous indistinguishable photons. The whole process develops in a single light beam, with no need of interferometers, and requires optical resources scaling linearly with the number of steps. Our demonstration introduces a novel versatile photonic platform for implementing quantum simulations, based on exploiting the transverse modes of a single light beam as quantum degrees of freedom.

id: 1403.4863
title: Process fidelity estimation of linear optical quantum CZ gate: A comparative study
authors: M. Micuda, M. Sedlak, I. Straka, M. Mikova, M. Dusek, M. Jezek, J. Fiurasek
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4863
abstract: We present a systematic comparison of different methods of fidelity estimation of a linear optical quantum controlled-Z gate implemented by two-photon interference on a partially polarizing beam splitter. We have utilized a linear fidelity estimator based on the Monte Carlo sampling technique as well as a non-linear estimator based on maximum likelihood reconstruction of a full quantum process matrix. In addition, we have also evaluated lower bound on quantum gate fidelity determined by average quantum state fidelities for two mutually unbiased bases. In order to probe various regimes of operation of the gate we have introduced a tunable delay line between the two photons. This allowed us to move from high-fidelity operation to a regime where the photons become distinguishable and the success probability of the scheme significantly depends on input state. We discuss in detail possible systematic effects that could influence the gate fidelity estimation.

id: 1403.4864
title: The decay of quantum correlations between quantum dot spin qubits and the characteristics of its magnetic field dependence
authors: Pawe? Mazurek, Katarzyna Roszak, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4864
abstract: We address the question of the role of quantum correlations beyond entanglement in context of quantum magnetometry. To this end, we study the evolution of the quantum discord, measured by the rescaled discord, of two electron-spin qubits interacting with an environment of nuclear spins via the hyperfine interaction. We have found that depending on the initial state the evolution can or cannot display indifferentiability points in its time-evolution (due to the energy conservation law), as well as non-trivial dependence on inter-qubit phase. Furthermore, we show that for initial Bell states, quantum correlations display a strong magnetic-field sensitivity which can be utilized for decoherence-driven measurements of the external magnetic field. The potential discord-based measurement is sensitive to a wider range of magnetic field values than the entanglement-based measurement. In principle, entanglement is not a necessary resource for reliable decoherence-driven measurement, while the presence of quantum correlations beyond entanglement is.

id: 1403.4874
title: Heating and ion transport in a Y-junction surface-electrode trap
authors: G. Shu, G. Vittorini, C. Volin, A. Buikema, C.S. Nichols, D. Stick, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4874
abstract: We measure ion heating following transport throughout a Y-junction surface-electrode ion trap. By carefully selecting the trap voltage update rate during adiabatic transport along a trap arm, we observe minimal heating relative to the anomalous heating background. Transport through the junction results in an induced heating between 37 and 150 quanta in the axial direction per traverse. To reliably measure heating in this range, we compare the experimental sideband envelope, including up to fourth-order sidebands, to a theoretical model. The sideband envelope method allows us to cover the intermediate heating range inaccessible to the first-order sideband and Doppler recooling methods. We conclude that quantum information processing in this ion trap will likely require sympathetic cooling in order to support high fidelity gates after junction transport.

id: 1403.4900
title: Rabi oscillations, decoherence, and disentanglement in a qubit-spin-bath system: exact dynamics
authors: Ning Wu, Arun Nanduri, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures. Ning Wu and Arun Nanduri equally contributed to this work
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4900
abstract: We examine the influence of environmental interactions on simple quantum systems by obtaining the exact reduced dynamics of a qubit coupled to a one-dimensional spin bath. In contrast to previous studies, both the qubit-bath coupling and the nearest neighbor intrabath couplings are taken as the spin-flip XX-type. We first study the Rabi oscillations of a single qubit with the spin bath prepared in a spin coherent state, finding that nonresonance and finite intrabath interactions have significant effects on the qubit dynamics. Next, we discuss the bath-induced decoherence of the qubit when the bath is initially in the ground state, and show that the decoherence properties depend on the internal phases of the spin bath. By considering two independent copies of the qubit-bath system, we finally probe the disentanglement dynamics of two noninteracting entangled qubits. We find that entanglement sudden death appears when the spin bath is in its critical phase. We show that the single-qubit decoherence factor is an upper bound for the two-qubit concurrence.

id: 1403.4921
title: Problems with the Newton-Schr?dinger Equations
authors: C. Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 18 pages. Invited paper for the Focus Issue on 'Gravitational quantum physics' in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 085007 (2014 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4921
abstract: We examine the origin of the Newton-Schr\"odinger equations (NSEs) that play an important role in alternative quantum theories (AQT), macroscopic quantum mechanics and gravity-induced decoherence. We show that NSEs for individual particles do not follow from general relativity (GR) plus quantum field theory (QFT). Contrary to what is commonly assumed, the NSEs are not the weak-field (WF), non-relativistic (NR) limit of the semi-classical Einstein equation (SCE) (this nomenclature is preferred over the `M\/oller-Rosenfeld equation') based on GR+QFT. The wave-function in the NSEs makes sense only as that for a mean field describing a system of $N$ particles as $N \rightarrow \infty$, not that of a single or finite many particles. From GR+QFT the gravitational self-interaction leads to mass renormalization, not to a non-linear term in the evolution equations of some AQTs. The WF-NR limit of the gravitational interaction in GR+QFT involves no dynamics. To see the contrast, we give a derivation of the equation (i) governing the many-body wave function from GR+QFT and (ii) for the non-relativistic limit of quantum electrodynamics (QED). They have the same structure, being linear, and very different from NSEs. Adding to this our earlier consideration that for gravitational decoherence the master equations based on GR+QFT lead to decoherence in the energy basis and not in the position basis, despite some AQTs desiring it for the `collapse of the wave function', we conclude that the origins and consequences of NSEs are very different, and should be clearly demarcated from those of the SCE equation, the only legitimate representative of semiclassical gravity, based on GR+QFT.

id: 1403.4956
title: Error distributions on large entangled states with non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Netanel H. Lindner, Terry Rudolph
comments: Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 260503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4956
abstract: We investigate the distribution of errors on a computationally useful entangled state generated via the repeated emission from an emitter undergoing strongly non-Markovian evolution. For emitter-environment coupling of pure-dephasing form, we show that the probability that a particular patten of errors occurs has a bound of Markovian form, and thus accuracy threshold theorems based on Markovian models should be just as effective. This is the case, for example, for a charged quantum dot emitter in a moderate to strong magnetic field. Beyond the pure-dephasing assumption, though complicated error structures can arise, they can still be qualitatively bounded by a Markovian error model.

id: 1403.4992
title: Mapping the optimal route between two quantum states
authors: S. J. Weber, A. Chantasri, J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan, K. W. Murch, I. Siddiqi
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nature 511, 570-573 (31 July 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4992
abstract: A central feature of quantum mechanics is that a measurement is intrinsically probabilistic. As a result, continuously monitoring a quantum system will randomly perturb its natural unitary evolution. The ability to control a quantum system in the presence of these fluctuations is of increasing importance in quantum information processing and finds application in fields ranging from nuclear magnetic resonance to chemical synthesis. A detailed understanding of this stochastic evolution is essential for the development of optimized control methods. Here we reconstruct the individual quantum trajectories of a superconducting circuit that evolves in competition between continuous weak measurement and driven unitary evolution. By tracking individual trajectories that evolve between an arbitrary choice of initial and final states we can deduce the most probable path through quantum state space. These pre- and post-selected quantum trajectories also reveal the optimal detector signal in the form of a smooth time-continuous function that connects the desired boundary conditions. Our investigation reveals the rich interplay between measurement dynamics, typically associated with wave function collapse, and unitary evolution of the quantum state as described by the Schrodinger equation. These results and the underlying theory, based on a principle of least action, reveal the optimal route from initial to final states, and may enable new quantum control methods for state steering and information processing.

id: 1403.5003
title: Multi-party zero-error classical channel coding with entanglement
authors: Teresa Piovesan, Giannicola Scarpa, Christian Schaffner
comments: Some proofs have been modified
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol 61, no 2, pp 1113-1123, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5003
abstract: We study the effects of quantum entanglement on the performance of two classical zero-error communication tasks among multiple parties. Both tasks are generalizations of the two-party zero-error channel-coding problem, where a sender and a receiver want to perfectly communicate messages through a one-way classical noisy channel. If the two parties are allowed to share entanglement, there are several positive results that show the existence of channels for which they can communicate strictly more than what they could do with classical resources. In the first task, one sender wants to communicate a common message to multiple receivers. We show that if the number of receivers is greater than a certain threshold then entanglement does not allow for an improvement in the communication for any finite number of uses of the channel. On the other hand, when the number of receivers is fixed, we exhibit a class of channels for which entanglement gives an advantage. The second problem we consider features multiple collaborating senders and one receiver. Classically, cooperation among the senders might allow them to communicate on average more messages than the sum of their individual possibilities. We show that whenever a channel allows single-sender entanglement-assisted advantage, then the gain extends also to the multi-sender case. Furthermore, we show that entanglement allows for a peculiar amplification of information which cannot happen classically, for a fixed number of uses of a channel with multiple senders.

id: 1403.5018
title: Velocity selector with a microwave magnetic dipole transition
authors: L. O. Casta?os, E. Gomez
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A \textbf{89}, 013406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5018
abstract: We proposed a method based on microwave magnetic dipole transitions to prepare samples of atoms with well defined position and velocity. Each microwave pulse corresponds to a position measurement for the atoms and two pulses separated by a given delay result in a velocity measurement. The method gives velocity sensitivity approaching that obtained with Raman transitions but it is easier to implement. Moreover, it has the advantages that it also selects in position and has less demanding experimental requirements. The method can be demonstrated in a magneto-optical trap.

id: 1403.5041
title: Schemes for quantum entanglement concentration of two unknown partially entangled states with cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Wei Xiong, Liu Ye
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 28, 2030-2037(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5041
abstract: We propose practical schemes for concentrating entanglement of a pair of unknown partially entangled Bell states and three-photon W states with cross-Kerr nonlinearity. In the schemes, utilizing local operations and classical communication, two separated parties can obtain one maximally entangled photon pair from two previously shared partially entangled photon pairs, and three separated parties can obtain one maximally entangled three-photon W state and a maximally entangled cluster state from two identical partially entangled three-photon W state with a certain success probability. Finally, we discuss the influences of sources of errors and decoherence on the schemes. The proposed setup is very simple, just employing some linear optical elements and cross-Kerr medium, which greatly simplifies the experimental realization of the schemes. The schemes are feasible within current experimental technology

id: 1403.5048
title: Two-photon paired solitons supported by medium polarization
authors: M. Yoshimura, N. Sasao
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Section 3 and 4 are improved in essential ways. Accepted for publication in Progr. Theor. Exp. Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5048
abstract: We derive for the first time fundamental equations that describe soliton spatial profiles consisting of two-photon mode fields and macroscopic polarization of medium. Numerical solutions of this basic equation are presented to give single and multiple soliton chains taking an example of para-H$_2$ $v=0 \leftrightarrow 1$ vibrational system. Although effects of dissipative relaxation are included in the general form for two-level system, the existence of static soliton-condensate is established. Stability analysis of soliton solutions is given. Arguments given here support that soliton-condensates thus derived are final remnants of time evolution of macro-coherent two-photon process. These soliton-condensates are expected to be important in the proposed neutrino mass spectroscopy using atoms.

id: 1403.5082
title: Direct Counterfactual Communication with Single Photons
authors: Yuan Cao, Yu-Huai Li, Zhu Cao, Juan Yin, Yu-Ao Chen, Xiongfeng Ma, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5082
abstract: Intuition in our everyday life gives rise to a belief that information exchanged between remote parties has to be carried by physical particles. Surprisingly, by recent theoretical studies, quantum mechanics allows counterfactual communication even without actual transmission of physical particles. The mystery of counterfactual communication stems from a (non-intuitive) fundamental concept in quantum mechanics --- wave-particle duality. All particles can be fully described by wave functions. To determine whether a light appears in a channel, one is referring to the amplitude of its wave function; whereas in counterfactual communication, the information is carried by the phase part of the wave function. Using a single photon source, we experimentally demonstrate counterfactual communication and successfully transfer a monochrome bitmap from one location to another by employing a nested version of the quantum Zeno effect. Besides of its fundamental interest, our experimental scheme is applicable to other quantum technologies, such as imaging and state preparation.

id: 1403.5096
title: Deterministic preparation of superpositions of vacuum plus one photon by adaptive homodyne detection: experimental considerations
authors: Nicola Dalla Pozza, Howard M. Wiseman, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5096
abstract: The preparation stage of optical qubits is an essential task in all the experimental setups employed for the test and demonstration of Quantum Optics principles. We consider a deterministic protocol for the preparation of qubits as a superposition of vacuum and one photon number states, which has the advantage to reduce the amount of resources required via phase-sensitive measurements using a local oscillator ('dyne detection'). We investigate the performances of the protocol using different phase measurement schemes: homodyne, heterodyne, and adaptive dyne detection (involving a feedback loop). First, we define a suitable figure of merit for the prepared state and we obtain an analytical expression for that in terms of the phase measurement considered. Further, we study limitations that the phase measurement can exhibit, such as delay or limited resources in the feedback strategy. Finally, we evaluate the figure of merit of the protocol for different mode-shapes handily available in an experimental setup. We show that even in the presence of such limitations simple feedback algorithms can perform surprisingly well, outperforming the protocols when simple homodyne or heterodyne schemes are employed.

id: 1403.5129
title: Exploiting the local polarization of strongly confined light for sub-micron-resolution internal state preparation and manipulation of cold atoms
authors: R. Mitsch, C. Sayrin, B. Albrecht, P. Schneeweiss, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063829 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5129
abstract: A strongly confined light field necessarily exhibits a local polarization that varies on a subwavelength scale. We demonstrate that a single optical mode of such kind can be used to selectively and simultaneously manipulate atomic ensembles that are less than a micron away from each other and equally coupled to the light field. The technique is implemented with an optical nanofiber that provides an evanescent field interface between a strongly guided optical mode and two diametric linear arrays of cesium atoms. Using this single optical mode, the two atomic ensembles can simultaneously be optically pumped to opposite Zeeman states. Moreover, the state-dependent light shifts can be made locally distinct, thereby enabling an independent coherent manipulation of the two ensembles. Our results open the route towards advanced manipulation of atomic samples in nanoscale quantum optics systems.

id: 1403.5158
title: Explicit form of the Bayesian posterior estimate of a quantum state under the uninformative prior
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5158
abstract: An analytical solution for the posterior estimate in Bayesian tomography of the unknown quantum state of an arbitrary quantum system (with a finite-dimensional Hilbert space) is found. First, we derive the Bayesian estimate for a pure quantum state measured by a set of arbitrary rank-1 POVMs under the uninformative (i.e. the unitary invariant or Haar) prior. The expression for the estimate involves the matrix permanents of the Gram matrices with repeated rows and columns, with the matrix elements being the scalar products of vectors giving the measurement outcomes. Second, an unknown mixed state is treated by the Hilbert-Schmidt purification. In this case, under the uninformative prior for the combined pure state, the posterior estimate of the mixed state of the system is expressed through the matrix $\alpha$-permanents of the Gram matrices of scalar products of vectors giving the measurement outcomes. In the mixed case, there is also a free integer parameter -- the Schmidt number -- which can be used to optimise the Bayesian reconstruction (for instance, in case of Schimdt number being equal to 1, the mixed state estimates reduces to the pure state estimate). We also discuss the perspectives of approximate numerical computation and asymptotic analytical evaluation of the Bayesian estimate using the derived formula.

id: 1403.5182
title: Quantum Speed Limit For Mixed States Using Experimentally Realizable Metric
authors: Debasis Mondal, Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Latex, 6 pages, 1 Fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5182
abstract: The minimal time required for a system to evolve between two different states is an important notion for developing ultra-speed quantum computer and communication channel. Here, we introduce a new metric for non-degenerate density operator evolving along unitary orbit and show that this is experimentally realizable operation dependent metric on quantum state space. Using this metric, we obtain the geometric uncertainty relation that leads to a new quantum speed limit. Furthermore, we argue that this gives a tighter bound for the evolution time compared to any other bound. We also obtain a Levitin kind of bound for mixed states. We propose how to measure this new distance and speed limit in quantum interferometry. Finally, the lower bound for the evolution time of a quantum system is studied for any completely positive trace preserving map using this metric.

id: 1403.5205
title: Quantum walk on a circle with optomechanical systems
authors: Jalil Khatibi Moqadam, Renato Portugal, Marcos Cesar de Oliveira
comments: 6 figures, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5205
abstract: We propose an implementation of a quantum walk on a circle on an optomechanical system by encoding the walker on the phase space of a radiation field and the coin on a two-level state of a mechanical resonator. The dynamics of the system is obtained by applying Suzuki-Trotter decomposition. We numerically show that the system displays a typical behavior of quantum walks, namely, the probability distribution evolves ballistically and the standard deviation of the phase distribution is linearly proportional to the number of steps. We also analyze the effects of decoherence by using the phase damping channel on the coin space, showing the possibility to implement the quantum walk with present day technology.

id: 1403.5208
title: Cryogenic silicon surface ion trap
authors: Michael Niedermayr, Kirill Lakhmanskiy, Muir Kumph, Stefan Partel, Johannes Edlinger, Michael Brownnutt, Rainer Blatt
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: New Journal of Physics, 16, 113068, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5208
abstract: Trapped ions are pre-eminent candidates for building quantum information processors and quantum simulators. They have been used to demonstrate quantum gates and algorithms, quantum error correction, and basic quantum simulations. However, to realise the full potential of such systems and make scalable trapped-ion quantum computing a reality, there exist a number of practical problems which must be solved. These include tackling the observed high ion-heating rates and creating scalable trap structures which can be simply and reliably produced. Here, we report on cryogenically operated silicon ion traps which can be rapidly and easily fabricated using standard semiconductor technologies. Single $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions have been trapped and used to characterize the trap operation. Long ion lifetimes were observed with the traps exhibiting heating rates as low as $\dot{\bar{n}}=$ 0.33 phonons/s at an ion-electrode distance of 230 $\mu$m. These results open many new avenues to arrays of micro-fabricated ion traps.

id: 1403.5224
title: Hypercontractivity of quasi-free quantum semigroups
authors: Kristan Temme, Fernando Pastawski, Michael J. Kastoryano
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 405303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5224
abstract: Hypercontractivity of a quantum dynamical semigroup has strong implications for its convergence behavior and entropy decay rate. A logarithmic Sobolev inequality and the corresponding logarithmic Sobolev constant can be inferred from the semigroup's hypercontractive norm bound. We consider completely-positive quantum mechanical semigroups described by a Lindblad master equation. To prove the norm bound, we follow an approach which has its roots in the study of classical rate equations. We use interpolation theorems for non-commutative $L_p$ spaces to obtain a general hypercontractive inequality from a particular $p \rightarrow q$-norm bound. Then, we derive a bound on the $2 \rightarrow 4$-norm from an analysis of the block diagonal structure of the semigroup's spectrum. We show that the dynamics of an $N$-qubit graph state Hamiltonian weakly coupled to a thermal environment is hypercontractive. As a consequence this allows for the efficient preparation of graph states in time ${\rm poly}(\log(N))$ by coupling at sufficiently low temperature. Furthermore, we extend our results to gapped Liouvillians arising from a weak linear coupling of a free-fermion systems.

id: 1403.5257
title: Newton's cradle analogue with Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Roberto Franzosi, Ruggero Vaia
comments: To appear in Journal of Physics B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 095303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5257
abstract: We propose a possible experimental realization of a quantum analogue of Newton's cradle using a configuration which starts from a Bose-Einstein condensate. The system consists of atoms with two internal states trapped in a one dimensional tube with a longitudinal optical lattice and maintained in a strong Tonks-Girardeau regime at maximal filling. In each site the wave function is a superposition of the two atomic states and a disturbance of the wave function propagates along the chain in analogy with the propagation of momentum in the classical Newton's cradle. The quantum travelling signal is generally deteriorated by dispersion, which is large for a uniform chain and is known to be zero for a suitably engineered chain, but the latter is hardly realizable in practice. Starting from these opposite situations we show how the coherent behaviour can be enhanced with minimal experimental effort.

id: 1403.5280
title: Reducing the quantum computing overhead with complex gate distillation
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042315 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5280
abstract: In leading fault-tolerant quantum computing schemes, accurate transformation are obtained by a two-stage process. In a first stage, a discrete, universal set of fault-tolerant operations is obtained by error-correcting noisy transformations and distilling resource states. In a second stage, arbitrary transformations are synthesized to desired accuracy by combining elements of this set into a circuit. Here, we present a scheme which merges these two stages into a single one, directly distilling complex transformations. We find that our scheme can reduce the total overhead to realize certain gates by up to a few orders of magnitude. In contrast to other schemes, this efficient gate synthesis does not require computationally intensive compilation algorithms, and a straightforward generalization of our scheme circumvents compilation and synthesis altogether.

id: 1403.5343
title: A stronger monotonicity inequality of quantum relative entropy: A unifying approach via R¨¦nyi relative entropy
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: v1:9 pages, LaTeX, any comments are welcome! v2: 19 pages, LaTeX; Some new results and proofs are added. It is completely rewritten, and merged with arXiv:1403.6590
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5343
abstract: In this paper, a stronger monotonicity inequality of quantum relative entropy is derived by employing a property of $\alpha$-R\'{e}nyi relative entropy. In view of this inequality, a unifying treatment towards improvement of some quantum entropy inequalities is developed. In particular, an emphasis is put on a lower bound of quantum conditional mutual information because this lower bound gives a Pinsker-like lower bound for strong subadditivity inequality of von Neumann entropy. We also give some improved entropy inequalities based on R\'{e}nyi relative entropy. These inequalities obtained extends some well-known entropy inequalities. We also obtain a condition under which a tripartite operator becomes a Markov state. As a by-product, of independent interest, we obtain some trace inequalities of operators.

id: 1403.5348
title: Coherent-Classical Estimation versus Purely-Classical Estimation for Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Minor corrections. Accepted, 2014 Conference on Decision and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5348
abstract: We consider a coherent-classical estimation scheme for a class of linear quantum systems. It comprises an estimator that is a mixed quantum-classical system without involving coherent feedback. The estimator yields a classical estimate of a variable for the quantum plant. We demonstrate that for a passive plant that can be characterized by annihilation operators only, such coherent-classical estimation provides no improvement over purely-classical estimation. An example is also given which shows that if the plant is not assumed to be an annihilation operator only quantum system, it is possible to get better estimates with such coherent-classical estimation compared with purely-classical estimation.

id: 1403.5366
title: Synchro-thermalization of composite quantum system
authors: Sheng-Wen Li, D. Z. Xu, X. F. Liu, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5366
abstract: We study the thermalization of a composite quantum system consisting of several subsystems, where only a small one of the subsystem contacts with a heat bath in equilibrium, while the rest of the composite system is contact free. We show that the whole composite system still can be thermalized after a relaxation time long enough, if the energy level structure of the composite system is connected, which means any two energy levels of the composite system can be connected by direct or indirect quantum transitions. With an example where an multi-level system interacts with a set of harmonic oscillators via non-demolition coupling, we find that the speed of relaxation to the global thermal state is suppressed by the multi-Franck-Condon factor due to the displacements of the Fock states when the degrees of freedom is large.

id: 1403.5382
title: Effective Mass Quantum Systems with Displacement Operator and Coulomb-like Potential
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5382
abstract: The Schr\"odinger-like equation written in terms of the displacement operator is solved analytically for a Coulomb-like potential. Starting from the new Hamiltonian, the effects on the bound states and normalized wave functions of the "usual" Coulomb interaction are discussed and given a plot including the variation of first few bound states versus $\gamma$.

id: 1403.5383
title: Observation of Lee-Yang zeros
authors: Xinhua Peng, Hui Zhou, Bo-Bo Wei, Jiangyu Cui, Jiangfeng Du, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 010601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5383
abstract: Lee-Yang zeros are points on the complex plane of magnetic field where the partition function of a spin system is zero and therefore the free energy diverges. Lee-Yang zeros and their generalizations are ubiquitous in many-body systems and they fully characterize the analytic properties of the free energy and hence thermodynamics of the systems. Determining the Lee-Yang zeros is not only fundamentally important for conceptual completeness of thermodynamics and statistical physics but also technically useful for studying many-body systems. However, Lee-Yang zeros have never been observed in experiments, due to the intrinsic difficulty that Lee-Yang zeros would occur only at complex values of magnetic field, which are unphysical. Here we report the first observation of Lee-Yang zeros, by measuring quantum coherence of a probe spin coupled to an Ising-type spin bath. As recently proposed, the quantum evolution of the probe spin introduces a complex phase factor, and therefore effectively realizes an imaginary magnetic field on the bath. From the measured Lee-Yang zeros, we reconstructed the free energy of the spin bath and determined its phase transition temperature. This experiment demonstrates quantum coherence probe as a useful approach to studying thermodynamics in the complex plane, which may reveal a broad range of new phenomena that would otherwise be inaccessible if physical parameters are restricted to be real numbers.

id: 1403.5426
title: Experimental Quantum Computations on a Topologically Encoded Qubit
authors: Daniel Nigg, Markus Mueller, Esteban A. Martinez, Philipp Schindler, Markus Hennrich, Thomas Monz, Miguel A. Martin-Delgado, Rainer Blatt
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures and appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5426
abstract: The construction of a quantum computer remains a fundamental scientific and technological challenge, in particular due to unavoidable noise. Quantum states and operations can be protected from errors using protocols for fault-tolerant quantum computing (FTQC). Here we present a step towards this by implementing a quantum error correcting code, encoding one qubit in entangled states distributed over 7 trapped-ion qubits. We demonstrate the capability of the code to detect one bit flip, phase flip or a combined error of both, regardless on which of the qubits they occur. Furthermore, we apply combinations of the entire set of logical single-qubit Clifford gates on the encoded qubit to explore its computational capabilities. The implemented 7-qubit code is the first realization of a complete Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) code and constitutes a central building block for FTQC schemes based on concatenated elementary quantum codes. It also represents the smallest fully functional instance of the color code, opening a route towards topological FTQC.

id: 1403.5452
title: Engineered Decoherence: Characterization and Suppression
authors: Swathi S. Hegde, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 89, 062317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5452
abstract: Due to omnipresent environmental interferences, quantum coherences inevitably undergo irreversible transformations over certain time-scales, thus leading to the loss of encoded information. This process, known as decoherence, has been a major obstacle in realizing efficient quantum information processors. Understanding the mechanism of decoherence is crucial in developing tools to inhibit it. Here we utilize a method proposed by Cory and co-workers [Phys. Rev. A 67, 062316 (2003)] to engineer artificial decoherence in the system qubits by randomly perturbing their surrounding ancilla qubits. Using a two qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum register, we characterize the artificial decoherence by noise spectroscopy and quantum process tomography. Further, we study the efficacy of dynamical decoupling sequences in suppressing the artificial decoherence. Here we describe the experimental results and their comparisons with theoretical simulations.

id: 1403.5474
title: On demand generation of propagation invariant photons with orbital angular momentum
authors: Y. Jer¨®nimo-Moreno, R. J¨¢uregui
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013833 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5474
abstract: We study the generation of propagation invariant photons with orbital angular momentum by spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) using a Bessel-Gauss pump beam. The angular and conditional angular spectra are calculated for an uniaxial crystal optimized for type I SPDC with standard Gaussian pump beams. It is shown that, as the mean value of the magnitude of the transverse wave vector of the pump beam increases, the emission cone is deformed into two non coaxial cones that touch each other along a line determined by the orientation of the optical axis of the nonlinear crystal. At this location, the conditional spectrum becomes maximal for a pair of photons, one of which is best described by a Gaussian-like photon with a very small transverse wave vector, and the othera Bessel-Gauss photon with a distribution of transverse wave vectors similar in amplitude to that of the incident pump beam. A detailed analysis is then performed of the angular momentum content of SPDC photons by the evaluation of the corresponding transition amplitudes. As a result, we obtain conditions for the generation of heralded single photons which are approximately propagation invariant and have orbital angular momentum. A discussion is given about the difficulties in the interpretation of the results in terms of conservation of optical orbital angular momentum along the vector normal to the crystal surface. The angular spectra and the conditional angular spectra are successfully compared with available experimental data recently reported in the literature.

id: 1403.5476
title: Anisotropy enhancement of the Casimir-Polder force between a nanoparticle and graphene
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042510 (2014); Phys. Rev A 91, 039901(E) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5476
abstract: We derive the analytical expressions for the thermal Casimir-Polder energy and force between a spheroidal nanoparticle above a semi-infinite material and a graphene covered interface. We analyze in detail the Casimir-Polder force between a gold nanoparticle and a single sheet of pristine graphene focusing on the impact of anisotropy. We show that the effect of anisotropy, i.e. the shape and orientation of the spheroidal nanoparticle, has a much larger influence on the force than the tunability of graphene. The effect of tuning and anisotropy both add up such that we observe a force which is between 20-50% of that in the ideal metal case which is much larger than the results found for the Casimir force between a metal halfspace and a layer of graphene.

id: 1403.5482
title: Steady Fock states via atomic reservoir
authors: F. O. Prado, W. Rosado, G. D. de Moraes Neto, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: EPL, 107 (2014) 13001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5482
abstract: In this letter we present a strategy that combines the action of cavity damping mechanisms with that of an engineered atomic reservoir to drive an initial thermal distribution to a Fock equilibrium state. The same technique can be used to slice probability distributions in the Fock space, thus allowing the preparation of a variety of nonclassical equilibrium states.

id: 1403.5551
title: Quantum digital signatures with quantum key distribution components
authors: Petros Wallden, Vedran Dunjko, Adrian Kent, Erika Andersson
comments: 13 pages. In v2 we included the first proof of security of a QDS protocol against coherent forging attacks. Many other smaller changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042304 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5551
abstract: Digital signatures guarantee the authenticity and transferability of messages, and are widely used in modern communication. The security of currently used classical digital signature schemes, however, relies on computational assumptions. In contrast, quantum digital signature (QDS) schemes offer information-theoretic security guaranteed by the laws of quantum mechanics. We present two QDS protocols which have the same experimental requirements as quantum key distribution, which is already commercially available. We also present the first security proof for any QDS scheme against coherent forging attacks.

id: 1403.5578
title: Emission of Microwave Photon Pairs by a Tunnel Junction
authors: Jean-Charles Forgues, Christian Lupien, Bertrand Reulet
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRL 113, 043602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5578
abstract: Generation and control of non-classical electromagnetic fields is of crucial importance for quantum information physics. While usual methods for the production of such fields rely on a non-linearity (of a crystal, a Josephson junction, etc.), a recent experiment performed on a normal conductor, a tunnel junction under microwave irradiation, has unveiled an alternative: the use of electron shot noise in a quantum conductor\cite{PAN_squeezing}. Here we show that such a device can emit \emph{pairs of microwave photons} of different frequencies with a rate as high as that of superconducting Josephson junctions\cite{Flurin}. This results in intensity fluctuations of the photon field at two different frequencies being correlated below the photon shot noise,i.e. two-mode amplitude squeezing. Our experiment constitutes a fundamental step towards the understanding of electronic noise in terms of quantum optics, and shows that even a normal conductor could be used as a resource for quantum information processing.

id: 1403.5620
title: Quantum optical diode with semiconductor microcavities
authors: H. Z. Shen, Y. H. Zhou, X. X. Yi
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023849 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5620
abstract: The semiconductor diode, which acts as an electrical rectifier and allows unidirectional electronic transports, is the key to information processing in integrated circuits. Analogously, an optical rectifier (or diode) working at specific target wavelengths has recently becomes a dreaming device in optical communication and signal processing. In this paper, we propose a scheme to realize an optical diode for photonic transport at the level of few photons. The system consists of two spatially overlapping single-mode semiconductor microcavities coupled via ${\chi ^{(2)}}$ nonlinearities. The photon blockade is predicted to take place in this system. These photon blockade effects can be achieved by tuning the frequency of the input laser field (driving field). Based on those blockades, we derive analytically the single- and two-photon current in terms of zero and finite-time delayed two-order correlation function. The results suggest that the system can serve as an single- and two-photon quantum optical diodes which allow transmission of photons in one direction much more efficiently than in the other.

id: 1403.5681
title: Hardy's paradox tested in the spin-orbit Hilbert space of single photons
authors: Ebrahim Karimi, Filippo Cardano, Maria Maffei, Corrado de Lisio, Lorenzo Marrucci, Robert W. Boyd, Enrico Santamato
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures and 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 89, 032122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5681
abstract: We test experimentally the quantum ``paradox'' proposed by Lucien Hardy in 1993 [Phys. Rev. Lett. 71, 1665 (1993)] by using single photons instead of photon pairs. This is achieved by addressing two compatible degrees of freedom of the same particle, namely its spin angular momentum, determined by the photon polarization, and its orbital angular momentum, a property related to the optical transverse mode. Because our experiment involves a single particle, we cannot use locality to logically enforce non-contextuality, which must therefore be assumed based only on the observables' compatibility. On the other hand, our single-particle experiment can be implemented more simply and allows larger detection efficiencies than typical two-particle ones, with a potential future advantage in terms of closing the detection loopholes.

id: 1403.5700
title: Control of quantum transmission is trap free
authors: Alexander N. Pechen, David J. Tannor
comments: 
journal: Canadian Journal of Chemistry, 92 (2014), 157-159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5700
abstract: We consider manipulation of the transmission coefficient for a quantum particle moving in one dimension where the shape of the potential is taken as the control. We show that the control landscape---the transmission as a functional of the potential---has no traps, i.e., any maxima correspond to full transmission.

id: 1403.5720
title: Nonlocal and controlled unitary operators of Schmidt rank three
authors: Lin Chen, Li Yu
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 89, 062326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5720
abstract: Implementing nonlocal unitary operators is an important and hard question in quantum computing and cryptography. We show that any bipartite nonlocal unitary operator of Schmidt rank three on the $(d_A \times d_B)$-dimensional system is locally equivalent to a controlled unitary when $d_A$ is at most three. This operator can be locally implemented assisted by a maximally entangled state of Schmidt rank $r=\min\{d_A^2,d_B\}$. We further show that stochastic-equivalent nonlocal unitary operators are indeed locally equivalent, and propose a sufficient condition on which nonlocal and controlled unitary operators are locally equivalent. We also provide the solution to a special case of a conjecture on the ranks of multipartite quantum states.

id: 1403.5724
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency with controlled van der Waals interaction
authors: Huaizhi Wu, Meng-Meng Bian, Li-Tuo Shen, Rong-Xin Chen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 045801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5724
abstract: We study the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) effect with two individually addressed four-level Rydberg atoms subjected to the interatomic van der Waals interaction. We derive an effectively atomic Raman transition model where two ladders of the usual Rydberg-EIT setting terminating at the same upper Rydberg level of long radiative lifetime are turned into a Rydberg-EIT lambda setup via two-photon transitions, leaving the middle levels of each ladder largely detuned from the coupling and probe laser beams. It can hence overcome the limits of applications for EIT with atoms of the ladder-type level configuration involving a strongly decaying intermediate state by inducing coherence between two ground states. By probing one of the atoms, we observe four doublets of absorption induced by the Autler-Townes (AT) splitting and the van der Waals interaction. In particular, we find that the location of the EIT center remains unchanged compared to the interatomic-interaction-free case, which demonstrated that the interference among the multiple transition channels is basically destructive. The EIT with controlled Rydberg-Rydberg interaction among few atoms provides a versatile tool for engineering the propagation dynamics of light.

id: 1403.5752
title: Quantum Computing in Plato's Cave
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Paolo Facchi, Vittorio Giovannetti, Hiromichi Nakazato, Saverio Pascazio, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5173 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5752
abstract: We show that mere observation of a quantum system can turn its dynamics from a very simple one into a universal quantum computation. This effect, which occurs if the system is regularly observed at short time intervals, can be rephrased as a modern version of Plato's Cave allegory. More precisely, while in the original version of the myth, the reality perceived within the Cave is described by the projected shadows of some more fundamental dynamics which is intrinsically more complex, we found that in the quantum world the situation changes drastically as the "projected" reality perceived through sequences of measurements can be more complex than the one that originated it. After discussing examples we go on to show that this effect is generally to be expected: almost any quantum dynamics will become universal once "observed" as outlined above. Conversely, we show that any complex quantum dynamics can be "purified" into a simpler one in larger dimensions.

id: 1403.5762
title: Feynman Path Integral Approach on Superconducting Qubits and Readout Process
authors: Ali Izadi Rad, Hesam Zandi, Mehdi Fardmanesh
comments: 25 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5762
abstract: In this paper we introduce a new procedure on precise analysis of various physical manifestations in superconducting Qubits using the concept of Feynman path integral in quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. Three specific problem are discussed, we devote the main efforts to studying the wave function and imaginary part of the energy of the pseudo ground state of the Hamiltonian in Phase Qubits and we estimate decay rate, and thus the life time of meta stable states using the approach of 't Hooft's Instantons model. Correction to the Tilted-Washboard potential and current of Phase Qubits by precise analysis of Ginzburg-Landau's free energy equation has been considered. Also we evaluate the most accurate value of energy levels and wave function in Charge and Flux Qubits by Semi classical approximation in path integral formalism by considering limits of experimental errors, comparing them with WKB results and finally, we try to study more specific the evolution of spectrum of Hamiltonian in time after addition of interaction Hamiltonian, in order to obtain the high fidelity quantum gates.

id: 1403.5767
title: Entanglement without Tomography: A Rankwise Study
authors: Gaurav Chaudhary, V. Ravishankar
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5767
abstract: Experimental determination of entanglement is important not only to characterize the state and use it in quantum information, but also in understanding complicated phenomena such as phase transitions. In this paper we show that in many cases, it is possible to determine entanglement of a two qubit state, as represented by concurrence, with a few measurements, {\it most of which are local}. In particular, rank 1 and rank 2 states need exclusively local measurements while rank 3 states need just one measurement of correlations. Only the rank 4 states are shown to require a more detailed tomography. The analysis also sheds light on the other measure, non separability since it is a lower bound on concurrence.

id: 1403.5861
title: Computational Speed-up with a Single Qutrit
authors: Z. Gedik
comments: 9 pages, title changed, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5861
abstract: We show that a single qutrit is enough to implement a quantum algorithm, which can solve a model problem faster than any classical algorithm. For permutation functions defined on a set of three elements, deciding whether a given permutation is even or odd, requires evaluation of the function for two elements. We demonstrate that a quantum circuit with a single qutrit can determine the parity of the permutation with only one evaluation of the function instead of two. Our algorithm provides an example for quantum computation without entanglement since it makes use of pure states of a qutrit. Since a qutrit is the simplest system where the contextual nature of quantum mechanics is observed, we conjecture that contextuality plays a fundamental role in quantum computation. The algorithm can be generalized to higher dimensional qudits with the same speed-up ratio.

id: 1403.5867
title: Quantum metrology: Heisenberg limit with bound entanglement
authors: L. Czekaj, A. Przysiezna, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5867
abstract: Quantum metrology allows for a huge boost in the precision of parameters estimation. However, it seems to be extremely sensitive on the noise. Bound entangled states are states with large amount of noise what makes them unusable for almost all quantum informational tasks. Here we provide a counterintuitive example of a family of bound entangled states which can be used in quantum enhanced metrology. We show that these states give advantage as big as maximally entangled states and asymptotically reach the Heisenberg limit. Moreover, entanglement of the applied states is very weak which is reflected by its so called unlockability poperty. Finally, we find instances where behaviour of Quantum Fisher Information reports presence of bound entanglement while a well-known class of strong correlation Bell inequality does not. The question rises of whether (and if so, then to what degree) violation of local realism is required for the sub-shot noise precision in quantum metrology.

id: 1403.5893
title: Tavis-Cummings model beyond the rotating wave approximation: Inhomogeneous coupling
authors: Lijun Mao, Sainan Huai, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5893
abstract: We present the analytical solution of the Tavis-Cummings (TC) model for more than one qubit inhomogeneously coupled to a single mode radiation field beyond the rotating-wave approximation (RWA). The significant advantage of the displaced oscillator basis enables us to apply the same truncation techniques adopted in the single qubit Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model to the multiple qubits system. The derived analytical spectrum match perfectly the exact diagonalization numerical solutions of the inhomogeneous TC model in the parameter regime where the qubits transition frequencies are far off-resonance with the field frequency and the interaction strengths reach the ultra-strong coupling regime. The two-qubit TC model is quasi-exactly solvable because part of the spectra can be determined exactly in the homogeneous coupling case with two identical qubits or with symmetric(asymmetric) detuning. By means of the fidelity of quantum states we identify several nontrivial level crossing points in the same parity subspace, which implies that homogeneous coupled two-qubit TC model with $\omega_1=\omega_2$ or $\omega_1\pm\omega_2=2\omega_c$ is integrable. We further explore the time evolution of the qubit's population inversion and the entanglement behavior taking two qubits as an example. The analytical methods provide unexpectedly accurate results in describing the dynamics of the qubit in the present experimentally accessible coupling regime, showing that the collapse-revival phenomena emerge, survive, and are finally destroyed when the coupling strength increases beyond the ultra-strong coupling regime. The suggested procedure applies readily to the multiple qubits system such as the GHZ state entanglement evolution and quantum entanglement between a single photon and superconducting qubits of particular experiment interest.

id: 1403.5925
title: Position-based quantum cryptography over untrusted networks
authors: Muhammad Nadeem
comments: 12 pages, 4 figure: final version with few corrections of symbols in equation 3.1-3.3 and A.1
journal: Laser Phys. 24 (2014) 085202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5925
abstract: In this paper, we propose quantum position-verification schemes where all the channels are untrusted except the position of the prover and distant reference stations of verifiers. We review and analyze the existing QPV schemes containing some pre-shared data between the prover and verifiers. Most of these schemes are based on non-cryptographic assumptions, that is, quantum/classical channels between the verifiers are secure. It seems impractical in the environment fully controlled by adversaries and would lead to security compromise in practical implementations. However, our proposed formulism for quantum position-verification is more robust, secure and according to the standard assumptions of cryptography. Furthermore, once the position of the prover is verified, our schemes establish secret keys in parallel and can be used for authentication and secret communication between the prover and verifiers.

id: 1403.5964
title: Exact Green's function for rectangular potentials and its application to quasi-bound states
authors: Fabiano M. Andrade
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, few typos corrected, matches published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 1461 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5964
abstract: In this work we calculate the exact Green's function for arbitrary rectangular potentials. Specifically we focus on Green's function for rectangular quantum wells enlarging the knowledge of exact solutions for Green's functions and also generalizing and resuming results in the literature. The exact formula has the form of a sum over paths and always can be cast into a closed analytic expression. From the poles and residues of the Green's function the bound states eigenenergies and eigenfunctions with the correct normalization constant are obtained. In order to show the versatility of the method, an application of the Green's function approach to extract information of quasi-bound states in rectangular barriers, where the standard analysis of quantum amplitudes fail, is presented.

id: 1403.6022
title: Oblivious transfer based on quantum state computational distinguishability
authors: A. Souto, P. Mateus, P. Ad?o, N. Paunkovi?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6022
abstract: Oblivious transfer protocol is a basic building block in cryptography and is used to transfer information from a sender to a receiver in such a way that, at the end of the protocol, the sender does not know if the receiver got the message or not. Since Shor's quantum algorithm appeared, the security of most of classical cryptographic schemes has been compromised, as they rely on the fact that factoring is unfeasible. To overcome this, quantum mechanics has been used intensively in the past decades, and alternatives resistant to quantum attacks have been developed in order to fulfill the (potential) lack of security of a significant number of classical schemes. In this paper, we present a quantum computationally secure protocol for oblivious transfer between two parties, under the assumption of quantum hardness of state distinguishability. The protocol is feasible, in the sense that it is implementable in polynomial time.

id: 1403.6038
title: Testing quantum gravity by nanodiamond interferometry with nitrogen-vacancy centers
authors: Andreas Albrecht, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 22 pages, 14 figures, extended discussion of the interference pattern
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033834 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6038
abstract: Interferometry with massive particles may have the potential to explore the limitations of standard quantum mechanics in particular where it concerns its boundary with general relativity and the yet to be developed theory of quantum gravity. This development is hindered considerably by the lack of experimental evidence and testable predictions. Analyzing effects that appear to be common to many of such theories, such as a modification of the energy dispersion and of the canonical commutation relation within the standard framework of quantum mechanics, has been proposed as a possible way forward. Here we analyze in some detail the impact of a modified energy-momentum dispersion in a Ramsey-Bord\'e setup and provide achievable bounds of these correcting terms when operating such an interferometer with nanodiamonds. Thus, taking thermal and gravitational disturbances into account will show that without specific prerequisites, quantum gravity modifications may in general be suppressed requiring a revision of previously estimated bounds. As a possible solution we propose a stable setup that is rather insensitive to these effects. Finally, we address the problems of decoherence and pulse errors in such setups and discuss the scalings and advantages with increasing particle mass.

id: 1403.6054
title: Heralded noiseless amplification and attenuation of non-gaussian states of light
authors: C. N. Gagatsos, J. Fiurasek, A. Zavatta, M. Bellini, N. J. Cerf
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6054
abstract: We examine the behavior of non-Gaussian states of light under the action of probabilistic noiseless amplification and attenuation. Surprisingly, we find that the mean field amplitude may decrease in the process of noiseless amplification -- or increase in the process of noiseless attenuation, a counterintuitive effect that Gaussian states cannot exhibit. This striking phenomenon could be tested with experimentally accessible non-Gaussian states, such as single-photon added coherent states. We propose an experimental scheme, which is robust with respect to the major experimental imperfections such as inefficient single-photon detection and imperfect photon addition. In particular, we argue that the observation of mean field amplification by noiseless attenuation should be feasible with current technology.

id: 1403.6102
title: Renyi generalizations of the conditional quantum mutual information
authors: Mario Berta, Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v6: 53 pages, final published version
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics vol. 56, no. 2, article no. 022205, February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6102
abstract: The conditional quantum mutual information $I(A;B|C)$ of a tripartite state $\rho_{ABC}$ is an information quantity which lies at the center of many problems in quantum information theory. Three of its main properties are that it is non-negative for any tripartite state, that it decreases under local operations applied to systems $A$ and $B$, and that it obeys the duality relation $I(A;B|C)=I(A;B|D)$ for a four-party pure state on systems $ABCD$. The conditional mutual information also underlies the squashed entanglement, an entanglement measure that satisfies all of the axioms desired for an entanglement measure. As such, it has been an open question to find R\'enyi generalizations of the conditional mutual information, that would allow for a deeper understanding of the original quantity and find applications beyond the traditional memoryless setting of quantum information theory. The present paper addresses this question, by defining different $\alpha$-R\'enyi generalizations $I_{\alpha}(A;B|C)$ of the conditional mutual information, some of which we can prove converge to the conditional mutual information in the limit $\alpha\rightarrow1$. Furthermore, we prove that many of these generalizations satisfy non-negativity, duality, and monotonicity with respect to local operations on one of the systems $A$ or $B$ (with it being left as an open question to prove that monotoniticity holds with respect to local operations on both systems). The quantities defined here should find applications in quantum information theory and perhaps even in other areas of physics, but we leave this for future work. We also state a conjecture regarding the monotonicity of the R\'enyi conditional mutual informations defined here with respect to the R\'enyi parameter $\alpha$. We prove that this conjecture is true in some special cases and when $\alpha$ is in a neighborhood of one.

id: 1403.6132
title: Degenerate Adiabatic Perturbation Theory: Foundations and Applications
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, double column, revtex4; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6132
abstract: We present details and expand on the framework leading to the recently introduced degenerate adiabatic perturbation theory [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170406 (2010)], and on the formulation of the degenerate adiabatic theorem, along with its necessary and sufficient conditions given in [Phys. Rev. A 85, 062111 (2012)]. We start with the adiabatic approximation for degenerate Hamiltonians that paves the way to a clear and rigorous statement of the associated degenerate adiabatic theorem, where the non-abelian geometric phase (Wilczek-Zee phase) plays a central role to its quantitative formulation. We then describe the degenerate adiabatic perturbation theory, whose zeroth order term is the degenerate adiabatic approximation, in its full generality. The parameter in the perturbative power series expansion of the time-dependent wave function is directly associated to the inverse of the time it takes to drive the system from its initial to its final state. With the aid of the degenerate adiabatic perturbation theory we obtain rigorous necessary and sufficient conditions for the validity of the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics. Finally, to illustrate the power and wide scope of the methodology, we apply the framework to a degenerate Hamiltonian, whose closed form time-dependent wave function is derived exactly, and also to other non-exactly-solvable Hamiltonians whose solutions are numerically computed.

id: 1403.6180
title: CMOS-compatible, multiplexed source of heralded photon pairs: towards integrated quantum combs
authors: Christian Reimer, Lucia Caspani, Matteo Clerici, Marcello Ferrera, Michael Kues, Marco Peccianti, Alessia Pasquazi, Luca Razzari, Brent E. Little, Sai T. Chu, David J. Moss, Roberto Morandotti
comments: 11 pagers, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22 Issue 6, pp.6535-6546 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6180
abstract: We report an integrated photon pair source based on a CMOS-compatible microring resonator that generates multiple, simultaneous, and independent photon pairs at different wavelengths in a frequency comb compatible with fiber communication wavelength division multiplexing channels (200 GHz channel separation) and with a linewidth that is compatible with quantum memories (110 MHz). It operates in a self-locked pump configuration, avoiding the need for active stabilization, making it extremely robust even at very low power levels.

id: 1403.6182
title: Violation of classical inequalities by photon frequency-filtering
authors: Carlos S¨¢nchez Mu?oz, Elena del Valle, Carlos Tejedor, Fabrice P. Laussy
comments: Supplementary video: this https URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6182
abstract: The violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz and Bell inequalities ranks among the major evidences of the genuinely quantum nature of an emitter. We show that by dispensing from the usual approximation of mode correlations and studying directly correlations between the physical reality -the photons- these violations can be optimized. This is achieved by extending the concept of photon correlations to all frequencies in all the possible windows of detections, with no prejudice to the supposed origin of the photons. We identify the regions of quantum emission as rooted in collective de-excitation involving virtual states instead of, as previously assumed, cascaded transitions between real states.

id: 1403.6214
title: Analysis of Linear Quantum Optical Networks
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A shortened version is to appear in the Proceedings of the 19th IFAC World Congress, Cape Town, August, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6214
abstract: This paper is concerned with the analysis of linear quantum optical networks. It provides a systematic approach to the construction a model for a given quantum network in terms of a system of quantum stochastic differential equations. This corresponds to a classical state space model. The linear quantum optical networks under consideration consist of interconnections between optical cavities, optical squeezers, and beamsplitters. These models can then be used in the design of quantum feedback control systems for these networks.

id: 1403.6264
title: Quantum non-Gaussianity witnesses in the phase space
authors: Catherine Hughes, Marco G. Genoni, Tommaso Tufarelli, Matteo G. A. Paris, M. S. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6264
abstract: We address detection of quantum non-Gaussian states, i.e. nonclassical states that cannot be expressed as a convex mixture of Gaussian states, and present a method to derive a new family of criteria based on generic linear functionals. We then specialise this method to derive witnesses based on $s$-parametrized quasiprobability functions, generalising previous criteria based on the Wigner function. In particular we discuss in detail and analyse the properties of Husimi Q-function based witnesses and prove that they are often more effective than previous criteria in detecting quantum non-Gaussianity of various kinds of non-Gaussian states evolving in a lossy channel.

id: 1403.6284
title: Directional superradiant emission from statistically independent incoherent non-classical and classical sources
authors: S. Oppel, R. Wiegner, G. S. Agarwal, J. von Zanthier
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263606 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6284
abstract: Superradiance is one of the outstanding problems in quantum optics since Dicke introduced the concept of enhanced directional spontaneous emission by an ensemble of identical two-level atoms. The effect is based on correlated collective Dicke states which turn out to be highly entangled. Here we show that enhanced directional emission of spontaneous radiation can be produced also with statistically independent incoherent sources via the measurement of higher order correlation functions of the emitted radiation. Our analysis is applicable to a wide variety of quantum systems like trapped atoms, ions, quantum dots or NV-centers, and is also valid for statistically independent incoherent classical emitters. This is experimentally confirmed with up to eight independent thermal light sources.

id: 1403.6340
title: Feasibility of single-photon cross-phase modulation using metastable xenon in a high finesse cavity
authors: B. T. Kirby, G. T. Hickman, T. B. Pittman, J. D. Franson
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Communications 337 (2015) 57-61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6340
abstract: Cross-phase modulation at the single-photon level has a wide variety of fundamental applications in quantum optics including the generation of macroscopic entangled states. Here we describe a practical method for producing a weak cross-phase modulation at the single-photon level using metastable xenon in a high finesse cavity. We estimate the achievable phase shift and give a brief update on the experimental progress towards its realization. A single-photon cross-phase modulation of approximately 20 milliradians is predicted by both a straightforward perturbation theory calculation and a numerical matrix diagonalization method.

id: 1403.6361
title: Weak locking capacity of quantum channels can be much larger than private capacity
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 17pp; v2 has some typos corrected and modified abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6361
abstract: We show that it is possible for the so-called weak locking capacity of a quantum channel [Guha et al., PRX 4:011016, 2014] to be much larger than its private capacity. Both reflect different ways of capturing the notion of reliable communication via a quantum system while leaking almost no information to an eavesdropper; the difference is that the latter imposes an intrinsically quantum security criterion whereas the former requires only a weaker, classical condition. The channels for which this separation is most straightforward to establish are the complementary channels of classical-quantum (cq-)channels, and hence a subclass of Hadamard channels. We also prove that certain symmetric channels (related to photon number splitting) have positive weak locking capacity in the presence of a vanishingly small pre-shared secret, whereas their private capacity is zero. These findings are powerful illustrations of the difference between two apparently natural notions of privacy in quantum systems, relevant also to quantum key distribution (QKD): the older, naive one based on accessible information, contrasting with the new, composable one embracing the quantum nature of the eavesdropper's information. Assuming an additivity conjecture for constrained minimum output Renyi entropies, the techniques of the first part demonstrate a single-letter formula for the weak locking capacity of complements to cq-channels, coinciding with a general upper bound of Guha et al. for these channels. Furthermore, still assuming this additivity conjecture, this upper bound is given an operational interpretation for general channels as the maximum weak locking capacity of the channel activated by a suitable noiseless channel.

id: 1403.6387
title: Reaching a Quantum Consensus: Master Equations that Generate Symmetrization and Synchronization
authors: Guodong Shi, Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen, Karl Henrik Johansson
comments: In Press, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6387
abstract: In this paper, we propose and study a master-equation based approach to drive a quantum network with $n$ qubits to a consensus (symmetric) state introduced by Mazzarella et al. The state evolution of the quantum network is described by a Lindblad master equation with the Lindblad terms generated by continuous-time swapping operators, which also introduce an underlying interaction graph. We establish a graphical method that bridges the proposed quantum consensus scheme and classical consensus dynamics by studying an induced graph (with $2^{2n}$ nodes) of the quantum interaction graph (with $n$ qubits). A fundamental connection is then shown that quantum consensus over the quantum graph is equivalent to componentwise classical consensus over the induced graph, which allows various existing works on classical consensus to be applicable to the quantum setting. Some basic scaling and structural properties of the quantum induced graph are established via combinatorial analysis. Necessary and sufficient conditions for exponential and asymptotic quantum consensus are obtained, respectively, for switching quantum interaction graphs. As a quantum analogue of classical synchronization of coupled oscillators, quantum synchronization conditions are also presented, in which the reduced states of all qubits tend to a common trajectory.

id: 1403.6405
title: Single-Photon Observables and Preparation Uncertainty Relations
authors: G. Guarnieri, M. Motta, L. Lanz
comments: 25 pages (7 Figures); revised and extended version; in submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6405
abstract: We propose a procedure for defining all single-photon observables in terms of Positive-Operator Valued Measures (POVMs), in particular spin and position. We identify the suppression of $0$-helicity photon states as a projection from an extended Hilbert space onto the photon Hilbert space. We show that all single-photon observables are in general described by POVMs, obtained by applying this projection to opportune Projection-Valued Measures (PVMs), defined on the extended Hilbert space. The POVMs associated to momentum and helicity reduce to PVMs, unlike those associated to position and spin, this fact reflecting the intrinsic unsharpness of these observables. We finally extensively study the preparation uncertainty relations for position and momentum and the probability distribution of spin, exploring single photon Gaussian states for several choices of spin and polarization.

id: 1403.6474
title: Steady-state entanglement of spatially separated qubits via quantum bath engineering
authors: Camille Aron, Manas Kulkarni, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6474
abstract: We propose a scheme for driving a dimer of spatially separated qubits into a maximally entangled non-equilibrium steady state. A photon-mediated retarded interaction between the qubits is realized by coupling them to two tunnel-coupled leaky cavities where each cavity is driven by a coherent microwave tone. The proposed cooling mechanism relies on striking the right balance between the unitary and driven-dissipative dynamics of the qubit subsystem. We map the dimer to an effective transverse-field XY model coupled to a non-equilibrium bath that can be suitably engineered through the choice of drive frequencies and amplitudes. We show that both singlet and triplet states can be obtained with remarkable fidelities. The proposed protocol can be implemented with a superconducting circuit architecture that was recently experimentally realized and paves the way to achieving large-scale entangled systems that are arbitrarily long lived.

id: 1403.6495
title: Searching for pairing energies in phase space
authors: M. Calixto, O. Casta?os, E. Romera
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 108 (2014) 47001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6495
abstract: We obtain a representation of pairing energies in phase space, for the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick and general boson Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer pairing models. This is done by means of a probability distribution of the quantum state in phase space. In fact, we prove a correspondence between the points at which this probability distribution vanishes and the pairing energies. In principle, the vanishing of this probability distribution is experimentally accessible and additionally gives a method to visualize pairing energies across the model control parameter space. This result opens new ways to experimentally approach quantum pairing systems.

id: 1403.6545
title: On The Power Of Coherently Controlled Quantum Adiabatic Evolutions
authors: Maria Kieferova, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6545
abstract: A major challenge facing adiabatic quantum computing is that algorithm design and error correction can be difficult for adiabatic quantum computing. Recent work has considered addressing his challenge by using coherently controlled adiabatic evolutions in the place of classically controlled evolution. An important question remains: what is the relative power of controlled adiabatic evolution to traditional adiabatic evolutions? We address this by showing that coherent control and measurement provides a way to average different adiabatic evolutions in ways that cause their diabatic errors to cancel, allowing for adiabatic evolutions to combine the best characteristics of existing adiabatic optimizations strategies that are mutually exclusive in conventional adiabatic QIP. This result shows that coherent control and measurement can provide advantages for adiabatic state preparation. We also provide upper bounds on the complexity of simulating such evolutions on a circuit based quantum computer and provide sufficiency conditions for the equivalence of controlled adiabatic evolutions to adiabatic quantum computing.

id: 1403.6565
title: Collapse-revival of quantum discord and entanglement
authors: Xue-Qun Yan, Bo-Ying Zhang
comments: 1. Some references are added. 2.Some misprints are corrected. For example, in Eq.(2) the expression "C" and "S" are changed to lowercase
journal: Annals of Physics, 349 (2014) 350-356
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6565
abstract: In this paper the correlations dynamics of two atoms in the case of a micromaser-type system is investigated. Our results predict certain quasi-periodic collapse and revival phenomena for quantum discord and entanglement when the field is in Fock state and the two atoms are initially in maximally mixed state, which is a unique separable state. Our calculations also show that the oscillations of the time evolution of both quantum discord and entanglement are almost in phase and they both have similar evolution behavior in some time range. The fact reveals the consistency of quantum discord and entanglement in some dynamical aspects.

id: 1403.6590
title: On some entropy inequalities
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX, any comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6590
abstract: In this short report, we give some new entropy inequalities based on R\'{e}nyi relative entropy and the observation made by Berta {\em et al} [arXiv:1403.6102]. These inequalities obtained extends some well-known entropy inequalities. We also obtain a condition under which a tripartite operator becomes a Markov state.

id: 1403.6635
title: Casimir friction at zero and finite temperatures
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 20 pages latex, no figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6635
abstract: The Casimir friction problem for dielectric plates that move parallel to each other is treated by assuming one of the plates to be at rest. The other performs a closed loop motion in the longitudinal direction. Therewith by use of energy dissipation the formalism becomes more manageable and transparent than in the conventional setting where uniform sliding motion is assumed from $t=-\infty$ to $t=+\infty$. One avoids separating off a reversible interparticle force (independent of friction) from the total force. Moreover, the cases of temperatures $T=0$ and finite $T$ are treated on the same footing. For metal plates we find the friction force to be proportional to $v^3$ at $T=0$ while at finite $T$ it is proportional to $v$ for small $v$ as found earlier. Comparisons with earlier results of Pendry (1997, 2010) and Barton (2011) are made.

id: 1403.6647
title: Higher order nonclassicalities in a codirectional nonlinear optical coupler: Quantum entanglement, squeezing and antibunching
authors: Kishore Thapliyal, Anirban Pathak, Biswajit Sen, Jan Perina
comments: 9 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013808 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6647
abstract: Higher order nonclassical properties of fields propagating through a codirectional asymmetric nonlinear optical coupler which is prepared by combining a linear wave guide and a nonlinear (quadratic) wave guide operated by second harmonic generation are studied. A completely quantum mechanical description is used here to describe the system. Closed form analytic solutions of Heisenberg's equations of motion for various modes are used to show the existence of higher order antibunching, higher order squeezing, higher order two-mode and multi-mode entanglement in the asymmetric nonlinear optical coupler. It is also shown that nonclassical properties of light can transfer from a nonlinear wave guide to a linear wave guide.

id: 1403.6677
title: Metric space formulation of quantum mechanical conservation laws
authors: P. M. Sharp, I. D'Amico
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6677
abstract: We show that conservation laws in quantum mechanics naturally lead to metric spaces for the set of related physical quantities. All such metric spaces have an "onion-shell" geometry. We demonstrate the power of this approach by considering many-body systems immersed in a magnetic field, with a finite ground state current. In the associated metric spaces we find regions of allowed and forbidden distances, a "band structure" in metric space directly arising from the conservation of the $z$ component of the angular momentum.

id: 1403.6700
title: Spectroscopic version of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: C. Lagan¨¢
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6700
abstract: An experiment is proposed in which the Aharonov-Bohm effect can be veryfied through a spectroscopic measurement. The apparatus consists of gaseous hydrochloric acid (HCl) immersed in the constant vector potential ${\bf A}=A_0{\bf z}$ present in the interior of a toroidal coil. Changes due to ${\bf A}$ in the absorption spectrum of the gas are investigated.

id: 1403.6701
title: An intuition behind quantum measurement
authors: Piotr Witas
comments: 6 pages; a draft
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6701
abstract: An attempt is made to give a heuristic explanation of the distinguished role of measurement in the quantum theory. We question the notion of "naive" reductionism by stressing the difference between an isolated quantum and classical object. It is argued that the transition from the micro- to the macroscopic description should be made along some parameters not characterized by the quantum theory.

id: 1403.6707
title: Quantum Circuit for Calculating Symmetrized Functions Via Grover-like Algorithm
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 28 pages(14 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 8 .eps, 3 .m)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6707
abstract: In this paper, we give a quantum circuit that calculates symmetrized functions. Our algorithm applies the original Grover's algorithm or a variant thereof such as AFGA (adaptive fixed point Grover's algorithm). Our algorithm uses AFGA in conjunction with two new techniques we call "targeting two hypotheses" and "blind targeting". Suppose AFGA drives the starting state $|s\rangle$ to the target state $|t\rangle$. When targeting two hypotheses, $|t\rangle$ is a superposition $a_0|0\rangle + a_1|1\rangle$ of two orthonormal states or hypotheses $|0\rangle$ and $|1\rangle$. When targeting blindly, the value of $\langle t| s\rangle$ is not known a priori.

id: 1403.6717
title: Smooth Entropy Transfer of Quantum Gravity Information Processing
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6717
abstract: We introduce the term smooth entanglement entropy transfer, a phenomenon that is a consequence of the causality-cancellation property of the quantum gravity environment. The causality-cancellation of the quantum gravity space removes the causal dependencies of the local systems. We study the physical effects of the causality-cancellation and show that it stimulates entropy transfer between the quantum gravity environment and the independent local systems of the quantum gravity space. The entropy transfer reduces the entropies of the contributing local systems and increases the entropy of the quantum gravity environment. We discuss the space-time geometry structure of the quantum gravity environment and the local quantum systems. We propose the space-time geometry model of the smooth entropy transfer. We reveal on a smooth Cauchy slice that the space-time geometry of the quantum gravity environment dynamically adapts to the vanishing causality. We define the corresponding Hamiltonians and the causal development of the quantum gravity environment in a non-fixed causality structure. We prove that the Cauchy area expansion, along with the dilation of the Rindler horizon area of the quantum gravity environment, is a strict corollary of the causality-cancellation of the quantum gravity environment.

id: 1403.6740
title: Pulsed source of spectrally uncorrelated and indistinguishable photons at telecom wavelengths
authors: Natalia Bruno, Anthony Martin, Thiago Guerreiro, Bruno Sanguinetti, Robert T. Thew
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6740
abstract: We report on the generation of indistinguishable photon pairs at telecom wavelengths based on a type-II parametric down conversion process in a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate (PPKTP) crystal. The phase matching, pump laser characteristics and coupling geometry are optimised to obtain spectrally uncorrelated photons with high coupling efficiencies. Four photons are generated by a counter- propagating pump in the same crystal and anlysed via two photon interference experiments between photons from each pair source as well as joint spectral and g^(2) measurements. We obtain a spectral purity of 0.91 and coupling efficiencies around 90% for all four photons without any filtering. These pure indistinguishable photon sources at telecom wavelengths are perfectly adapted for quantum network demonstrations and other multi-photon protocols.

id: 1403.6742
title: Dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in a PT-symmetric double-well potential
authors: R¨¹diger Fortanier, Dennis Dast, Daniel Haag, Holger Cartarius, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner, Robin Gut?hrlein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063608 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6742
abstract: We investigate dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in a complex external double-well potential that features a combined parity and time-reversal symmetry. On the basis of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation we study the effects of the long-ranged anisotropic dipole-dipole interaction on ground and excited states by the use of a time-dependent variational approach. We show that the property of a similar non-dipolar condensate to possess real energy eigenvalues in certain parameter ranges is preserved despite the inclusion of this nonlinear interaction. Furthermore, we present states that break the PT symmetry and investigate the stability of the distinct stationary solutions. In our dynamical simulations we reveal a complex stabilization mechanism for PT-symmetric, as well as for PT-broken states which are, in principle, unstable with respect to small perturbations.

id: 1403.6872
title: Cavity enhanced rephased amplified spontaneous emission
authors: Lewis A Williamson, Jevon J Longdell
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 073046
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6872
abstract: Amplified spontaneous emission is usually treated as an incoherent noise process. Recent theoretical and experimental work using rephasing optical pulses has shown that rephased amplified spontaneous emission (RASE) is a potential source of wide bandwidth time-delayed entanglement. Due to poor echo efficiency the plain RASE protocol doesn't in theory achieve perfect entanglement. Experiments done to date show a very small amount of entanglement at best. Here we show that rephased amplified spontaneous emission can, in principle, produce perfect multimode time-delayed two mode squeezing when the active medium is placed inside a Q-switched cavity.

id: 1403.6875
title: Integrability and weak diffraction in a two-particle Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Daniel Braak, J. M. Zhang, Marcus Kollar
comments: 13.5 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol.47 p.465303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6875
abstract: A recently introduced one-dimensional two-particle Bose-Hubbard model with a single impurity is studied on finite lattices. The model possesses a discrete reflection symmetry and we demonstrate that all eigenstates odd under this symmetry can be obtained with a generalized Bethe ansatz if periodic boundary conditions are imposed. Furthermore, we provide numerical evidence that this holds true for open boundary conditions as well. The model exhibits backscattering at the impurity site -- which usually destroys integrability -- yet there exists an integrable subspace. We investigate the non-integrable even sector numerically and find a class of states which have almost the Bethe ansatz form. These weakly diffractive states correspond to a weak violation of the non-local Yang-Baxter relation which is satisfied in the odd sector. We bring up a method based on the Prony algorithm to check whether a numerically obtained wave function is in the Bethe form or not, and if so, to extract parameters from it. This technique is applicable to a wide variety of other lattice models.

id: 1403.6892
title: Approximating uniform quantum channels
authors: Shmuel Friedland
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6892
abstract: Let G be a finite subgroup of unitary matrices acting on the space of $N$-qubits. We associate with G a uniform quantum channel QU from the space on $N$-qubits to itself. We give a quantum algorithm to approximate this channel by considering a set of generators on G. Under suitable assumptions this approximation is BPQ. We then apply this approximation to study the orbit equivalence of two density matrices under the action of G. We show that for some special cases of G and two pure states the orbit equivalence in BPQ, if a specific quantum observation can be implemented efficiently. We discuss the application of our problem to the graph isomorphism problem.

id: 1403.6910
title: Quantum Circuit for Calculating Mobius-like Transforms Via Grover-like Algorithm
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 12 pages(4 files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 2 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6910
abstract: In this paper, we give quantum circuits for calculating two closely related linear transforms that we refer to jointly as Mobius-like transforms. The first is the Mobius transform of a function $f^{-}(S^-)\in \mathbb{C}$, where $S^-\subset \{0,1,\ldots,n-1\}$. The second is a marginal of a probability distribution $P(y^n)$, where $y^n\in Bool^n$. Known classical algorithms for calculating these Mobius-like transforms take ${\cal O}(2^n)$ steps. Our quantum algorithm is based on a Grover-like algorithm and it takes ${\cal O}(\sqrt{2^n})$ steps.

id: 1403.6928
title: Network Synthesis for a Class of Mixed Quantum-Classical Linear Stochastic Systems
authors: Shi Wang, Hendra I. Nurdin, Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures, in Proceedings of the 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 1093-1098, Maui, Hawaii, USA, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6928
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to formulate and solve a synthesis problem for a class of linear quantum equations that may describe mixed quantum-classical systems. A general model and a standard model for mixed quantum-classical linear stochastic systems are proposed for our design processes and then we show how the former may be transformed into the latter, which can clearly present the internal structure of a mixed quantum-classical system. Physical realizability conditions are derived separately for the two models to ensure that they can correspond to physical systems. Furthermore, a network synthesis theory is developed for a mixed quantum-classical system of the standard form and an example is given to illustrate the theory.

id: 1403.6929
title: Upper Bound on Singlet Fraction of Two Qubit Mixed Entangled States
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Atul Kumar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6929
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of achieving the maximum possible singlet fraction using a entangled mixed two-qubit state as a resource. For this, we establish a tight upper bound on singlet fraction and show that the maximal singlet fraction obtained in \cite{Verstraete} does not attain the obtained upper bound on the singlet fraction. Interestingly, we found that the required upper bound can in fact be achieved using local filtering operations.

id: 1403.6945
title: Formulation of Leggett-Garg inequalities in terms of $q$-entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 7 pages, one figure, one table. In version 3, the bibliography is extended. To appear in Commun. Theor. Phys
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys., Vol. 62, 320-326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6945
abstract: As is well known, the macroscopic realism and the noninvasive measurability together lead to Leggett-Garg inequalities violated by quantum mechanics. We consider tests of the Leggett-Garg type with use of the $q$-entropies. For all $q\geq1$, quantum mechanics predicts violations of an entire family of $q$-entropic inequalities of the Leggett-Garg type. Violations are exemplified with a quantum spin-$s$ system. In general, entropic Leggett-Garg inequalities give only necessary conditions that some probabilistic model is compatible with the macrorealism in the broader sense. The presented $q$-entropic inequalities allow to widen a class of situations, in which an incompatibility with the macrorealism can be tested. In the considered example, both the strength and range of violations are somehow improved by varying $q$. We also examine $q$-entropic inequalities of the Leggett-Garg type in the case of detection inefficiencies, when the no-click event may occur in each observation. With the use of the $q$-entropic inequalities, the required amount of efficiency may be reduced.

id: 1403.6948
title: Concurrence-based Entanglement Measure For True $4$-way Entanglement
authors: Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial calculational error in (AD)-(BC) partition
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6948
abstract: An entanglement monotone, which is invariant under the determinant 1 SLOCC operations and measures the true quadripartite entanglement, is explicitly constructed.

id: 1403.6983
title: Bracket states for communication protocols with coherent states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Stefano Olivares, Maria Bondani
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6983
abstract: We present the generation and characterization of the class of bracket states, namely phase-sensitive mixtures of coherent states exhibiting symmetry properties in the phase-space description. A bracket state can be seen as the statistical ensemble arriving at a receiver in a typical coherent-state-based communication channel. We show that when a bracket state is mixed at a beam splitter with a local oscillator, both the emerging beams exhibit a Fano factor larger than 1 and dependent on the relative phase between the input state and the local oscillator. We discuss the possibility to exploit this dependence to monitor the phase difference for the enhancement of the performances of a simple communication scheme based on direct detection. Our experimental setup involves linear optical elements and a pair of photon-number-resolving detectors operated in the mesoscopic photon-number domain.

id: 1403.6987
title: Protocols and quantum circuits for implementing entanglement concentration in cat state, GHZ-like state and 9 families of 4-qubit entangled states
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 11 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6987
abstract: Three entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) are proposed. The first ECP and a modified version of that are shown to be useful for the creation of maximally entangled cat and GHZ-like states from their non-maximally entangled counterparts. The last two ECPs are designed for the creation of maximally entangled $(n+1)$-qubit state $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left(|\Psi_{0}\rangle|0\rangle+|\Psi_{1}\rangle|1\rangle\right)$ from the partially entangled $(n+1)$-qubit normalized state $\alpha|\Psi_{0}\rangle|0\rangle+\beta|\Psi_{1}\rangle|1\rangle$, where $\langle\Psi_{1}|\Psi_{0}\rangle=0$ and $|\alpha|\neq\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$. It is also shown that W, GHZ, GHZ-like, Bell and cat states and specific states from the 9 SLOCC-nonequivalent families of 4-qubit entangled states can be expressed as $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left(|\Psi_{0}\rangle|0\rangle+|\Psi_{1}\rangle|1\rangle\right)$ and consequently the last two ECPs proposed here are applicable to all these states. Quantum circuits for implementation of the proposed ECPs are provided and it is shown that the proposed ECPs can be realized using linear optics. Efficiency of the ECPs are studied using a recently introduced quantitative measure (Phys. Rev. A $\textbf{85}$, 012307 (2012)). Limitations of the measure are also reported.

id: 1403.7025
title: Nonexistence of entangled continuous-variable Werner states with positive partial transpose
authors: Daniel McNulty, Richard Tatham, Ladislav Mi?ta Jr
comments: 9 pages, identical to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7025
abstract: We address an open question about the existence of entangled continuous-variable (CV) Werner states with positive partial transpose (PPT). We prove that no such state exists by showing that all PPT CV Werner states are separable. The separability follows by observing that these CV Werner states can be approximated by truncating the states into a finite-dimensional convex mixture of product states. In addition, the constituents of the product states comprise a generalized non-Gaussian measurement which gives, rather surprisingly, a strictly tighter upper bound on quantum discord than photon counting. These results uncover the presence of only negative partial transpose entanglement and illustrate the complexity of more general non-classical correlations in this paradigmatic class of genuine non-Gaussian quantum states.

id: 1403.7050
title: Lecture Script: Introduction to Computational Quantum Mechanics
authors: Roman Schmied
comments: 124 pages, 6 chapters, with index
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7050
abstract: This document is the lecture script of a one-semester course taught at the University of Basel in the Fall semesters of 2012 and 2013. It is aimed at advanced students of physics who are familiar with the concepts and notations of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics lectures can often be separated into two classes. In the first class you get to know Schroedinger's equation and find the form and dynamics of simple physical systems (square well, harmonic oscillator, hydrogen atom); most calculations are analytic and inspired by calculations originally done in the 1920s and 1930s. In the second class you learn about large systems such as molecular structures, crystalline solids, or lattice models; these calculations are usually so complicated that it is difficult for the student to understand them in all detail. This lecture tries to bridge the gap between simple analytic calculations and complicated large-scale computations. We will revisit most of the problems encountered in introductory quantum mechanics, focusing on computer implementations for finding analytical as well as numerical solutions and their visualization. Most of these calculations are too complicated to be done by hand. Even relatively simple problems, such as two interacting particles in a one-dimensional trap, do not have analytic solutions and require the use of computers for their solution and visualization. More complex problems scale exponentially with the number of degrees of freedom, and make the use of large computer simulations unavoidable. The course is taught using the Mathematica programming language; however, the concepts presented are readily translated to any other programming language.

id: 1403.7056
title: Quantum networking of microwave photons using optical fibers
authors: B.D. Clader
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7056
abstract: We describe an adiabatic state transfer mechanism that allows for high-fidelity transfer of a microwave quantum state from one cavity to another through an optical fiber. The conversion from microwave frequency to optical frequency is enabled by an optomechanical transducer. The transfer process utilizes a combined dark state of the mechanical oscillator and fiber modes, making it robust against both mechanical and fiber loss. We anticipate this scheme being an enabling component of a hybrid quantum computing architecture consisting of superconducting qubits with optical interconnects.

id: 1403.7085
title: Optimal Signal Recovery for Pulsed Balanced Detection
authors: Yannick A. de Icaza Astiz, Vito Giovanni Lucivero, R. de J. Le¨®n-Montiel, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033814 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7085
abstract: We demonstrate a new tool for filtering technical and electronic noises from pulses of light, especially relevant for signal processing methods in quantum optics experiments as a means to achieve the shot-noise level and reduce strong technical noise by means of a pattern function. We provide the theory of this pattern-function filtering based on balance detection. Moreover, we implement an experimental demonstration where 10 dB of technical noise is filtered after balance detection. Such filter can readily be used for probing magnetic atomic ensembles in environments with strong technical noise.

id: 1403.7092
title: Numerov numerical method applied to the Schr?dinger equation
authors: F. Caruso, V. Oguri
comments: in Portuguese, 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Revista Brasileira de Ensino de F??sica, v. 36, n. 2, a.n. 2310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7092
abstract: In this paper it is shown how to solve numerically eigenvalue problems associated to second order linear ordinary differential equations, containing also terms which depend on the variable. A didactic presentation of the Numerov Method is given and, in the sequel, it is applied to two quantum non-relativistic problems with well known analytical solutions: the simple harmonic oscillator and the hydrogen atom. The numerical results are compared to those obtained analytically.

id: 1403.7119
title: Is the Born Rule Anthropically Determined?
authors: Michael B. Weissman
comments: Short- only 10,000 characters. And it meets the Bohr criterion for QM- crazy enough. Comments are very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7119
abstract: I argue that various derivations of the Born probability rule within strictly unitary quantum mechanics implicitly use anthropic constraints on the properties of the probabilities, but without proposing an ensemble from which those constraints limit a selection. An argument by Mallah obtains the Born probabilities explicitly for standard unitary dynamics but via postulating a hypothetical extra noise-like component of the quantum state. I argue that the implicit anthropic constraints required for well-behaved probability rules would select for a state of the sort Mallah proposes.

id: 1403.7136
title: Two Proofs of Fine's Theorem
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 17 pages, latex. Revised argument for setting average spins to zero. References added. Corrected figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7136
abstract: Fine's theorem concerns the question of determining the conditions under which a certain set of probabilities for pairs of four bivalent quantities may be taken to be the marginals of an underlying probability distribution. The eight CHSH inequalities are well-known to be necessary conditions, but Fine's theorem is the striking result that they are also a sufficient condition. It has application to the question of finding a local hidden variables theory for measurements of pairs of spins for a system in an EPRB state. Here we present two simple and self-contained proofs of Fine's theorem in which the origins of this non-obvious result can be easily seen. The first is a physically motivated proof which simply notes that this matching problem is solved using a local hidden variables model given by Peres. The second is a straightforward algebraic proof which uses a representation of the probabilities in terms of correlation functions and takes advantage of certain simplifications naturally arising in that representation. A third, unsuccessful attempt at a proof, involving the maximum entropy technique is also briefly described

id: 1403.7148
title: High Fidelity Quantum Gates for Trapped Ions under Micromotion
authors: Chao Shen, Luming Duan
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7148
abstract: Two or three dimensional Paul traps can confine a large number of ions forming a Wigner crystal, which would provide an ideal architecture for scalable quantum computation except for the micromotion, an issue that is widely believed to be the killer for high fidelity quantum gates. Surprisingly, here we show that the micromotion is not an obstacle at all for design of high fidelity quantum gates, even though the magnitude of the micromotion is significantly beyond the requirement of the Lamb-Dicke condition. Through exact solution of the quantum Mathieu equations, we demonstrate the principle of the gate design under micromotion using two ions in a quadrupole Paul trap as an example. The proposed micromotion quantum gates can be extended to the many ion case, paving a new way for scalable trapped ion quantum computation.

id: 1403.7149
title: Invariants of broken discrete symmetries
authors: P. Kalozoumis, C. Morfonios, F.K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7149
abstract: The parity and Bloch theorems are generalized to the case of broken global symmetry. Local inversion or translation symmetries are shown to yield invariant currents that characterize wave propagation. These currents map the wave function from an arbitrary spatial domain to any symmetry-related domain. Our approach addresses any combination of local symmetries, thus applying in particular to acoustic, optical and matter waves. Nonvanishing values of the invariant currents provide a systematic pathway to the breaking of discrete global symmetries.

id: 1403.7154
title: Optimal qudit operator bases for efficient characterization of quantum gates
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Giulia Gualdi, Christiane P. Koch
comments: reference updated
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 385305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7154
abstract: For certain quantum operations acting on qubits, there exist bases of measurement operators such that estimating the average fidelity becomes efficient. The number of experiments required is then independent of system size and the classical computational resources scale only polynomially in the number of qubits. Here we address the question of how to optimally choose the measurement basis for efficient gate characterization when replacing two-level qubits by $d$-level qudits. We define optimality in terms of the maximal number of unitaries that can be efficiently characterized. Our definition allows us to construct the optimal measurement basis in terms of their spectra and eigenbases: The measurement operators are unitaries with $d$-nary spectrum and partition into $d+1$ Abelian groups whose eigenbases are mutually unbiased.

id: 1403.7174
title: Monolithic on-chip integration of semiconductor waveguides, beamsplitters and single-photon sources
authors: Klaus D. J?ns, Ulrich Rengstl, Markus Oster, Fabian Hargart, Matthias Heldmaier, Samir Bounouar, Sven M. Ulrich, Michael Jetter, Peter Michler
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 48 085101 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7174
abstract: The implementation of a fully integrated Hadamard gate on one single chip is currently one of the major goals in the quantum computation and communication community. Prerequisites for such a chip are the integration of single-photon sources and detectors into waveguide structures such as photonic crystals or slab and ridge waveguide. Here, we present an implementation of a single-photon on-chip experiment based on a III-V semiconductor platform. Individual semiconductor quantum dots were used as pulsed single-photon sources integrated in ridge waveguides, and on-chip waveguide-beamsplitter operation is verified on the single-photon level by performing off-chip photon cross-correlation measurements between the two output ports of the beamsplitter. A careful characterization of the waveguide propagation losses (~ 0.0068 dB/um) documents the applicability of such GaAs-based waveguide structures in more complex photonic integrated circuits. The presented work marks an important step towards the realization of fully integrated photonic quantum circuits including on-demand single-photon sources.

id: 1403.7188
title: Asymmetric Position-Based Quantum Cryptography
authors: Muhammad Nadeem
comments: 4 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7188
abstract: A large number of quantum location verification protocols have been proposed. All existing protocols in this field are based on symmetric cryptography where verifiers and the prover use the same secret key. The prover obtains secret key from different verifiers, in pieces through public channels, which may result in security compromise. In this paper, we give a formulism to prove information-theoretic position-based quantum cryptography is possible in asymmetric quantum setting. We propose a quantum location verification protocol based on asymmetric quantum cryptographic where two different keys will be used.

id: 1403.7245
title: Numerical evaluation of the fidelity error threshold for the surface code
authors: Pejman Jouzdani, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7245
abstract: We study how the resilience of the surface code is affected by the coupling to a non-Markovian environment at zero temperature. The qubits in the surface code experience an effective dynamics due to the coupling to the environment that induces correlations among them. The range of the effective induced qubit-qubit interaction depends on parameters related to the environment and the duration of the quantum error correction cycle. We show numerically that different interaction ranges set different intrinsic bounds on the fidelity of the code. These bounds are unrelated to the error thresholds based on stochastic error models. We introduce a definition of stabilizers based on logical operators that allows us to efficiently implement a Metropolis algorithm to determine upper bounds to the fidelity error threshold.

id: 1403.7333
title: Maximal incompatibility of locally classical behavior and global causal order in multi-party scenarios
authors: ?min Baumeler, Adrien Feix, Stefan Wolf
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, title changed, improved presentation, contains two examples
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042106, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7333
abstract: Quantum theory in a global space-time gives rise to non-local correlations, which cannot be explained causally in a satisfactory way; this motivates the study of theories with reduced global assumptions. Oreshkov, Costa, and Brukner (2012) proposed a framework in which quantum theory is valid locally but where, at the same time, no global space-time, i.e., predefined causal order, is assumed beyond the absence of logical paradoxes. It was shown for the two-party case, however, that a global causal order always emerges in the classical limit. Quite naturally, it has been conjectured that the same also holds in the multi-party setting. We show that counter to this belief, classical correlations locally compatible with classical probability theory exist that allow for deterministic signaling between three or more parties incompatible with any predefined causal order.

id: 1403.7341
title: Blackbox Quantization of Superconducting Circuits using exact Impedance Synthesis
authors: Firat Solgun, David W. Abraham, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7341
abstract: We propose a new quantization method for superconducting electronic circuits involving a Josephson junction device coupled to a linear microwave environment. The method is based on an exact impedance synthesis of the microwave environment considered as a blackbox with impedance function Z(s). The synthesized circuit captures dissipative dynamics of the system with resistors coupled to the reactive part of the circuit in a non-trivial way. We quantize the circuit and compute relaxation rates following previous formalisms for lumped element circuit quantization. Up to the errors in the fit our method gives an exact description of the system and its losses.

id: 1403.7359
title: Quantum-state transfer in spin chains via isolated resonance of terminal spins
authors: Kamil Korzekwa, Pawe? Machnikowski, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7359
abstract: We propose a quantum-state transfer protocol in a spin chain that requires only the control of the spins at the ends of the quantum wire. The protocol is to a large extent insensitive to inhomogeneity caused by local magnetic fields and perturbation of exchange couplings. Moreover, apart from the free evolution regime, it allows one to induce an adiabatic spin transfer, which provides the possibility of performing the transfer on demand. We also show that the amount of information leaking into the central part of the chain is small throughout the whole transfer process (which protects the information sent from being eavesdropped) and can be controlled by the magnitude of the external magnetic field.

id: 1403.7432
title: Measuring Temporal Photon Bunching in Blackbody Radiation
authors: Peng Kian Tan, Guang Hui Yeo, Hou Shun Poh, Aik Hui Chan, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures (minor bugfixes, reference updates)
journal: Astrophys. J. Lett. 789, L10 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7432
abstract: Light from thermal black body radiators such as stars exhibits photon bunching behaviour at sufficiently short timescales. However, with available detector bandwidths, this bunching signal is difficult to be directly used for intensity interferometry with sufficient statistics in astronomy. Here we present an experimental technique to increase the photon bunching signal in blackbody radiation via spectral filtering of the light source. Our measurements reveal strong temporal photon bunching in light from blackbody radiation, including the Sun. Such filtering techniques may revive the interest in intensity interferometry as a tool in astronomy.

id: 1403.7477
title: An exact master equation for the system-reservoir dynamics under the strong coupling regime and non-Markovian dynamics
authors: T. B. Batalh?o, G. D. de Moraes Neto, M. A. de Ponte, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7477
abstract: In this paper we present a method to derive an exact master equation for a bosonic system coupled to a set of other bosonic systems, which plays the role of the reservoir, under the strong coupling regime, i.e., without resorting to either the rotating-wave or secular approximations. Working with phase-space distribution functions, we verify that the dynamics are separated in the evolution of its center, which follows classical mechanics, and its shape, which becomes distorted. This is the generalization of a result by Glauber, who stated that coherent states remain coherent under certain circumstances, specifically when the rotating-wave approximation and a zero-temperature reservoir are used. We show that the counter-rotating terms generate fluctuations that distort the vacuum state, much the same as thermal fluctuations.Finally, we discuss conditions for non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 1403.7549
title: Dirac equation in low dimensions: The factorization method
authors: J. A. Sanchez-Monroy, C. J. Quimbay
comments: 24 pages, 4 references added, types corrected
journal: Annals of Physics 350 (2014) 69-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7549
abstract: We present a general approach to solve the (1+1) and (2+1)-dimensional Dirac equation in the presence of static scalar, pseudoscalar and gauge potentials, for the case in which the potentials have the same functional form and thus the factorization method can be applied. We show that the presence of electric potentials in the Dirac equation leads to a two Klein-Gordon equations including an energy-dependent potential. We then generalize the factorization method for the case of energy-dependent Hamiltonians. Additionally, the shape invariance is generalized for a specific class of energy-dependent Hamiltonians. We also present a condition for the absence of the Klein's paradox (stability of the Dirac sea), showing how Dirac particles in low dimensions can be confined for a wide family of potentials.

id: 1403.7575
title: Indirect driving of cavity QED system and its induced non-linearity
authors: Yusuf Turek, L. P.Yang, W. Maimaiti, Yong Li, C.P.Sun
comments: 8pages,7figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013836 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7575
abstract: The linear driving for a single-mode optical field in a cavity can result from the external driving of classical field even when the coupling between the classical field and the cavity is weak. We revisit this well known effect with a microscopic model where a classical field is applied to a wall of the cavity to excite the atoms in the wall, and re-combination of the low excitations of the wall mediates a linear driving for the single-mode field inside the cavity. With such modeling about the indirect driving through the quantum excitations of the wall, we theoretically predict several non-linear optical effects for the strong coupling cases, such as photon anti-bunching and photon squeezing. In the sense, we propose the most simplified non-linear quantum photonics model.

id: 1403.7612
title: Nonlinear channels of Werner states
authors: V.I. Man'ko, R.S. Puzko
comments: 9 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7612
abstract: The nonlinear positive map of density matrix of two-qubit Werner state called nonlinear channel is studied. The map of density matrix is realized by rational function. The influence of the map onto the entanglement properties of the transformed density matrix is discussed. The violation of Bell inequality (CHSH inequality) for the two-qubit state is investigated. The nonlinear channels under discussion create the entangled state from separable Werner state. The quantum spin-tomograms of the states are studied.

id: 1403.7624
title: Squeezed-state generation via nonlinear atom-atom interaction in the atomic field of a Bose-Einstein condensate interacting with an optical cavity
authors: A. Dalafi, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7624
abstract: In this paper, we investigate theoretically a system consisting of a one dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate trapped inside the optical lattice of an optical cavity. In the weak-interaction regime and under the Bogoliubov approximation, the wave function of the Bose-Einstein condensate can be described by a classical field (condensate mode) having some quantum fluctuations (the Bogoliubov mode) about the mean value. Such a system behaves as a so-called atomic parametric amplifier, similar to an optical parametric amplifier, where the condensate and the Bogoliubov modes play respectively, the roles of the pump field and the signal mode in the degenerate parametric amplifier and the s-wave scattering frequency of atom-atom interaction plays the role of the nonlinear gain parameter. We show that using the nonlinear effect of atomic collisions, how one can manipulate and control the state of the Bogoliubov mode and produce squeezed states.

id: 1403.7640
title: Correlation in fermion or boson systems as the minimum of entropy relative to all free states
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Norbert J. Mauser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7640
abstract: In the context of many-fermion systems, "correlation" refers to the inadequacy of an independent-particle model. Using "free" states as archetypes of our independent-particle model, we have proposed a measure of correlation that we called "nonfreeness" [Int. J. Quant. Inf. 5, 815 (2007)]. The nonfreeness of a many-fermion state was defined to be its entropy relative to the unique free state with the same 1-matrix. In this article, we prove that the nonfreeness of a state is the minimum of its entropy relative to all free states. We also extend the definition of nonfreeness to many-boson states and discuss a couple of examples.

id: 1403.7675
title: Instability of pre-existing resonances in the DC Stark effect vs. stability in the AC Stark effect
authors: I. Herbst, J. Rama
comments: review article, 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7675
abstract: For atoms described by a 1-dimensional Friedrichs model we present the following result: pre-existing resonances, when subjected to a small constant electric field (DC Stark effect), are unstable in the weak field limit. In contrast, pre-existing resonances under the influence of a small time-periodic electric field (AC Stark effect) are stable in this limit. This article is a review of our results in "Instability of pre-existing resonances under a small constant electric field", arXiv:1310.4745.

id: 1403.7686
title: Computational solution to quantum foundational problems
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: Paper accepted for publication in Physical Science International Journal. Please refer to this (final) version as a reference
journal: Phys. Sci. Int. J. 2014; 4(8): 1145-1157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7686
abstract: This paper argues that the requirement of applicableness of quantum linearity to any physical level from molecules and atoms to the level of macroscopic extensional world, which leads to a main foundational problem in quantum theory referred to as the "measurement problem", actually has a computational character: It implies that there is a generic algorithm, which guarantees exact solutions to the Schrodinger equation for every physical system in a reasonable amount of time regardless of how many constituent microscopic particles it comprises. From the point of view of computational complexity theory, this requirement is equivalent to the assumption that the computational complexity classes P and NP are equal, which is widely believed to be very unlikely. As demonstrated in the paper, accepting the different computational assumption called the Exponential Time Hypothesis (that involves P!=NP) would justify the separation between a microscopic quantum system and a macroscopic apparatus (usually called the Heisenberg cut) since this hypothesis, if true, would imply that deterministic quantum and classical descriptions are impossible to overlap in order to obtain a rigorous derivation of complete properties of macroscopic objects from their microstates.

id: 1403.7694
title: Fault-tolerant, Universal Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Ari Mizel
comments: Comments welcome. Replaces earlier attempt arXiv:1002.0846, which was never submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7694
abstract: Quantum computation has revolutionary potential for speeding computational tasks such as factoring and simulating quantum systems, but the task of constructing a quantum computer is daunting. Adiabatic quantum computation and other ``hands-off" approaches relieve the need for rapid, precise pulsing to control the system, inspiring at least one high-profile effort to realize a hands-off quantum computing device. But is hands-off incompatible with fault-tolerant? Concerted effort and many innovative ideas have not resolved this question but have instead deepened it, linking it to fundamental problems in quantum complexity theory. Here we present a hands-off approach that is provably (a) capable of scalable universal quantum computation in a non-degenerate ground state and (b) fault-tolerant against an analogue of the usual local stochastic fault model. A satisfying physical and numerical argument indicates that (c) it is also fault-tolerant against thermal excitation below a threshold temperature independent of the computation size.

id: 1403.7704
title: Establishment of correlated states in a quantum dot interacting with an acoustic phonon reservoir
authors: Hui Huang, Gao-xiang Li, Wen-ju Gu, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023815 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7704
abstract: We investigate the effects of a low frequency (acoustic) phonon bath on the dynamics of a quantum dot modelled as a cascade three-level system. We show that the phonon bath appears to the upper transition of the cascade system as a broadband reservoir of inverted rather than conventional harmonic oscillators. The action of the annihilation and creation operators of the inverted oscillator are interchanges relative to those of the usual harmonic oscillator that it serves as a linear amplifier to the system, and thereby gives rise to unusual features in the dynamics of the quantum dot. We find that the phonon bath, although being in a thermal state, affects the quantum dot as a correlated-type reservoir which results in the decay of the system to a correlated two-photon state with the population distribution no longer obeying a Boltzmann distribution. It is particularly interesting that even for a zero temperature phonon reservoir the steady state is a correlated state which under appropriate conditions on the Rabi frequencies and the damping rates can reduce to a strongly correlated pure state. It is shown that the two-photon correlations result in a significant squeezing and strong two-photon correlations in the radiation field emitted by the quantum dot. The presence of the correlations in the system is manifest in the presence of quantum beats in the time evolution of the populations and the radiation intensity. The effect of the ordinary spontaneous emission on the features induced by the phonon bath is also discussed.

id: 1403.7731
title: Entanglers in 3-strategies ELW games
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek-Laso¨½
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7731
abstract: We construct the general gate operator for 2-players 3-strategies ELW games. It is shown that such a gate, implementing classical strategies, can be constructed out of the elements of Cartan subalgebra of $SU(3)$. The relation between the degree of entanglement and the structure of stability subgroup of initial state is analyzed.

id: 1403.7749
title: A simple derivation of the strong subadditivity inequalities
authors: S. Kalyana Rama
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7749
abstract: In this short note, we give a simple derivation of the strong subadditivity inequalities: S(13) + S(23) \ge S(1) + S(2) and S(12) + S(23) \ge S(2) + S(123). The simplicity is due to the way we represent the quantum systems. We make a few remarks about such a representation.

id: 1403.7778
title: Equivalent definitions of the quantum nonadiabatic entropy production
authors: Jordan M. Horowitz, Takahiro Sagawa
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 156, 55-65 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7778
abstract: The nonadiabatic entropy production is a useful tool for the thermodynamic analysis of continuously dissipating, nonequilibrium steady states. For open quantum systems, two seemingly distinct definitions for the nonadiabatic entropy production have appeared in the literature, one based on the quantum relative entropy and the other based on quantum trajectories. We show that these two formulations are equivalent. Furthermore, this equivalence leads us to a proof of the monotonicity of the quantum relative entropy under a special class of completely-positive, trace-preserving quantum maps, which circumvents difficulties associated with the noncommuntative structure of operators.

id: 1403.7780
title: A five-dimensional perspective on the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Romulus Breban
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7780
abstract: We discuss the Klein-Gordon (KG) equation using a 5D space-time approach. We explicitly show that the KG equation in flat space-time admits a consistent probabilistic interpretation with positively defined probability density. However, the probabilistic interpretation is not covariant. In the non-relativistic limit, the formalism reduces naturally to that of the Schr\"odinger equation. We further discuss other interpretations of the KG equation (and their non-relativistic limits) resulting from the 5D space-time picture. Finally, we apply our results to the problem of hydrogenic spectra and calculate the canonical sum of the hydrogenic atom.

id: 1403.7796
title: Shot-noise-limited magnetometer with sub-pT sensitivity at room temperature
authors: Vito Giovanni Lucivero, Pawel Anielski, Wojciech Gawlik, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 113108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7796
abstract: We report a photon shot-noise-limited (SNL) optical magnetometer based on amplitude modulated optical rotation using a room-temperature $^{85}$Rb vapor in a cell with anti-relaxation coating. The instrument achieves a room-temperature sensitivity of $70$ fT/$\sqrt{\mathrm{Hz}}$ at $7.6$ $\mu$T. Experimental scaling of noise with optical power, in agreement with theoretical predictions, confirms the SNL behaviour from $5$ $\mu$T to $75$ $\mu$T. The combination of best-in-class sensitivity and SNL operation makes the system a promising candidate for application of squeezed light to a state-of-the-art atomic sensor.

id: 1403.7815
title: Ancilla Approximable Quantum State Transformations
authors: Andreas Blass, Yuri Gurevich
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7815
abstract: We consider the transformations of quantum states obtainable by a process of the following sort. Combine the given input state with a specially prepared initial state of an auxiliary system. Apply a unitary transformation to the combined system. Measure the state of the auxiliary subsystem. If (and only if) it is in a specified final state, consider the process successful, and take the resulting state of the original (principal) system as the result of the process. We review known information about exact realization of transformations by such a process. Then we present results about approximate realization of finite partial transformations. We consider primarily the issue of approximation to within a specified positive epsilon, but we also address the question of arbitrarily close approximation.

id: 1403.7833
title: Arbitrary perfect state transfer in $d$-level spin chains
authors: Abolfazl Bayat
comments: 6 pages and 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7833
abstract: We exploit a ferromagnetic chain of interacting $d$-level ($d>2$) particles for arbitrary perfect transfer of quantum states with $(d-1)$ levels. The presence of one extra degree of freedom in the Hilbert space of particles, which is not used in encoding, allows to achieve perfect transfer even in a uniform chain through a repeated measurement procedure with consecutive single site measurements. Apart from the first iteration, for which the time of evolution grows linearly with the size of the chain, in all other iterations, the evolution times are short and does not scale with the length. The success probability of the mechanism grows with the number of repetitions and practically after a few iterations the transfer is accomplished with a high probability.

id: 1403.7862
title: Gauge Freedom and Relativity: A Unified Treatment of Electromagnetism, Gravity and the Dirac Field
authors: Clifford E. Chafin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7862
abstract: The geometric properties of General Relativity are reconsidered as a particular nonlinear interaction of fields on a flat background where the perceived geometry and coordinates are "physical" entities that are interpolated by a patchwork of observable bodies with a nonintuitive relationship to the underlying fields. This more general notion of gauge in physics opens an important door to put all fields on a similar standing but requires a careful reconsideration of tensors in physics and the conventional wisdom surrounding them. The meaning of the flat background and the induced conserved quantities are discussed and contrasted with the "observable" positive definite energy and probability density in terms of the induced physical coordinates. In this context, the Dirac matrices are promoted to dynamic proto-gravity fields and the keeper of "physical metric" information. Independent sister fields to the wavefunctions are utilized in a bilinear rather than a quadratic lagrangian in these fields. This construction greatly enlarges the gauge group so that now proving causal evolution, relative to the physical metric, for the gauge invariant functions of the fields requires both the stress-energy conservation and probability current conservation laws. Through a Higgs-like coupling term the proto-gravity fields generate a well defined physical metric structure and gives the usual distinguishing of gravity from electromagnetism at low energies relative to the Higgs-like coupling. The flat background induces a full set of conservation laws but results in the need to distinguish these quantities from those observed by recording devices and observers constructed from the fields.

id: 1403.7910
title: Comparison of decoherence and Zeno dynamics from the context of weak measurement for a two level atom tunneling through squeezed vacuum
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7910
abstract: Decay parameter of coherence and population inversion are calculated from the master equation of a two level atom tunneling through a squeezed vacuum. Using those parameters, the timescales for decoherence and zeno effect are calculated in the weak measurement scheme. By comparing those timescales, a certain condition has been found for sustainable coherent dynamics.

id: 1403.7979
title: U(3) artificial gauge fields for cold atoms
authors: Yu-Xin Hu, Christian Miniatura, David Wilkowski, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7979
abstract: We propose to generate an artificial non-Abelian $U(3)$ gauge field by using a 2-tripod scheme, namely two tripod configurations sharing a common ground state level and driven by resonant 1-photon transitions. Using an appropriate combination of four Laguerre-Gauss and two Hermite-Gauss laser beams, we are able to produce a $U(3)$-monopole and a $U(3)$ spin-orbit coupling for both alkali and alkaline-earth atoms. This 2-tripod scheme could open the way to the study of interacting spinor condensates subjected to $U(3)$-monopoles.

id: 1403.8026
title: Polarization entangled photon-pair source based on quantum nonlinear photonics and interferometry
authors: F. Kaiser, L. A. Ngah, A. Issautier, T. Delord, D. Aktas, V. D'Auria, M. P. De Micheli, A. Kastberg, L. Labont¨¦, O. Alibart, A. Martin, S. Tanzilli
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Communications 327 (2014) 7-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8026
abstract: We present a versatile, high-brightness, guided-wave source of polarization entangled photons, emitted at a telecom wavelength. Photon-pairs are generated using an integrated type-0 nonlinear waveguide, and subsequently prepared in a polarization entangled state via a stabilized fiber interferometer. We show that the single photon emission wavelength can be tuned over more than 50 nm, whereas the single photon spectral bandwidth can be chosen at will over more than five orders of magnitude (from 25 MHz to 4 THz). Moreover, by performing entanglement analysis, we demonstrate a high degree of control of the quantum state via the violation of the Bell inequalities by more than 40 standard deviations. This makes this scheme suitable for a wide range of quantum optics experiments, ranging from fundamental research to quantum information applications. We report on details of the setup, as well as on the characterization of all included components, previously outlined in F. Kaiser et al. (2013 Laser Phys. Lett. 10, 045202).

id: 1403.8033
title: Quantum Metrology: Extended Convexity of Quantum Fisher Information
authors: S. Alipour, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 5 pages + supplemental material (3 pages) + 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042104 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8033
abstract: We prove an extended convexity for quantum Fisher information of a mixed state with a given convex decomposition. This convexity introduces a bound which has two parts: i. classical part associated to the Fisher information of the probability distribution of the states contributing to the decomposition, and ii. quantum part given by the average quantum Fisher information of the states in this decomposition. Next we use a non-Hermitian extension of symmetric logarithmic derivative in order to obtain another upper bound on quantum Fisher information, which enables to derive a closed form for a fairly general class of system dynamics given by a dynamical semigroup. We combine our two upper bounds together in a general (open system) metrology framework where the dynamics is described by a quantum channel, and derive the ultimate precision limit for quantum metrology. We illustrate our results and their applications through two examples, where we also demonstrate that how the extended convexity allows to track transition between quantum and classical behaviors for an estimation precision.

id: 1403.8043
title: A trapped-ion based quantum byte with $10^{-5}$ next-neighbour cross-talk
authors: Ch. Piltz, Th. Sriarunothai, A. F.Var¨®n, Ch. Wunderlich
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures Version 2: Some parts of the text have been rephrased and provide more detail. One figure and additional references have been added. Version 2 of this preprint is similar to the published version
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4679 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8043
abstract: The addressing of a particular qubit within a quantum register is a key prerequisite for scalable quantum computing. In general, executing a quantum gate with a single qubit, or a subset of qubits, affects the quantum states of all other qubits. This reduced fidelity of the whole quantum register could prevent the application of quantum error correction protocols and thus preclude scalability. We demonstrate addressing of individual qubits within a quantum byte (eight qubits) and measure the error induced in all non-addressed qubits (cross-talk) associated with the application of single-qubit gates. The quantum byte is implemented using microwave-driven hyperfine qubits of $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ions confined in a Paul trap augmented with a magnetic gradient field. The measured cross-talk is on the order of $10^{-5}$ and therefore below the threshold commonly agreed sufficient to efficiently realize fault-tolerant quantum computing. Hence, our results demonstrate how this threshold can be overcome with respect to cross-talk.

id: 1403.8069
title: Bloch sphere model for two-qubit pure states
authors: Chu-Ryang Wie
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8069
abstract: The two-qubit pure state is explicitly parameterized by three unit 2-spheres and a phase factor. For separable states, two of the three unit spheres are the Bloch spheres of each qubit. The third sphere parameterizes the degree and phase of concurrence, an entanglement measure. This sphere may be considered a variable complex imaginary unit where the stereographic projection maps the qubit-A Bloch sphere to a complex plane with this variable imaginary unit. This Bloch sphere model gives a consistent description of the two-qubit pure states for both separable and entangled states. We argue that the third sphere (entanglement sphere) parameterizes the nonlocal properties, entanglement and a nonlocal relative phase, while the local relative phases are parameterized by the azimuth angles of the two quasi-Bloch spheres. On these three unit spheres and a phase factor, the two-qubit pure states and unitary gates can be geometrically represented. Accomplished by means of Hopf fibration, the complex amplitudes of a two-qubit pure state and the Bloch sphere parameters are related by a single quaternionic relation.

id: 1403.8102
title: On the structure of the exact master equation
authors: Ines de Vega
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 145202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8102
abstract: We derive a master equation from the exact stochastic Liouville von-Neumann (SLN) equation \cite{stockburger2002,wallsbook}. The latter depends on two correlated noises and describes exactly the dynamics of an oscillator (which can be either harmonic or present an anharmonicity) coupled to an environment at thermal equilibrium. The newly derived master equation is obtained by performing analytically the average over different noise trajectories. It is found to have a complex hierarchical structure that might be helpful to explain the convergence problems occurring when performing numerically the stochastic average of trajectories given by the SLN equation \cite{koch2008,koch2010}.

id: 1403.8143
title: Quantum resources for purification and cooling: fundamental limits and opportunities
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports, 4, 5192, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8143
abstract: Preparing a quantum system in a pure state is ultimately limited by the nature of the system's evolution in the presence of its environment and by the initial state of the environment itself. We show that, when the system and environment are initially uncorrelated and arbitrary joint unitary dynamics is allowed, the system may be purified up to a certain (possibly arbitrarily small) threshold if and only if its environment, either natural or engineered, contains a "virtual subsystem" which has the same dimension and is in a state with the desired purity. Beside providing a unified understanding of quantum purification dynamics in terms of a "generalized swap process," our results shed light on the significance of a no-go theorem for exact ground-state cooling, as well as on the quantum resources needed for achieving an intended purification task.

id: 1403.0018
title: Fast, low-power manipulation of spin ensembles in superconducting microresonators
authors: Anthony J. Sigillito, Hans Malissa, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Mike L. W. Thewalt, Kohei M. Itoh, John J. L. Morton, Andrew A. Houck, David I. Schuster, S. A. Lyon
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0018
abstract: We demonstrate the use of high-Q superconducting coplanar waveguide (CPW) microresonators to perform rapid manipulations on a randomly distributed spin ensemble using very low microwave power (400 nW). This power is compatible with dilution refrigerators, making microwave manipulation of spin ensembles feasible for quantum computing applications. We also describe the use of adiabatic microwave pulses to overcome microwave magnetic field ($B_{1}$) inhomogeneities inherent to CPW resonators. This allows for uniform control over a randomly distributed spin ensemble. Sensitivity data are reported showing a single shot (no signal averaging) sensitivity to $10^{7}$ spins or $3 \times 10^{4}$ spins/$\sqrt{Hz}$ with averaging.

id: 1403.0097
title: Dynamics and control of fast ion crystal splitting in segmented Paul traps
authors: H. Kaufmann, T. Ruster, C. T. Schmiegelow, F. Schmidt-Kaler, U. G. Poschinger
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0097
abstract: We theoretically investigate the process of splitting two-ion crystals in segmented Paul traps, i.e. the structural transition from two ions confined in a common well to ions confined in separate wells. The precise control of this process by application of suitable voltage ramps to the trap segments is non-trivial, as the harmonic confinement transiently vanishes during the process. This makes the ions strongly susceptible to background electric field noise, and to static offset fields in the direction of the trap axis. We analyze the reasons why large energy transfers can occur, which are impulsive acceleration, the presence of residual background fields and enhanced anomalous heating. For the impulsive acceleration, we identify the diabatic and adiabatic regimes, which are characterized by different scaling behavior of the energy transfer with respect to time. We propose a suitable control scheme based on experimentally accessible parameters. Simulations are used to verify both the high sensitivity of the splitting result and the performance of our control scheme. Finally, we analyze the impact of trap geometry parameters on the crystal splitting process.

id: 1403.0159
title: Quantum networks: Anti-core of spin chains
authors: E. Jonckheere, F. C. Langbein, S. Schirmer
comments: to appear in QIP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0159
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to exhibit a quantum network phenomenon - the anti-core---that goes against the classical network concept of congestion core. Classical networks idealized as infinite, Gromov hyperbolic spaces with least-cost path routing (and subject to a technical condition on the Gromov boundary) have a congestion core, defined as a subnetwork that routing paths have a high probability of visiting. Here, we consider quantum networks, more specifically spin chains, define the so-called maximum excitation transfer probability $p_{\max}(i,j)$ between spin $i$ and spin $j$, and show that the central spin has among all other spins the lowest probability of being excited or transmitting its excitation. The anti-core is singled out by analytical formulas for $p_{\mathrm{max}}(i,j)$, revealing the number theoretic properties of quantum chains. By engineering the chain, we further show that this probability can be made vanishingly small.

id: 1403.0225
title: Highly entangled photons from hybrid piezoelectric-semiconductor quantum dot devices
authors: Rinaldo Trotta, Johannes S. Wildmann, Eugenio Zallo, Oliver G. Schmidt, Armando Rastelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0225
abstract: Entanglement resources are key ingredients of future quantum technologies. If they could be efficiently integrated into a semiconductor platform a new generation of devices could be envisioned, whose quantum-mechanical functionalities are controlled via the mature semiconductor technology. Epitaxial quantum dots (QDs) embedded in diodes would embody such ideal quantum devices, but QD structural asymmetries lower dramatically the degree of entanglement of the sources and hamper severely their real exploitation in the foreseen applications. In this work, we overcome this hurdle using strain-tunable optoelectronic devices, where any QD can be tuned for the emission of highly polarization-entangled photons. The electrically-controlled sources violate Bell inequalities without the need of spectral or temporal filtering and they feature the highest degree of entanglement ever reported for QDs, with concurrence as high as 0.75(2). These quantum-devices are at present the most promising candidates for the direct implementation of QD-based entanglement-resources in quantum information science and technology.

id: 1403.0255
title: Wong's Equations and Charged Relativistic Particles in Non-Commutative Space
authors: Herbert Balasin, Daniel N. Blaschke, Francois Gieres, Manfred Schweda
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 099, 21 pages
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0255
abstract: In analogy to Wong's equations describing the motion of a charged relativistic point particle in the presence of an external Yang-Mills field, we discuss the motion of such a particle in non-commutative space subject to an external $U_\star(1)$ gauge field. We conclude that the latter equations are only consistent in the case of a constant field strength. This formulation, which is based on an action written in Moyal space, provides a coarser level of description than full QED on non-commutative space. The results are compared with those obtained from the different Hamiltonian approaches. Furthermore, a continuum version for Wong's equations and for the motion of a particle in non-commutative space is derived.

id: 1403.0275
title: Universal wave functions structure in mixed systems
authors: Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0275
abstract: When a regular classical system is perturbed, non-linear resonances appear as prescribed by the KAM and Poincar\`{e}-Birkhoff theorems. Manifestations of this classical phenomena to the morphologies of quantum wave functions are studied in this letter. We reveal a systematic formation of an universal structure of localized wave functions in systems with mixed classical dynamics. Unperturbed states that live around invariant tori are mixed when they collide in an avoided crossing if their quantum numbers differ in a multiple to the order of the classical resonance. At the avoided crossing eigenstates are localized in the island chain or in the vicinity of the unstable periodic orbit corresponding to the resonance. The difference of the quantum numbers determines the excitation of the localized states which is reveled using the zeros of the Husimi distribution.

id: 1403.0294
title: Microscopic Origin and Universality Classes of the Efimov Three-Body Parameter
authors: Pascal Naidon, Shimpei Endo, Masahito Ueda
comments: 5 pages; 1 table; 5 figures (citations added; published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 105301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0294
abstract: The low-energy spectrum of three particles interacting via nearly resonant two-body interactions in the Efimov regime is set by the so-called three-body parameter. We show that the three-body parameter is essentially determined by the zero-energy two-body correlation. As a result, we identify two classes of two-body interactions for which the three-body parameter has a universal value in units of their effective range. One class involves the universality of the three-body parameter recently found in ultracold atom systems. The other is relevant to short-range interactions that can be found in nuclear physics and solid-state physics.

id: 1403.0327
title: Area law in one dimension: Degenerate ground states and Renyi entanglement entropy
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: close to the final version; to be published
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0327
abstract: An area law is proved for the Renyi entanglement entropy of possibly degenerate ground states in one-dimensional gapped quantum systems. Suppose in a chain of $n$ spins the ground states of a local Hamiltonian with energy gap $\epsilon$ are constant-fold degenerate. Then, the Renyi entanglement entropy $R_\alpha(0<\alpha<1)$ of any ground state across any cut is upper bounded by $\tilde O(\alpha^{-3}/\epsilon)$, and any ground state can be well approximated by a matrix product state of subpolynomial bond dimension $2^{\tilde O(\epsilon^{-1/4}\log^{3/4}n)}$.

id: 1403.0420
title: Faraday rotation echo spectroscopy and detection of quantum fluctuations
authors: Shao-Wen Chen, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4695 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0420
abstract: Central spin decoherence is useful for detecting many-body physics in environments and moreover, the spin echo control can remove the effects of static thermal fluctuations so that the quantum fluctuations are revealed. The central spin decoherence approach, however, is feasible only in some special configurations and often requires uniform coupling between the central spin and individual spins in the baths, which are very challenging in experiments. Here, by making analogue between central spin decoherence and depolarization of photons, we propose a scheme of Faraday rotation echo spectroscopy (FRES) for studying quantum fluctuations in interacting spin systems. The echo control of the photon polarization is realized by flipping the polarization with a birefringence crystal. The FRES, similar to spin echo in magnetic resonance spectroscopy, can suppress the effects of the static magnetic fluctuations and therefore reveal dynamical magnetic fluctuations. We apply the scheme to a rare-earth compound LiHoF4 and calculate the echo signal, which is related to the quantum fluctuations of the system. We observe enhanced signals at the phase boundary. The FRES should be useful for studying quantum fluctuations in a broad range of spin systems, including cold atoms, quantum dots, solid-state impurities, and transparent magnetic materials.

id: 1403.0471
title: Completely-positive quantum operations generating thermostatistical states: A comparative study
authors: Yasuyuki Matsuo, Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures. With Corrigendum
journal: Physica A 409, 130 (2014): Corrigendum 422, 210 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0471
abstract: Nonunitary quantum operations generating thermostatistical states and forming positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) are of current interest as a useful tool for operational approach to quantum thermodynamics. Here, two different operations generating the same thermostatistical state are studied: one is related to thermofield dynamics and the other is the one proposed in a recent work [S. Abe, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 045303]. A comparable study on them shows different behaviors of the von Neumann entropy under repeated applications of these two operations. It is shown that the entropy does not behave monotonically, in general, and can even decrease under the thermofield-dynamical one, in contrast to monotonic increase under the other.

id: 1403.0505
title: A search for quantum coin-flipping protocols using optimization techniques
authors: Ashwin Nayak, Jamie Sikora, Levent Tun?el
comments: 74 pages (plus 16 page appendix), 27 tables, 3 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0505
abstract: Coin-flipping is a cryptographic task in which two physically separated, mistrustful parties wish to generate a fair coin-flip by communicating with each other. Chailloux and Kerenidis (2009) designed quantum protocols that guarantee coin-flips with near optimal bias. The probability of any outcome in these protocols is provably at most $1/\sqrt{2} + \delta$ for any given $\delta > 0$. However, no explicit description of these protocols is known, and the number of rounds in the protocols tends to infinity as $\delta$ goes to 0. In fact, the smallest bias achieved by known explicit protocols is $1/4$ (Ambainis, 2001). We take a computational optimization approach, based mostly on convex optimization, to the search for simple and explicit quantum strong coin-flipping protocols. We present a search algorithm to identify protocols with low bias within a natural class, protocols based on bit-commitment (Nayak and Shor, 2003) restricting to commitment states used by Mochon (2005). An analysis of the resulting protocols via semidefinite programs (SDPs) unveils a simple structure. For example, we show that the SDPs reduce to second-order cone programs. We devise novel cheating strategies in the protocol by restricting the semidefinite programs and use the strategies to prune the search. The techniques we develop enable a computational search for protocols given by a mesh over the parameter space. The protocols have up to six rounds of communication, with messages of varying dimension and include the best known explicit protocol (with bias 1/4). We conduct two kinds of search: one for protocols with bias below 0.2499, and one for protocols in the neighbourhood of protocols with bias 1/4. Neither of these searches yields better bias. Based on the mathematical ideas behind the search algorithm, we prove a lower bound on the bias of a class of four-round protocols.

id: 1403.0511
title: Landauer, Kubo, and microcanonical approaches to quantum transport and noise: A comparison and implications for cold-atom dynamics
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Massimiliano Di Ventra, Michael Zwolak
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023624 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0511
abstract: We compare the Landauer, Kubo, and microcanonical [J. Phys. Cond. Matter {\bf 16}, 8025 (2004)] approaches to quantum transport for the average current, the entanglement entropy and the semiclassical full-counting statistics (FCS). Our focus is on the applicability of these approaches to isolated quantum systems such as ultra-cold atoms in engineered optical potentials. For two lattices connected by a junction, we find that the current and particle number fluctuations from the microcanonical approach compare well with the values predicted by the Landauer formalism and FCS assuming a binomial distribution. However, we demonstrate that well-defined reservoirs (i.e., particles in Fermi-Dirac distributions) are not present for a substantial duration of the quasi-steady state. Thus, the Landauer assumption of reservoirs and/or inelastic effects is not necessary for establishing a quasi-steady state. Maintaining such a state indefinitely requires an infinite system, and in this limit well-defined Fermi-Dirac distributions can occur. A Kubo approach -- in the spirit of the microcanonical picture -- bridges the gap between the two formalisms, giving explicit analytical expressions for the formation of the steady state. The microcanonical formalism is designed for closed, finite-size quantum systems and is thus more suitable for studying particle dynamics in ultra-cold atoms. Our results highlight both the connection and differences with more traditional approaches to calculating transport properties in condensed matter systems, and will help guide the way to their simulations in cold-atom systems.

id: 1403.0568
title: The tunneling model of laser-induced ionization and its failure at low frequencies
authors: H. R. Reiss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0568
abstract: The tunneling model of ionization applies only to longitudinal fields: quasistatic electric fields that do not propagate. Laser fields are transverse: plane wave fields that possess the ability to propagate. Although there is an approximate connection between the effects of longitudinal and transverse fields in a useful range of frequencies, that equivalence fails completely at very low frequencies. Insight into this breakdown is given by an examination of radiation pressure, which is a unique transverse-field effect whose relative importance increases rapidly as the frequency declines. Radiation pressure can be ascribed to photon momentum, which does not exist for longitudinal fields. Two major consequences are that the near-universal acceptance of a static electric field as the zero frequency limit of a laser field is not correct; and that the numerical solution of the dipole-approximate Schr\"{o}dinger equation for laser effects is inapplicable as the frequency declines. These problems occur because the magnetic component of the laser field is very important at low frequencies, and hence the dipole approximation is not valid. Some experiments already exist that demonstrate the failure of tunneling concepts at low frequencies.

id: 1403.0578
title: Universal Thermal Corrections to Single Interval Entanglement Entropy for Conformal Field Theories
authors: John Cardy, Christopher P. Herzog
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2 minor clarifications added, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 171603 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0578
abstract: We consider single interval R\'enyi and entanglement entropies for a two dimensional conformal field theory on a circle at nonzero temperature. Assuming that the finite size of the system introduces a unique ground state with a nonzero mass gap, we calculate the leading corrections to the R\'enyi and entanglement entropy in a low temperature expansion. These corrections have a universal form for any two dimensional conformal field theory that depends only on the size of the mass gap and its degeneracy. We analyze the limits where the size of the interval becomes small and where it becomes close to the size of the spatial circle.

id: 1403.0702
title: Quantum Dimension as Entanglement Entropy in 2D CFTs
authors: Song He, Tokiro Numasawa, Tadashi Takayanagi, Kento Watanabe
comments: 5 pages, 3 eps figures, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 041701 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0702
abstract: We study entanglement entropy of excited states in two dimensional conformal field theories (CFTs). Especially we consider excited states obtained by acting primary operators on a vacuum. We show that under its time evolution, entanglement entropy increases by a finite constant when the causality condition is satisfied. Moreover, in rational CFTs, we prove that this increased amount of (both Renyi and von-Neumann) entanglement entropy always coincides with the log of quantum dimension of the primary operator.

id: 1403.0759
title: Efimov states in Li-Cs mixtures within a minimal model
authors: N. T. Zinner, N. G. Nygaard
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revised version
journal: Few-Body Systems: Volume 56, Issue 2 (2015), Page 125-131
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0759
abstract: We use a minimal zero-range model for describing the bound state spectrum of three-body states consisting of two Cesium and one Lithium atom. Using a broad Feshbach resonance model for the two-body interactions, we show that recent experimental data can be described surprisingly well for particular values of the three-body parameter that governs the short-range behavior of the atomic potentials and is outside the scope of the zero-range model. Studying the spectrum as a function of the three-body parameter suggests that the lowest state seen in experiment could be influenced by finite range corrections. We also consider the question of Fermi degeneracy and corresponding Pauli blocking of the Lithium atoms on the Efimov states.

id: 1403.0768
title: Numerical study of a transition between Z2 topologically ordered phases
authors: Siddhardh C. Morampudi, Curt von Keyserlingk, Frank Pollmann
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures; Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 035117 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0768
abstract: Distinguishing different topologically ordered phases and characterizing phase transitions between them is a difficult task due to the absence of local order parameters. In this paper, we use a combination of analytical and numerical approaches to distinguish two such phases and characterize a phase transition between them. The "toric code" and "double semion" models are simple lattice models exhibiting Z2 topological order. Although both models express the same topological ground state degeneracies and entanglement entropies, they are distinct phases of matter because their emergent quasi-particles obey different statistics. For a 1D model, we tune a phase transition between these two phases and obtain an exact solution to the entire phase diagram, finding a second-order Ising x Ising transition. We then use exact diagonalization to study the 2D case and find indications of a first-order transition. We show that the quasi-particle statistics provides a robust indicator of the distinct topological orders throughout the whole phase diagram.

id: 1403.0794
title: Dissipation-driven entanglement between qubits mediated by plasmonic nanoantennas
authors: Jiamin Hou, Karolina S?owik, Falk Lederer, Carsten Rockstuhl
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0794
abstract: A novel scheme is proposed to generate a maximally entangled state between two qubits by means of a dissipation-driven process. To this end, we entangle the quantum states of qubits that are mutually coupled by a plasmonic nanoantenna. Upon enforcing a weak spectral asymmetry in the properties of the qubits, the steady-state probability to obtain a maximally entangled, subradiant state approaches unity. This occurs despite the high losses associated to the plasmonic nanoantenna that are usually considered as being detrimental. The entanglement scheme is shown to be quite robust against variations in the transition frequencies of the quantum dots and deviations in their prescribed position with respect to the nanoantenna. Our work paves the way for novel applications in the field of quantum computation in highly integrated optical circuits.

id: 1403.0863
title: Phase-space representation of completely positive quantum operation: Two-mode squeezed vacuum and thermal states
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Yasuyuki Matsuo
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review E 91, 012126 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0863
abstract: Completely positive quantum operations are frequently discussed in the contexts of statistical mechanics and quantum information. They are customarily given by maps forming positive operator-values measures. To intuitively understand physical meanings of such abstract operations, the method of phase-space representations is examined. This method enables one to grasp the operations in terms of the classical statistical notions. As an example of physical importance, here, the phase-space representation of the completely positive quantum operation arising from the single-mode subdynamics of the two-mode squeezed vacuum state, which maps from the vacuum state at vanishing temperature to mixed states with perfect decoherence including the thermal state, is studied. It is found in the $P$ representation that remarkably this operation is invertible, implying that coherence lost by the quantum operation can be recovered.

id: 1403.0866
title: Room-temperature detection of single 20 nm super-paramagnetic nanoparticles with an imaging magnetometer
authors: Michael Gould, Russell Barbour, Nicole Thomas, Hamed Arami, Kannan M. Krishnan, Kai-Mei Fu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0866
abstract: We demonstrate room temperature detection of single 20 nm super-paramagnetic nanoparticles (SPNs) with a wide-field optical microscope platform suitable for biological integration. The particles are made of magnetite (Fe3O4) and are thus non-toxic and biocompatible. Detection is accomplished via optically detected magnetic resonance imaging using nitrogen-vacancy defect centers in diamond, resulting in a DC magnetic field detection limit of 2.3 {\mu}T. This marks a large step forward in the detection of SPNs, and we expect that it will allow for the development of magnetic-field-based biosensors capable of detecting a single molecular binding event.

id: 1403.0880
title: Non-standard Dirac equations for non-standard spinors
authors: A.G. Nikitin
comments: This is an extended version of previous submission including explicit Lorentz transformation for ELKO
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics D Vol. 23, No. 14 (2014) 1444007 (15 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0880
abstract: Generalized Dirac equation with operator mass term is presented. Its solutions are non standard (ELKO) spinors which are eigenvectors of the charge conjugation and dual helicity operators. It is demonstrated that in spite of their non covariant nature ELKO can serve as a carrier space of a representation of Poincar\'e group. However, the corresponding boost generators are not manifestly covariant and generate non-local momentum dependent transformations which are presented explicitly. These results present a new look on group-theoretical grounds of ELKO theories.

id: 1403.0916
title: Demonstrating Entanglement by Testing Bell's Theorem in Majorana Wires
authors: David E. Drummond, Alexey A. Kovalev, Chang-Yu Hou, Kirill Shtengel, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115404 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0916
abstract: We propose an experiment that would establish the entanglement of Majorana zero modes in semiconductor nanowires by testing the Bell and Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequalities. Our proposal is viable with realistic system parameters, simple "keyboard" gating, and projective measurement. Simulation results indicate entanglement can be demonstrated with moderately accurate gate operations. In addition to providing further evidence for the existence of the Majorana bound states, our proposal could be used as an experimental stepping stone to more complicated braiding experiments.

id: 1403.0976
title: On deformed quantum mechanical schemes and $\star$-value equations based on the space-space noncommutative Heisenberg-Weyl group
authors: L. Rom¨¢n Ju¨¢rez, Marcos Rosenbaum
comments: 22 pages
journal: J.Phys.Math. 2 (2010) 15-37
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0976
abstract: We investigate the Weyl-Wigner-Gr\"oenewold-Moyal, the Stratonovich and the Berezin group quantization schemes for the space-space noncommutative Heisenberg-Weyl group. We show that the $\star$-product for the deformed algebra of Weyl functions for the first scheme is different than that for the other two, even though their respective quantum mechanics' are equivalent as far as expectation values are concerned, provided that some additional criteria are imposed on the implementation of this process. We also show that it is the $\star$-product associated with the Stratonovich and the Berezin formalisms that correctly gives the Weyl symbol of a product of operators in terms of the deformed product of their corresponding Weyl symbols. To conclude, we derive the stronger $\star$-valued equations for the 3 quantization schemes considered and discuss the criteria that are also needed for them to exist.

id: 1403.1039
title: Position momentum Duality in the Entanglement Spectrum of Free Fermions
authors: Ching Hua Lee, Peng Ye, Xiao-Liang Qi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: http://www.iop.org/EJ/abstract/1742-5468/2014/10/P10023
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1039
abstract: We propose an exact equivalence between the entanglement spectra of two completely different free-fermion systems at zero temperature. This equivalence follows from a position-momentum duality where the physical roles of the occupied band and real space projectors are exchanged. We examine the physical consequences of this duality in multi-band models, and as an example also physically motivate the equivalence of the entanglement spectrum of a real space partitioned two-band topological insulator with that of a bilayer Fermi gas with an interlayer partition. This duality has an interesting relation with the Wannier Spectrum in the high-temperature limit, and can also be extended to other basis-independent physical quantities like particle-number fluctuations.

id: 1403.1075
title: Numerical proof of existence of fractional powers of Wiener processes
authors: Marco Frasca, Alfonso Farina
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures and source code. Changed the title for the sake of correctness
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1075
abstract: Using the Euler--Maruyama technique, we show that a class of Wiener processes exist that are obtained by computing an arbitrary positive power of them. This can be accomplished with a proper set of definitions that makes meaningful the realization at discrete times of these processes and make them computable. Standard results from It\=o calculus for integer powers hold as we are just extending them. We provide the results from a Monte Carlo simulation with a large number of samples. We yield evidence for the existence of these processes by recovering from them the standard Brownian motion we started with after power elevation. The perfect coincidence of the numerical results we obtained is a clear evidence of existence of these processes. This could pave the way to a generalization of the concepts of stochastic integral and relative process.

id: 1403.1114
title: Random matrices and quantum spin chains
authors: J. P. Keating, N. Linden, H. J. Wells
comments: Updated figures, as accepted in 'Markov Processes and Related Fields' on 3 March 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1114
abstract: Random matrix ensembles are introduced that respect the local tensor structure of Hamiltonians describing a chain of $n$ distinguishable spin-half particles with nearest-neighbour interactions. We prove a central limit theorem for the density of states when $n \rightarrow\infty$, giving explicit bounds on the rate of approach to the limit. Universality within a class of probability measures and the extension to more general interaction geometries are established. The level spacing distributions of the Gaussian Orthogonal, Unitary and Symplectic Ensembles are observed numerically for the energy levels in these ensembles.

id: 1403.1121
title: Spectra and eigenstates of spin chain Hamiltonians
authors: J. P. Keating, N. Linden, H. J. Wells
comments: Updated figures, as accepted in 'Communications in Mathematical Physics' on 5 January 2015
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics: Volume 338, Issue 1 (2015), Page 81-102
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1121
abstract: We prove that translationally invariant Hamiltonians of a chain of $n$ qubits with nearest-neighbour interactions have two seemingly contradictory features. Firstly in the limit $n\rightarrow\infty$ we show that any translationally invariant Hamiltonian of a chain of $n$ qubits has an eigenbasis such that almost all eigenstates have maximal entanglement between fixed-size sub-blocks of qubits and the rest of the system; in this sense these eigenstates are like those of completely general Hamiltonians (i.e. Hamiltonians with interactions of all orders between arbitrary groups of qubits). Secondly in the limit $n\rightarrow\infty$ we show that any nearest-neighbour Hamiltonian of a chain of $n$ qubits has a Gaussian density of states; thus as far as the eigenvalues are concerned the system is like a non-interacting one. The comparison applies to chains of qubits with translationally invariant nearest-neighbour interactions, but we show that it is extendible to much more general systems (both in terms of the local dimension and the geometry of interaction). Numerical evidence is also presented which suggests that the translational invariance condition may be dropped in the case of nearest-neighbour chains.

id: 1403.1171
title: Les in¨¦galit¨¦s de Bell et l'article Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen, une relecture
authors: Pierre Roussel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1171
abstract: The relationship between the Bell article in 1964 and its well known inequalities with the Einstein Podolsky Rosen article in 1935 is revisited. Einstein views on quantum mechanics as stated in many circumstances up to his death in 1955 are recalled. The role of David Bohm is shown to be essential to understand the link between Bell and Einstein's views. This link appears not to be as usually recounted.

id: 1403.1205
title: Statistical properties of spectra in harmonically trapped spin-orbit coupled systems
authors: O. V. Marchukov, A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 195303
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1205
abstract: We compute single-particle energy spectra for a one-body hamiltonian consisting of a two-dimensional deformed harmonic oscillator potential, the Rashba spin-orbit coupling and the Zeeman term. To investigate the statistical properties of the obtained spectra as functions of deformation, spin-orbit and Zeeman strengths we examine the distributions of the nearest neighbor spacings. We find that the shapes of these distributions depend strongly on the three potential parameters. We show that the obtained shapes in some cases can be well approximated with the standard Poisson, Brody and Wigner distributions. The Brody and Wigner distributions characterize irregular motion and help identify quantum chaotic systems. We present a special choices of deformation and spin-orbit strengths without the Zeeman term which provide a fair reproduction of the fourth-power repelling Wigner distribution. By adding the Zeeman field we can reproduce a Brody distribution, which is known to describe a transition between the Poisson and linear Wigner distributions.

id: 1403.1222
title: Parametric signal amplification to create a stiff optical bar
authors: K. Somiya, J. Kato, K. Yano, N. Saito
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1222
abstract: An optical cavity consisting of optically trapped mirrors makes a resonant bar that can be stiffer than diamond. A limitation of the stiffness arises in the length of the optical bar as a consequence of the finite light speed. High laser power and light mass mirrors are essential for realization of a long and stiff optical bar that can be useful for example in the gravitational-wave detector aiming at the observation of a signal from neutron-star collisions, supernovae, etc. In this letter, we introduce a parametric signal amplification scheme that realizes the long and stiff optical bar without the need to increase the laser power.

id: 1403.1393
title: Entanglement between Two Interacting CFTs and Generalized Holographic Entanglement Entropy
authors: Ali Mollabashi, Noburo Shiba, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 37 pages, 7 figures, v2: typos corrected, references added, v3: a ref. + a clarification note about minimal surfaces added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1393
abstract: In this paper we discuss behaviors of entanglement entropy between two interacting CFTs and its holographic interpretation using the AdS/CFT correspondence. We explicitly perform analytical calculations of entanglement entropy between two free scalar field theories which are interacting with each other in both static and time-dependent ways. We also conjecture a holographic calculation of entanglement entropy between two interacting $\mathcal{N}=4$ super Yang-Mills theories by introducing a minimal surface in the S$^5$ direction, instead of the AdS$_5$ direction. This offers a possible generalization of holographic entanglement entropy.

id: 1403.1448
title: Numerical path integral approach to quantum dynamics and stationary quantum states
authors: Ilkka Ruokosenm?ki, Tapio T. Rantala
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1448
abstract: Applicability of Feynman path integral approach to numerical simulations of quantum dynamics in real time domain is examined. Coherent quantum dynamics is demonstrated with one dimensional test cases (quantum dot models) and performance of the Trotter kernel as compared with the exact kernels is tested. A novel approach for finding the ground state and other stationary sates is presented. This is based on the incoherent propagation in real time. For both approaches the Monte Carlo grid and sampling are tested and compared with regular grids and sampling. We asses the numerical prerequisites for all of the above.

id: 1403.1473
title: The Fundamental Gap for a Class of Schr?dinger Operators on Path and Hypercube Graphs
authors: Michael Jarret, Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 052104 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1473
abstract: We consider the difference between the two lowest eigenvalues (the fundamental gap) of a Schr\"{o}dinger operator acting on a class of graphs. In particular, we derive tight bounds for the gap of Schr\"{o}dinger operators with convex potentials acting on the path graph. Additionally, for the hypercube graph, we derive a tight bound for the gap of Schr\"{o}dinger operators with convex potentials dependent only upon vertex Hamming weight. Our proof makes use of tools from the literature of the fundamental gap theorem as proved in the continuum combined with techniques unique to the discrete case. We prove the tight bound for the hypercube graph as a corollary to our path graph results.

id: 1403.1498
title: Ermakov-Lewis symmetry in photonic lattices
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez Lara, P. Aleahmad, H. M. Moya-Cessa, D. N. Christodoulides
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 2083-2085 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1498
abstract: We present a class of waveguide arrays that is the classical analog of a quantum harmonic oscillator where the mass and frequency depend on the propagation distance. In these photonic lattices refractive indices and second neighbor couplings define the mass and frequency of the analog quantum oscillator, while first neighbor couplings are a free parameter to adjust the model. The quantum model conserves the Ermakov-Lewis invariant, thus the photonic crystal also posses this symmetry.

id: 1403.1575
title: Theory of the Casimir interaction for graphene-coated substrates using the polarization tensor and comparison with experiment
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 16 pages; 3 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.89, 115419 (2014)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1575
abstract: We propose a theory of the thermal Casimir interaction for multilayered test bodies coated with a graphene sheet. The reflection coefficients on such structures are expressed in terms of the components of the polarization tensor and the dielectric permittivities of material layers. The developed theory is applied to calculate the gradient of the Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and a graphene sheet deposited on a SiO${}_2$ film covering a Si plate, which is the configuration of a recent experiment performed by means of a dynamic atomic force microscope. The theoretical results are found to be in very good agreement with the experimental data. We thus confirm that graphene influences the Casimir interaction and can be used for tailoring the force magnitude in nanostructures.

id: 1403.1580
title: Renyi Entropy and Geometry
authors: Jeongseog Lee, Lauren McGough, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; v2 refs added, minor improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 125016 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1580
abstract: Entanglement entropy in even dimensional conformal field theories (CFTs) contains well-known universal terms arising from the conformal anomaly. Renyi entropies are natural generalizations of the entanglement entropy that are much less understood. Above two spacetime dimensions, the universal terms in the Renyi entropies are unknown for general entangling geometries. We conjecture a new structure in the dependence of the four-dimensional Renyi entropies on the intrinsic and extrinsic geometry of the entangling surface. We provide evidence for this conjecture by direct numerical computations in the free scalar and fermion field theories. The computation involves relating the four-dimensional free massless Renyi entropies across cylindrical entangling surfaces to corresponding three-dimensional massive Renyi entropies across circular entangling surfaces. Our numerical technique also allows us to directly probe other interesting aspects of three-dimensional Renyi entropy, including the massless renormalized Renyi entropy and calculable contributions to the perimeter law.

id: 1403.1885
title: High-cooperativity nanofiber laser
authors: Sanli Faez, Pierre T¨¹rschmann, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1885
abstract: Cavity-free efficient coupling between emitters and guided modes is of great current interest for nonlinear quantum optics as well as efficient and scalable quantum information processing. In this work, we extend these activities to the coupling of organic dye molecules to a highly confined mode of a nanofiber, allowing mirrorless and low-threshold laser action in an effective mode volume of less than 100 femtoliters. We model this laser system based on semi-classical rate equations and present an analytic compact form of the laser output intensity. Despite the lack of a cavity structure, we achieve a coupling efficiency of the spontaneous emission to the waveguide mode of 0.07(0.01), in agreement with our calculations. In a further experiment, we also demonstrate the use of a plasmonic nanoparticle as a dispersive output coupler. Our laser architecture is promising for a number of applications in optofluidics and provides a fundamental model system for studying nonresonant feedback stimulated emission.

id: 1403.1948
title: Nonlinear optomechanical pressure
authors: Claudio Conti, Robert Boyd
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, minor corrections to text and references, Physical Review A, to be published
journal: Physical Review A 89, 033934 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.1948
abstract: A transparent material exhibits ultra-fast optical nonlinearity and is subject to optical pressure if irradiated by a laser beam. However, the effect of nonlinearity on optical pressure is often overlooked, even if a nonlinear optical pressure may be potentially employed in many applications, as optical manipulation, biophysics, cavity optomechanics, quantum optics, optical tractors, and is relevant in fundamental problems as the Abraham-Minkoswky dilemma, or the Casimir effect. Here we show that an ultra-fast nonlinear polarization gives indeed a contribution to the optical pressure that also is negative in certain spectral ranges; the theoretical analysis is confirmed by first-principles simulations. An order of magnitude estimate shows that the effect can be observable by measuring the deflection of a membrane made by graphene.

id: 1403.2032
title: Ground-state Riemannian metric, cyclic quantum distance, and the quantum criticality in an inhomogeneous Ising spin chain
authors: Yu-Quan Ma, Deng-Shan Wang, Ya-Jiang Hao, Xiang-Guo Yin, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2032
abstract: We investigate the ground-state Riemannian metric and the cyclic quantum distance of an inhomogeneous quantum Ising spin-1/2 chain in a transverse field. This model can be diagonalized by using a general canonical transformation to the fermionic Hamiltonian mapped from the spin system. The ground-state Riemannian metric is derived exactly on a parameter manifold ring $S^1$, which is introduced by performing a gauge transformation to the spin Hamiltonian through a twist operator. The ground-state cyclic quantum distance and the second derivative of the ground-state energy are studied in different inhomogeneous exchange coupling parameter region. Particularly, we show that the quantum ferromagnetic phase in the uniform Ising chain can be characterized by an invariant cyclic quantum distance with a constant ground-state Riemannian metric, and this metric will rapidly decay to zero in the paramagnetic phase.

id: 1403.2035
title: Quantum distance and the Euler number index of the Bloch band in a 1D spin model
authors: Yu-Quan Ma
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, some typos are corrected, the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042133 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2035
abstract: We study the Riemannian metric and the Euler characteristic number of the Bloch band in a 1D spin model with multi-site spins exchange interactions. The Euler number of the Bloch band originates from the Gauss-Bonnet theorem on the topological characterization of the closed Bloch states manifold in the first Brillouin zone. We study this approach analytically in a transverse field XY spin chain with three-site spin coupled interactions. We define a class of cyclic quantum distance on the Bloch band and on the ground state, respectively, as a local characterization for quantum phase transitions. Specifically, we give a general formula for the Euler number by means of the Berry curvature in the case of two-band models, which reveals its essential relation to the first Chern number of the band insulators. Finally, we show that the ferromagnetic-paramagnetic phases transition in zero-temperature can be distinguished by the Euler number of the Bloch band.

id: 1403.2067
title: A quantum field theoretical approach to the P vs. NP problem via the sign of the fermionic Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Andrei T. Patrascu
comments: 28 Pages, 2 Images, Comments are welcome. Please also use the e-mail if necessary. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1402.7283
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2067
abstract: I present here a new method that allows the introduction of a discrete auxiliary symmetry in a theory in such a way that the eigenvalue spectrum of the fermion functional determinant is made up of complex conjugated pairs. The method implies a particular way of introducing and integrating over auxiliary fields related to a set of artificial shift symmetries. Gauge-fixing the artificial continuous shift symmetries in the direct and dual sectors leads to the implementation of direct and dual BRST-type global symmetries and of a symplectic structure over the field space (as prescribed by the Batalin-Vilkovisky method). A procedure similar to Kahler polarization in geometric quantization guarantees the possibility to choose a Kahler structure over the field space. This structure is generated by a special way of performing gauge fixing over the direct and dual sectors. The desired discrete symmetry appears to be induced by the Hodge-* operator. The particular extension of the field space presented here makes the operators of the de-Rham cohomology manifest. These become symmetries in the extended theory. This method implies the identification of the (anti)-BRST and dual-(anti)-BRST operators with the exterior derivative and its dual in the context of the complex de-Rham cohomology.

id: 1403.2171
title: An exact representation isotropic and anisotropic noncommutative phase spaces, and their relations
authors: H. Kakuhata, M. Nakamura
comments: 12 pages, added references for section 1
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2171
abstract: Noncommutative phase space of an arbitrary dimension is considered. The both of operators coordinates and momenta in noncommutative phase space may be noncommutative. In this paper, we introduce momentum-momentum noncommutativity in addition to coordinate-coordinate noncommutativity. We find an exact form for the linear coordinate transformation which relates a noncommutative phase space to the corresponding ordinary one. As an example, the Hamiltonian of a three-dimensional harmonic oscillator is examined.

id: 1403.2193
title: Octave-spanning Dispersion Compensation for Ultra Broadband Bi-photons Using a Prism Pair with a Negative Separation
authors: Yaakov Shaked, Shai Yefet, Tzahi Geller, Avi Pe'er
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2193
abstract: We demonstrate low-loss broadband tuned compensation of both the 2nd and 4th order dispersion of ultra-broad bi-photons, using a prism-pair with negative separation. The corrected spectral phase ($<\pi/20$) of the bi-photons spans nearly an octave in frequency ($\approx1330-2600$ nm), as measured directly by a non-classical bi-photon interference effect. Due to the ultra-broad bandwidth, an ultra-high flux of bi-photons is available for quantum information experiments with extremely pronounced quantum correlations in both time and phase. Most experiments that explore these correlations require transform limited bi-photons, which are now achievable most efficiently with the prism-pair configuration.

id: 1403.2231
title: A possible correspondence between Ricci identities and Dirac equations in the Newman-Penrose formalism: towards an understanding of gravity induced collapse of the wave-function?
authors: Anushrut Sharma, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: v2. 30 pages. Additional discussion in Sections IV and V. References added. To appear in Gen. Rel. Grav
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2231
abstract: It is well-known that in the Newman-Penrose formalism the Riemann tensor can be expressed as a set of eighteen complex first-order equations, in terms of the twelve spin coefficients, known as Ricci identities. The Ricci tensor herein is determined via the Einstein equations. It is also known that the Dirac equation in a curved spacetime can be written in the Newman-Penrose formalism as a set of four first-order coupled equations for the spinor components of the wave-function. In the present article we suggest that it might be possible to think of the Dirac equations in the N-P formalism as a special case of the Ricci identities, after an appropriate identification of the four Dirac spinor components with four of the spin coefficients, provided torsion is included in the connection, and after a suitable generalization of the energy-momentum tensor. We briefly comment on similarities with the Einstein-Cartan-Sciama-Kibble theory. The motivation for this study is to take some very preliminary steps towards developing a rigorous description of the hypothesis that dynamical collapse of the wave-function during a quantum measurement is caused by gravity.

id: 1403.2289
title: On a New Construction of Pseudo Effect Algebras
authors: Anatolij Dvure?enskij
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1306.0304
journal: 
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2289
abstract: We define a new class of pseudo effect algebras, called kite pseudo effect algebras, which is connected not necessarily with partially ordered groups, but rather with generalized pseudo effect algebras where the greatest element is not guaranteed. Starting even with a commutative generalized pseudo effect algebra, we can obtain a non-commutative pseudo effect algebra. We show how such kite pseudo effect algebras are tied with different types of the Riesz Decomposition Properties. We find conditions when kite pseudo effect algebras have the least non-trivial normal ideal.

id: 1403.2443
title: Interlayer coherence and entanglement in bilayer quantum Hall states at filling factor $¦Í=2/¦Ë$
authors: M. Calixto, E. P¨¦rez-Romero
comments: LaTeX, 18 pages, 22 figures, substantial improvement (5 additional pages). To appear in J. Phys. Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 (2014) 485005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2443
abstract: We study coherence and entanglement properties of the state space of a composite bi-fermion (two electrons pierced by $\lambda$ magnetic flux lines) at one Landau site of a bilayer quantum Hall system. In particular, interlayer imbalance and entanglement (and its fluctuations) are analyzed for a set of $U(4)$ coherent (\emph{quasiclassical}) states generalizing the standard pseudospin $U(2)$ coherent states for the spin-frozen case. The interplay between spin and pseudospin degrees of freedom opens new possibilities with regard to the spin-frozen case. Actually, spin degrees of freedom make interlayer entanglement more effective and robust under perturbations than in the spin-frozen situation, mainly for a large number of flux quanta $\lambda$. Interlayer entanglement of an equilibrium thermal state and its dependence with temperature and bias voltage is also studied for a pseudo-Zeeman interaction.

id: 1403.2611
title: Tuning the Fano Resonance with an Intruder Continuum
authors: J. Fransson, M.-G. Kang, Y. Yoon, S. Xiao, Y. Ochiai, J. L. Reno, N. Aoki, J. P. Bird
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nano Lett. 14, 788 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2611
abstract: Through a combination of experiment and theory we establish the possibility of achieving strong tuning of Fano resonances (FRs), by allowing their usual two-path geometry to interfere with an additional, 'intruder', continuum. As the coupling strength to this intruder is varied, we predict strong modulations of the resonance line shape that, in principle at least, may exceed the amplitude of the original FR itself. For a proof-of-concept demonstration of this phenomenon, we construct a nanoscale interferometer from nonlocally coupled quantum point contacts and utilize the unique features of their density of states to realize the intruder. External control of the intruder coupling is enabled by means of an applied magnetic field, in the presence of which we demonstrate the predicted distortions of the FR. This general scheme for resonant control should be broadly applicable to a variety of wave-based systems, opening up the possibility of new applications in areas such as chemical and biological sensing and secure communications.

id: 1403.2632
title: Holographic Relaxation of Finite Size Isolated Quantum Systems
authors: Javier Abajo-Arrastia, Emilia da Silva, Esperanza Lopez, Javier Mas, Alexandre Serantes
comments: 37 pages, 27 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2632
abstract: We study holographically the out of equilibrium dynamics of a finite size closed quantum system in 2+1 dimensions, modelled by the collapse of a shell of a massless scalar field in AdS4. In global coordinates there exists a variety of evolutions towards final black hole formation which we relate with different patterns of relaxation in the dual field theory. For large scalar initial data rapid thermalization is achieved as a priori expected. Interesting phenomena appear for small enough amplitudes. Such shells do not generate a black hole by direct collapse, but quite generically an apparent horizon emerges after enough bounces off the AdS boundary. We relate this bulk evolution with relaxation processes at strong coupling which delay in reaching an ergodic stage. Besides the dynamics of bulk fields, we monitor the entanglement entropy, finding that it oscillates quasi-periodically before final equilibration. The radial position of the traveling shell is brought into correspondence with the evolution of the entanglement pattern in the dual field theory. The entanglement entropy is not only able to portrait the streaming of entangled excitations, but it is also a useful probe of interaction effects.

id: 1403.2636
title: Properties of Reactive Oxygen Species by Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Andrea Zen, Bernhardt L. Trout, Leonardo Guidoni
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 014305 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2636
abstract: The electronic properties of the oxygen molecule, in its singlet and triplet states, and of many small oxygen-containing radicals and anions have important roles in different fields of Chemistry, Biology and Atmospheric Science. Nevertheless, the electronic structure of such species is a challenge for ab-initio computational approaches because of the difficulties to correctly describe the statical and dynamical correlation effects in presence of one or more unpaired electrons. Only the highest-level quantum chemical approaches can yield reliable characterizations of their molecular properties, such as binding energies, equilibrium structures, molecular vibrations, charge distribution and polarizabilities. In this work we use the variational Monte Carlo (VMC) and the lattice regularized Monte Carlo (LRDMC) methods to investigate the equilibrium geometries and molecular properties of oxygen and oxygen reactive species. Quantum Monte Carlo methods are used in combination with the Jastrow Antisymmetrized Geminal Power (JAGP) wave function ansatz, which has been recently shown to effectively describe the statical and dynamical correlation of different molecular systems. In particular we have studied the oxygen molecule, the superoxide anion, the nitric oxide radical and anion, the hydroxyl and hydroperoxyl radicals and their corresponding anions, and the hydrotrioxyl radical. Overall, the methodology was able to correctly describe the geometrical and electronic properties of these systems, through compact but fully-optimised basis sets and with a computational cost which scales as $N^3-N^4$, where $N$ is the number of electrons. This work is therefore opening the way to the accurate study of the energetics and of the reactivity of large and complex oxygen species by first principles.

id: 1403.2699
title: Discrete-Gauss states and the generation of focussing dark beams
authors: Albert Ferrando
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023844 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2699
abstract: Discrete-Gauss states are a new class of gaussian solutions of the free Schr\"odinger equation owning discrete rotational symmetry. They are obtained by acting with a discrete deformation operator onto Laguerre-Gauss modes. We present a general analytical construction of these states and show the necessary and sufficient condition for them to host embedded dark beams structures. We unveil the intimate connection between discrete rotational symmetry, orbital angular momentum, and the generation of focussing dark beams. The distinguishing features of focussing dark beams are discussed. The potential applications of Discrete-Gauss states in advanced optical trapping and quantum information processing are also briefly discussed.

id: 1403.2744
title: Extracting Dynamical Green's Function of Ultracold Quantum Gases via Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: H. H. Jen, Daw-Wei Wang
comments: 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B Vol. 31, Iss. 12, pp. 2931-2937 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2744
abstract: The essential quantum many-body physics of an ultracold quantum gas relies on the single-particle Green's functions.\ We demonstrate that it can be extracted by the spectrum of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT).\ The single-particle Green's function can be reconstructed by the measurements of frequency moments in EIT spectroscopy.\ This optical measurement provides an efficient and nondestructive method to reveal the many-body properties, and we propose an experimental setup to realize it.\ Finite temperature and finite size effects are discussed, and we demonstrate the reconstruction steps of Green's function for the examples of three-dimensional Mott-insulator phase and one-dimensional Luttinger liquid.

id: 1403.2768
title: On the application of Floquet theorem in development of time-dependent Lindbladians
authors: Krzysztof Szczygielski
comments: 21 pages, no figures; final version added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 083506 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2768
abstract: In this paper, the mathematical framework providing a description of completely positive and trace preserving dynamics of open quantum systems is addressed. Special case of time-dependent Lindbladian governed by periodic Hamiltonian is concerned. It is proven, that appropriate trace preserving dynamical map of such periodically driven system may be constructed by application of Floquet theory. Appropriate Lindbladian and Markovian master equation in weak coupling regime and resulting dynamical map are constructed. Some examples of application of developed technique are given.

id: 1403.2792
title: Ultracold Fermi Gases with Emergent SU(N) Symmetry
authors: M. A. Cazalilla, A. M. Rey
comments: Review article (43 pages, 7 figures); comments are welcome
journal: Reports on Progress in Physics 77, 124401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2792
abstract: We review recent experimental and theoretical progress on ultracold alkaline-earth Fermi gases with emergent SU$(N)$ symmetry. Emphasis is placed on describing the ground-breaking experimental achievements of recent years. The latter include the cooling to below quantum degeneracy of various isotopes of ytterbium and strontium, the demonstration of optical Feshbach resonances and the optical Stern-Gerlach effect, the realization of a Mott insulator of $^{173}$Yb atoms, the creation of various kinds of Fermi-Bose mixtures and the observation of many-body physics in optical lattice clocks. On the theory side, we survey the zoo of phases that have been predicted for both gases in a trap and loaded into an optical lattice, focusing on two and three-dimensional systems. We also discuss some of the challenges that lie ahead for the realization of such phases, such as reaching the temperature scale required to observe magnetic and more exotic quantum orders, and dealing with collisional relaxation of excited electronic levels.

id: 1403.2830
title: Efficient Spin Injection into Silicon and the Role of the Schottky Barrier
authors: Andr¨¦ Dankert, Ravi S. Dulal, Saroj P. Dash
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 3,3196 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2830
abstract: Implementing spin functionalities in Si, and understanding the fundamental processes of spin injection and detection, are the main challenges in spintronics. Here we demonstrate large spin polarizations at room temperature, 34% in n-type and 10% in p-type degenerate Si bands, using a narrow Schottky and a SiO2 tunnel barrier in a direct tunneling regime. Furthermore, by increasing the width of the Schottky barrier in non-degenerate p-type Si, we observed a systematic sign reversal of the Hanle signal in the low bias regime. This dramatic change in the spin injection and detection processes with increased Schottky barrier resistance may be due to a decoupling of the spins in the interface states from the bulk band of Si, yielding a transition from a direct to a localized state assisted tunneling. Our study provides a deeper insight into the spin transport phenomenon, which should be considered for electrical spin injection into any semiconductor.

id: 1403.2831
title: Ideal n-body correlations with massive particles
authors: R.G. Dall, A.G. Manning, S.S. Hodgman, Wu RuGway, K.V. Kheruntsyan, A.G. Truscott
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, plus Supplementary Information
journal: Nature Physics 9, 341 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2831
abstract: In 1963 Glauber introduced the modern theory of quantum coherence, which extended the concept of first-order (one-body) correlations, describing phase coherence of classical waves, to include higher-order (n-body) quantum correlations characterizing the interference of multiple particles. Whereas the quantum coherence of photons is a mature cornerstone of quantum optics, the quantum coherence properties of massive particles remain largely unexplored. To investigate these properties, here we use a uniquely correlated source of atoms that allows us to observe n-body correlations up to the sixth-order at the ideal theoretical limit (n!). Our measurements constitute a direct demonstration of the validity of one of the most widely used theorems in quantum many-body theory--Wisck's theorem--for a thermal ensemble of massive particles. Measurements involving n-body correlations may play an important role in the understanding of thermalization of isolated quantum systems and the thermodynamics of exotic many-body systems, such as Efimov trimers.

id: 1403.2866
title: Non-classical correlations in a class of spin chains with long-range interactions and exactly solvable ground states
authors: Emanuele Levi, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2866
abstract: We introduce a class of spin models with long-range interactions---in the sense that they extend significantly beyond nearest neighbors---whose ground states can be constructed analytically and have a simple matrix product state representation. This enables the detailed study of ground state properties, such as correlation functions and entanglement, in the thermodynamic limit. The spin models presented here are closely related to lattice gases of strongly interacting polar molecules or Rydberg atoms which feature an excluded volume or blockade interaction. While entanglement is only present between spins that are separated by no more than a blockade length, we show that non-classical correlations can extend much further and analyze them through quantum discord. We furthermore identify a set of seemingly critical points where the ground state approaches a crystalline state with a filling fraction that is given by the inverse of the blockade length. We analyze the scaling properties in the vicinity of this parameter region and show that the correlation length possesses a non-trivial dependence on the blockade length.

id: 1403.2867
title: Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector with spin in any dimension
authors: A. G. Nikitin
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 375201 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2867
abstract: Superintegrable d - dimensional quantum mechanical systems with spin, which admit a generalized Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector are presented. The systems with spins 0, 1/2 and 1 are considered in detail. All these systems are exactly solvable for arbitrary d, and their solutions are presented explicitly.

id: 1403.2910
title: Two-Qubit Couplings of Singlet-Triplet Qubits Mediated by One Quantum State
authors: Sebastian Mehl, Hendrik Bluhm, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045404 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2910
abstract: We describe high-fidelity entangling gates between singlet-triplet qubits (STQs) which are coupled via one quantum state (QS). The QS can be provided by a quantum dot itself or by another confined system. The orbital energies of the QS are tunable using an electric gate close to the QS, which changes the interactions between the STQs independent of their single-qubit parameters. Short gating sequences exist for the controlled NOT (CNOT) operations. We show that realistic quantum dot setups permit excellent entangling operations with gate infidelities below $10^{-3}$, which is lower than the quantum error correction threshold of the surface code. We consider limitations from fabrication errors, hyperfine interactions, spin-orbit interactions, and charge noise in GaAs and Si heterostructures.

id: 1403.2974
title: Separable Hilbert space for loop quantization
authors: J. Fernando Barbero G., Tomasz Paw?owski, Eduardo J. S. Villase?or
comments: RevTex4-1, BibTex, 6 pages, replaced with revised version to appear in Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 067505 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2974
abstract: We discuss, within the simplified context provided by the polymeric harmonic oscillator, a construction leading to a separable Hilbert space that preserves some of the most important features of the spectrum of the Hamiltonian operator. This construction may be applied to other polymer quantum mechanical systems, including those of loop quantum cosmology, and is likely generalizable to certain formulations of full loop quantum gravity. It is helpful to sidestep some of the physically relevant issues that appear in that context, in particular those related to superselection and the definition of suitable ensembles for the statistical mechanics of these types of systems.

id: 1403.3075
title: Cavity-coupled double-quantum dot at finite bias: analogy with lasers and beyond
authors: Manas Kulkarni, Ovidiu Cotlet, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 13 pages, 9 Figures, 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3075
abstract: We present a theoretical and experimental study of photonic and electronic transport properties of a voltage biased InAs semiconductor double quantum dot (DQD) that is dipole-coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator. We obtain the Master equation for the reduced density matrix of the coupled system of cavity photons and DQD electrons accounting systematically for both the presence of phonons and the effect of leads at finite voltage bias. We subsequently derive analytical expressions for transmission, phase response, photon number and the non-equilibrium steady state electron current. We show that the coupled system under finite bias realizes an unconventional version of a single-atom laser and analyze the spectrum and the statistics of the photon flux leaving the cavity. In the transmission mode, the system behaves as a saturable single-atom amplifier for the incoming photon flux. Finally, we show that the back action of the photon emission on the steady-state current can be substantial. Our analytical results are compared to exact Master equation results establishing regimes of validity of various analytical models. We compare our findings to available experimental measurements.

id: 1403.3262
title: Quantum entanglement in analogue Hawking radiation, when is the final state non-separable ?
authors: Xavier Busch, Renaud Parentani
comments: 14 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 105024 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3262
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement of the quasiparticle pairs emitted by analogue black holes. We use a phenomenological description of the spectra in dispersive media to study the domains in parameter space where the final state is non-separable. In stationary flows, three modes are involved in each sector of fixed frequency, and not two as in homogeneous situations. The third spectator mode acts as an environment for the pairs, and the strength of the coupling significantly reduces the quantum coherence. The non-separability of the pairs emitted by white holes are also considered, and compared with that of black holes.

id: 1403.3311
title: Fast Room-Temperature Phase Gate on a Single Nuclear Spin in Diamond
authors: S. Sangtawesin, T. O. Brundage, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020506 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3311
abstract: Nuclear spins support long lived quantum coherence due to weak coupling to the environment, but are difficult to rapidly control using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) as a result of the small nuclear magnetic moment. We demonstrate a fast ~ 500 ns nuclear spin phase gate on a 14N nuclear spin qubit intrinsic to a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The phase gate is enabled by the hyperfine interaction and off-resonance driving of electron spin transitions. Repeated applications of the phase gate bang-bang decouple the nuclear spin from the environment, locking the spin state for up to ~ 140 microseconds.

id: 1403.3405
title: Resolved sidebands in a strain-coupled hybrid spin-oscillator system
authors: Jean Teissier, Arne Barfuss, Patrick Appel, Elke Neu, P. Maletinsky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures and supplementary information. Comments welcome. Further information under this http URL
journal: Physical Review Letters, 113, 020503 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3405
abstract: We report on single electronic spins coupled to the motion of mechanical resonators by a novel mechanism based on crystal strain. Our device consists of single-crystalline diamond cantilevers with embedded Nitrogen-Vacancy center spins. Using optically detected electron spin resonance, we determine the unknown spin-strain coupling constants and demonstrate that our system resides well within the resolved sideband regime. We realize coupling strengths exceeding ten MHz under mechanical driving and show that our system has the potential to reach strong coupling. Our novel hybrid system forms a resource for future experiments on spin-based cantilever cooling and coherent spin-oscillator coupling.

id: 1403.3511
title: A fast matrix-free algorithm for spectral approximations to the Schr?dinger equation
authors: Bernd Brumm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3511
abstract: We consider the linear time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation with a time-dependent smooth potential on an unbounded domain. A Galerkin spectral method with a tensor-product Hermite basis is used as a discretization in space. Discretizing the resulting ODE for the Hermite expansion coefficients involves the computation of the action of the Galerkin matrix on a vector in each time step. We propose a fast algorithm for the direct computation of this matrix-vector product without actually assembling the matrix itself. The costs scale linearly in the size of the basis. Together with the application of a hyperbolically reduced basis, this reduces the computational effort considerably and helps cope with the infamous curse of dimensionality. The application of the fast algorithm is limited to the case of the potential being significantly smoother than the solution. The error analysis is based on a binary tree representation of the three-term recurrence relation for the one-dimensional Hermite functions. The fast algorithm constitutes an efficient tool for schemes involving the action of a matrix due to spectral discretization on a vector, and it is also applicable in the context of spectral approximations for linear problems other than the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1403.3528
title: Thermal Creation of Electron Spin Polarization in n-Type Silicon
authors: Andr¨¦ Dankert, Saroj P. Dash
comments: 
journal: Dankert, A. & Dash, S. P. Thermal Creation of Electron Spin Polarization in n-Type Silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 242405 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3528
abstract: Conversion of heat into a spin-current in electron doped silicon can offer a promising path for spin-caloritronics. Here we create an electron spin polarization in the conduction band of n-type silicon by producing a temperature gradient across a ferromagnetic tunnel contact. The substrate heating experiments induce a large spin signal of 95 $\mu$V, corresponding to 0.54 meV spin-splitting in the conduction band of n-type silicon by Seebeck spin tunneling mechanism. The thermal origin of the spin injection has been confirmed by the quadratic scaling of the spin signal with the Joule heating current and linear dependence with the heating power.

id: 1403.3542
title: Fluctuation Theorems and the Generalised Gibbs Ensemble in Integrable Systems
authors: James M. Hickey, Sam Genway
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022107 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3542
abstract: We derive fluctuation relations for a many-body quantum system prepared in a Generalised Gibbs Ensemble subject to a general nonequilibrium protocol. By considering isolated integrable systems, we find generalisations to the Tasaki-Crooks and Jarzynski relations. Our approach is illustrated by studying the one-dimensional quantum Ising model subject to a sudden change in the transverse field, where we find that the statistics of the work done and irreversible entropy show signatures of quantum criticality. We discuss these fluctuation relations in the context of thermalisation.

id: 1403.3544
title: Optimized regulator for the quantized anharmonic oscillator
authors: J. Kovacs, S. Nagy, K. Sailer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3544
abstract: The energy gap between the first excited state and the ground state is calculated for the quantized anharmonic oscillator in the framework of the functional renormalization group method. The compactly supported smooth regulator is used which includes various types of regulators as limiting cases. It was found that the value of the energy gap depends on the regulator parameters. We argue that the optimization based on the disappearance of the false, broken symmetric phase of the model leads to the Litim's regulator. The least sensitivity on the regulator parameters leads however to an IR regulator being somewhat different of the Litim's one, but it can be described as a perturbatively improved, or generalized Litim's regulator and provides analytic evolution equations, too.

id: 1403.3596
title: Sub-wavelength microwave electric field imaging using Rydberg atoms inside atomic vapor cells
authors: H.Q. Fan, S. Kumar, R. Daschner, H. K¨¹bler, J. P. Shaffer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 3030-3033 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3596
abstract: We have recently shown that Alkali atoms contained in a vapor cell can serve as a highly accurate standard for microwave electric field strength as well as polarization using the principles of Rydberg atom electromagnetically induced transparency. Here, we show, for the first time, that Rydberg atom electromagnetically induced transparency can be used to image microwave electric fields with unprecedented precision. The spatial resolution of the method is far into the sub-wavelength regime. The electric field resolutions are similar to those we have demonstrated in our prior experiments. Our experimental results agree with finite element calculations of test electric field patterns.

id: 1403.3773
title: Quantum models with spectrum generated by the flows of polynomial zeros
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 11 pages, RevTex - introduction and a part of Sec. II redrafted to take into account Haydock's work; 3 references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47(49), 495204 (2014) (17 pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3773
abstract: A class {\cal R}_p of purely bosonic models is characterized having the following properties in the Bargmann Hilbert space of analytic functions: (i) wave function \psi(\epsilon,z)=\sum_{n=0}^\infty \phi_n(\epsilon) z^n is the {\em generating function} for orthogonal polynomials \phi_n(\epsilon) of a discrete energy variable \epsilon, (ii) any Hamiltonian \hat{H}_b\in {\cal R}_p has nondegenerate purely point spectrum that corresponds to infinite discrete support of measure d\nu(x) in the orthogonality relation of the polynomials \phi_n, (iii) the support is determined exclusively by the points of discontinuity of \nu(x), (iv) the spectrum of \hat{H}_b\in {\cal R}_p can be numerically determined as fixed points of monotonic flows of the zeros of orthogonal polynomials \phi_n(\upepsilon), (v) one can compute practically an unlimited number of energy levels (e.g. 2^{53} in double precision). If a model of {\cal R}_p is exactly solvable, its spectrum can only assume one of four qualitatively different types. The results are applied to spin-boson quantum models that are, at least partially, diagonalizable and have at least single one-dimensional irreducible component in the spin subspace. Examples include the Rabi model and its various generalizations.

id: 1403.3816
title: Entropy and entanglement bounds for reduced density matrices of fermionic states
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 16 pages. The word "entanglement" has been added to the tile, along with some references and simplifications
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3816
abstract: Unlike bosons, fermions always have a non-trivial entanglement. Intuitively, Slater determinantal states should be the least entangled states. To make this intuition precise we investigate entropy and entanglement of fermionic states and prove some extremal and near extremal properties of reduced density matrices of Slater determinantal states. We show, in particular, that the excess of entanglement of formation over the Slater value is a faithful measure of fermionic entanglement.

id: 1403.3821
title: Mobility edge for cold atoms in laser speckle potentials
authors: Dominique Delande, Giuliano Orso
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, plus Supplemental Material (3 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Physical Review Letters 113, 060601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3821
abstract: Using the transfer matrix method, we numerically compute the precise position of the mobility edge of atoms exposed to a laser speckle potential, and study its dependence vs. the disorder strength and correlation function. Our results deviate significantly from previous theoretical estimates using an approximate self-consistent approach of localization. In particular we find that the position of the mobility edge in blue-detuned speckles is much lower than in the red-detuned counterpart, pointing out the crucial role played by the asymmetric on-site distribution of speckle patterns.

id: 1403.3903
title: Measurement induced dynamics for spin chain quantum communication and its application for optical lattices
authors: Sima Pouyandeh, Farhad Shahbazi, Abolfazl Bayat
comments: includes 10 pages, 6 figures and 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012337 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3903
abstract: We present a protocol for quantum state transfer and remote state preparation across spin chains which operate in their anti-ferromagnetic mode. The proposed mechanism harnesses the inherent entanglement of the ground state of the strongly correlated many-body systems which naturally exists for free. The uniform Hamiltonian of the system does not need any engineering and, during the whole process, remains intact while a single qubit measurement followed by a single-qubit rotation are employed for both encoding and inducing dynamics in the system. This, in fact, has been inspired by recent progress in observing spin waves in optical lattice experiments, in which manipulation of the Hamiltonian is hard and instead local rotations and measurements have become viable. The attainable average fidelity stays above the classical threshold for chains up to length $~50$ and the system shows very good robustness against various sources of imperfection.

id: 1403.3915
title: Extensions of a class of similarity solutions of Fokker-Planck equation with time-dependent coefficients and fixed/moving boundaries
authors: C.-L. Ho, R. Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1205.0763
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55 (2014) 113301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3915
abstract: A general formula in closed form to obtain exact similarity solutions of the Fokker-Planck equation with both time-dependent drift and diffusion coefficients was recently presented by Lin and Ho [ Ann. Phys. \textbf{327}, 386 (2012); J. Math. Phys. \textbf{54}, 041501 (2013)]. In this paper we extend the class of exact solutions by exploiting certain properties of the general formula.

id: 1403.4061
title: SeD Radical: A probe for measurement of time variation of Fine Structure Constant($¦Á$) and Proton to Electron Mass Ratio($¦Ì$)
authors: Gaurab Ganguly, Avijit Sen, Manas Mukherjee, Ankan Paul
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures and 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012509 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4061
abstract: Based on the spectroscopic constants derived from highly accurate potential energy surfaces, the SeD radical is identified as a spectroscopic probe for measuring spatial and temporal variation of fundamental physical constants such as the fine-structure constant (denoted as $\alpha=\frac{e^2}{\hbar c}$) and the proton-to-electron mass ratio (denoted as $\mu=\frac{m_p}{m_e}$). The ground state of SeD ($X^2\Pi$), due to spin-orbit coupling, splits into two fine structure multiplets $^2\Pi_{\frac{3}{2}}$ and $^2\Pi_{\frac{1}{2}}$. The potential energy surfaces of these spin-orbit components are derived from a state of the art electronic structure method, MRCI+Q inclusive of scalar relativistic effects with the spin-orbit effects accounted through the Breit-Pauli operator. The relevant spectroscopic data are evaluated using Murrel-Sorbie fit to the potential energy surfaces. The spin-orbit splitting($\omega_f$) between the two multiplets is similar in magnitude with the harmonic frequency ($\omega_e$) of the diatomic molecule. The amplification factor derived from this theoretical method for this particular molecule can be as large as 350, on the lower side it can be about 34. The significantly large values of K indicate that SeD radical can be a plaussible experimental candidate for measuring variation in $\alpha$ and $\mu$.

id: 1403.4113
title: Effects of spin on the dynamics of the 2D Dirac oscillator in the magnetic cosmic string background
authors: Fabiano M. Andrade, Edilberto O. Silva
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: The European Physical Journal C 74, 3187 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4113
abstract: In this work the dynamics of a 2D Dirac oscillator in the spacetime of a magnetic cosmic string is considered. It is shown that earlier approaches to this problem have neglected a $\delta$ function contribution to the full Hamiltonian, which comes from the Zeeman interaction. The inclusion of spin effects leads to results which confirm a modified dynamics. Based on the self-adjoint extension method, we determined the most relevant physical quantities, such as energy spectrum, wave functions and the self-adjoint extension parameter by applying boundary conditions allowed by the system.

id: 1403.4116
title: Spectroscopy of Equilibrium and Non-Equilibrium Charge Transfer in Semiconductor Quantum Structures
authors: Clemens R?ssler, Simon Burkhard, Tobias Kr?henmann, Marc R??sli, Peter M?rki, Julien Basset, Thomas Ihn, Klaus Ensslin, Christian Reichl, Werner Wegscheider
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 081302(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4116
abstract: We investigate equilibrium and non-equilibrium charge-transfer processes by performing high-resolution transport spectroscopy. Using electrostatically defined quantum dots for energy-selective emission and detection, we achieved unprecedented spectral resolution and a high degree of tunability of relevant experimental parameters. Most importantly, we observe that the spectral width of elastically transferred electrons can be substantially smaller than the linewidth of a thermally broadened Coulomb peak. This finding indicates that the charge-transfer process is fast compared to the electron--phonon interaction time. By drawing an analogy to double quantum dots, we argue that the spectral width of the elastic resonance is determined by the lifetime broadening $h\it{\Gamma}$ of the emitter and detector states. Good agreement with the model is found also in an experiment in which the charge transfer is in the regime $h\it{\Gamma}\gg k_{\rm{B}}T$. By performing spectroscopy below the Fermi energy, we furthermore observe elastic and inelastic transfer of holes.

id: 1403.4139
title: Solving the Hard Problem of Bertrand's Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts, Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 083503 (2014)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4139
abstract: Bertrand's paradox is a famous problem of probability theory, pointing to a possible inconsistency in Laplace's principle of insufficient reason. In this article we show that Bertrand's paradox contains two different problems: an "easy" problem and a "hard" problem. The easy problem can be solved by formulating Bertrand's question in sufficiently precise terms, so allowing for a non ambiguous modelization of the entity subjected to the randomization. We then show that once the easy problem is settled, also the hard problem becomes solvable, provided Laplace's principle of insufficient reason is applied not to the outcomes of the experiment, but to the different possible "ways of selecting" an interaction between the entity under investigation and that producing the randomization. This consists in evaluating a huge average over all possible "ways of selecting" an interaction, which we call a 'universal average'. Following a strategy similar to that used in the definition of the Wiener measure, we calculate such universal average and therefore solve the hard problem of Bertrand's paradox. The link between Bertrand's problem of probability theory and the measurement problem of quantum mechanics is also briefly discussed.

id: 1403.4173
title: Dynamic strain-mediated coupling of a single diamond spin to a mechanical resonator
authors: Preeti Ovartchaiyapong, Kenneth W. Lee, Bryan A. Myers, Ania C. Bleszynski Jayich
comments: 35 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4173
abstract: The development of hybrid quantum systems is central to the advancement of emerging quantum technologies, including quantum information science and quantum-assisted sensing. The recent demonstration of high quality single-crystal diamond resonators has led to significant interest in a hybrid system consisting of nitrogen-vacancy center spins that interact with the resonant phonon modes of a macroscopic mechanical resonator through crystal strain. However, the nitrogen-vacancy spin-strain interaction has not been well characterized. Here, we demonstrate dynamic, strain-mediated coupling of the mechanical motion of a diamond cantilever to the spin of an embedded nitrogen-vacancy center. Via quantum control of the spin, we quantitatively characterize the axial and transverse strain sensitivities of the nitrogen-vacancy ground state spin. The nitrogen-vacancy center is an atomic scale sensor and we demonstrate spin-based strain imaging with a strain sensitivity of 3 10^(-6) strain Hz^(-1/2). Finally, we show how this spin-resonator system could enable coherent spin-phonon interactions in the quantum regime.

id: 1403.4187
title: Relaxation timescales and prethermalisation in d-dimensional long-range quantum spin models
authors: Michael Kastner, Mauritz van den Worm
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4187
abstract: We report analytic results for the correlation functions of long-range quantum Ising models in arbitrary dimension. In particular, we focus on the long-time evolution and the relevant timescales on which correlations relax to their equilibrium values. By deriving upper bounds on the correlation functions in the large-system limit, we prove that a wide separation of timescales, accompanied by a pronounced prethermalisation plateau, occurs for sufficiently long-ranged interactions.

id: 1403.4208
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling and quantum-classical phase transitions of the escape rate in large spin systems
authors: S. A. Owerre, M. B. Paranjape
comments: Review article in press (Physics Reports). 64 pages, 39 figures, one column
journal: Physics Reports 546, 1, (2015)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4208
abstract: This article presents a review on the theoretical and the experimental developments on macroscopic quantum tunneling and phase transition of the escape rate in spin systems. We present the basic ideas with simplified calculations so that it is readable to both specialists and nonspecialists in this area of research. A brief derivation of the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics in its original form using the orthonormal position and momentum basis is reviewed. For spin systems such as single molecule magnets, the formulation of path integral requires the use of non-orthonormal spin coherent state in $(2s+1)$ dimensional Hilbert space, the coordinate independent and the coordinate dependent form of the spin coherent state path integral is derived. These two forms of spin coherent state path integral are applied to the tunneling of single molecule magnets through its magnetic anisotropy barrier. Most experimental and numerical results are presented. The suppression of tunneling for half-odd integer spin (spin-parity effect) at zero magnetic field is derived from both forms, which shows that this result (spin-parity effect) is independent of the coordinate. At nonzero magnetic field we present both the experimental and the theoretical results of the oscillation of tunneling splitting as a function of the applied magnetic field applied along the spin hard anisotropy axis direction. The experimental and the theoretical results of the tunneling in antiferromagnetic exchange coupled dimer model are also reviewed. As the spin coherent state path integral formalism is a semi-classical method, an alternative exact mapping of a spin system to a particle in a potential field (effective potential method) is derived. This effective potential method allows for the investigation of phase transition of the escape rate in spin systems.

id: 1403.4233
title: Noise correlations of two-dimensional Bose gases
authors: Vijay Pal Singh, Ludwig Mathey
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053612 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4233
abstract: We analyze density-density correlations of expanding clouds of weakly interacting two-dimensional Bose gases below and above the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition, with particular focus on short-time expansions. During time-of-flight expansion, phase fluctuations of the trapped system translate into density fluctuations, in addition to the density fluctuations that exist in in-situ. We calculate the correlations of these fluctuations both in real space and in momentum space, and derive analytic expressions in momentum space. Below the transition, the correlation functions show an oscillatory behavior, controlled by the scaling exponent of the quasi-condensed phase, due to constructive interference. We argue that this can be used to extract the scaling exponent of the quasi-condensate experimentally. Above the transition, the interference is rapidly suppressed when the atoms travel an average distance beyond the correlation length. This can be used to distinguish the two phases qualitatively.

id: 1403.4237
title: Movable high Q nanoresonators realized by semiconductor nanowires on a Si photonic crystal platform
authors: M. D. Birowosuto, A. Yokoo, G. Zhang, K. Tateno, E. Kuramochi, H. Taniyama, M. Takiguchi, M. Notomi
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, first version to Nature Materials 2014
journal: Nature Materials 13 279-285 2014
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4237
abstract: Subwavelength semiconductor nanowires have recently attracted interest for photonic applications because they possess various unique optical properties and offer great potential for miniaturizing devices. However, realizing tight light confinement or efficient coupling with photonic circuits is not straightforward and remains a challenge. Here we show that a high Q nanocavity can be created by placing a single III/V semiconductor nanowire with a diameter of under 100 nm in a grooved waveguide in a Si photonic crystal, by means of nanoprobe manipulation. We observe very fast spontaneous emission (91 ps) from nanowires accelerated by the strong Purcell enhancement in nanocavities, which proves that very strong light confinement can be achieved. Furthermore, this system enables us to move the nanocavity anywhere along the waveguide. This configuration provides a significant degree of flexibility in integrated photonics and permits the addition and displacement of various functionalities of III/V nanocavity devices in Si photonic circuits.

id: 1403.4242
title: Stabilizing the false vacuum: Mott skyrmions
authors: M¨¢rton Kan¨¢sz-Nagy, Bal¨¢zs D¨®ra, Eugene A. Demler, Gergely Zar¨¢nd
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 7692 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4242
abstract: Topological excitations keep fascinating physicists since many decades. While individual vortices and solitons emerge and have been observed in many areas of physics, their most intriguing higher dimensional topological relatives, skyrmions (smooth, topologically stable textures) and magnetic monopoles -- emerging almost necessarily in any grand unified theory and responsible for charge quantization -- remained mostly elusive. Here we propose that loading a three-component nematic superfluid such as $^{23}$Na into a deep optical lattice and thereby creating an insulating core, one can create topologically stable skyrmion textures and investigate their properties in detail. We show furthermore that the spectrum of the excitations of the superfluid and their quantum numbers change dramatically in the presence of the skyrmion, and they reflect the presence of a trapped monopole, as imposed by the skyrmion's topology.

id: 1403.4307
title: Quantum Theory and Human Perception of the Macro-World
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4307
abstract: We investigate the question of 'why customary macroscopic entities appear to us humans as they do, i.e. as bounded entities occupying space and persisting through time', starting from our knowledge of quantum theory, how it affects the behavior of such customary macroscopic entities, and how it influences our perception of them. For this purpose, we approach the question from three perspectives. Firstly, we look at the situation from the standard quantum angle, more specifically the de Broglie wavelength analysis of the behavior of macroscopic entities, indicate how a problem with spin and identity arises, and illustrate how both play a fundamental role in well-established experimental quantum-macroscopical phenomena, such as Bose-Einstein condensates. Secondly, we analyze how the question is influenced by our result in axiomatic quantum theory, which proves that standard quantum theory is structurally incapable of describing separated entities. Thirdly, we put forward our new 'conceptual quantum interpretation', including a highly detailed reformulation of the question to confront the new insights and views that arise with the foregoing analysis. At the end of the final section, a nuanced answer is given that can be summarized as follows. The specific and very classical perception of human seeing -- light as a geometric theory -- and human touching -- only ruled by Pauli's exclusion principle -- plays a role in our perception of macroscopic entities as ontologically stable entities in space. To ascertain quantum behavior in such macroscopic entities, we will need measuring apparatuses capable of its detection. Future experimental research will have to show if sharp quantum effects -- as they occur in smaller entities -- appear to be ontological aspects of customary macroscopic entities.

id: 1403.4351
title: The small and large D limit of Parikh-Wilczek tunneling model for Hawking radiation
authors: June-Yu Wei, Wen-Yu Wen
comments: 7 pages, updated version submitted to CQG
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31 (2014) 137001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4351
abstract: In this note, we study both the small and large dimension $D$ limit of the tunneling model of Hwaking radiation proposed by Parikh and Wilczek\cite{Parikh:1999mf}. We confirm that the result $\Gamma \sim e^{\Delta S}$ is still valid for arbitrary $D>3$. The sensible large $D$ limit is given by $\sqrt{D} \ll r_0$ in order to have nonzero radiation. On the other hand, the sensible small $D$ limit is given by taking $D=3+\epsilon$ as a continuous parameter. We also explicitly show the leading order correction to the thermal radiation and discuss its connection to the two-dimensional dilaton gravity.

id: 1403.4431
title: Recovery of ordered periodic orbits with increasing wavelength for sound propagation in a range-dependent waveguide
authors: L.E. Kon'kov, D.V. Makarov, E.V. Sosedko, M.Yu. Uleysky
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E, Vol. 76, 056212 (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4431
abstract: We consider sound wave propagation in a range-periodic acoustic waveguide in the deep ocean. It is demonstrated that vertical oscillations of a sound-speed perturbation, induced by ocean internal waves, influence near-axial rays in a resonant way, producing ray chaos and forming a wide chaotic sea in the underlying phase space. We study interplay between chaotic ray dynamics and wave motion with signal frequencies of 50-100 Hz. The Floquet modes of the waveguide are calculated and visualized by means of the Husimi plots. Despite of irregular phase space distribution of periodic orbits, the Husimi plots display the presence of ordered peaks within the chaotic sea. These peaks, not being supported by certain periodic orbits, draw the specific "chainlike" pattern, reminiscent of KAM resonance. The link between the peaks and KAM resonance is confirmed by ray calculations with lower amplitude of the sound-speed perturbation, when the periodic orbits are well-ordered. We associate occurrence of the peaks with the recovery of ordered periodic orbits, corresponding to KAM resonance, due to suppressing of wavefield sensitivity to small-scale features of the sound-speed profile.

id: 1403.4538
title: Cumulants of time-integrated observables of closed quantum systems and PT-symmetry, with an application to the quantum Ising chain
authors: James M. Hickey, Emanuele Levi, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 094301 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4538
abstract: We study the connection between the cumulants of a time-integrated observable of a quantum system and the PT-symmetry properties of the non-Hermitian deformation of the Hamiltonian from which the generating function of these cumulants is obtained. This non-Hermitian Hamiltonian can display regimes of broken and of unbroken PT-symmetry, depending on the parameters of the problem and on the counting field that sets the strength of the non-Hermitian perturbation. This in turn determines the analytic structure of the long-time cumulant generating function (CGF) for the time-integrated observable. We consider in particular the case of the time-integrated (longitudinal) magnetisation in the one-dimensional Ising model in a transverse field. We show that its long-time CGF is singular on a curve in the magnetic field/counting field plane that delimits a regime where PT-symmetry is spontaneously broken (which includes the static ferromagnetic phase), from one where it is preserved (which includes the static paramagnetic phase). In the paramagnetic phase, conservation of PT -symmetry implies that all cumulants are sub-linear in time, a behaviour usually associated to the absence of decorrelation.

id: 1403.4570
title: Dynamical quantum phase transitions in systems with broken-symmetry phases
authors: Markus Heyl
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 205701 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4570
abstract: In this work it is shown that dynamical quantum phase transitions in Loschmidt echos control the nonequilibrium dynamics of the order parameter after particular quantum quenches in systems with broken-symmetry phases. A direct connection between Loschmidt echos and the order parameter dynamics is established which links nonequilibrium microscopic probabilities to the system's macroscopic dynamical properties. These concepts are illustrated numerically using exact diagonalization for quantum quenches in the XXZ chain with initial N\'eel states. An outlook is given how to explore these predictions experimentally with ultra-cold gases in optical lattices.

id: 1403.4849
title: Fermion production from real-time lattice gauge theory in the classical-statistical regime
authors: Valentin Kasper, Florian Hebenstreit, J¨¹rgen Berges
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, Revised version: minor corrections, PRD Version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 025016 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4849
abstract: We investigate the real-time dynamics of U(1) and SU(N) gauge theories coupled to fermions on a lattice. While real-time lattice gauge theory is not amenable to standard importance sampling techniques, for a large class of time-dependent problems the quantum dynamics can be accurately mapped onto a classical-statistical ensemble. We illustrate the genuine quantum contributions included in this description by giving a diagrammatic representation in a series expansion. The non-perturbative simulation method is then applied to electron-positron production in quantum electrodynamics in three spatial dimensions. We compare to analytic results for constant background field and demonstrate the importance of back-reaction of the produced fermion pairs on the gauge fields.

id: 1403.4886
title: Cold Black Holes in the Harlow-Hayden Approach to Firewalls
authors: Yen Chin Ong, Brett McInnes, Pisin Chen
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, fixed some typos and slow loading of Fig.3; version accepted by Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nuclear Physics B 891 (2015), pp. 627-654
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4886
abstract: Firewalls are controversial principally because they seem to imply departures from general relativistic expectations in regions of spacetime where the curvature need not be particularly large. One of the virtues of the Harlow-Hayden approach to the firewall paradox, concerning the time available for decoding of Hawking radiation emanating from charged AdS black holes, is precisely that it operates in the context of cold black holes, which are not strongly curved outside the event horizon. Here we clarify this point. The approach is based on ideas borrowed from applications of the AdS/CFT correspondence to the quark-gluon plasma. Firewalls aside, our work presents a detailed analysis of the thermodynamics and evolution of evaporating charged AdS black holes with flat event horizons. We show that, in one way or another, these black holes are always eventually destroyed in a time which, while long by normal standards, is short relative to the decoding time of Hawking radiation.

id: 1403.4889
title: Increasing the ¦Í = 5 / 2 gap energy: an analysis of MBE growth parameters
authors: Christian Reichl, Jun Chen, Stephan Baer, Clemens R?ssler, Thomas Ihn, Klaus Ensslin, Werner Dietsche, Werner Wegscheider
comments: 
journal: N. J. Phys. 16, 023014 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.4889
abstract: The fractional quantized Hall state (FQHS) at the filling factor {\nu} = 5/2 is of special interest due to its possible application for quantum computing. Here we report on the optimization of growth parameters that allowed us to produce two-dimensional electron gases (2DEGs) with a 5/2 gap energy up to 135 mK. We concentrated on optimizing the MBE growth to provide high 5/2 gap energies in "as-grown" samples, without the need to enhance the 2DEGs properties by illumination or gating techniques. Our findings allow us to analyse the impact of doping in narrow quantum wells with respect to conventional DX-doping in AlxGa1-xAs. The impact of the setback distance between doping layer and 2DEG was investigated as well. Additionally, we found a considerable increase in gap energy by reducing the amount of background impurities. To this end growth techniques like temperature reductions for substrate and effusion cells and the reduction of the Al mole fraction in the 2DEG region were applied.

id: 1403.5066
title: Higher Dimensional Quantum Hall Effect as A-Class Topological Insulator
authors: Kazuki Hasebe
comments: 1+56 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables, published version
journal: Nucl.Phys. B 886 (2014) 952-1002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5066
abstract: We perform a detail study of higher dimensional quantum Hall effects and A-class topological insulators with emphasis on their relations to non-commutative geometry. There are two different formulations of non-commutative geometry for higher dimensional fuzzy spheres; the ordinary commutator formulation and quantum Nambu bracket formulation. Corresponding to these formulations, we introduce two kinds of monopole gauge fields; non-abelian gauge field and antisymmetric tensor gauge field, which respectively realize the non-commutative geometry of fuzzy sphere in the lowest Landau level. We establish connection between the two types of monopole gauge fields through Chern-Simons term, and derive explicit form of tensor monopole gauge fields with higher string-like singularity. The connection between two types of monopole is applied to generalize the concept of flux attachment in quantum Hall effect to A-class topological insulator. We propose tensor type Chern-Simons theory as the effective field theory for membranes in A-class topological insulators. Membranes turn out to be fractionally charged objects and the phase entanglement mediated by tensor gauge field transforms the membrane statistics to be anyonic. The index theorem supports the dimensional hierarchy of A-class topological insulator. Analogies to D-brane physics of string theory are discussed too.

id: 1403.5238
title: Progress towards quantum simulating the classical O(2) model
authors: Haiyuan Zou, Yuzhi Liu, Chen-Yen Lai, J. Unmuth-Yockey, Li-Ping Yang, A. Bazavov, Z. Y. Xie, T. Xiang, S. Chandrasekharan, S.-W. Tsai, Y. Meurice
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, uses revtex, new material and one author added, as to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063603 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5238
abstract: We connect explicitly the classical $O(2)$ model in 1+1 dimensions, a model sharing important features with $U(1)$ lattice gauge theory, to physical models potentially implementable on optical lattices and evolving at physical time. Using the tensor renormalization group formulation, we take the time continuum limit and check that finite dimensional projections used in recent proposals for quantum simulators provide controllable approximations of the original model. We propose two-species Bose-Hubbard models corresponding to these finite dimensional projections at strong coupling and discuss their possible implementations on optical lattices using a $^{87}$Rb and $^{41}$K Bose-Bose mixture.

id: 1403.5256
title: Bosonic Anomalies, Induced Fractional Quantum Numbers and Degenerate Zero Modes: the anomalous edge physics of Symmetry-Protected Topological States
authors: Juven Wang, Luiz H. Santos, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 29 pages, 12 Figures. v3 clarification to be accessible for both HEP and CMT. Thanks to Roman Jackiw for introducing new Refs
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5256
abstract: The boundary of symmetry-protected topological states (SPTs) can harbor new quantum anomaly phenomena. In this work, we characterize the bosonic anomalies introduced by the 1+1D non-onsite-symmetric gapless edge modes of 2+1D bulk bosonic SPTs with a generic finite Abelian group symmetry (isomorphic to $G=\prod_i Z_{N_i}=Z_{N_1} \times Z_{N_2} \times Z_{N_3} \times ...$). We demonstrate that some classes of SPTs (termed "Type II") trap fractional quantum numbers (such as fractional $Z_N$ charges) at the 0D kink of the symmetry-breaking domain walls; while some classes of SPTs (termed "Type III") have degenerate zero energy modes (carrying the projective representation protected by the unbroken part of the symmetry), either near the 0D kink of a symmetry-breaking domain wall, or on a symmetry-preserving 1D system dimensionally reduced from a thin 2D tube with a monodromy defect 1D line embedded. More generally, the energy spectrum and conformal dimensions of gapless edge modes under an external gauge flux insertion (or twisted by a branch cut, i.e., a monodromy defect line) through the 1D ring can distinguish many SPT classes. We provide a manifest correspondence from the physical phenomena, the induced fractional quantum number and the zero energy mode degeneracy, to the mathematical concept of cocycles that appears in the group cohomology classification of SPTs, thus achieving a concrete physical materialization of the cocycles. The aforementioned edge properties are formulated in terms of a long wavelength continuum field theory involving scalar chiral bosons, as well as in terms of Matrix Product Operators and discrete quantum lattice models. Our lattice approach yields a regularization with anomalous non-onsite symmetry for the field theory description. We also formulate some bosonic anomalies in terms of the Goldstone-Wilczek formula.

id: 1403.5342
title: Does quantum entanglement in DNA synchronize the catalytic centers of type II restriction endonucleases?
authors: P. Kurian, G. Dunston, J. Lindesay
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5342
abstract: Several living systems have been examined for their apparent optimization of structure and function for quantum behavior at biological length scales. Orthodox type II endonucleases, the largest class of restriction enzymes, recognize four-to-eight base pair sequences of palindromic DNA, cut both strands symmetrically, and act without an external metabolite such as ATP. While it is known that these enzymes induce strand breaks by attacking phosphodiester bonds, what remains unclear is the mechanism by which cutting occurs in concert at the catalytic centers. Previous studies indicate the primacy of intimate DNA contacts made by the specifically bound enzyme in coordinating the two synchronized cuts. We propose that collective electronic behavior in the DNA helix generates coherent oscillations, quantized through boundary conditions imposed by the endonuclease, that provide the energy required to break two phosphodiester bonds. Such quanta may be preserved in the presence of thermal noise and electromagnetic interference through decoherence shielding, the specific complex's exclusion of water and ions surrounding the helix. Clamping energy imparted by the enzyme decoherence shield is comparable with zero-point modes of the dipole-dipole oscillations in the DNA recognition sequence. The palindromic mirror symmetry of this sequence should conserve parity during the process. Experimental data corroborate that symmetric bond-breaking ceases when the symmetry of the endonuclease complex is violated, or when environmental parameters are perturbed far from biological optima. Persistent correlation between states in DNA sequence across spatial separations of any length--a characteristic signature of quantum entanglement--may be explained by such a physical mechanism.

id: 1403.5363
title: Non-canonical statistics of finite quantum system
authors: D. Z. Xu, Sheng-Wen Li, X. F. Liu, C. P. Sun
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062125 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5363
abstract: The canonical statistics describes the statistical properties of an open system by assuming its coupling with the heat bath infinitesimal in comparison with the total energy in thermodynamic limit. In this paper, we generally derive a non-canonical distribution for the open system with a finite coupling to the heat bath, which deforms the energy shell to effectively modify the conventional canonical way. The obtained non-canonical distribution reflects the back action of system on the bath, and thus depicts the statistical correlations through energy fluctuations.

id: 1403.5395
title: Entanglement, Tensor Networks and Black Hole Horizons
authors: Javier Molina-Vilaplana, Javier Prior
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, JHEP style, Comments are wellcome
journal: Gen.Relativ.Gravit(2014)46:1823
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5395
abstract: We elaborate on a previous proposal by Hartman and Maldacena on a tensor network which accounts for the scaling of the entanglement entropy in a system at a finite temperature. In this construction, the ordinary entanglement renormalization flow given by the class of tensor networks known as the Multi Scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA), is supplemented by an additional entanglement structure at the length scale fixed by the temperature. The network comprises two copies of a MERA circuit with a fixed number of layers and a pure matrix product state which joins both copies by entangling the infrared degrees of freedom of both MERA networks. The entanglement distribution within this bridge state defines reduced density operators on both sides which cause analogous effects to the presence of a black hole horizon when computing the entanglement entropy at finite temperature in the AdS/CFT correspondence. The entanglement and correlations during the thermalization process of a system after a quantum quench are also analyzed. To this end, a full tensor network representation of the action of local unitary operations on the bridge state is proposed. This amounts to a tensor network which grows in size by adding succesive layers of bridge states. Finally, we discuss on the holographic interpretation of the tensor network through a notion of distance within the network which emerges from its entanglement distribution.

id: 1403.5455
title: Quantum phase transitions in exactly solvable one-dimensional compass models
authors: Wen-Long You, Peter Horsch, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Physical Review B 89, 104425 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5455
abstract: We present an exact solution for a class of one-dimensional compass models which stand for interacting orbital degrees of freedom in a Mott insulator. By employing the Jordan-Wigner transformation we map these models on noninteracting fermions and discuss how spin correlations, high degeneracy of the ground state, and $Z_2$ symmetry in the quantum compass model are visible in the fermionic language. Considering a zigzag chain of ions with singly occupied $e_g$ orbitals ($e_g$ orbital model) we demonstrate that the orbital excitations change qualitatively with increasing transverse field, and that the excitation gap closes at the quantum phase transition to a polarized state. This phase transition disappears in the quantum compass model with maximally frustrated orbital interactions which resembles the Kitaev model. Here we find that finite transverse field destabilizes the orbital-liquid ground state with macroscopic degeneracy, and leads to peculiar behavior of the specific heat and orbital susceptibility at finite temperature. We show that the entropy and the cooling rate at finite temperature exhibit quite different behavior near the critical point for these two models.

id: 1403.5550
title: Controlling ultracold chemical reactions via Rydberg-dressed interactions
authors: Jia Wang, Jason N. Byrd, Ion Simbotin, R. C?t¨¦
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 025302 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5550
abstract: We show that ultracold chemical reactions can be manipulated and controlled by using Rydberg-dressed interactions. Scattering in the ultracold regime is sensitive to long-range interactions, especially when weakly bound (or quasi-bound) states exist near the collision threshold. We investigate how, by Rydberg-dressing a reactant, one enhances its polarizability and modifies the long-range van der Waals collision complex, which can alter chemical reaction rates by shifting the position of near threshold bound states. We carry out a full quantum mechanical scattering calculation for the benchmark system H$_2$+D, and show that resonances can be moved substantially and that rate coefficients at cold and ultracold temperatures can be increased by several orders of magnitude.

id: 1403.5593
title: Equilibrium to nonequilibrium condensation in driven-dissipative semiconductor systems
authors: Makoto Yamaguchi, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures; prepared for the Springer Lecture Notes in Physics "Quantum Computing, Quantum Communication and Quantum Metrology" edited by Yoshihisa Yamamoto and Kouichi Semba. Several typing errors are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5593
abstract: Semiconductor microcavity systems strongly coupled to quantum wells are now receiving a great deal of attention because of their ability to efficiently generate coherent light by the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of an exciton-polariton gas. Since the exciton polaritons are composite quasi-bosonic particles, many fundamental features arise from their original constituents, i.e., electrons, holes and photons. As a result, not only equilibrium phases typified by the BEC but also nonequilibrium lasing phases can be achieved. In this contribution, we describe a framework which can treat such equilibrium and nonequilibrium phases in a unified way.

id: 1403.5616
title: Quantum-noise limited communication with low probability of detection
authors: Boulat A. Bash, Saikat Guha, Dennis Goeckel, Don Towsley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5616
abstract: We demonstrate the achievability of a square root limit on the amount of information transmitted reliably and with low probability of detection (LPD) over the single-mode lossy bosonic channel if either the eavesdropper's measurements or the channel itself is subject to the slightest amount of excess noise. Specifically, Alice can transmit $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{n})$ bits to Bob over $n$ channel uses such that Bob's average codeword error probability is upper-bounded by an arbitrarily small $\delta>0$ while a passive eavesdropper, Warden Willie, who is assumed to be able to collect all the transmitted photons that do not reach Bob, has an average probability of detection error that is lower-bounded by $1/2-\epsilon$ for an arbitrarily small $\epsilon>0$. We analyze the thermal noise and pure loss channels. The square root law holds for the thermal noise channel even if Willie employs a quantum-optimal measurement, while Bob is equipped with a standard coherent detection receiver. We also show that LPD communication is not possible on the pure loss channel. However, this result assumes Willie to possess an ideal receiver that is not subject to excess noise. If Willie is restricted to a practical receiver with a non-zero dark current, the square root law is achievable on the pure loss channel.

id: 1403.5660
title: Cooperative robustness to dephasing: single-exciton Superradiance in a nanoscale ring to model natural light-harvesting systems
authors: G. L. Celardo, P. Poli, L. Lussardi, F. Borgonovi
comments: 9 pages, 6 Figures, quantum transport, entanglement and quantum coherence, accepted for publication in PRB
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5660
abstract: We analyze a 1-d ring structure composed of many two-levels systems, in the limit where only one excitation is present. The two-levels systems are coupled to a common environment, where the excitation can be lost, which induces super and subradiant behavior. Moreover, each two-levels system is coupled to another independent environment, modeled by a classical white noise, simulating a dephasing bath and described by the Haken-Strobl master equation. Single exciton Superradiance, an example of cooperative quantum coherent effect, is destroyed at a critical dephasing strength proportional to the system size, showing robustness of cooperativity to the action of the dephasing environment. We also show that the coupling to a common decay channel contrasts the action of dephasing, driving the entanglement decay to slow down on increasing the system size. Moreover, after a projective measurement which finds the excitation in the system, the entanglement reaches a stationary value, independent of the initial conditions.

id: 1403.5666
title: Quantum Humeanism,or: physicalism without properties
authors: Michael Esfeld
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5666
abstract: In recent literature, it has become clear that quantum physics does not refute Humeanism. This point has so far been made with respect to Bohms quantum theory. Against this background, this paper seeks to achieve the following four results: to generalize the option of quantum Humeanism from Bohmian mechanics to primitive ontology theories in general, to show that this option applies also to classical mechanics, to establish that it requires a commitment to matter as primitive stuff, but no commitment to natural properties (physicalism without properties, to point out that by removing the commitment to properties, the stock metaphysical objections against Humeanism from quidditism and humility no longer apply. In that way, quantum physics strengthens Humeanism instead of refuting it.

id: 1403.5668
title: Solving fractional Schroedinger-type spectral problems: Cauchy oscillator and Cauchy well
authors: Mariusz Zaba, Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures, 7 tables
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55 (9), 092103, (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5668
abstract: This paper is a direct offspring of Ref. [J. Math. Phys. 54, 072103, (2013)] where basic tenets of the nonlocally induced random and quantum dynamics were analyzed. A number of mentions was maid with respect to various inconsistencies and faulty statements omnipresent in the literature devoted to so-called fractional quantum mechanics spectral problems. Presently, we give a decisive computer-assisted proof, for an exemplary finite and ultimately infinite Cauchy well problem, that spectral solutions proposed so far were plainly wrong. As a constructive input, we provide an explicit spectral solution of the finite Cauchy well. The infinite well emerges as a limiting case in a sequence of deepening finite wells. The employed numerical methodology (algorithm based on the Strang splitting method) has been tested for an exemplary Cauchy oscillator problem, whose analytic solution is available. An impact of the inherent spatial nonlocality of motion generators upon computer-assisted outcomes (potentially defective, in view of various cutoffs), i.e. detailed eigenvalues and shapes of eigenfunctions, has been analyzed.

id: 1403.5695
title: Addendum to Computational Complexity and Black Hole Horizons
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5695
abstract: In this addendum to [arXiv:1402.5674] two points are discussed. In the first additional evidence is provided for a dual connection between the geometric length of an Einstein-Rosen bridge and the computational complexity of the quantum state of the dual CFT's. The relation between growth of complexity and Page's ``Extreme Cosmic Censorship" principle is also remarked on. The second point involves a gedanken experiment in which Alice measures a complete set of commuting observables at her end of an Einstein-Rosen bridge is discussed. An apparent paradox is resolved by appealing to the properties of GHZ tripartite entanglement.

id: 1403.5778
title: New constraints on the Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity at short separations
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures; contribution to the issue of "Gravitation and Cosmology" dedicated to Prof. Andrei Grib's 75th birthday
journal: Grav. Cosm. v.20, N1, pp.3-9 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5778
abstract: We discuss the strongest constraints on the Yukawa-type corrections to Newton's gravitational law within a submicrometer interaction range following from measurements of the Casimir force. In this connection the complicated problems arising when comparing the measurement data with the Lifshitz theory are analyzed. Special attention is paid to the results of two recent experiments on measuring the Casimir interaction between ferromagnetic surfaces and sinusoidally corrugated surfaces at various angles between corrugations.

id: 1403.5783
title: Heavy quark master equations in the Lindblad form at high temperatures
authors: Yukinao Akamatsu
comments: 17 pages, no figure; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 056002 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5783
abstract: We derive the quantum master equations for heavy quark systems in a high-temperature quark- gluon plasma in the Lindblad form. The master equations are derived in the influence functional formalism for open quantum systems in perturbation theory. These master equations have a wide range of applications, such as decoherence of a heavy quarkonium and Langevin dynamics of a heavy quark in the quark-gluon plasma. We also show the equivalence between the quarkonium master equations in the recoilless limit and the Schroedinger equations with stochastic potential.

id: 1403.5798
title: Spectral asymptotics for $¦Ä'$ interaction supported by a infinite curve
authors: Michal Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5798
abstract: We consider a generalized Schr\"odinger operator in $L^2(\mathbb R^2)$ describing an attractive $\delta'$ interaction in a strong coupling limit. $\delta'$ interaction is characterized by a coupling parameter $\beta$ and it is supported by a $C^4$-smooth infinite asymptotically straight curve $\Gamma$ without self-intersections. It is shown that in the strong coupling limit, $\beta\to 0_+$, the eigenvalues for a non-straight curve behave as $-\frac{4}{\beta^2} +\mu_j+\mathcal O(\beta|\ln\beta|)$, where $\mu_j$ is the $j$-th eigenvalue of the Schr\"odinger operator on $L^2(\mathbb R)$ with the potential $-\frac14 \gamma^2$ where $\gamma$ is the signed curvature of $\Gamma$.

id: 1403.5897
title: Measuring cotunneling in its wake
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Assaf Carmi, Alessandro Romito
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures, 1 appendix, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205413 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5897
abstract: We introduce a rate formalism to treat classically forbidden electron transport through a quantum dot (cotunneling) in the presence of a coupled measurement device. We demonstrate this formalism for a toy model case of cotunneling through a single-level dot while being coupled to a strongly pinched-off quantum point contact (QPC). We find that the detector generates three types of back-action: the measurement collapses the coherent transport through the virtual state, but at the same time allows for QPC-assisted incoherent transport, and widens the dot level. Last, we obtain the measured cotunneling time from the cross correlation between dot and QPC currents.

id: 1403.5910
title: Experimental quantum cosmology in time-dependent optical media
authors: N. Westerberg, S. Cacciatori, F. Belgiorno, F. Dalla Piazza, D. Faccio
comments: Version accepted fro publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5910
abstract: It is possible to construct artificial spacetime geometries for light by using intense laser pulses that modify the spatiotemporal properties of an optical medium. Here we theoretically investigate experimental possibilities for studying spacetime metrics of the form $\textrm{d}s^2=c^2\textrm{d}t^2-\eta(t)^2\textrm{d}x^2$. By tailoring the laser pulse shape and medium properties, it is possible to create a refractive index variation $n=n(t)$ that can be identified with $\eta(t)$. Starting from a perturbative solution to a generalised Hopfield model for the medium described by an $n=n(t)$ we provide estimates for the number of photons generated by the time-dependent spacetime. The simplest example is that of a uniformly varying $\eta(t)$ that therefore describes the Robertson-Walker metric, i.e. a cosmological expansion. The number of photon pairs generated in experimentally feasible conditions appears to be extremely small. However, large photon production can be obtained by periodically modulating the medium and thus resorting to a resonant enhancement similar to that observed in the dynamical Casimir effect. Curiously, the spacetime metric in this case closely resembles that of a gravitational wave. Motivated by this analogy we show that a periodic gravitational wave can indeed act as an amplifier for photons. The emission for an actual gravitational wave will be very weak but should be readily observable in the laboratory analogue.

id: 1403.5947
title: Schrodinger's Cat and the Firewall
authors: Timothy J. Hollowood
comments: 7 pages, improved references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5947
abstract: It has been argued that when black holes are treated as quantum systems there are implications at the horizon and not just the singularity. Infalling observers will meet a firewall of high energy quanta. We argue that the question of whether an observer falling into a black hole experiences a smooth horizon or a firewall is identical to the question of whether Schrodinger's cat is either in a definite state, alive or dead, or in a superposition of the two. Since experience with real macro-systems indicate the former, the black hole state vector is seen to describe a set of decoherent alternatives each with a smooth horizon and the entanglement puzzle is thereby side stepped.

id: 1403.5960
title: Nonextensive thermodynamic functions in the Schr?dinger-Gibbs ensemble
authors: J. L. Alonso, A. Castro, J. Clemente-Gallardo, J. C. Cuch¨ª, P. Echenique-Robba, J. G. Esteve, F. Falceto
comments: 32 pages, revtex 4.1 preprint style, 5 figures. Published version with several changes with respect to v2 in text and references
journal: Physical Review E 91 022137 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.5960
abstract: Schr\"odinger suggested that thermodynamical functions cannot be based on the gratuitous allegation that quantum-mechanical levels (typically the orthogonal eigenstates of the Hamiltonian operator) are the only allowed states for a quantum system [E. Schr\"odinger, Statistical Thermodynamics (Courier Dover, Mineola, 1967)]. Different authors have interpreted this statement by introducing density distributions on the space of quantum pure states with weights obtained as functions of the expectation value of the Hamiltonian of the system. In this work we focus on one of the best known of these distributions, and we prove that, when considered in composite quantum systems, it defines partition functions that do not factorize as products of partition functions of the noninteracting subsystems, even in the thermodynamical regime. This implies that it is not possible to define extensive thermodynamical magnitudes such as the free energy, the internal energy or the thermodynamic entropy by using these models. Therefore, we conclude that this distribution inspired by Schr\"odinger's idea can not be used to construct an appropriate quantum equilibrium thermodynamics.

id: 1403.6035
title: Remarks on the spin-one Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau equation in the presence of nonminimal vector interactions in (3+1) dimensions
authors: Luis B. Castro, Luiz P. de Oliveira
comments: 16 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0905.2389
journal: AdHEP 2014, Article ID 784072 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6035
abstract: We point out a misleading treatment in the recent literature regarding analytical solutions for nonminimal vector interaction for spin-one particles in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau (DKP) formalism. In those papers, the authors use improperly the nonminimal vector interaction endangering in their main conclusions. We present a few properties of the nonminimal vector interactions and also present the correct equations to this problem. We show that the solution can be easily found by solving Schr\"{o}dinger-like equations. As an application of this procedure, we consider spin-one particles in presence of a nonminimal vector linear potential.

id: 1403.6041
title: Quantum Mechanics with a Momentum-Space Artificial Magnetic Field
authors: Hannah M. Price, Tomoki Ozawa, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 190403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6041
abstract: The Berry curvature is a geometrical property of an energy band which acts as a momentum space magnetic field in the effective Hamiltonian describing single-particle quantum dynamics. We show how this perspective may be exploited to study systems directly relevant to ultracold gases and photonics. Given the exchanged roles of momentum and position, we demonstrate that the global topology of momentum space is crucially important. We propose an experiment to study the Harper-Hofstadter Hamiltonian with a harmonic trap that will illustrate the advantages of this approach and that will also constitute the first realization of magnetism on a torus.

id: 1403.6063
title: Photonic nano-structures on (111) oriented diamond
authors: Elke Neu, Patrick Appel, Marc Ganzhorn, Javier Miguel-Sanchez, Margarita Lesik, Vianney Mille, Vincent Jacques, Alexandre Tallaire, Jocelyn Achard, Patrick Maletinsky
comments: 4 pages original manuscript, 3 pages supplementary material
journal: Applied Physics Letters 104, 153108 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6063
abstract: We demonstrate the fabrication of single-crystalline diamond nanopillars on a (111)-oriented chemical vapor deposited diamond substrate. This crystal orientation offers optimal coupling of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center emission to the nanopillar mode and is thus advantageous over previous approaches. We characterize single native NV centers in these nanopillars and find one of the highest reported saturated fluorescence count rates in single crystalline diamond in excess of 10${}^6$ counts per second. We show that our nano-fabrication procedure conserves the preferential alignment as well as the spin coherence of the NVs in our structures. Our results will enable a new generation of highly sensitive probes for NV magnetometry and pave the way toward photonic crystals with optimal orientation of the NV center's emission dipole.

id: 1403.6145
title: Nuclear Spin Dynamics in Double Quantum Dots: Multi-Stability, Dynamical Polarization, Criticality and Entanglement
authors: Martin J. A. Schuetz, Eric M. Kessler, Lieven M. K. Vandersypen, J. Ignacio Cirac, Geza Giedke
comments: 35 pages, 19 figures. This article provides the full analysis of a scheme proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 246802 (2013). v2: version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195310 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6145
abstract: We theoretically study the nuclear spin dynamics driven by electron transport and hyperfine interaction in an electrically-defined double quantum dot (DQD) in the Pauli-blockade regime. We derive a master-equation-based framework and show that the coupled electron-nuclear system displays an instability towards the buildup of large nuclear spin polarization gradients in the two quantum dots. In the presence of such inhomogeneous magnetic fields, a quantum interference effect in the collective hyperfine coupling results in sizable nuclear spin entanglement between the two quantum dots in the steady state of the evolution. We investigate this effect using analytical and numerical techniques, and demonstrate its robustness under various types of imperfections.

id: 1403.6157
title: Shannon and R¨¦nyi mutual information in quantum critical spin chains
authors: Jean-Marie St¨¦phan
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures. v2: minor corrections, table added, expanded appendices. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045424 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6157
abstract: We study the Shannon mutual information in one-dimensional critical spin chains, following a recent conjecture (Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 017201 (2013)), as well as R\'enyi generalizations of it. We combine conformal field theory arguments with numerical computations in lattice discretizations with central charge $c=1$ and $c=1/2$. For a periodic system of length $L$ cut into two parts of length $\ell$ and $L-\ell$, all our results agree with the general shape-dependence $I_n(\ell,L)=(b_n/4)\ln \left(\frac{L}{\pi}\sin \frac{\pi \ell}{L}\right)$, where $b_n$ is a universal coefficient. For the free boson CFT we show from general arguments that $b_n=c=1$. At $c=1/2$ we conjecture a result for $n>1$. We perform extensive numerical computations in Ising chains to confirm this, and also find $b_1\simeq 0.4801629(2)$, a nontrivial number which we do not understand analytically. Open chains at $c=1/2$ and $n=1$ are even more intriguing, with a shape-dependent logarithmic divergence of the Shannon mutual information.

id: 1403.6263
title: Second Quantized Scalar QED in Homogeneous Time-Dependent Electromagnetic Fields
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex 12 pages, no figure; replaced by the version to be published in Ann. Phys
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6263
abstract: We formulate the second quantization of a charged scalar field in homogeneous, time-dependent electromagnetic fields, in which the Hamiltonian is an infinite system of decoupled, time-dependent oscillators for electric fields, but it is another infinite system of coupled, time-dependent oscillators for magnetic fields. We then employ the quantum invariant method to find various quantum states for the charged field. For time-dependent electric fields, a pair of quantum invariant operators for each oscillator with the given momentum plays the role of the time-dependent annihilation and the creation operators, constructs the exact quantum states, and gives the vacuum persistence amplitude as well as the pair-production rate. We also find the quantum invariants for the coupled oscillators for the charged field in time-dependent magnetic fields and advance a perturbation method when the magnetic fields change adiabatically. Finally, the quantum state and the pair production are discussed when a time-dependent electric field is present in parallel to the magnetic field.

id: 1403.6279
title: Quantum(-like) decision making: on validity of the Aumann theorem
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Irina Basieva
comments: Presented at the conference QI2014, Filzbach, Switzerland, June 29-July 3, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6279
abstract: Through set-theoretic formalization of the notion of common knowledge, Aumann proved that if two agents have the common priors, and their posteriors for a given event are common knowledge, then their posteriors must be equal. In this paper we investigate the problem of validity of this theorem in the framework of quantum(-like) decision making.

id: 1403.6316
title: On the quantisation of gravity by embedding spacetime in a higher dimensional space
authors: Matej Pav?i?
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: Classical and Quantum Gravity 2 (1985) 869--889
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6316
abstract: Certain difficulties of quantum gravity can be avoided if we embed the spacetime $V_4$ into a higher dimensional space $V_N$; then our spacetime is merely a 4-surface in $V_N$.What remains is conceptually not so difficult: just to quantise this 4-surface. Our formal procedure generalises our version of Stueckelberg's proper time method of worldline quantisation. We write the equations of $V_4$ in the covariant canonical form starting from a model Lagrangian which contains the classical Einstein gravity as a particular case. Then we perform quantisation in the Schr\"odinger picture by using the concepts of a phase functional and wave functional. As a result we obtain the uncertainty relations which imply that an observer is `aware' either of a particular spacetime surface and has no information about other spacetime surfaces (which represent alternative histories); or conversely, he loses information about a particular $V_4$ whilst he obtains some information about other spacetimes (and histories). Equivalently, one cannot measure to an arbitrary precision both the metric on $V_4$ and matter distribution on various alternative spacetime surfaces. We show how this special case in the `coordinate' representations can be generalised to an arbitrary vector in an abstract Hilbert space.

id: 1403.6419
title: Quantum entanglement as an aspect of pure spinor geometry
authors: Vasilis Kiosses
comments: 22 pages LaTeX. Accepted by J. of Phys. A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0102049, arXiv:quant-ph/0108137, arXiv:1102.2544 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6419
abstract: Relying on the mathematical analogy of the pure states of a two-qubit system with four-component Dirac spinors, we provide an alternative consideration of quantum entanglement using the mathematical formulation of Cartan's pure spinors. A result of our analysis is that the Cartan equation of two qubits state is entanglement sensitive in a way that the Dirac equation for fermions is mass sensitive. The Cartan equation for unentangled qubits is reduced to a pair of Cartan equations for single qubits as the Dirac equation for massless fermions separates into two Weyl equations. Finally, we establish a correspondance between the separability condition in qubit geometry and the separability condition in spinor geometry.

id: 1403.6423
title: A superconducting-nanowire 3-terminal electronic device
authors: Adam N. McCaughan, Karl K. Berggren
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6423
abstract: In existing superconducting electronic systems, Josephson junctions play a central role in processing and transmitting small-amplitude electrical signals. However, Josephson-junction-based devices have a number of limitations including: (1) sensitivity to magnetic fields, (2) limited gain, (3) inability to drive large impedances, and (4) difficulty in controlling the junction critical current (which depends sensitively on sub-Angstrom-scale thickness variation of the tunneling barrier). Here we present a nanowire-based superconducting electronic device, which we call the nanocryotron (nTron), that does not rely on Josephson junctions and can be patterned from a single thin film of superconducting material with conventional electron-beam lithography. The nTron is a 3-terminal, T-shaped planar device with a gain of ~20 that is capable of driving impedances of more than 100 k{\Omega}, and operates in typical ambient magnetic fields at temperatures of 4.2K. The device uses a localized, Joule-heated hotspot formed in the gate to modulate current flow in a perpendicular superconducting channel. We have characterized the nTron, matched it to a theoretical framework, and applied it both as a digital logic element in a half-adder circuit, and as a digital amplifier for superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors pulses. The nTron has immediate applications in classical and quantum communications, photon sensing and astronomy, and its performance characteristics make it compatible with existing superconducting technologies. Furthermore, because the hotspot effect occurs in all known superconductors, we expect the design to be extensible to other materials, providing a path to digital logic, switching, and amplification in high-temperature superconductors.

id: 1403.6446
title: Decay of the rotary echoes for the spin of a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond
authors: V. V. Mkhitaryan, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6446
abstract: We study dynamics of the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center subjected to a strong driving field with periodically reversed direction (train of rotary echoes). We use analytical and numerical tools to analyze in detail the form and timescales of decay of the rotary echo train, modeling the decohering spin environment as a random magnetic field. We demonstrate that the problem can be exactly mapped onto a model of spin 1 coupled to a single bosonic mode with imaginary frequency. This mapping allows comprehensive analytical investigation beyond the standard Bloch-Redfield-type approaches. We explore the decay of the rotary echo train under assumption of strong driving, and identify the most important regimes of the decay. The analytical results are compared with the direct numerical simulations to confirm quantitative accuracy of our study. We present the results for realistic environment of substitutional nitrogen atoms (P1 centers), and provide a simplified but accurate description for decay of the rotary echo train of the NV center's spin. The approach presented here can also be used to study decoherence and longitudinal relaxation of other spin systems under conditions of strong driving.

id: 1403.6447
title: Further perspective on the theory of heteronuclear decoupling
authors: Thomas E. Skinner
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 248 (2014) 146-152
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6447
abstract: An exact general theory of heteronuclear decoupling is presented for spin-1/2 IS systems. RF irradiation applied to the I spins decouples the S spins by reversing the sign of antiphase magnetization. A one-to-one correspondence is demonstrated between the sign of $2S_yI_z$ and the sense of the S-spin coupling evolution, with magnetization $S_x$ refocused when $\int 2S_yI_z\,dt = 0$. The exact instantaneous coupling at any time during the decoupling sequence is readily obtained in terms of the system states, showing that the creation of two-spin coherence is crucial for reducing the coupling, as required during the refocusing process. Representative examples from standard cyclic, periodic composite-pulse and adiabatic decoupling sequences illustrate the decoupling mechanism. More general aperiodic sequences, obtained using optimal control, realize the potential inherent in the theory for significantly improved decoupling. The recently derived equivalence between the dynamics of any N-level quantum system and a system of classical coupled harmonic oscillators provides additional insight into the mechanics of decoupling.

id: 1403.6457
title: Purity is not eternal at the Planck scale
authors: Michele Arzano
comments: 6 pages, no figures. v2 minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024016 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6457
abstract: Theories with Planck-scale deformed symmetries exhibit quantum time evolution in which purity of the density matrix is not preserved. In particular we show that the non-trivial structure of momentum space of these models is reflected in a deformed action of translation generators on operators. Such action in the case of time translation generators leads to a Lindblad-like evolution equation for density matrices when expanded at leading order in the Planckian deformation parameter. This evolution equation is covariant under the deformed realization of Lorentz symmetries characterizing these models.

id: 1403.6481
title: Relaxation and Thermalization of Isolated Many-Body Quantum Systems
authors: E. J. Torres-Herrera, Davida Kollmar, Lea F. Santos
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to the FQMT13 special volume of the Physica Scripta. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1402.7084
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6481
abstract: We provide an overview of our numerical and analytical studies of isolated interacting quantum systems that are taken out of equilibrium instantaneously (quenched). We describe the relaxation process to a new equilibrium and obtain lower bounds for the relaxation time of full random matrices and realistic systems with two-body interactions. We show that the size of the time fluctuations after relaxation decays exponentially with system size for systems without too many degeneracies. We also discuss the conditions for thermalization and demonstrate that it can happen after local and global quenches in space. The analyses are developed for systems, initial states, and few-body observables accessible to experiments with optical lattices.

id: 1403.6483
title: Dissipation enhanced vibrational sensing in an olfactory molecular switch
authors: Agata Checinska, Felix A. Pollock, Libby Heaney, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, close to published version, comments welcome
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 142, 025102 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6483
abstract: Motivated by a proposed olfactory mechanism based on a vibrationally-activated molecular switch, we study electron transport within a donor-acceptor pair that is coupled to a vibrational mode and embedded in a surrounding environment. We derive a polaron master equation with which we study the dynamics of both the electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom beyond previously employed semiclassical (Marcus-Jortner) rate analyses. We show: (i) that in the absence of explicit dissipation of the vibrational mode, the semiclassical approach is generally unable to capture the dynamics predicted by our master equation due to both its assumption of one-way (exponential) electron transfer from donor to acceptor and its neglect of the spectral details of the environment; (ii) that by additionally allowing strong dissipation to act on the odorant vibrational mode we can recover exponential electron transfer, though typically at a rate that differs from that given by the Marcus-Jortner expression; (iii) that the ability of the molecular switch to discriminate between the presence and absence of the odorant, and its sensitivity to the odorant vibrational frequency, are enhanced significantly in this strong dissipation regime, when compared to the case without mode dissipation; and (iv) that details of the environment absent from previous Marcus-Jortner analyses can also dramatically alter the sensitivity of the molecular switch, in particular allowing its frequency resolution to be improved. Our results thus demonstrate the constructive role dissipation can play in facilitating sensitive and selective operation in molecular switch devices, as well as the inadequacy of semiclassical rate equations in analysing such behaviour over a wide range of parameters.

id: 1403.6486
title: Dissipative and Dispersive Optomechanics in a Nanocavity Torque Sensor
authors: Marcelo Wu, Aaron C. Hryciw, Chris Healey, David P. Lake, Harishankar Jayakumar, Mark R. Freeman, John P. Davis, Paul E. Barclay
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4 , 021052 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6486
abstract: Dissipative and dispersive optomechanical couplings are experimentally observed in a photonic crystal split-beam nanocavity optimized for detecting nanoscale sources of torque. Dissipative coupling of up to approximately $500$ MHz/nm and dispersive coupling of $2$ GHz/nm enable measurements of sub-pg torsional and cantilever-like mechanical resonances with a thermally-limited torque detection sensitivity of 1.2$\times 10^{-20} \text{N} \, \text{m}/\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ in ambient conditions and 1.3$\times 10^{-21} \text{N} \, \text{m}/\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ in low vacuum. Interference between optomechanical coupling mechanisms is observed to enhance detection sensitivity and generate a mechanical-mode-dependent optomechanical wavelength response.

id: 1403.6514
title: Progress in Superconducting Metamaterials
authors: Philipp Jung, Alexey V. Ustinov, Steven M. Anlage
comments: 16 pages, 2 columns, 1 figure, 150 references
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 27, 073001 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6514
abstract: We review progress in the development and applications of superconducting metamaterials. The review is organized in terms of several distinct advantages and unique properties brought to the metamaterials field by superconductivity. These include the low-loss nature of the meta-atoms, their compact structure, their extraordinary degree of nonlinearity and tunability, magnetic flux quantization and the Josephson effect, quantum effects in which photons interact with quantized energy levels in the meta-atom, as well as strong diamagnetism.

id: 1403.6631
title: Engineering large-scale entanglement in the quantum optical frequency comb: influence of the quasiphasematching bandwidth and of dispersion
authors: Pei Wang, Wenjiang Fan, Olivier Pfister
comments: Much expanded version from the previous one: now including the effects of dispersion. 7 pages, 6 figures, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6631
abstract: One of the most scalable methods for continuous-variable quantum computing is to encode quantum information in the quantum optical frequency comb generated by an optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The scalability is limited by the quasiphasematching bandwidth and dispersion of the OPO. We study both factors in this article. The results show that 3200 qumodes are probably entangled in our recent demonstration of a record 60-qumode entanglement.

id: 1403.6674
title: Proposal for an ac spin current source
authors: Patrick P. Hofer, Hugo Aramberri, Christoph Schenke, Pierre A. L. Delplace
comments: 6 Pages, 4 Figures, published version
journal: EPL 107, 27003 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6674
abstract: We propose an ac current source that can be tuned from a pure charge to a pure spin current source. The device consists of two mesoscopic capacitors attached to a two-dimensional strip of a topological insulator. The change from charge to spin current is controlled by an offset in the top gate potentials that drive the capacitors. In addition to this setup, which anticipates the experimental realisation of quantum point contacts in topological insulators, we propose an analogous source in the quantum Hall regime which only relies on presently available building blocks. To this end, we calculate the band structure of a topological insulator in a magnetic field. The intrinsic spin-orbit coupling, together with a split gate, allows for an analogous source, where charge and spin current can be manipulated. The realisation of the device as well as the detection of the ac spin current are within reach of present experimental technology.

id: 1403.6714
title: Veldkamp-Space Aspects of a Sequence of Nested Binary Segre Varieties
authors: Metod Saniga, Hans Havlicek, Frederic Holweck, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures and 7 tables
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6714
abstract: Let $S_{(N)} \equiv PG(1,\,2) \times PG(1,\,2) \times \cdots \times PG(1,\,2)$ be a Segre variety that is $N$-fold direct product of projective lines of size three. Given two geometric hyperplanes $H'$ and $H''$ of $S_{(N)}$, let us call the triple $\{H', H'', \overline{H' \Delta H''}\}$ the Veldkamp line of $S_{(N)}$. We shall demonstrate, for the sequence $2 \leq N \leq 4$, that the properties of geometric hyperplanes of $S_{(N)}$ are fully encoded in the properties of Veldkamp {\it lines} of $S_{(N-1)}$. Using this property, a complete classification of all types of geometric hyperplanes of $S_{(4)}$ is provided. Employing the fact that, for $2 \leq N \leq 4$, the (ordinary part of) Veldkamp space of $S_{(N)}$ is $PG(2^N-1,2)$, we shall further describe which types of geometric hyperplanes of $S_{(N)}$ lie on a certain hyperbolic quadric $\mathcal{Q}_0^+(2^N-1,2) \subset PG(2^N-1,2)$ that contains the $S_{(N)}$ and is invariant under its stabilizer group; in the $N=4$ case we shall also single out those of them that correspond, via the Lagrangian Grassmannian of type $LG(4,8)$, to the set of 2295 maximal subspaces of the symplectic polar space $\mathcal{W}(7,2)$.

id: 1403.6760
title: An optical analog of quantum optomechanics
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6760
abstract: We present a two-dimensional array of nearest-neighbor coupled waveguides that is the optical analog of a quantum optomechanical system. We show that the quantum model predicts the appearance of effective column isolation, diagonal-coupling and other non-trivial couplings in the two-dimensional photonic lattice under a standard approximation from ion-trap cavity electrodynamics. We provide an approximate impulse function for the case of effective column isolation and compare it with exact numerical propagation in the photonic lattice.

id: 1403.6780
title: Chern-Simons theory encoded on a spin chain
authors: David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, Miguel Tierz
comments: 5 pages, RevTex two-columns
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6780
abstract: We show how the observables of $U(N)$ Chern-Simons theory on $S^{3}$ can be reproduced with the thermal correlation functions of a 1d spin chain of the XX type, with a suitable extension characterized by exponentially decaying interactions between infinitely many neighbours. We show that for this model, the correlation functions of the spin chain at a finite temperature $\beta =1$ give the partition function, quantum dimensions and the $S$-matrix.

id: 1403.6808
title: Simulating weak localization using superconducting quantum circuits
authors: Yu Chen, P. Roushan, D. Sank, C. Neill, Erik Lucero, Matteo Mariantoni, R. Barends, B. Chiaro, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, J. Y. Mutus, P. J. J. O'Malley, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, Yi Yin, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 9 pages, including supplement
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5184 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6808
abstract: Understanding complex quantum matter presents a central challenge in condensed matter physics. The difficulty lies in the exponential scaling of the Hilbert space with the system size, making solutions intractable for both analytical and conventional numerical methods. As originally envisioned by Richard Feynman, this class of problems can be tackled using controllable quantum simulators. Despite many efforts, building an quantum emulator capable of solving generic quantum problems remains an outstanding challenge, as this involves controlling a large number of quantum elements. Here, employing a multi-element superconducting quantum circuit and manipulating a single microwave photon, we demonstrate that we can simulate the weak localization phenomenon observed in mesoscopic systems. By engineering the control sequence in our emulator circuit, we are also able to reproduce the well-known temperature dependence of weak localization. Furthermore, we can use our circuit to continuously tune the level of disorder, a parameter that is not readily accessible in mesoscopic systems. By demonstrating a high level of control and complexity, our experiment shows the potential for superconducting quantum circuits to realize scalable quantum simulators.

id: 1403.6816
title: Long-lived quasi-stationary coherences in V-type system driven by incoherent light
authors: Timur V. Tscherbul, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6816
abstract: We present a theoretical study of noise-induced quantum coherences in a model three-level V-type system interacting with incoherent radiation, an important prototype for a wide range of physical systems ranging from trapped ions to biomolecules and quantum dots. By solving the quantum optical equations of motion for the V-type system, we obtain analytical expressions for the noise-induced coherences and show that they exhibit an oscillating behavior in the limit of large excited level spacing $\Delta$ ($\Delta /\gamma \gg 1$, where $\gamma$ is the radiative decay rate). Most remarkably, we find that in the opposite limit of small level spacing $\Delta/\gamma \ll 1$, appropriate for large molecules, (a) the coherences can survive for an arbitrarily long time $\tau=(2/\gamma) (\Delta/\gamma)^{-2}$ before eventually decaying to zero, and (b) coherences at short times can be substantial. We further show that the long-lived coherences can be robust against environmental relaxation and decoherence, and discuss implications to the design of quantum heat engines and incoherent light excitation of biological systems.

id: 1403.6842
title: Quantum Noise Correlation Experiments with Ultracold Atoms
authors: Simon F?lling
comments: 26 pages, 14 figures - To appear as Chapter 8 in "Quantum gas experiments - exploring many-body states," P. T\"orm\"a, K. Sengstock, eds. (Imperial College Press, to be published 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6842
abstract: Noise correlation analysis is a detection tool for spatial structures and spatial correlations in the in-trap density distribution of ultracold atoms. In this book chapter, we discuss the implementation, properties and limitations of the method applied to ensembles of ultracold atoms in optical lattices, and describe some instances where it has been applied.

id: 1403.6883
title: Compressed Wannier modes found from an $L_1$ regularized energy functional
authors: Farzin Barekat, Ke Yin, Russel E. Caflisch, Stanley J. Osher, Rongjie Lai, Vidvuds Ozolins
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6883
abstract: We propose a method for calculating Wannier functions of periodic solids directly from a modified variational principle for the energy, subject to the requirement that the Wannier functions are orthogonal to all their translations ("shift-orthogonality"). Localization is achieved by adding an $L_1$ regularization term to the energy functional. This approach results in "compressed" Wannier modes with compact support, where one parameter $\mu$ controls the trade-off between the accuracy of the total energy and the size of the support of the Wannier modes. Efficient algorithms for shift-orthogonalization and solution of the variational minimization problem are demonstrated.

id: 1403.6936
title: Pseudospin and Spin Symmetric Solutions of Dirac Equation: Hellmann Potential, Wei Hua Potential, Varshni Potential
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1211.6846
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 69a, 163 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.6936
abstract: Approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation are obtained for the Hellmann potential, Wei Hua potential and Varshni potential with any $\kappa$-value for the cases having the Dirac equation pseudospin and spin symmetries. Closed forms of the energy eigenvalue equations and the spinor wave functions are obtained by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method and some tables are given to see the dependence of the energy eigenvalues on different quantum number pairs ($n, \kappa$).

id: 1403.7062
title: Some inequalities for quantum Tsallis entropy related to the strong subadditivity
authors: D¨¦nes Petz, D¨¢niel Virosztek
comments: v2: the introductory part reorganized v3: the published version
journal: Math. Inequal. Appl. 18(2) (2015), 555-568
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7062
abstract: In this paper we investigate the inequality $S_q(\rho_{123})+S_q(\rho_2)\leq S_q(\rho_{12})+S_q(\rho_{23}) \, (*)$ where $\rho_{123}$ is a state on a finite dimensional Hilbert space $\mathcal{H}_1\otimes \mathcal{H}_2\otimes \mathcal{H}_3,$ and $S_q$ is the Tsallis entropy. It is well-known that the strong subadditivity of the von Neumnann entropy can be derived from the monotonicity of the Umegaki relative entropy. Now, we present an equivalent form of $(*)$, which is an inequality of relative quasi-entropies. We derive an inequality of the form $S_q(\rho_{123})+S_q(\rho_2)\leq S_q(\rho_{12})+S_q(\rho_{23})+f_q(\rho_{123})$, where $f_1(\rho_{123})=0$. Such a result can be considered as a generalization of the strong subadditivity of the von Neumnann entropy. One can see that $(*)$ does not hold in general (a picturesque example is included in this paper), but we give a sufficient condition for this inequality, as well.

id: 1403.7081
title: Observing Properties of an Interacting Homogeneous Bose--Einstein Condensate: Heisenberg-Limited Momentum Spread, Interaction Energy and Free-Expansion Dynamics
authors: Igor Gotlibovych, Tobias F. Schmidutz, Alexander L. Gaunt, Nir Navon, Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4.4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 061604(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7081
abstract: We study the properties of an atomic Bose--Einstein condensate produced in an optical-box potential, using high-resolution Bragg spectroscopy. For a range of box sizes, up to $70~\mu$m, we directly observe Heisenberg-limited momentum uncertainty of the condensed atoms. We measure the condensate interaction energy with a precision of $k_B \times 100$ pK and study, both experimentally and numerically, the dynamics of its free expansion upon release from the box potential. All our measurements are in good agreement with theoretical expectations for a perfectly homogeneous condensate of spatial extent equal to the size of the box, which also establishes the uniformity of our optical-box system on a sub-nK energy scale.

id: 1403.7124
title: Topological Pumping over a Photonic Fibonacci Quasicrystal
authors: Mor Verbin, Oded Zilberberg, Yoav Lahini, Yaacov E. Kraus, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 064201 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7124
abstract: Quasiperiodic lattices have recently been shown to be a non-trivial topological phase of matter. Charge pumping -- one of the hallmarks of topological states of matter -- was recently realized for photons in a one-dimensional (1D) off-diagonal Harper model implemented in a photonic waveguide array. The topologically nontrivial 1D Fibonacci quasicrystal (QC) is expected to facilitate a similar phenomenon, but its discrete nature and lack of pumping parameter hinder the experimental study of such topological effects. In this work we overcome these obstacles by utilizing a family of topologically equivalent QCs which ranges from the Fibonacci QC to the Harper model. Implemented in photonic waveguide arrays, we observe the topological properties of this family, and perform a topological pumping of photons across a Fibonacci QC.

id: 1403.7141
title: Saturation of atomic transitions using sub-wavelength diameter tapered optical fibers in rubidium vapor
authors: D.E. Jones, J.D. Franson, T.B. Pittman
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 1997-2001 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7141
abstract: We experimentally investigate ultralow-power saturation of the rubidium D2 transitions using a tapered optical fiber (TOF) suspended in a warm Rb vapor. A direct comparison of power-dependent absorption measurements for the TOF system with those obtained in a standard free-space vapor cell system highlights the differences in saturation behavior for the two systems. The effects of hyperfine pumping in the TOF system are found to be minimized due to the short atomic transit times through the highly confined evanescent optical mode guided by the TOF. The TOF system data is well-fit by a relatively simple empirical absorption model that indicates nanoWatt-level saturation powers.

id: 1403.7184
title: Genuine Multipartite Entanglement in the Cluster-Ising Model
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093033 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7184
abstract: We evaluate and analyze the exact value of a measure for local genuine tripartite entanglement in the one-dimensional cluster-Ising model. This model is attractive since cluster states are considered to be relevant sources for applying quantum algorithms and the Ising interaction is an expected perturbation. Whereas bipartite entanglement is identically vanishing, we find that genuine tripartite entanglement is non zero in the anti-ferromagnetic phase and also in the cluster phase well before the critical point. We prove that the measure of local genuine tripartite entanglement captures all the properties of the topological phase transition. Remarkably, we find that the amount of genuine tripartite entanglement is independent of whether the considered ground states satisfy or break the symmetries of the Hamiltonian. We provide also strong evidences that for this experimentally feasible model local genuine tripartite entanglement represents the unique non vanishing genuine multipartite entanglement among any spins.

id: 1403.7199
title: Emergence of coherence and the dynamics of quantum phase transitions
authors: S. Braun, M. Friesdorf, S.S. Hodgman, M. Schreiber, J.P. Ronzheimer, A. Riera, M. del Rey, I. Bloch, J. Eisert, U. Schneider
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + supplementary material
journal: PNAS 112(12), 3641 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7199
abstract: The dynamics of quantum phase transitions poses one of the most challenging problems in modern many-body physics. Here, we study a prototypical example in a clean and well-controlled ultracold atom setup by observing the emergence of coherence when crossing the Mott insulator to superfluid quantum phase transition. In the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model, we find perfect agreement between experimental observations and numerical simulations for the resulting coherence length. We thereby perform a largely certified analogue quantum simulation of this strongly correlated system reaching beyond the regime of free quasiparticles. Experimentally, we additionally explore the emergence of coherence in higher dimensions where no classical simulations are available, as well as for negative temperatures. For intermediate quench velocities, we observe a power-law behaviour of the coherence length, reminiscent of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism. However, we find exponents that strongly depend on the final interaction strength and thus lie outside the scope of this mechanism.

id: 1403.7210
title: Hybrid spin and valley quantum computing with singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Niklas Rohling, Maximilian Russ, Guido Burkard
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 176801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7210
abstract: The valley degree of freedom in the electronic band structure of silicon, graphene, and other materials is often considered to be an obstacle for quantum computing (QC) based on electron spins in quantum dots. Here we show that control over the valley state opens new possibilities for quantum information processing. Combining qubits encoded in the singlet-triplet subspace of spin and valley states allows for universal QC using a universal two-qubit gate directly provided by the exchange interaction. We show how spin and valley qubits can be separated in order to allow for single-qubit rotations.

id: 1403.7246
title: Observation of Efimov Resonances in a Mixture with Extreme Mass Imbalance
authors: R. Pires, J. Ulmanis, S. H?fner, M. Repp, A. Arias, E.D. Kuhnle, M. Weidem¨¹ller
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7246
abstract: We observe two consecutive heteronuclear Efimov resonances in an ultracold Li-Cs mixture by measuring three-body loss coefficients as a function of magnetic field near a Feshbach resonance. The first resonance is detected at a scattering length of $a_-^{(1)}=-320(10)~a_0$ corresponding to $\sim 7 $ ($\sim 3$) times the Li-Cs (Cs-Cs) van der Waals range. The second resonance appears at $5.8(1.0) a_-^{(1)}$ close to the unitarity-limited regime at the sample temperature of 450 nK. Indication of a third resonance is found in the atom loss spectra. The scaling of the resonance positions is close to the universal scaling value of 4.9 predicted for zero temperature. Deviations from universality might be caused by finite-range and temperature effects, as well as magnetic field dependent Cs-Cs interactions.

id: 1403.7262
title: Topological Effects in Chiral Symmetric Driven Systems
authors: Derek Y.H. Ho, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 37 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 195419 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7262
abstract: Recent years have seen a strong interest in topological effects within periodically driven systems. In this work, we explore topological effects in two closely related 2-dimensional driven systems described by Floquet operators possessing chiral symmetry (CS). Our numerical and analytical results suggest the following. Firstly, the CS is associated with the existence of the anomalous counter-propagating (ACP) modes reported recently. Specifically, we show that a particular form of CS protects the ACP modes occurring at quasienergies of $\pm \pi$. We also find that these modes are only present along selected boundaries, suggesting that they are a weak topological effect. Secondly, we find that CS can give rise to protected $0$ and $\pi$ quasienergy modes, and that the number of these modes may increase without bound as we tune up certain system parameters. Like the ACP modes, these $0$ and $\pi$ modes also appear only along selected boundaries and thus appear to be a weak topological effect. To our knowledge, this work represents the first detailed study of weak topological effects in periodically driven systems. Our findings add to the still-growing knowledge on driven topological systems.

id: 1403.7408
title: Perpetual motion and driven dynamics of a mobile impurity in a quantum fluid
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 040101 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7408
abstract: We study the dynamics of a mobile impurity in a quantum fluid at zero temperature. Two related settings are considered. In the first setting the impurity is injected in the fluid with some initial velocity ${\mathbf v}_0$, and we are interested in its velocity at infinite time, ${\mathbf v}_\infty$. We derive a rigorous upper bound on $|{\mathbf v}_0-{\mathbf v}_\infty|$ for initial velocities smaller than the generalized critical velocity. In the limit of vanishing impurity-fluid coupling this bound amounts to ${\mathbf v}_\infty={\mathbf v}_0$ which can be regarded as a rigorous proof of the Landau criterion of superfluidity. In the case of a finite coupling the velocity of the impurity can drop, but not to zero; the bound quantifies the maximal possible drop. In the second setting a small constant force is exerted upon the impurity. We argue that two distinct dynamical regimes exist -- backscattering oscillations of the impurity velocity and saturation of the velocity without oscillations. For fluids with $v_{c {\rm L}}=v_s$ (where $v_{c {\rm L}}$ and $v_s$ are the Landau critical velocity and sound velocity, respectively) the latter regime is realized. For fluids with $v_{c {\rm L}} < v_s$ both regimes are possible. Which regime is realized in this case depends on the mass of the impurity, a nonequilibrium quantum phase transition occurring at some critical mass. Our results are equally valid in one, two and three dimensions.

id: 1403.7441
title: Tunable single photon emission from dipolaritons
authors: O. Kyriienko, I. A. Shelykh, T. C. H. Liew
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033807 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7441
abstract: We study a system comprising of a double quantum well embedded in a micropillar optical cavity, where strong coupling between a direct exciton, indirect exciton, and cavity photon is achieved. We show that the resulting hybrid quasiparticles - dipolaritons - can induce strong photon correlations and lead to anti-bunched behaviour of the cavity output field. The origin of the observed single photon emission is attributed to unconventional photon blockade. Moreover, we find that the second-order equal time correlation function $g^{(2)}(0)$ can be tuned over a large range using an electric field applied to the structure, or changing the frequency of the pump. This allows for an on-the-flight control of cavity output properties, and is important for the future generation of tunable single photon emission sources.

id: 1403.7561
title: QCAD Simulation and Optimization of Semiconductor Quantum Dots
authors: Xujiao Gao, Erik Nielsen, Richard P. Muller, Ralph W. Young, Andrew G. Salinger, Nathan C. Bishop, Michael P. Lilly, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 
journal: Journal of Applied Physics, 114, 164302 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7561
abstract: We present the Quantum Computer Aided Design (QCAD) simulator that targets modeling multi-dimensional quantum devices, particularly silicon multi-quantum dots (QDs) developed for quantum bits (qubits). This finite-element simulator has three differentiating features: (i) its core contains nonlinear Poisson, effective mass Schrodinger, and Configuration Interaction solvers that have massively parallel capability for high simulation throughput, and can be run individually or combined self-consistently for 1D/2D/3D quantum devices; (ii) the core solvers show superior convergence even at near-zero-Kelvin temperatures, which is critical for modeling quantum computing devices; and (iii) it interfaces directly with the full-featured optimization engine Dakota. In this work, we describe the capabilities and implementation of the QCAD simulation tool, and show how it can be used to both analyze existing experimental QD devices through capacitance calculations, and aid in the design of few-electron multi-QDs. In particular, we observe that computed capacitances are in rough agreement with experiment, and that quantum confinement increases capacitance when the number of electrons is fixed in a quantum dot. Coupling of QCAD with the optimizer Dakota allows for rapid identification and improvement of device layouts that are likely to exhibit few-electron quantum dot characteristics.

id: 1403.7564
title: Efficient self-consistent quantum transport simulator for quantum devices
authors: Xujiao Gao, Denis Mamaluy, Erik Nielsen, Ralph W. Young, Amir Shirkhorshidian, Michael P. Lilly, Nathan C. Bishop, Malcolm S. Carroll, Richard P. Muller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7564
abstract: We present a self-consistent one-dimensional (1D) quantum transport simulator based on the Contact Block Reduction (CBR) method, aiming for very fast and robust transport simulation of 1D quantum devices. Applying the general CBR approach to 1D open systems results in a set of very simple equations that are derived and given in detail for the first time. The charge self-consistency of the coupled CBR-Poisson equations is achieved by using the predictor-corrector iteration scheme with the optional Anderson acceleration. In addition, we introduce a new way to convert an equilibrium electrostatic barrier potential calculated from an external simulator to an effective doping profile, which is then used by the CBR-Poisson code for transport simulation of the barrier under non-zero biases. The code has been applied to simulate the quantum transport in a double barrier structure and across a tunnel barrier in a silicon double quantum dot. Extremely fast self-consistent 1D simulations of the differential conductance across a tunnel barrier in the quantum dot show better qualitative agreement with experiment than non-self-consistent simulations.

id: 1403.7611
title: Transport as a sensitive indicator of quantum criticality
authors: Gernot Schaller, Malte Vogl, Tobias Brandes
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, minor changes (to appear in Journal of Physics, Condensed Matter)
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26, 265001 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7611
abstract: We consider bosonic transport through one-dimensional spin systems. Transport is induced by coupling the spin systems to bosonic reservoirs kept at different temperatures. In the limit of weak-coupling between spins and bosons we apply the quantum-optical master equation to calculate the energy transmitted from source to drain reservoirs. At large thermal bias, we find that the current for longitudinal transport becomes independent of the chain length and is also not drastically affected by the presence of disorder. In contrast, at small temperatures, the current scales inversely with the chain length and is further suppressed in presence of disorder. We also find that the critical behaviour of the ground state is mapped to critical behaviour of the current -- even in configurations with infinite thermal bias.

id: 1403.7716
title: Extracting entangled qubits from Majorana fermions in quantum dot chains through the measurement of parity
authors: Li Dai, Watson Kuo, Ming-Chiang Chung
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7716
abstract: We propose a scheme for extracting entangled charge qubits from quantum-dot chains that support zero-energy edge modes. The edge mode is composed of Majorana fermions localized at the ends of each chain. The qubit, logically encoded in double quantum dots, can be manipulated through tunneling and pairing interactions between them. The detailed form of the entangled state depends on both the parity measurement (an even or odd number) of the boundary-site electrons in each chain and the teleportation between the chains. The parity measurement is realized through the dispersive coupling of coherent-state microwave photons to the boundary sites, while the teleportation is performed in a way similar to qubit manipulations. Our scheme provides an illustration of localizable entanglement, which is feasible under realistic experimental conditions, as it allows for finite temperature effect as well as disorders and decoherence of the system.

id: 1403.7816
title: Chiral Topological Insulator on Nambu 3-Algebraic Geometry
authors: Kazuki Hasebe
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Nucl.Phys. B 886 (2014) 681-690
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7816
abstract: Chiral topological insulator (AIII-class) with Landau levels is constructed based on the Nambu 3-algebraic geometry. We clarify the geometric origin of the chiral symmetry of the AIII-class topological insulator in the context of non-commutative geometry of 4D quantum Hall effect. The many-body groundstate wavefunction is explicitly derived as a $(l,l,l-1)$ Laughlin-Halperin type wavefunction with unique $K$-matrix structure. Fundamental excitation is identified with anyonic string-like object with fractional charge ${1}/({1+2(l-1)^2})$. The Hall effect of the chiral topological insulators turns out be a color version of Hall effect, which exhibits a dual property of the Hall and spin-Hall effects.

id: 1403.7848
title: Tree-particle integrals with spherical Bessel and Neumann functions
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, since the new and more effective approach has been developed
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7848
abstract: A few approaches are derived to calculate three-particle integrals which include spherical Bessel functions of the first and second kind, i.e., the $j_{\ell}(V r)$ and $n_{\ell}(V r)$ functions. Such integrals are important in applications to various problems known in atomic and nuclear physics. In particular, these integrals are needed in accurate computations of the photodetachment cross-section(s) of the negatively charged hydrogen ions.

id: 1403.8010
title: The April First Phenomenon
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8010
abstract: A true quantum reason for why people fib on April first.

id: 1403.8047
title: Real time decoherence of Landau and Levitov quasi-particles in quantum Hall edge channels
authors: D. Ferraro, B. Roussel, C. Cabart, E. Thibierge, G. F¨¨ve, C. Grenier, P. Degiovanni
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 166403 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.8047
abstract: Quantum Hall edge channels at integer filling factor provide a unique test-bench to understand decoherence and relaxation of single electronic excitations in a ballistic quantum conductor. In this Letter, we obtain a full visualization of the decoherence scenario of energy (Landau) and time (Levitov) resolved single electron excitations at filling factor $\nu=2$. We show that the Landau excitation exhibits a fast relaxation followed by spin-charge separation whereas the Levitov excitation only experiences spin-charge separation. We finally suggest to use Hong-Ou-Mandel type experiments to probe specific signatures of these different scenarios.

id: 1403.7172
title: Feynman, Wigner, and Hamiltonian Structures Describing the Dynamics of Open Quantum Systems
authors: J.E. Gough, T.S. Ratiu, O.G. Smolyanov
comments: 
journal: Doklady Akademii Nauka, 454, No. 4 pp. 379-382 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7172
abstract: This paper discusses several methods for describing the dynamics of open quantum systems, where the environment of the open system is infinite-dimensional. These are purifications, phase space forms, master equation and liouville equation forms. The main contribution is in using Feynman-Kac formalisms to describe the infinite-demsional components.

id: 1403.0660
title: Disentangling topological degeneracy in the entanglement spectrum of one-dimensional symmetry protected topological phases
authors: Wen-Jia Rao, Guang-Ming Zhang, Kun Yang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Physical Review B 89, 125112 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0660
abstract: One-dimensional valence bond solid (VBS) states represent the simplest symmetry protected topological phases. We show that their ground state entanglement spectrum contains both topological and non-topological structures. For the $SO(3)$ symmetric VBS states with odd-integer spins, the two-fold topological degeneracy is associated with an underlying $Z_{2}\times Z_{2}$ symmetry that protects the corresponding topological phase. In general, for the $SO(2S+1)$ symmetric VBS states with integer spins $S$, the corresponding protecting symmetry is identified as the $(Z_{2}\times Z_{2})^{S}$ symmetry, yielding the $2^{S}$-fold topological degeneracy. The topological degeneracy and associated protecting symmetry can be identified by a non-local unitary transformation, which changes the topological order of the VBS states into conventional ferromagnetic order.

id: 1403.7994
title: New superposed elliptic solutions for a class of nonlinear evolution equations
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Supratim Das
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some errors
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.7994
abstract: In the context of the emergence of new classes of superposed solutions such as dn2 (x,m) \pm \sqrt m cn(x,m) dn(x,m) for a variety of nonlinear equations we present some additional new ones for the KdV and QNLS equations and show that they also admit exact solutions of the type nd2 (x,m) \pm \sqrt sd(x,m) nd(x,m). We also determine different types of superposed solutions for a generalized shallow water wave equation.

