id: 1404.0019
title: Environmental correlations and Markovian to non-Markovian transitions in collisional models
authors: N. K. Bernardes, A. R. R. Carvalho, C. H. Monken, M. F. Santos
comments: Revised version, session added, references added
journal: Physical Review A 90, 032111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0019
abstract: We investigate the smallest set of requirements for inducing non-Markovian dynamics in a collisional model of open quantum systems. This is done by introducing correlations in the state of the environment and analyzing the divisibility of the quantum maps from consecutive time steps. Our model and results serve as a platform for the microscopic study of non-Markovian behavior as well as an example of a simple scenario of non-Markovianity with purely contractive maps, i.e. with no back-flow of information between system and environment.

id: 1404.0055
title: Quantum Circuit For Discovering from Data the Structure of Classical Bayesian Networks
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 20 pages (9 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 6 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0055
abstract: We give some quantum circuits for calculating the probability $P(G|D)$ of a graph $G$ given data $D$. $G$ together with a transition probability matrix for each node of the graph, constitutes a Classical Bayesian Network, or CB net for short. Bayesian methods for calculating $P(G|D)$ have been given before (the so called structural modular and ordered modular models), but these earlier methods were designed to work on a classical computer. The goal of this paper is to "quantum computerize" those earlier methods.

id: 1404.0074
title: Quantum Turing automata
authors: Mikl¨®s Bartha
comments: In Proceedings DCM 2012, arXiv:1403.7579
journal: EPTCS 143, 2014, pp. 17-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0074
abstract: A denotational semantics of quantum Turing machines having a quantum control is defined in the dagger compact closed category of finite dimensional Hilbert spaces. Using the Moore-Penrose generalized inverse, a new additive trace is introduced on the restriction of this category to isometries, which trace is carried over to directed quantum Turing machines as monoidal automata. The Joyal-Street-Verity Int construction is then used to extend this structure to a reversible bidirectional one.

id: 1404.0095
title: Experimental implementation of quantum information processing by Zeeman perturbed nuclear quadrupole resonance
authors: J. Teles, C. Rivera-Ascona, R. S. Polli, R. Oliveira-Silva, E. L. G. Vidoto, J. P. Andreeta, T. J. Bonagamba
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0095
abstract: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has been widely used in the context of quantum information processing (QIP). However, despite the great similarities between NMR and nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR), no experimental implementation for QIP using NQR has been reported. We describe the implementation of basic quantum gates and their applications on the creation of pseudopure states using linearly polarized radiofrequency pulses under static magnetic field perturbation. The NQR quantum operations were implemented using a single crystal sample of KClO3 and observing 35Cl nuclei, which posses spin 3/2 and give rise to a 2-qubit system. The results are very promising and indicate that NQR can be successfully used for performing fundamental experiments in QIP. One advantage of NQR in comparison to NMR is that the main interaction is internal to the sample, which makes the system more compact, lowering its cost and making it easier to be miniaturized to solid state devices.

id: 1404.0149
title: Effect of temperature on non-Markovian dynamics in Coulomb crystals
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Special Issue of the International Journal of Quantum Information devoted to IQIS2013 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0149
abstract: In this paper we generalize the results reported in Phys. Rev. A 88, 010101 (2013) and investigate the flow of information induced in a Coulomb crystal in presence of thermal noise. For several temperatures we calculate the non-Markovian character of Ramsey interferometry of a single 1/2 spin with the motional degrees of freedom of the whole chain. These results give a more realistic picture of the interplay between temperature, non-Markovianity and criticality.

id: 1404.0156
title: A protocol to estimate the average fidelity of the bipartite system
authors: Long Huang, Xiaohua Wu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0156
abstract: In present work, we shall develope a protocol to estimate the average fidelity for the bipartite system. We show that the average fidelity should be known if the three measurable quantities, the average survive probability of the product state and the the average survive probablity of each subsystem, have been decided. Our protocol can be also applied to decide the selected element of the quantum proess matrix.

id: 1404.0159
title: Quantum walks on graphs representing the firing patterns of a quantum neural network
authors: Maria Schuld, Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 032333 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0159
abstract: Quantum walks have been shown to be fruitful tools in analysing the dynamic properties of quantum systems. This article proposes to use quantum walks as an approach to Quantum Neural Networks (QNNs). QNNs replace binary McCulloch-Pitts neurons with a qubit in order to use the advantages of quantum computing in neural networks. A quantum walk on the firing states of such a QNN is supposed to simulate central properties of the dynamics of classical neural networks, such as associative memory. It is shown that a biased discrete Hadamard walk derived from the updating process of a biological neuron does not lead to a unitary walk. However, a Stochastic Quantum Walk between the global firing states of a QNN can be constructed and it is shown that it contains the feature of associative memory. The quantum contribution to the walk accounts for a modest speed-up in some regimes.

id: 1404.0160
title: Non-linear photon subtraction from a multimode quantum field
authors: Valentin A. Averchenko, Val¨¦rian Thiel, Nicolas Treps
comments: corrected typos in expressions (19),(30),(33); reference [27] is added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063808 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0160
abstract: We consider theoretically how to extract mode dependent single photons from a time/frequency multimode non-classical beam. To achieve this task, we calculate the properties of sum frequency generation with a pulse shaped pump, taking into account both temporal and spatial degree of freedom. We show that using a non-collinear configuration it is possible to achieve a mode dependent weakly reflective beam splitter, with Schmidt number compatible with photon extraction for continuous variable regime tasks. We explicit the possible application to the degaussification of highly multimode squeezed frequency combs.

id: 1404.0181
title: Achievability of two qubit gates using linear optical elements and post-selection
authors: Josh Cadney
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0181
abstract: We study the class of two qubit gates which can be achieved using only linear optical elements (beam splitters and phase shifters) and post-selection. We are able to exactly characterize this set, and find that it is impossible to implement most two qubit gates in this way. The proof also gives rise to an algorithm for calculating the optimal success probability of those gates which are achievable.

id: 1404.0274
title: Reconfigurable on-chip entangled sources based on lithium-niobate waveguide circuits
authors: H. Jin, F. M. Liu, P. Xu, J. L. Xia, M. L. Zhong, Y. Yuan, Y. X. Gong, W. Wang, S. N. Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0274
abstract: Integrated quantum optics becomes a consequent tendency towards practical quantum information processing. Here, we report the on-chip generation and manipulation of photonic entanglement based on reconfigurable lithium niobate waveguide circuits. By introducing periodically poled structure into the waveguide interferometer, two individual photon-pair sources with controllable phase-shift are produced and cascaded by a quantum interference, resulting in a deterministically separated identical photon pair. The state is characterized by 92.9% visibility Hong-Ou-Mandel interference. Continuous morphing from two-photon separated state to bunched state is further demonstrated by on-chip control of electro-optic phase-shift. The photon flux reaches ~1.4*10^7 pairs nm-1 mW-1. Our work presents a scenario for on-chip engineering of different photon sources and paves a way to the fully integrated quantum technologies.

id: 1404.0277
title: Game-theoretic characterization of antidegradable channels
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta, Sergii Strelchuk
comments: v2: published version, 14 pages, 1 figure; v1: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 092202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0277
abstract: We introduce a guessing game involving a quantum channel, three parties - the sender, the receiver and an eavesdropper, Eve - and a quantum public side channel. We prove that a necessary and sufficient condition for the quantum channel to be antidegradable, is that Eve wins the game. We thus obtain a complete operational characterization of antidegradable channels in a game-theoretic framework.

id: 1404.0324
title: Adiabatic Hyperspherical Representation for the Three-body Problem in Two Dimensions
authors: J. P. D'Incao, B. D. Esry
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0324
abstract: We explore the three-body problem in two dimensions using the adiabatic hyperspherical representation. We develop the main equations in terms of democratic hyperangular coordinates and determine several symmetry properties and boundary conditions for both interacting and non-interacting solutions. From the analysis of the three-body effective potentials, we determine the threshold laws for low energy three-body recombination, collision-induced dissociation as well as inelastic atom-diatom collisions in two dimensions. Our results show that the hyperspherical representation can offer a simple and conceptually clear physical picture for three-body process in two dimensions which is also suitable for calculations using finite range two-body interactions supporting a number of bound states.

id: 1404.0348
title: Optimal rectification by strongly coupled spins
authors: T. Werlang, M. A. Marchiori, M. F. Cornelio, D. Valente
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev E 89, 062109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0348
abstract: We study heat transport in a pair of strongly coupled spins. In particular, we present a condition for optimal rectification, i.e., flow of heat in one direction and complete isolation in the opposite direction. We show that the strong-coupling formalism is necessary for correctly describing heat flow in a wide range of parameters, including moderate to low couplings. We present a situation in which the strong-coupling formalism predicts optimal rectification whereas the phenomenological approach predicts no heat flow in any direction, for the same parameter values.

id: 1404.0376
title: Saturated absorption at nanowatt power levels using metastable xenon in a high-finesse optical cavity
authors: G. T. Hickman, T. B. Pittman, J. D. Franson
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express 22, 22882-22887 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0376
abstract: Strong saturated absorption at nanowatt power levels has been demonstrated using metastable xenon in a high-finesse optical cavity. The use of metastable xenon allows a high quality factor of Q=2*10^8 to be achieved at relatively high atomic densities without any contamination or damage to the optical surfaces, which is often a problem when using high-density rubidium or other alkali atoms. This technique provides a relatively straightforward way to produce nonlinearities at the single-photon level with possible applications in quantum communications and computing.

id: 1404.0438
title: Controlling the interactions of a few cold Rb Rydberg atoms by radiofrequency-assisted F?rster resonances
authors: D.B. Tretyakov, V.M. Entin, E.A. Yakshina, I.I. Beterov, C. Andreeva, I.I. Ryabtsev
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 2014, v.90, p.041403(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0438
abstract: Long-range interactions between cold Rydberg atoms, which are used in many important applications, can be enhanced using F\"orster resonances between collective many-body states controlled by an external electric field. Here we report on the first experimental observation of highly-resolved radio-frequency-assisted F\"orster resonances in a few cold Rb Rydberg atoms. We also observed radio-frequency-induced F\"orster resonances which cannot be tuned by a dc electric field. They imply an efficient transition from van der Waals to resonant dipole-dipole interaction due to Floquet sidebands of Rydberg levels appearing in the rf-field. This method can be applied to enhance the interactions of almost arbitrary Rydberg atoms with large principal quantum numbers.

id: 1404.0439
title: Quantum Storage of Orbital Angular Momentum Entanglement in an Atomic Ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Wei Zhang, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Shuai Shi, Guo-Yong Xiang, Xi-Shi Wang, Yun-Kun Jiang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 050502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0439
abstract: Constructing a quantum memory for a photonic entanglement is vital for realizing quantum communication and network. Besides enabling the realization of high channel capacity communication, entangled photons of high-dimensional space are of great interest because of many extended applications in quantum information and fundamental physics fields. Photons entangled in a two-dimensional space had been stored in different system, but there have been no any report on the storage of a photon pair entangled in a high-dimensional space. Here, we report the first experimental realization of storing an entangled orbital angular momentum (OAM) state through a far off-resonant two-photon transition (FORTPT) in a cold atomic ensemble. We reconstruct the matrix density of an OAM entangled state postselected in a two-dimensional subspace with a fidelity of 90.3%+/-0.8% and obtain the Clauser, Horne and Shimony and Holt inequality parameter S of 2.41+/-0.06 after a programmed storage time. All results clearly show the preservation of entanglement during the storage. Besides, we also realize the storage of a true-single-photon via FORTPT for the first time.

id: 1404.0450
title: Measuring the degree of unitarity for any quantum process
authors: Jing-Xin Cui, Z. D. Wang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0450
abstract: Quantum processes can be divided into two categories: unitary and non-unitary ones. For a given quantum process, we can define a \textit{degree of the unitarity (DU)} of this process to be the fidelity between it and its closest unitary one. The DU, as an intrinsic property of a given quantum process, is able to quantify the distance between the process and the group of unitary ones, and is closely related to the noise of this quantum process. We derive analytical results of DU for qubit unital channels, and obtain the lower and upper bounds in general. The lower bound is tight for most of quantum processes, and is particularly tight when the corresponding DU is sufficiently large. The upper bound is found to be an indicator for the tightness of the lower bound. Moreover, we study the distribution of DU in random quantum processes with different environments. In particular, The relationship between the DU of any quantum process and the non-markovian behavior of it is also addressed.

id: 1404.0457
title: Violation of the Arrhenius law below the transition temperature
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0457
abstract: When interacting spin systems possess non-zero magnetization or topological entanglement entropy below the transition temperature, they often serve as classical or quantum self-correcting memory. In particular, their memory time grows exponentially in the system size due to polynomially growing energy barrier, as in the 2D Ising model and 4D Toric code. Here, we argue that this is not always the case. We demonstrate that memory time of classical clock model (a generalization of ferromagnet to q-state spins) may be polynomially long even when the system possesses finite magnetization. This weak violation of the Arrhenius law occurs above the percolation temperature, but below the transition temperature, a regime where excitation droplets percolate the entire lattice, yet the system retains a finite magnetization. We present numerical evidences for polynomial scaling as well as analytical argument showing that energy barrier is effectively suppressed and is only logarithmically divergent. We also suggest an intriguing possibility of experimentally observing the precession of magnetization vectors at experimentally relevant time scale.

id: 1404.0475
title: Coherent control of an NV$^-$ center with one adjacent 13C
authors: Burkhard Scharfenberger, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures, 3 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 093043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0475
abstract: We investigate the theoretically achievable fidelities when coherently controlling an effective three qubit system consisting of a negatively charged nitrogen vacancy (NV$^-$) center in diamond with an additional nearby carbon $^{13}$C spin $I_{\text{C}}=1/2$ via square radio and microwave frequency pulses in different magnetic field regimes. Such a system has potentially interesting applications in quantum information related tasks such as distributed quantum computation or quantum repeater schemes. We find that the best fidelities can be achieved in an intermediate magnetic field regime. However, with only square pulses it will be challenging to reach the fidelity threshold(s) predicted by current models of fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: 1404.0506
title: A note on the short-time quantum propagator
authors: Ali Sanayei
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0506
abstract: In the Feynman formalism of quantum mechanics one encounters a postulate, namely, that the propagator in an infinitesimal time-interval is the classical wave function. This postulate, which was later studied thoroughly by Holland, was recently highlighted by using the improved Makri-Miller propagator. The present note, whose conclusion is in agreement with that recent achievement, demonstrates that the Heisenberg picture of quantum mechanics invariably includes the Feynman postulate and is able to yield a proof for it. In other words, by starting out from the Heisenberg picture, it is proved that when terms of second-order in time can be neglected, the dynamics of a system is classical.

id: 1404.0508
title: Information Dissipation in Random Quantum Networks
authors: Umer Farooq, Stefano Mancini
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics Vol. 21, No. 3 (2014) 1450004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0508
abstract: We study the information dynamics in a network of spin-$1/2$ particles when edges representing $XY$ interactions are randomly added to a disconnected graph accordingly to a probability distribution characterized by a "weighting" parameter. In this way we model dissipation of information initially localized in single or two qubits all over the network. We then show the dependence of this phenomenon from weighting parameter and size of the network.

id: 1404.0512
title: Realization of the Dicke model using cavity-assisted Raman transitions
authors: Markus P. Baden, Kyle J. Arnold, Arne L. Grimsmo, Scott Parkins, Murray D. Barrett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. 4 pages supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020408 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0512
abstract: We realize an open version of the Dicke model by coupling two hyperfine ground states using two cavity-assisted Raman transitions. The interaction due to only one of the couplings is described by the Tavis-Cummings model and we observe a normal mode splitting in the transmission around the dispersively shifted cavity. With both couplings present the dynamics are described by the Dicke model and we measure the onset of superradiant scattering into the cavity above a critical coupling strength.

id: 1404.0518
title: Monolithic Integration of a Quantum Emitter with a Compact On-chip Beam-splitter
authors: N. Prtljaga, R. J. Coles, J. OHara, B. Royall, E. Clarke, A. M. Fox, M. S. Skolnick
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 231107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0518
abstract: A fundamental component of an integrated quantum optical circuit is an on-chip beam-splitter operating at the single-photon level. Here we demonstrate the monolithic integration of an on-demand quantum emitter in the form of a single self-assembled InGaAs quantum dot (QD) with a compact (>10 um), air clad, free standing directional coupler acting as a beam-splitter for anti-bunched light. The device was tested by using single photons emitted by a QD embedded in one of the input arms of the device. We verified the single-photon nature of the QD signal by performing Hanbury Brown- Twiss (HBT) measurements and demonstrated single-photon beam splitting by cross-correlating the signal from the separate output ports of the directional coupler.

id: 1404.0552
title: Quantum Entanglement and Decoherence: Beyond Particle Models. A Farewell to Quantum Mechanics's Weirdness
authors: O.Tapia
comments: 6 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1402.6522
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0552
abstract: Combining abstract to laboratory projected quantum states a general analysis of headline quantum phenomena is presented. Standard representation mode is replaced; instead quantum states sustained by elementary material constituents occupy its place. Renouncing to assign leading roles to language originated in classical physics when describing genuine quantum processes, together with sustainment concept most, if not all weirdness associated to Quantum Mechanics vanishes.

id: 1404.0565
title: Energy terms and stability diagrams for the 2D problem of three charged particles
authors: I. V. Simenog, V. V. Mikhnyuk, Y. M. Bidasyuk
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2014, Vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 439-451 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0565
abstract: Symmetric and antisymmetric terms have been obtained in the framework of the variational approach for two-dimensional (2D) Coulomb systems of symmetric trions XXY. Stability diagrams and certain anomalies arising in the 2D space are explained qualitatively in the framework of the Born--Oppenheimer adiabatic approximation. The asymptotics of energy terms at large distances obtained for an arbitrary space dimensionality are analyzed, and some approximation formulas for 2D terms are proposed. An anomalous dependence of multipole moments on the space dimensionality has been found in the case of a spherically symmetric field. The main results obtained for the 2D and 3D problems of two Coulomb centers are compared.

id: 1404.0593
title: Highly efficient generation of single-mode photon pairs using a crystalline whispering gallery mode resonator
authors: Michael F?rtsch, Gerhard Schunk, Josef U. F¨¹rst, Dmitry Strekalov, Thomas Gerrits, Martin J. Stevens, Florian Sedlmeir, Harald G. L. Schwefel, Sae Woo Nam, Gerd Leuchs, Christoph Marquardt
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023812 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0593
abstract: We report a highly efficient source of narrow-band photon pairs based on parametric down-conversion in a crystalline whispering gallery mode resonator. Remarkably, each photon of a pair is strictly emitted into a single spatial and temporal mode, as witnessed by Glaubers autocorrelation function. We explore the phase-matching conditions in spherical geometries, and determine the requirements of the single-mode operation. Understanding these conditions has allowed us to experimentally demonstrate a single-mode pair-detection rate of $0.97 \cdot 10^6$ pairs/s per mW pump power per 20 MHz bandwidth without the need of additional filter cavities.

id: 1404.0610
title: Moments of work in the two-point measurement protocol for a driven open quantum system
authors: S. Suomela, P. Solinas, J. P. Pekola, J. Ankerhold, T. Ala-Nissila
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 094304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0610
abstract: We study the distribution of work induced by the two-point measurement protocol for a driven open quantum system. We first derive a general form for the generating function of work for the total system, bearing in mind that the Hamiltonian does not necessarily commute with its time derivative. Using this result we then study the first few moments of work by using the master equation of the reduced system, invoking approximations similar to the ones made in the microscopic derivation of the reduced density matrix. Our results show that, already in the third moment of work, correction terms appear that involve commutators between the Hamiltonian and its time derivative. To demonstrate the importance of these terms, we consider a sinusoidally, weakly driven and weakly coupled open two-level quantum system, and indeed find that already in the third moment of work the correction terms are significant. We also compare our results to those obtained with the quantum jump method and find a good agreement.

id: 1404.0611
title: A quantum algorithm to approximate the linear structures of Boolean functions
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Li Yang
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0611
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm for approximating the linear structures of a Boolean function $f$. Different from previous algorithms (such as Simon's and Shor's algorithms) which rely on restrictions on the Boolean function, our algorithm applies to every Boolean function with no promise. Here, our methods are based on the result of the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm which is to identify linear Boolean functions and the idea of Simon's period-finding algorithm. More precisely, how the extent of approximation changes over the time is obtained, and meanwhile we also get some quasi linear structures if there exists. Next, we obtain that the running time of the quantum algorithm to thoroughly determine this question is related to the relative differential uniformity $\delta_f$ of $f$. Roughly speaking, the smaller the $\delta_f$ is, the less time will be needed.

id: 1404.0635
title: General structure of quantum collisional models
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure; proceedings of the conference IQIS 2013 to appear on IJQI
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. vol. 12, 1461011 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0635
abstract: We point to the connection between a recently introduced class of non-Markovian master equations and the general structure of quantum collisional models. The basic construction relies on three basic ingredients: a collection of time dependent completely positive maps, a completely positive trace preserving transformation and a waiting time distribution characterizing a renewal process. The relationship between this construction and a Lindblad dynamics is clarified by expressing the solution of a Lindblad master equation in terms of demixtures over different stochastic trajectories for the statistical operator weighted by suitable probabilities on the trajectory space.

id: 1404.0668
title: Quantum Circuit for Calculating Mean Values Via Grover-like Algorithm
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 6 pages (3 files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 1 .eps). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1403.6910
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0668
abstract: In this paper, we give a quantum circuit for calculating the mean value of a function $A(x^n)\in \mathbb{C}$, where $x^n\in \{0,1\}^n$. Known classical algorithms for calculating the mean value of a structureless function $A(x^n)$ take ${\cal O}(2^n)$ steps. Our quantum algorithm is based on a Grover-like algorithm and it takes ${\cal O}(\sqrt{2^n})$ steps. Our algorithm differs significantly from previously proposed quantum algorithms for calculating the mean value of a function via Grover's algorithm.

id: 1404.0714
title: On a Model of Quantum Mechanics and the Mind
authors: J. Acacio de Barros
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of the Foundations of Mind Conference, Berkeley, 2014. Revised version includes a solution to the circularity problem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0714
abstract: In this paper I discuss Stapp's (2014) interesting proposal of using the Quantum Zeno Effect to account for the mind/matter interaction. In particular, I discuss some of the motivations for it, and then argue that, in his current version, his model is circular (a solution to this, proposed by Kathryn Laskey, is presented), insofar as the mind/matter problem is concerned. I also present an alternative approach to some of the appealing aspects of using quantum mechanics to think about consciousness.

id: 1404.0721
title: Bounding quantum correlations with indefinite causal order
authors: Caslav Brukner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0721
abstract: Causal inequalities are bounds on correlations obtained when operations take place in a causal sequence, i.e. in which the background time or definite causal structure pre-exists such that every operation is either in the future, in the past or space-like separated from any other operation. Recently, a framework was developed where quantum theory is assumed to be valid in local laboratories, but where no reference is made to any global causal relations between the operations in the laboratories. The framework was shown to allow for correlations that violate a bipartite causal inequality. Here we prove that the maximal violation of the causal inequality is upper bounded (analogously to the "Tsirelson bound") under a restricted set of local operations involving traceless binary observables. The bound is lower than what is algebraically possible.

id: 1404.0726
title: Mode invisibility as a quantum non-demolition measurement of coherent light
authors: Marvellous Onuma-Kalu, Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures. Revtex 4.1, V2: Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033847 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0726
abstract: We exploit geometric properties of quantum states of light in optical cavities to carry out quantum non-demolition measurements. We generalize the 'mode invisibility' method to obtain information about the Wigner function of a squeezed coherent state in a non-destructive way. We also simplify the application of this non-demolition technique to measure single-photon and few-photon states.

id: 1404.0738
title: Boundary of the set of separable states
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 24 pages. The proofs of Lemma 7 and Corollary 8 corrected and simplified. Updated with some new facts
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0738
abstract: Motivated by the separability problem in quantum systems $2\otimes4$, $3\otimes3$ and $2\otimes2\otimes2$, we study the maximal (proper) faces of the convex body, $S_1$, of normalized separable states in an arbitrary quantum system with finite-dimensional Hilbert space $H=H_1\otimes H_2\otimes\cdots\otimes H_n$. To any subspace $V$ of $H$ we associate a face $F_V$ of $S_1$ consisting of all states $\rho\in S_1$ whose range is contained in $V$. We prove that $F_V$ is a maximal face if and only if $V$ is a hyperplane. If $V$ is the hyperplane orthogonal to a product vector, we prove that $\dim F_V=d^2-1-\prod(2d_i-1)$, where $d_i$ is the dimension of $H_i$ and $d=\prod d_i$. We classify the maximal faces of $S_1$ in the cases $2\otimes2$ and $2\otimes3$. In particular we show that the minimum and the maximum dimension of maximal faces is 6 and 8 for $2\otimes2$, and 20 and 24 for $2\otimes3$. The boundary of $S_1$ is the union of all maximal faces. When $d>6$ we prove that there exist full states $\rho$ on the boundary, i.e., such that all partial transposes of $\rho$ (including $\rho$ itself) have rank $d$. K.-C. Ha and S.-K. Kye have recently constructed explicit such states in $2\times4$ and $3\otimes3$. In the latter case, they have also constructed a remarkable family of faces, depending on a real parameter $b>0$, $b\ne1$. Each face in the family is a 9-dimensional simplex and any interior point of the face is a full state. We construct suitable optimal entanglement witnesses (OEW) for these faces and analyze the three limiting cases $b=0,1,\infty$.

id: 1404.0750
title: Tunneling Through a One-Dimensional Piece Wise Constant Potential Barrier
authors: Siddhant Das
comments: American journal of Physics (Accepted on 26th June 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0750
abstract: In this paper we look at transmission through one-dimensional potential barriers that are piece wise constant. The Transfer Matrix approach is adopted and a new formula is derived for multiplying long matrix sequences that not only leads to an elegant representation of the wave function, but also results in much faster computation than earlier methods. The proposed method covers a broad spectrum of potentials of which multi-barrier systems are special cases. The paradigm is exemplified with a finite lattice of non-uniform rectangular barriers - non-uniformity being crucial, as the uniform case has been solved exactly by Griffiths and Steinke. For the non-uniform multi-barrier problem, the intervening wells strongly influence the transmission probability. Surprisingly, we find that the wells act 'individually', i.e. their influence is only a function of their width and is independent of their exact 'location' in a multi-barrier system. This leads to a startling observation, which we have termed as the 'Alias Effect.' The exact solutions are supported with asymptotic formulas.

id: 1404.0805
title: Conventional quantum phase transition driven by complex parameter in non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Ising model
authors: C. Li, G. Zhang, X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 7 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0805
abstract: A conventional quantum phase transition (QPT) can be accessed by varying a real parameter at absolute zero temperature. Motivated by the discovery of the pseudo-Hermiticity of non-Hermitian systems, we explore the QPT in non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Ising model, which is driven by a staggered complex transverse field. Exact solution shows that the Laplacian of the groundstate energy density, with respect to real and imaginary components of the transverse field, diverges on the boundary in the complex plane. The phase diagram indicate that the imaginary transverse field has the effect of shrinking the paramagnet phase. In addition, we also investigate the connection between the geometric phase and the QPT.

id: 1404.0820
title: Experimental noise filtering by quantum control
authors: A. Soare, H. Ball, D. Hayes, J. Sastrawan, M. C. Jarratt, J. J. McLoughlin, X. Zhen, T. J. Green, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related work available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0820
abstract: Instabilities due to extrinsic interference are routinely faced in systems engineering, and a common solution is to rely on a broad class of $\textit{filtering}$ techniques in order to afford stability to intrinsically unstable systems. For instance, electronic systems are frequently designed to incorporate electrical filters composed of, $\textit{e.g.}$ RLC components, in order to suppress the effects of out-of-band fluctuations that interfere with desired performance. Quantum coherent systems are now moving to a level of complexity where challenges associated with realistic time-dependent noise are coming to the fore. Unfortunately, standard control solutions involving feedback are generally impossible due to the strictures of quantum mechanics, and existing error-suppressing gate constructions generally rely on unphysical bang-bang controls or quasi-static error models that do not reflect realistic laboratory environments. In this work we use the theory of quantum control engineering and experiments with trapped $^{171}$Yb$^{+}$ ions to demonstrate the construction of novel $\textit{noise filters}$ which are specifically designed to mitigate the effect of realistic time-dependent fluctuations on qubits \emph{during useful operations}. Starting with desired filter characteristics and the Walsh basis functions, we use a combination of analytic design rules and numeric search to construct time-domain noise filters tailored to a desired state transformation. Our results validate the generalized filter-transfer function framework for arbitrary quantum control operations, and demonstrate that it can be leveraged as an effective and efficient tool for developing novel robust control protocols.

id: 1404.0821
title: Atom-field entanglement in two-atom Jaynes-Cummings model with intensity-dependent coupling
authors: E.K. Bashkirov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0821
abstract: An exact solution of the problem of two-atom one- and two-mode Jaynes-Cummings model with intensity-dependent coupling is presented. Asymptotic solutions for system state vectors are obtained in the approximation of large initial coherent fields. The atom-field entanglement is investigated on the basis of the reduced atomic entropy dynamics. The possibility of the system being initially in a pure disentangled state to revive into this state during the evolution process for both models is shown. Conditions and times of disentanglement are derived.

id: 1404.0830
title: Proposal for Monitoring and Heralding Position States of Atoms in a One-Dimensional Waveguide
authors: Alexandre Roulet, Colin Teo, Huy Nguyen Le, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053821 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0830
abstract: We study the single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide, in which two-level atoms in spatial superpositions are embedded. We find that the transmission of the photon can be used as a non-destructive probe for coherence of the superposition. The protocol proposed is shown to be independent of the distance between the wells in which the atoms are trapped. Furthermore, we show that by looking at the transmission in a suitable regime, a maximally entangled state can be post-selected from an unknown superposition.

id: 1404.0858
title: Comment on ' Computational method for the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation: Bound states in one dimension' [J. Chem. Phys. 125, 174103 (2006)]
authors: Mario Fusco Girard
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0858
abstract: Some difficulties, both numerical and conceptual, of the method to compute one dimensional wave functions by numerically integrating the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation, presented in the paper mentioned in the title, are analyzed. The origin of these difficulties is discussed, and it is shown how they can be avoided by means of another approach, based on different solutions of the same equation. Results for the same potentials, obtained by this latter method are presented and a comparison is made.

id: 1404.0867
title: Loss-tolerant hybrid measurement test of CHSH inequality with weakly amplified N00N states
authors: Falk T?ppel, Magdalena Stobi¨½ska
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48, 075306 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0867
abstract: Although our understanding of Bell's theorem and experimental techniques to test it have improved over the last 40 years, thus far all Bell tests have suffered at least from the detection or the locality loophole. Most photonic Bell tests rely on inefficient discrete-outcome measurements, often provided by photon counting detection. One possible way to close the detection loophole in photonic Bell tests is to involve efficient continuous-variable measurements instead, such as homodyne detection. Here, we propose a test of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality that applies photon counting and homodyne detection on weakly amplified two-photon N00N states. The scheme suggested is remarkably robust against experimental imperfections and suits the limits of current technology. As amplified quantum states are considered, our work also contributes to the exploration of entangled macroscopic quantum systems. Further, it may constitute an alternative platform for a loophole-free Bell test, which is also important for quantum-technological applications.

id: 1404.0897
title: Majorana Qubits
authors: Fabian Hassler
comments: 21 pages, Lecture Notes of the 44th IFF Spring School "Quantum Information Processing" (Forschungszentrum J\"ulich, 2013)
journal: in "Quantum Information Processing. Lecture Notes of the 44th IFF Spring School 2013", edited by D. P. DiVincenzo (Verlag des Forschungszentrums J\"ulich, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0897
abstract: Contribution to the 44th IFF Spring School held at the Forschungszentrum J\"ulich in 2013 on "Quantum Information Processing". The notes include a pedagogic (but incomplete) introduction to Majorana fermions; especially paying attention to the usefulness for quantum information purposes. It contains an introduction to topological aspects of superconductors, braiding, physical implementations, and measurement of the quantum information using superconducting qubits.

id: 1404.0915
title: Quantum Chernoff bound as a measure of efficiency of quantum cloning for mixed states
authors: Iulia Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta T160, 014013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0915
abstract: In this paper we investigate the efficiency of quantum cloning of $N$ identical mixed qubits. We employ a recently introduced measure of distinguishability of quantum states called quantum Chernoff bound. We evaluate the quantum Chernoff bound between the output clones generated by the cloning machine and the initial mixed qubit state. Our analysis is illustrated by performing numerical calculation of the quantum Chernoff bound for different scenarios that involves the number of initial qubits $N$ and the number of output imperfect copies $M$.

id: 1404.0968
title: Distributional approach to point interactions in one-dimensional quantum mechanics
authors: Marcos Cal?ada, Jos¨¦ T. Lunardi, Luiz A. Manzoni, Wagner Monteiro
comments: Open Access link: this http URL
journal: Frontiers in Physics 2:23 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0968
abstract: We consider the one-dimensional quantum mechanical problem of defining interactions concentrated at a single point in the framework of the theory of distributions. The often ill-defined product which describes the interaction term in the Schr\"odinger and Dirac equations is replaced by a well-defined distribution satisfying some simple mathematical conditions and, in addition, the physical requirement of probability current conservation is imposed. A four-parameter family of interactions thus emerges as the most general point interaction both in the non-relativistic and in the relativistic theories (in agreement with results obtained by self-adjoint extensions). Since the interaction is given explicitly, the distributional method allows one to carry out symmetry investigations in a simple way, and it proves to be useful to clarify some ambiguities related to the so-called $\delta^\prime$ interaction.

id: 1404.0990
title: Optimal asymptotic cloning machines
authors: G. Chiribella, Y. Yang
comments: 27 + 9 pages, corrected one observation about cloning of maximally entangled states
journal: New J. Phys. 16 063005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0990
abstract: We pose the question whether the asymptotic equivalence between quantum cloning and quantum state estimation, valid at the single-clone level, still holds when all clones are examined globally. We conjecture that the answer is affirmative and present a large amount of evidence supporting our conjecture, developing techniques to derive optimal asymptotic cloners and proving their equivalence with estimation in virtually all scenarios considered in the literature. Our analysis covers the case of arbitrary finite sets of states, arbitrary families of coherent states, arbitrary phase- and multiphase-covariant sets of states, and two-qubit maximally entangled states. In all these examples we observe that the optimal asymptotic fidelity enjoys a universality property, as its scaling does not depend on the specific details of the set of input states, but only on the number of parameters needed to specify them.

id: 1404.1085
title: The Quantum Marginal Problem
authors: Christian Schilling
comments: 12 pages, contribution to the Proceedings of the Conference QMath 12 held in Berlin in September 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1085
abstract: The question of whether given density operators for subsystems of a multipartite quantum system are compatible to one common total density operator is known as the quantum marginal problem. We briefly review the solution of a subclass of such problems found just recently. In particular, this provides the solution of the $1$-body $N$-representability problem. Its solution, the so-called generalized Pauli constraints, restrict the set of mathematically possible fermionic occupation numbers significantly, and strengthens Pauli's exclusion principle. Moreover, we review the study of a concrete physical model of interacting fermions confined to a harmonic trap. There, we found occupation numbers close, but not exactly on the boundary of the allowed region. This new effect of quasipinning is physically relevant since it corresponds to a simplified structure of the corresponding $N$-fermion quantum state.

id: 1404.1190
title: All-optical high-resolution magnetic resonance using a nitrogen-vacancy spin in diamond
authors: Zhen-Yu Wang, Jian-Ming Cai, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 083033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1190
abstract: We propose an all-optical scheme to prolong the quantum coherence of a negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. Optical control of the NV spin suppresses energy fluctuations of the $^{3}\text{A}_{2}$ ground states and forms an energy gap protected subspace. By optical control, the spectral linewidth of magnetic resonance is much narrower and the measurement of the frequencies of magnetic field sources has higher resolution. The optical control also improves the sensitivity of the magnetic field detection and can provide measurement of the directions of signal sources.

id: 1404.1192
title: Tuning curve of type-0 spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Stefan Lerch, B?nz Bessire, Christof Bernhard, Thomas Feurer, Andr¨¦ Stefanov
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30, 953-958 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1192
abstract: We study the tuning curve of entangled photons generated by type-0 spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a periodically poled KTP crystal. We demonstrate the X-shaped spatiotemporal structure of the spectrum by means of measurements and numerical simulations. Experiments for different pump waists, crystal temperatures, and crystal lengths are in good agreement with numerical simulations.

id: 1404.1210
title: Anisotropic two-dimensional RF-dressed potentials for ultracold atoms
authors: Arijit Chakraborty, Satya Ram Mishra
comments: 21 Pages and 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1210
abstract: In this work, the RF-dressed potentials generated using a static magnetic field of a quadrupole trap and various radio frequency (RF) fields, have been theoretically investigated for trapping and manipulations of cold atoms in a two-dimensional (2D) geometry. It is shown that, in this scheme, the RF fields of some particular polarizations and phases can give rise to some novel static and time-dependent anisotropic two-dimensional potentials which are useful to trap and manipulate the cold atoms in the 2D geometry. The generated time-dependent 2D potentials, rotating on the circular ring, can be used for the controlled rotation and oscillation of the cold atom cloud on the circular ring path. The ultracold atoms trapped in these potentials may be used to investigate the interesting physics phenomena such as tunnelling and super-fluidity.

id: 1404.1223
title: Quantum dynamics of an atomic double-well system interacting with a trapped ion
authors: Jannis Joger, Antonio Negretti, Rene Gerritsma
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1223
abstract: We theoretically analyze the dynamics of an atomic double-well system with a single ion trapped in its center. We find that the atomic tunnelling rate between the wells depends both on the spin of the ion via the short-range spin-dependent atom-ion scattering length and on its motional state with tunnelling rates reaching hundreds of Hz. A protocol is presented that could transport an atom from one well to the other depending on the motional (Fock) state of the ion within a few ms. This phonon-atom coupling is of interest for creating atom-ion entangled states and may form a building block in constructing a hybrid atom-ion quantum simulator. We also analyze the effect of imperfect ground state cooling of the ion and the role of micromotion when the ion is trapped in a Paul trap. Due to the strong non-linearities in the atom-ion interaction, the micromotion can cause couplings to high energy atom-ion scattering states, preventing accurate state preparation and complicating the double-well dynamics. We conclude that the effects of micromotion can be reduced by choosing ion/atom combinations with a large mass ratio and by choosing large inter-well distances. The proposed double-well system may be realised in an experiment by combining either optical traps or magnetic microtraps for atoms with ion trapping technology.

id: 1404.1226
title: Interference-induced enhancement of field entanglement in a microwave-driven V-type single-atom laser
authors: Wen-Xing Yang, Ai-Xi Chen, Ting-Ting Zha, Yanfeng Bai, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1226
abstract: We investigate the generation and the evolution of two-mode continuous-variable (CV) entanglement from system of a microwave-driven V-type atom in a quantum beat laser. By taking into account the effects of spontaneously generated quantum interference between two atomic decay channels, we show that the CV entanglement with large mean number of photons can be generated in our scheme, and the property of the filed entanglement can be adjusted by properly modulating the frequency detuning of the fields. More interesting, it is found that the entanglement can be significantly enhanced by the spontaneously generated interference.

id: 1404.1229
title: Quantum interferometry with binary-outcome measurements in the presence of phase diffusion
authors: X. M. Feng, G. R. Jin, W. Yang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; typing error are fixed; the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013807 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1229
abstract: Optimal measurement scheme with an efficient data processing is important in quantum-enhanced interferometry. Here we prove that for a general binary outcome measurement, the simplest data processing based on inverting the average signal can saturate the Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound. This idea is illustrated by binary outcome homodyne detection, even-odd photon counting (i.e., parity detection), and zero-nonzero photon counting that have achieved super-resolved interferometric fringe and shot-noise limited sensitivity in coherent-light Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The roles of phase diffusion are investigated in these binary outcome measurements. We find that the diffusion degrades the fringe resolution and the achievable phase sensitivity. Our analytical results confirm that the zero-nonzero counting can produce a slightly better sensitivity than that of the parity detection, as demonstrated in a recent experiment.

id: 1404.1232
title: Probing electric and magnetic vacuum fluctuations with quantum dots
authors: Petru Tighineanu, Mads Lykke Andersen, Anders S?ndberg S?rensen, S?ren Stobbe, Peter Lodahl
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1232
abstract: The electromagnetic-vacuum-field fluctuations are intimately linked to the process of spontaneous emission of light. Atomic emitters cannot probe electric- and magnetic-field fluctuations simultaneously because electric and magnetic transitions correspond to different selection rules. In this paper we show that semiconductor quantum dots are fundamentally different and are capable of mediating electric-dipole, magnetic-dipole, and electric-quadrupole transitions on a single electronic resonance. As a consequence, quantum dots can probe electric and magnetic fields simultaneously and can thus be applied for sensing the electromagnetic environment of complex photonic nanostructures. Our study opens the prospect of interfacing quantum dots with optical metamaterials for tailoring the electric and magnetic light-matter interaction at the single-emitter level.

id: 1404.1248
title: Integrable models for quantum media excited by laser radiation: a method, physical interpretation, and examples
authors: Vadim A. Savva, Vadim I. Zelenkov
comments: 11 pages, 3 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1248
abstract: A method to build various integrable models for description of coherent excitation of multilevel media by laser pulses is suggested. Distribution functions over the energy levels of quantum systems depending on the time and frequency detuning are obtained. The distributions follow from Schr\"odinger equation exact solutions and give the complete dynamical description of laser-excited quantum multilevel systems. Interpretation based on the Fourier spectra of the probability amplitudes of a quantum system is presented. The spectra are expressed in terms of orthonormal polynomials and their weight functions. Matrix elements of the dipole transitions between levels are equal to coefficients of the recurrence formula for the orthonormal polynomial system. Some examples are presented. The Kravchuk oscillator family as an integrable model is constructed to describe the coherent excitation dynamics of multilevel resonance media. It is based on the use of the Kravchuk orthogonal polynomials. The Kravchuk oscillator excitation dynamics is described by the binomial distribution of energy level populations and the distribution parameter depends on excitation conditions. Two known basic models in quantum physics -- the harmonic oscillator and two-level system are the special representatives of the Kravchuk oscillator family.

id: 1404.1262
title: Quantum correlations among optical and vibrational quanta
authors: Sergiu Carlig, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053803 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1262
abstract: We investigate the feasibility of correlating an optical cavity field and a vibrational phonon mode. A laser pumped quantum dot fixed on a nano-mechanical resonator beam interact as a whole with the optical resonator mode. When the quantum dot variables are faster than the optical and phonon ones, we obtain a final master equation describing the involved modes only. Increasing the temperature, that directly affects the vibrational degrees of freedom, one can as well influence the cavity photon intensity, i.e., the optical and phonon modes are correlated. Furthermore, the corresponding Cauchy-Schwarz inequality is violated demonstrating the quantum nature of those correlations.

id: 1404.1272
title: Turbulence as a Resource for Quantum Key Distribution in Long Distance Free-Space Links
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Davide Marangon, Matteo Canale, Ilaria Savorgnan, Davide Bacco, Mauro Barbieri, Simon Calimani, Cesare Barbieri, Nicola Laurenti, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042320 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1272
abstract: Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) allows to share random keys between two users with unconditional security: the key is usually generated by exchanging a stream of photons. The long-term vision of QKD is represented by a quantum network, implemented by fiber and free-space links involving ground and/or satellites stations. The presence of the atmospheric turbulence represents an obstacle for free-space quantum communications, due to the increase of optical losses. Here we introduce a method to exploit the atmospheric turbulence as a resource for QKD. An Adaptive Real Time Selection (ARTS) technique at the receiver allows to take advantage of the fluctuating transmissivity of the channel, giving rise to an increase of the secure key rate.

id: 1404.1285
title: Hypergraph states in Grover's quantum search algorithm
authors: M. Rossi, D. Bru?, C. Macchiavello
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Scr. T160, 014036 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1285
abstract: We study the entanglement content of the states employed in the Grover algorithm after the first oracle call when a few searched items are concerned. We then construct a link between these initial states and hypergraphs, which provides an illustration of their entanglement properties.

id: 1404.1288
title: Depicting qudit quantum mechanics and mutually unbiased qudit theories
authors: Andr¨¦ Ranchin
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 68-91
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1288
abstract: We generalize the ZX calculus to quantum systems of dimension higher than two. The resulting calculus is sound and universal for quantum mechanics. We define the notion of a mutually unbiased qudit theory and study two particular instances of these theories in detail: qudit stabilizer quantum mechanics and Spekkens-Schreiber toy theory for dits. The calculus allows us to analyze the structure of qudit stabilizer quantum mechanics and provides a geometrical picture of qudit stabilizer theory using D-toruses, which generalizes the Bloch sphere picture for qubit stabilizer quantum mechanics. We also use our framework to describe generalizations of Spekkens toy theory to higher dimensional systems. This gives a novel proof that qudit stabilizer quantum mechanics and Spekkens-Schreiber toy theory for dits are operationally equivalent in three dimensions. The qudit pictorial calculus is a useful tool to study quantum foundations, understand the relationship between qubit and qudit quantum mechanics, and provide a novel, high level description of quantum information protocols.

id: 1404.1306
title: Classifying 50 years of Bell inequalities
authors: Denis Rosset, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 13+10 pages, 10 figures, submitted to the special edition of JPA for the 50 years of Bell's theorem. Comments especially welcome. See also faacets.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1306
abstract: Since John S. Bell demonstrated the interest of studying linear combinations of probabilities in relation with the EPR paradox in 1964, Bell inequalities have lead to numerous developments. Unfortunately, the description of Bell inequalities is subject to several degeneracies, which make any exchange of information about them unnecessarily hard. Here, we analyze these degeneracies and propose a decomposition for Bell-like inequalities based on a set of reference expressions which is not affected by them. These reference expressions set a common ground for comparing Bell inequalities. We provide algorithms based on finite group theory to compute this decomposition. Implementing these algorithms allows us to set up a compendium of reference Bell-like inequalities, available online at this http URL . This website constitutes a platform where registered Bell-like inequalities can be explored, new inequalities can be compared to previously-known ones and relevant information on Bell inequalities can be added in a collaborative manner.

id: 1404.1330
title: Weak Limit of the 3-State Quantum Walk on the Line
authors: Stefan Falkner, Stefan Boettcher
comments: 8 pages, revtex, for related information see this http URL v2: minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012307, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1330
abstract: We revisit the one dimensional discrete time quantum walk with 3 states and the Grover coin. We derive analytic expressions for observed the localization, an long time approximation for the probability density function (PDF). We also connect the time averaged approximation to the PDF found by Inui et. al. to a spatial average of the walk. We show that this smooth approximation constitutes a proper PDF that predicts moments of the real PDF accurately.

id: 1404.1366
title: A new operational interpretation of relative entropy and trace distance between quantum states
authors: Anurag Anshu, Rahul Jain, Priyanka Mukhopadhyay, Ala Shayeghi, Penghui Yao
comments: 18 pages. A variant of the main protocol is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1366
abstract: In this paper we present a new operational interpretation of relative-entropy between quantum states in the form of the following protocol. P: Alice gets to know the eigen-decomposition of a quantum state $\rho$. Bob gets to know the eigen-decomposition of a quantum state $\sigma$. Both Alice and Bob know $c= S(\rho || \sigma)$, the relative entropy between $\rho$ and $\sigma$ and an error parameter $\epsilon$. Alice and Bob use shared entanglement and after communication of $O((c +1)/\epsilon^4)$ bits from Alice to Bob, Bob ends up with a quantum state $\rho'$ such that $F(\rho, \rho') \geq 1 - \epsilon$, where $F$ represents fidelity. This result can be considered as a non-commutative generalization of a result due to Braverman and Rao [2011] where they considered the special case when $\rho$ and $\sigma$ are classical probability distributions. We use protocol P to obtain an alternate proof of a direct-sum result for entanglement assisted quantum one-way communication complexity for all relations, which was first shown by Jain, Radhakrishnan and Sen [2005, 2008]. We also present a variant of protocol in which Bob has some side information about the state with Alice. We show that in such a case, the amount of communication can be further reduced, based on the side information that Bob has. Our second result provides a new operational meaning to trace distance between quantum states in the form of a protocol which can be viewed as a quantum analogue of the classical correlated-sampling protocol, which is widely used, for example by Holenstein [2007] in his proof of a parallel-repetition theorem for two-player one-round games. Recently Dinur, Steurer and Vidick [2013] have shown another version of a quantum correlated sampling protocol different from our protocol, and used it in their proof of a parallel-repetition theorem for two-prover one-round entangled projection games.

id: 1404.1394
title: Proposal for the Creation and Optical Detection of Spin Cat States in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Hon Wai Lau, Zachary Dutton, Tian Wang, Christoph Simon
comments: 5+12 pages, 3+10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 090401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1394
abstract: We propose a method to create "spin cat states", i.e. macroscopic superpositions of coherent spin states, in Bose-Einstein condensates using the Kerr nonlinearity due to atomic collisions. Based on a detailed study of atom loss, we conclude that cat sizes of hundreds of atoms should be realistic. The existence of the spin cat states can be demonstrated by optical readout. Our analysis also includes the effects of higher-order nonlinearities, atom number fluctuations, and limited readout efficiency.

id: 1404.1399
title: Nonlinear phase shifts of light trapped in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Collin M. Trail, Khulud Almutairi, David L. Feder, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1399
abstract: We investigate a method for generating nonlinear phase shifts on superpositions of photon number states. The light is stored in a Bose-Einstein condensate via electromagnetically-induced transparency memory techniques. The atomic collisions are exploited to generate a nonlinear phase shift of the stored state. The stored light is then revived with the nonlinear phase shift imprinted upon it. We show that this method can be used as a nonlinear-sign gate in the regime where the Thomas-Fermi and mean-field approximations are valid. We test these approximations using realistic parameters and find that these approximations pass the standard tests for validity in a single-component condensate. However, for the two-component condensates considered here, we find that these conditions are insufficiently strict. We find a stronger set of conditions and show for the same set of parameters that the approximations are invalid.

id: 1404.1409
title: Unifying approach to the quantification of bipartite correlations by Bures distance
authors: Thomas R. Bromley, Marco Cianciaruso, Rosario Lo Franco, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures; published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 405302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1409
abstract: The notion of distance defined on the set of states of a composite quantum system can be used to quantify total, quantum and classical correlations in a unifying way. We provide new closed formulae for classical and total correlations of two-qubit Bell-diagonal states by considering the Bures distance. Complementing the known corresponding expressions for entanglement and more general quantum correlations, we thus complete the quantitative hierarchy of Bures correlations for Bell-diagonal states. We then explicitly calculate Bures correlations for two relevant families of states: Werner states and rank-2 Bell-diagonal states, highlighting the subadditivity which holds for total correlations with respect to the sum of classical and quantum ones when using Bures distance. Finally, we analyse a dynamical model of two independent qubits locally exposed to non-dissipative decoherence channels, where both quantum and classical correlations measured by Bures distance exhibit freezing phenomena, in analogy with other known quantifiers of correlations.

id: 1404.1422
title: Experimental semi-device-independent certification of entangled measurements
authors: Adam Bennet, Tam¨¢s V¨¦rtesi, Dylan J. Saunders, Nicolas Brunner, G. J. Pryde
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 080405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1422
abstract: Certifying the entanglement of quantum states with Bell inequalities allows one to guarantee the security of quantum information protocols independently of imperfections in the measuring devices. Here we present a similar procedure for witnessing entangled measurements, which play a central role in many quantum information tasks. Our procedure is termed semi-device-independent, as it uses uncharacterized quantum preparations of fixed Hilbert space dimension. Using a photonic setup, we experimentally certify an entangled measurement using measurement statistics only. We also apply our techniques to certify unentangled but nevertheless inherently quantum measurements.

id: 1404.1437
title: Jaynes-Cummings dynamics in mesoscopic ensembles of Rydberg-blockaded atoms
authors: I. I. Beterov, T. Andrijauskas, D. B. Tretyakov, V. M. Entin, E. A. Yakshina, I. I. Ryabtsev, S. Bergamini
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Typos in Eq.10 and reference list corrected in v3. Versions 4 and 5 are revised according to referee's suggestions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1437
abstract: We show that Jaynes-Cummings dynamics can be observed in mesoscopic atomic ensembles interacting with a classical electromagnetic field in the regime of Rydberg blockade, where the time dynamics of the average number of Rydberg excitations in mesoscopic ensembles displays collapses and revivals typical of this model. As the frequency of Rabi oscillations between collective states of Rydberg blockaded ensembles depends on the number of interacting atoms, for randomly loaded optical dipole traps we predict collapses and revivals of Rabi oscillations. We have studied the effects of finite interaction strengths and finite laser line width on the visibility of the revivals. We have shown that observation of collapses and revivals of Rabi oscillations can be used as a signature of Rydberg blockade without the need to measure the exact number of Rydberg atoms.

id: 1404.1439
title: An exactly soluble model of a shallow double well
authors: R. Mu?oz-Vega, E. L¨®pez-Ch¨¢vez, E. Salinas-Hern¨¢ndez, J. J. Flores-Godoy, G. Fern¨¢ndez-Anaya
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1439
abstract: Shallow one-dimensional double well potentials appear in atomic and molecular physics and other fields. Unlike the "deep" wells of macroscopic quantum coherent systems, shallow double wells need not present low-lying two-level systems. We argue that this feature, the absence of a low-lying two-level system in certain shallow double wells, may allow the finding of new test grounds for quantum mechanics in mesoscopic systems. We illustrate the above ideas with a family of shallow double wells obtained from Bargman potentials through the Darboux-B\"{a}cklund transform.

id: 1404.1444
title: Entanglement Typicality
authors: Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini, Alessio Serafini
comments: Review paper with two quotes and minimalist figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 363001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1444
abstract: We provide a summary of both seminal and recent results on typical entanglement. By typical values of entanglement, we refer here to values of entanglement quantifiers that (given a reasonable measure on the manifold of states) appear with arbitrarily high probability for quantum systems of sufficiently high dimensionality. We work within the Haar measure framework for discrete quantum variables, where we report on results concerning the average von Neumann and linear entropies as well as arguments implying the typicality of such values in the asymptotic limit. We then proceed to discuss the generation of typical quantum states with random circuitry. Different phases of entanglement, and the connection between typical entanglement and thermodynamics are discussed. We also cover approaches to measures on the non-compact set of Gaussian states of continuous variable quantum systems.

id: 1404.1454
title: Separability and entanglement of the qudit X-state with j = 3/2
authors: V.I. Man'ko, L.A. Markovich
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1454
abstract: The qudit state for j = 3=2 with density matrix of the form corresponding to X-state of two-qubits is studied from the point of view of entanglement and separability properties. The method of qubit portrait of qudit states is used to get the entropic inequalities for the entangled state of the single qudit. The tomographic probability representation of the qudit X-state under consideration and its Shannon and q-entropic characteristics are presented in explicit form.

id: 1404.1477
title: Joint measurability through Naimark's theorem
authors: Roberto Beneduci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1477
abstract: We use Naimark's dilation theorem in order to characterize the joint measurability of two POVMs. Then, we analyze the joint measurability of two commutative POVMs $F_1$ and $F_2$ which are the smearing of two self-adjoint operators $A_1$ and $A_2$ respectively. We prove that the compatibility of $F_1$ and $F_2$ is connected to the existence of two compatible self-adjoint dilations $A_1^+$ and $A_2^+$ of $A_1$ and $A_2$ respectively. As a corollary we prove that each couple of self-adjoint operators can be dilated to a couple of compatible self-adjoint operators. Next, we analyze the joint measurability of the unsharp position and momentum observables and show that it provides a master example of the scheme we propose. Finally, we give a sufficient condition for the compatibility of two effects.

id: 1404.1496
title: Three-photon polarization ququarts: polarization, entanglement and Schmidt decompositions
authors: M.V. Fedorov, N.I. Miklin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1496
abstract: We consider polarization states of three photons, each in the same given spectral-angular mode. A general form of such states is a superposition of four basic three-photon polarization modes, to be referred to as three-photon polarization ququarts. All such states can be considered as consisting of one- and two-photon parts, which can be entangled with each other. The degrees of entanglement and polarization as well as the Schmidt decomposition and Stokes vectors of three-photon polarization ququarts are found and discussed.

id: 1404.1503
title: Quantum Hashing via Classical $¦Å$-universal Hashing Constructions
authors: Farid Ablayev, Marat Ablayev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1503
abstract: In the paper, we define the concept of the quantum hash generator and offer design, which allows to build a large amount of different quantum hash functions. The construction is based on composition of classical $\epsilon$-universal hash family and a given family of functions -- quantum hash generator. The proposed construction combines the properties of robust presentation of information by classical error-correcting codes together with the possibility of highly compressed presentation of information by quantum systems. In particularly, we present quantum hash function based on Reed-Solomon code, and we proved, that this construction is optimal in the sense of number of qubits needed.

id: 1404.1507
title: An adaptive attack on Wiesner's quantum money
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Daniel Nagaj, Or Sattath, Dominique Unruh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1507
abstract: Unlike classical money, which is hard to forge for practical reasons (e.g. producing paper with a certain property), quantum money is attractive because its security might be based on the no-cloning theorem. The first quantum money scheme was introduced by Wiesner circa 1970. Although more sophisticated quantum money schemes were proposed, Wiesner's scheme remained appealing because it is both conceptually clean and relatively easy to implement. We show efficient adaptive attacks on Wiesner's quantum money scheme [Wie83] (and its variant by Bennett et al. [BBBW83]), when valid money is accepted and passed on, while invalid money is destroyed. We propose two attacks, the first is inspired by the Elitzur-Vaidman bomb testing problem [EV93, KWH+95], while the second is based on the idea of protective measurements [AAV93]. It allows us to break Wiesner's scheme with 4 possible states per qubit, and generalizations which use more than 4 states per qubit.

id: 1404.1509
title: A limit theorem for a 3-period time-dependent quantum walk
authors: F. Alberto Gr¨¹nbaum, Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.15 No.1&2, pp.50-60 (2015)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1509
abstract: We consider a discrete-time 2-state quantum walk on the line. The state of the quantum walker evolves according to a rule which is determined by a coin-flip operator and a position-shift operator. In this paper we take a 3-periodic time evolution as the rule. For such a quantum walk, we get a limit distribution which expresses the asymptotic behavior of the walker after a long time. The limit distribution is different from that of a time-independent quantum walk or a 2-period time-dependent quantum walk. We give some analytical results and then consider a number of variants of our model and indicate the result of simulations for these ones.

id: 1404.1520
title: Single spin stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy
authors: Matthias Pfender, Nabeel Aslam, Gerald Waldherr, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1520
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate precision addressing of single quantum emitters by combined optical microscopy and spin resonance techniques. To this end we utilize nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in diamond confined within a few ten nanometers as individually resolvable quantum systems. By developing a stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM) technique for NV centers we are able to simultaneously perform sub diffraction-limit imaging and optically detected spin resonance (ODMR) measurements on NV spins. This allows the assignment of spin resonance spectra to individual NV center locations with nanometer scale resolution and thus further improves spatial discrimination. For example, we resolved formerly indistinguishable emitters by their spectra. Furthermore, ODMR spectra contain metrology information allowing for sub diffraction-limit sensing of, for instance, magnetic or electric fields with inherently parallel data acquisition. As an example, we have detected nuclear spins with nanometer scale precision. Finally, we give prospects of how this technique can evolve into a fully parallel quantum sensor for nanometer resolution imaging of delocalized quantum correlations.

id: 1404.1522
title: Limit theorems of a 3-state quantum walk and its application for discrete uniform measures
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.15 No.5&6, pp.406-418 (2015)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1522
abstract: We present two long-time limit theorems of a 3-state quantum walk on the line when the walker starts from the origin. One is a limit measure which is obtained from the probability distribution of the walk at a long-time limit, and the other is a convergence in distribution for the walker's position in a rescaled space by time. In addition, as an application of the walk, we obtain discrete uniform limit measures from the 3-state walk with a delocalized initial state.

id: 1404.1528
title: Is nonlocality responsible for the violation of Bell's inequalities?
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 29 pages, accepted for publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1528
abstract: Bell's theorem has been widely argued to show that some of the predictions of quantum mechanics which are obtained by applying the {\it Born's rule} to a class of {\it entangled states}, are {\it not} compatible with {\it any} local-causal statistical model, via the violation of Bell's inequalities. On the other hand, in the previous work, we have shown that quantum dynamics and kinematics are {\it emergent} from a statistical model that is singled out {\it uniquely} by the principle of Locality. Here we shall show that the local-causal model supports entangled states and give the statistical origin of their generation. We then study the Stern-Gerlach experiment to show that the Born's rule can also be derived as a mathematical theorem in the local-causal model. These results lead us to argue that nonlocality is {\it not} responsible for the quantum mechanical and most importantly experimental violation of Bell's inequalities. The source(s) of violation has to be sought somewhere else.

id: 1404.1555
title: Comment on letter "Local {$\mathcal{PT}$} symmetry violates the no-signaling principle" by Yi-Chan Lee et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130404 (2014)
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1555
abstract: It is shown that the toy-model-based considerations of {\em loc. cit.} (see also arXiv:1312.3395) are based on an incorrect, manifestly unphysical choice of the Hilbert space of admissible quantum states. A two-parametric family of all of the eligible correct and potentially physical Hilbert spaces of the model is then constructed. The implications of this construction are discussed. In particular, it is emphasized that contrary to the conclusions of {\em loc. cit.} there is no reason to believe that the current form of the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum theory should be false as a fundamental theory.

id: 1404.1608
title: Efficient Monte Carlo characterization of quantum operations for qudits
authors: Giulia Gualdi, David Licht, Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1608
abstract: For qubits, Monte Carlo estimation of the average fidelity of Clifford unitaries is efficient -- it requires a number of experiments that is independent of the number $n$ of qubits and classical computational resources that scale only polynomially in $n$. Here, we identify the requirements for efficient Monte Carlo estimation and the corresponding properties of the measurement operator basis when replacing two-level qubits by $p$-level qudits. Our analysis illuminates the intimate connection between mutually unbiased measurements and the existence of unitaries that can be characterized efficiently. It allows us to propose a 'hierarchy' of generalizations of the standard Pauli basis from qubits to qudits according to the associated scaling of resources required in Monte Carlo estimation of the average fidelity.

id: 1404.1611
title: A one-dimensional quantum walk with multiple-rotation on the coin
authors: Peng Xue, Rong Zhang, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Zhihao Bian, Jian Li
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1611
abstract: We introduce and analyze a one-dimensional quantum walk with two time-independent rotations on the coin. We study the influence on the property of quantum walk due to the second rotation on the coin. Based on the asymptotic solution in the long time limit, a ballistic behaviour of this walk is observed. This quantum walk retains the quadratic growth of the variance if the combined operator of the coin rotations is unitary. That confirms no localization exhibits in this walk. This result can be extended to the walk with multiple time-independent rotations on the coin.

id: 1404.1679
title: Coherent perfect absorption with and without lasing in complex potentials
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 12 pages, Six figures (3 parts in each). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1308.1270 (To appear in J. Phys. A: Theor. & Gen.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1679
abstract: We prove that coherent perfect absorption (CPA) without lasing is {\bf not} possible in the PT-symmetric domain as the s-matrix is such that $|\det S(\pm k)|=1$. We study coherent scattering from three complex potentials, one solved analytically and the other two numerically. We conjecture that in the domain of unbroken symmetry (when the potential has real discrete spectrum) neither spectral singularity nor CPA can occur. We show that Scarf II potential is a special model that can analytically and explicitly exhibit these as well as other novel phenomena and their subtleties. \pacs{03.65-w, 03.65.Nk, 11.30.Er, 42.25.Bs, 42.79.Gn

id: 1404.1700
title: Polarization-entangled photon generation by a semiconductor quantum dot coupled to a cavity interacting with external fields
authors: Kostas Blekos, Nikos Iliopoulos, Maria-Eftaksia Stasinou, Evaggelos Vlachos, Andreas F. Terzis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1700
abstract: We theoretically investigate polarization-entangled photon generation by using a semiconductor quantum dot embedded in a microcavity. The entangled states can be produced by the application of two cross-circularly polarized laser fields. The quantum dot nanostructure is considered as a four-level system (ground, two excitons and bi-exciton states) and the theoretical study relies on the dressed states scheme. The quantum correlations, reported in terms of the entanglement of formation, are extensively studied for several values of the important parameters of the quantum dot system as the bi-exciton binding energy, {the decoherence times of the characteristic transitions, the quality factor of the cavity} and the intensities of the applied fields.

id: 1404.1712
title: High-Fidelity Single-Qubit Gates for Two-Electron Spin Qubits in GaAs
authors: Pascal Cerfontaine, Tim Botzem, David P. DiVincenzo, Hendrik Bluhm
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1712
abstract: Single-qubit operations on singlet-triplet qubits in GaAs double quantum dots have not yet reached the fidelities required for fault-tolerant quantum information processing. Considering experimentally important constraints and using measured noise spectra, we numerically minimize the effect of decoherence (including high-frequency non-Markovian noise) and show theoretically that quantum gates with fidelities higher than 99.9% are achievable. We also present a self-consistent tuning protocol which should allow the elimination of individual systematic gate errors directly in an experiment.

id: 1404.1735
title: Kicked nonlinear quantum scissors and entanglement generation
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, W. Leo¨½ski, T. Dung Nguyen, V. Cao Long
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1735
abstract: We consider a nonlinear coupler with two Kerr-like oscillators mutually coupled by continuous linear interaction and excited by a series of ultra-short external pulses. We show that the system behaves as nonlinear quantum scissors. It evolves such a way that it can be treated as qubit-qubit system. We derive analytic formulas for the probabilities of the states involved in the system's evolution and show that they differ from those already discussed in the literature and corresponding to the continuously excited models. Moreover, for model discussed here, maximally entangled Bell states can be generated with high efficiency.

id: 1404.1737
title: Spectral Singularities and CPA-Laser Action in a Weakly Nonlinear PT-Symmetric Bilayer Slab
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Stud. App. Math. 133, 353-372 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1737
abstract: We study optical spectral singularities of a weakly nonlinear PT-symmetric bilinear planar slab of optically active material. In particular, we derive the lasing threshold condition and calculate the laser output intensity. These reveal the following unexpected features of the system: 1. For the case that the real part of the refractive index $\eta$ of the layers are equal to unity, the presence of the lossy layer decreases the threshold gain; 2. For the more commonly encountered situations when $\eta-1$ is much larger than the magnitude of the imaginary part of the refractive index, the threshold gain coefficient is a function of $\eta$ that has a local minimum. The latter is in sharp contrast to the threshold gain coefficient of a homogeneous slab of gain material which is a decreasing function of $\eta$. We use these results to comment on the effect of nonlinearity on the prospects of using this system as a CPA-laser.

id: 1404.1767
title: Classical capacity of Gaussian thermal memory channels
authors: Giacomo De Palma, Andrea Mari, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 042312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1767
abstract: The classical capacity of phase-invariant Gaussian channels has been recently determined under the assumption that such channels are memoryless. In this work we generalize this result by deriving the classical capacity of a model of quantum memory channel, in which the output states depend on the previous input states. In particular we extend the analysis of [C. Lupo, et al., PRL and PRA (2010)] from quantum limited channels to thermal attenuators and thermal amplifiers. Our result applies in many situations in which the physical communication channel is affected by nonzero memory and by thermal noise.

id: 1404.1805
title: Macroscopically deterministic, Markovian thermalization in finite quantum spin systems
authors: Hendrik Niemeyer, Kristel Michielsen, Hans de Raedt, Jochen Gemmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 012131, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1805
abstract: A key feature of non-equilibrium thermodynamics is the Markovian, deterministic relaxation of coarse observables such as, for example, the temperature difference between two macroscopic objects which evolves independently of almost all details of the initial state. We demonstrate that the unitary dynamics for moderately sized spin-1/2 systems may yield the same type of relaxation dynamics for a given magnetization difference. This observation might contribute to the understanding of the emergence of thermodynamics within closed quantum systems.

id: 1404.1829
title: The Fidelity of Measurement-Based Quantum Computation under a Boson Environment
authors: Jian Wang, Ding Zhong, Liangzhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 13 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1829
abstract: We investigate the fidelity of the measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) when it is coupled with boson environment, by measuring cluster state fidelity and gate fidelity. Two different schemes of cluster state preparation are studied. In the Controlled-Z (CZ) creation scheme, cluster states are prepared by entangling all qubits in $|+\rangle$ state with CZ gates on all neighboring sites. The fidelity shows an oscillation pattern over time evolution. The influence of environment temperature is evaluated, and suggestions are given to enhance the performance of MBQC realized in this way. In the Hamiltonian creation scheme, cluster states are made by cooling a system with cluster Hamiltonians, of which ground states are cluster states. The fidelity sudden drop phenomenon is discovered. When the coupling is below a threshold, MBQC systems are highly robust against the noise. Our main environment model is the one with a single collective bosonic mode.

id: 1404.1860
title: Generalized Two-Qubit Whole and Half Hilbert-Schmidt Separability Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater, Charles F. Dunkl
comments: 25 pages, minor changes, to appear in the Journal of Geometry and Physics. (Paper expands substantially upon arXiv::1403.1825.)
journal: Journal of Geometry and Physics 90 (2015), pp. 42-54
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1860
abstract: Compelling evidence-though yet no formal proof-has been adduced that the probability that a generic (standard) two-qubit state ($\rho$) is separable/disentangled is $\frac{8}{33}$ (arXiv:1301.6617, arXiv:1109.2560, arXiv:0704.3723). Proceeding in related analytical frameworks, using a further determinantal $4F3$-hypergeometric moment formula (Appendix A), we reach, {\it via} density-approximation procedures, the conclusion that one-half ($\frac{4}{33}$) of this probability arises when the determinantal inequality $|\rho^{PT}|>|\rho|$, where $PT$ denotes the partial transpose, is satisfied, and, the other half, when $|\rho|>|\rho^{PT}|$. These probabilities are taken with respect to the flat, Hilbert-Schmidt measure on the fifteen-dimensional convex set of $4 \times 4$ density matrices. We find fully parallel bisection/equipartition results for the previously adduced, as well, two-"re[al]bit" and two-"quater[nionic]bit"separability probabilities of $\frac{29}{64}$ and $\frac{26}{323}$, respectively. The new determinantal $4F3$-hypergeometric moment formula is, then, adjusted (Appendices B and C) to the boundary case of minimally degenerate states ($|\rho|=0$), and its consistency manifested-also using density-approximation-with a theorem of Szarek, Bengtsson and {\.Z}yczkowski (arXiv:quant-ph/0509008). This theorem states that the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probabilities of generic minimally degenerate two-qubit states are (again) one-half those of the corresponding generic nondegenerate states.

id: 1404.1942
title: Chameleonic equivalence postulate and wave function collapse
authors: Andrea Zanzi
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1942
abstract: A chameleonic solution to the cosmological constant problem and the non-equivalence of different conformal frames at the quantum level have been recently suggested [Phys. Rev. D82 (2010) 044006]. In this article we further discuss the theoretical grounds of that model and we are led to a chameleonic equivalence postulate (CEP). Whenever a theory satisfies our CEP (and some other additional conditions), a density-dependence of the mass of matter fields is naturally present. Let us summarize the main results of this paper. 1) The CEP can be considered the microscopic counterpart of the Einstein's Equivalence Principle and, hence, a chameleonic description of quantum gravity is obtained: in our model, (quantum) gravitation is equivalent to a conformal anomaly. 2) To illustrate one of the possible applications of the CEP, we point out a connection between chameleon fields and quantum-mechanical wave function collapse. The collapse is induced by the chameleonic nature of the theory. We discuss the collapse for a Stern-Gerlach experiment and for a diffraction experiment with electrons. More research efforts are necessary to verify whether these ideas are compatible with phenomenological constraints.

id: 1404.1959
title: Average entanglement dynamics in open two-qubit systems with continuous monitoring
authors: Ivonne Guevara, Carlos Viviescas
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1959
abstract: We present a comprehensive implementation of the quantum trajectory theory for the description of the entanglement dynamics in a Markovian open quantum system made of two qubits. We introduce the average concurrence to characterize the entanglement in the system and derive a deterministic evolution equation for it that depends on the ways information is read from the environment. This builded in flexibility of the method is used to address two actual issues in quantum information: entanglement protection and entanglement estimation. We identify general physical situations in which an entanglement protection protocol based on local monitoring of the environment can be implemented. Additionally, we methodically find unravelings of the system dynamics providing analytical tight bounds for the unmonitored entanglement in the system at all times. We conclude by showing the independence of the method on the choice of entanglement measure.

id: 1404.1977
title: A note on the runtime of a faulty Hamiltonian oracle
authors: Kristan Temme
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90.2 (2014): 022310
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1977
abstract: In these notes we show that it is impossible to obtain a quantum speedup for a faulty Hamiltonian oracle. The effect of dephasing noise to this continuous time oracle model has first been investigated in [1]. The authors consider a faulty oracle described by a continuous time master equation that acts as dephasing noise in the basis determined by the marked item. The analysis focuses on the implementation with a particular driving Hamiltonian. A universal lower bound for this oracle model, which rules out a better performance with a different driving Hamiltonian has so far been lacking. In this note, we derive an adversary type lower bound which shows that the evolution time T has to be at least in the order of N, i.e. the size of the search space, when the error rate of the oracle is constant. For the standard quantum oracle model this result was first proven in [2]. This note can be seen as an extension of their result to the continuous time setting.

id: 1404.1979
title: Improving the coherence time of a quantum system via a coupling with an unstable system
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Xiaobo Zhu, Kosuke Kakuyanagi, Hiraku Toida, Takaaki Shimo-Oka, Norikazu Mizuochi, Kae Nemoto, Kouichi Semba, William J. Munro, Hiroshi Yamaguchi, Shiro Saito
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1979
abstract: Here, we propose a counter-intuitive use of a hybrid system where the coherence time of a quantum system is actually improved via a coupling with an unstable system. If we couple a two-level system with a single NV center, then a dark state of the NV center naturally forms after the hybridization. We show that this dark state becomes robust against environmental fluctuations due to the coupling even when the coherence time of the two-level system is much shorter than that of the NV center. Our proposal opens a new way to use a quantum hybrid system for the realization of robust quantum information processing

id: 1404.1983
title: Nonadiabatic holonomic one-qubit gates
authors: Takumi Nitanda, Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 
journal: Bulletin of Science and Technology, Kinki University, No. 26, 1-5 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1983
abstract: Adiabatic quantum gate implementation generally takes longer time, which is disadvantageous in view of decoherence. In this report we implement several essential one-qubit quantum gates nonadiabatically by making use of a dynamical invariant associated with a Hamiltonian. Moreover we require that these gates be holonomic, that is, the dynamical phases associated with the gates vanish. Our implementation is based on our recent work [J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 83, 034001 (2014)] and the gate parameters required for the implementations are found by numerical optimization.

id: 1404.2052
title: An Efficient Quantum Jump Method for Coherent Energy Transfer Dynamics in Photosynthetic Systems under the Influence of Laser Fields
authors: Qing Ai, Yuan-Jia Fan, Bih-Yaw Jin, Yuan-Chung Cheng
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures, accepted by New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 16 053033 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2052
abstract: We present a non-Markovian quantum jump approach for simulating coherent energy transfer dynamics in molecular systems in the presence of laser fields. By combining a coherent modified Redfield theory (CMRT) and a non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) method, this new approach inherits the broad-range validity from the CMRT and highly efficient propagation from the NMQJ. To implement NMQJ propagation of CMRT, we show that the CMRT master equation can be casted into a generalized Lindblad form. Moreover, we extend the NMQJ approach to treat time-dependent Hamiltonian, enabling the description of excitonic systems under coherent laser fields. As a benchmark of the validity of this new method, we show that the CMRT-NMQJ method accurately describes the energy transfer dynamics in a prototypical photosynthetic complex. Finally, we apply this new approach to simulate the quantum dynamics of a dimer system coherently excited to coupled single-excitation states under the influence of laser fields, which allows us to investigate the interplay between the photoexcitation process and ultrafast energy transfer dynamics in the system. We demonstrate that laser-field parameters significantly affect coherence dynamics of photoexcitations in excitonic systems, which indicates that the photoexcitation process must be explicitly considered in order to properly describe photon-induced dynamics in photosynthetic systems. This work should provide a valuable tool for efficient simulations of coherent control of energy flow in photosynthetic systems and artificial optoelectronic materials.

id: 1404.2082
title: Lindblad equation for the decay of entanglement due to atmospheric scintillation
authors: Filippus S. Roux
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2082
abstract: The quantum state for the spatial degrees of freedom of photons propagating through turbulence is analyzed. The turbulent medium is modeled by a single phase screen for weak scintillation conditions and by multiple phase screens for general scintillation conditions. In the former case the process is represented by an operator product expansion, leading to an integral expression that is consistent with current models. In the latter case the evolution of the density operator is described by a first order differential equation with respect to the propagation distance. It is shown that this differential equation has the form of a Lindblad master equation. Additionally, it is shown that this differential equation can take on the form of the infinitesimal propagation equation.

id: 1404.2087
title: Appearance of Gibbs states in quantum-state tomography
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90, 062114 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2087
abstract: I investigate the extent to which the description of quantum systems by Gibbs states can be justified purely on the basis of tomographic data, without recourse to theoretical concepts such as infinite ensembles, environments, information, or to the systems' dynamics. I show that the use of Gibbs states amounts to a relevance hypothesis, which I spell out in detail. This hypothesis can be subjected to statistical hypothesis testing and hence assessed on the basis of the experimental data.

id: 1404.2102
title: Realization of a holonomic quantum computer in a chain of three-level systems
authors: Zeynep Nilhan G¨¹rkan, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2102
abstract: Holonomic quantum computation is the idea to use non-Abelian geometric phases to implement universal quantum gates that are robust to fluctuations in control parameters. Here, we propose a compact design for a holonomic quantum computer based on coupled three-level systems. The scheme does not require adiabatic evolution and can be implemented in arrays of atoms or ions trapped in tailored standing wave potentials. We demonstrate that perfect transfer of single-qubit states can be accomplished in the holonomic limit of the gates.

id: 1404.2114
title: Conway-Kochen and the Finite Precision Loophole
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2114
abstract: Recently Cator & Landsman made a comparison between Bell's Theorem and Conway & Kochen's Strong Free Will Theorem. Their overall conclusion was that the latter is stronger in that it uses fewer assumptions, but also that it has two shortcomings. Firstly, no experimental test of the Conway-Kochen Theorem has been performed thus far, and, secondly, because the Conway-Kochen Theorem is strongly connected to the Kochen-Specker Theorem it may be susceptible to the finite precision loophole of Meyer, Kent and Clifton. In this paper I show that the finite precision loophole does not apply to the Conway-Kochen Theorem.

id: 1404.2125
title: General complex Spin Weak Values obtained in Matter-Wave Interferometer Experiments
authors: Stephan Sponar, Tobias Denkmayr, Hermann Geppert, Hartmut Lemmel, Alexandre Matzkin, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2125
abstract: Weak values of the spin operator Sz of massive particles, more precisely neutrons, have been experimentally determined by applying a novel measurement scheme. This is achieved by coupling the neutron's spin weakly to its spatial degree of freedom in a single-neutron interferometer setup. The real and imaginary parts as well as the modulus of the weak value are obtained by a systematical variation of pre- and post-selected ensembles, which enables to study the complex properties of spin weak values.

id: 1404.2150
title: Preparation of quantum states of two spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ particles in the form of the Schmidt decomposition
authors: A. R. Kuzmak, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: accepted by Phys Lett A
journal: Physics Letters A 378, 1469 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2150
abstract: We consider a system of two spins that are coupled via an isotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian. For the first time, a two-step method for the preparation of an arbitrary quantum state of two qubits in the form of the Schmidt decomposition is proposed. The simplified version of this method is applied to the physical system of an atom having with a nuclear spin $1/2$ and one valence electron. As an example, the preparation of two-spin quantum states in the $^{31}$P system is considered.

id: 1404.2169
title: Thermodynamic cost of creating correlations
authors: Marcus Huber, Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Paul Skrzypczyk, Claude Kl?ckl, Nicolas Brunner, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, substantially rewritten with some new results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2169
abstract: We investigate the fundamental limitations imposed by thermodynamics for creating correlations. Considering a collection of initially uncorrelated thermal quantum systems, we ask how much classical and quantum correlations can be obtained via a cyclic Hamiltonian process. We derive bounds on both the mutual information and entanglement of formation, as a function of the temperature of the systems and the available energy. While for a finite number of systems there is a maximal temperature allowing for the creation of entanglement, we show that genuine multipartite entanglement---the strongest form of entanglement in multipartite systems---can be created at any temperature when sufficiently many systems are considered. This approach may find applications, e.g. in quantum information processing, for physical platforms in which thermodynamic considerations cannot be ignored.

id: 1404.2197
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution for Scarani-Acin-Ribordy-Gisin 04 protocol
authors: Akihiro Mizutani, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Rikizo Ikuta, Takashi Yamamoto, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 5236, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2197
abstract: The measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI QKD) was proposed to make BB84 completely free from any side-channel in detectors. Like in prepare & measure QKD, the use of other protocols in MDI setting would be advantageous in some practical situations. In this paper, we consider SARG04 protocol in MDI setting. The prepare & measure SARG04 is proven to be able to generate a key up to two-photon emission events. In MDI setting we show that the key generation is possible from the event with single or two-photon emission by a party and single-photon emission by the other party, but the two-photon emission event by both parties cannot contribute to the key generation. On the contrary to prepare & measure SARG04 protocol where the experimental setup is exactly the same as BB84, the measurement setup for SARG04 in MDI setting cannot be the same as that for BB84 since the measurement setup for BB84 in MDI setting induces too many bit errors. To overcome this problem, we propose two alternative experimental setups, and we simulate the resulting key rate. Our study highlights the requirements that MDI QKD poses on us regarding with the implementation of a variety of QKD protocols.

id: 1404.2200
title: Protocol for Counterfactually Transporting an Unknown Qubit
authors: Hatim Salih
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Some references added, some typos corrected, and other improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2200
abstract: Quantum teleportation circumvents the uncertainty principle using dual channels: a quantum one consisting of previously-shared entanglement, and a classical one, together allowing the disembodied transport of an unknown quantum state over distance. It has recently been shown that a classical bit can be counterfactually communicated between two parties in empty space, "Alice" and "Bob". Here, using a novel "dual" version of the chained quantum Zeno effect, we propose a protocol for transporting an unknown qubit counterfactually, that is without any physical particles travelling between Alice and Bob - no classical channel and no previously-shared entanglement.

id: 1404.2208
title: Codification Volume of an operator algebra and its irreversible growth through thermal processes
authors: Javier M. Magan, Simone Paganelli
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2208
abstract: Given a many-body system, we define a quantity, the Codification Volume of an operator algebra, which measures the size of the subspace with whom a given algebra is correlated. We explicitly calculate it for some limit cases, including vacuum states of local Hamiltonians and random states taken from the Haar ensemble. We argue that this volume should grow irreversibly in a thermalization process, and illustrate it numerically on a non-integrable quantum spin chain.

id: 1404.2349
title: Optical Hybrid Quantum Information Processing
authors: Shuntaro Takeda, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2349
abstract: Historically, two complementary approaches to optical quantum information processing have been pursued: qubits and continuous-variables, each exploiting either particle or wave nature of light. However, both approaches have pros and cons. In recent years, there has been a significant progress in combining both approaches with a view to realizing hybrid protocols that overcome the current limitations. In this chapter, we first review the development of the two approaches with a special focus on quantum teleportation and its applications. We then introduce our recent research progress in realizing quantum teleportation by a hybrid scheme, and mention its future applications to universal and fault-tolerant quantum information processing.

id: 1404.2423
title: Universal Set of Quantum Gates for Double-Dot Exchange-Only Spin Qubits with Intradot Coupling
authors: Marco De Michielis, Elena Ferraro, Marco Fanciulli, Enrico Prati
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2423
abstract: We present a universal set of quantum gate operations based on exchange-only spin qubits in a double quantum dot, where each qubit is obtained by three electrons in the (2,1) filling. Gate operations are addressed by modulating electrostatically the tunneling barrier and the energy offset between the two dots, singly and doubly occupied respectively. We propose explicit gate sequences of single qubit operations for Hadamard gate and $\pi$/8 gate, and the two-qubit controlled NOT (CNOT) gate, to complete the universal set. The unswitchable interaction between the two electrons of the doubly occupied quantum dot is taken into account. Short gate times are obtained by employing spin density functional theory simulations.

id: 1404.2429
title: The Extended Bloch Representation of Quantum Mechanics and the Hidden-Measurement Solution to the Measurement Problem
authors: Diederik Aerts, Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 44 pages and 9 figures. appears in Annals of Physics (2014)
journal: Annals of Physics 351, 975-1025 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2429
abstract: A generalized Bloch sphere, in which the states of a quantum entity of arbitrary dimension are geometrically represented, is investigated and further extended, to also incorporate the measurements. This extended representation constitutes a general solution to the measurement problem, inasmuch it allows to derive the Born rule as an average over hidden-variables, describing not the state of the quantum entity, but its interaction with the measuring system. According to this modelization, a quantum measurement is to be understood, in general, as a tripartite process, formed by an initial deterministic decoherence-like process, a subsequent indeterministic collapse-like process, and a final deterministic purification-like process. We also show that quantum probabilities can be generally interpreted as the probabilities of a first-order non-classical theory, describing situations of maximal lack of knowledge regarding the process of actualization of potential interactions, during a measurement.

id: 1404.2453
title: A Quantum Gate between a Flying Optical Photon and a Single Trapped Atom
authors: Andreas Reiserer, Norbert Kalb, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan Ritter
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature 508, 237-240 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2453
abstract: The steady increase in control over individual quantum systems has backed the dream of a quantum technology that provides functionalities beyond any classical device. Two particularly promising applications have been explored during the past decade: First, photon-based quantum communication, which guarantees unbreakable encryption but still has to be scaled to high rates over large distances. Second, quantum computation, which will fundamentally enhance computability if it can be scaled to a large number of quantum bits. It was realized early on that a hybrid system of light and matter qubits could solve the scalability problem of both fields - that of communication via quantum repeaters, that of computation via an optical interconnect between smaller quantum processors. To this end, the development of a robust two-qubit gate that allows to link distant computational nodes is "a pressing challenge". Here we demonstrate such a quantum gate between the spin state of a single trapped atom and the polarization state of an optical photon contained in a faint laser pulse. The presented gate mechanism is deterministic, robust and expected to be applicable to almost any matter qubit. It is based on reflecting the photonic qubit from a cavity that provides strong light-matter coupling. To demonstrate its versatility, we use the quantum gate to create atom-photon, atom-photon-photon, and photon-photon entangled states from separable input states. We expect our experiment to break ground for various applications, including the generation of atomic and photonic cluster states, Schr\"odinger-cat states, deterministic photonic Bell-state measurements, and quantum communication using a redundant quantum parity code.

id: 1404.2454
title: Zeno Dynamics for Open Quantum Systems
authors: J.E. Gough
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics, 21, Issue 3, pp. 337-347, July (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2454
abstract: In this paper we formulate limit Zeno dynamics of general open systems as the adiabatic elimination of fast components. We are able to exploit previous work on adiabatic elimination of quantum stochastic models to give explicitly the conditions under which open Zeno dynamics will exist. The open systems formulation is further developed as a framework for Zeno master equations, and Zeno filtering (that is, quantum trajectories based on a limit Zeno dynamical model). We discuss several models from the point of view of quantum control. For the case of linear quantum stochastic systems we present a condition for stability of the asymptotic Zeno dynamics.

id: 1404.2478
title: Effects of a uniform acceleration on atom-field interactions
authors: Jamir Marino, Antonio Noto, Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo
comments: 6 pages. Special Issue: 20th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics - Stockholm - June 2013
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2478
abstract: We review some quantum electrodynamical effects related to the uniform acceleration of atoms in vacuum. After discussing the energy level shifts of a uniformly accelerated atom in vacuum, we investigate the atom-wall Casimir-Polder force for accelerated atoms, and the van der Waals/Casimir-Polder interaction between two accelerated atoms. The possibility of detecting the Unruh effect through these phenomena is also discussed in detail.

id: 1404.2479
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder potentials in non-adiabatic conditions
authors: Riccardo Messina, Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo, Ruggero Vasile
comments: 6 pages; Special Issue: 20th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics - Stockholm - June 2013
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2479
abstract: In this paper we review different aspects of the dynamical Casimir- Polder potential between a neutral atom and a perfectly conducting plate under nonequilibrium conditions. In order to calculate the time evolution of the atom-wall Casimir-Polder potential, we solve the Heisenberg equations describing the dynamics of the coupled system using an iterative technique. Different nonequilibrium initial states are considered, such as bare and partially dressed states. The partially dressed states considered are obtained by a sudden change of a physical parameter of the atom or of its position relative to the conducting plate. Experimental feasibility of detecting the considered dynamical effects is also discussed.

id: 1404.2495
title: Simple scheme for encoding and decoding a qubit in unknown state for various topological codes
authors: Justyna ?odyga, Pawe? Mazurek, Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2495
abstract: We present a scheme for encoding and decoding an unknown state for CSS codes, based on syndrome measurements. We illustrate our method by means of Kitaev toric code, defected-lattice code, topological subsystem code and Haah 3D code. The protocol is local whenever in a given code the crossings between the logical operators consist of next neighbour pairs, which holds for the above codes. For subsystem code we also present scheme in a noisy case, where we allow for bit and phase-flip errors on qubits as well as state preparation and syndrome measurement errors. Similar scheme can be built for two other codes. We show that the fidelity of the protected qubit in the noisy scenario in a large code size limit is of $1-\mathcal{O}(p)$, where $p$ is a probability of error on a single qubit. Regarding Haah code we provide noiseless scheme, leaving the noisy case as an open problem.

id: 1404.2502
title: Knob for Markovianity
authors: Frederico Brito, Thiago Werlang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2502
abstract: We study the Markovianity of a composite system and its subsystems. We show how the dissipative nature of a subsystem dynamics can be modified without having to change properties of the composite system environment. By means of manipulating the system initial state or the subsystem couplings, we find that it is possible to induce a transition from Markov to non-Markov behavior, and vice versa, and have different behaviors for subsystem and composite system at the same time.

id: 1404.2519
title: Band-selective shaped pulse for high fidelity quantum control in diamond
authors: Yan-Chun Chang, Jian Xing, Fei-Hao Zhang, Gang-Qin Liu, Qian-Qing Jiang, Wu-Xia Li, Chang-Zhi Gu, Gui-Lu Long, Xin-Yu Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 104 , 262403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2519
abstract: High fidelity quantum control over qubits is of crucial importance for realistic quantum computing, and it turns to be more challenging when there are inevitable interactions among qubits. By employing a bandselective shaped pulse, we demonstrate a high fidelity flip over electron spin of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. In contrast with traditional rectangular pulses, the shaped pulse has almost equal excitation effect among a sharply edged region (in frequency domain). So the three sub-levels of host $^{14}N$ nuclear spin can be flipped accurately at the same time, while the redundant flip of other sublevels (e. g. of a nearby $^{13}C$ nuclear spin ) is well suppressed. The shaped pulse can be applied to a large amount of quantum systems in which band-selective operation are required.

id: 1404.2527
title: Minimal ancilla mediated quantum computation
authors: Timothy J. Proctor, Viv Kendon
comments: Content identical to published version. (12 pages, 3 figures)
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 2014 1:13
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2527
abstract: Schemes of universal quantum computation in which the interactions between the computational elements, in a computational register, are mediated by some ancillary system are of interest due to their relevance to the physical implementation of a quantum computer. Furthermore, reducing the level of control required over both the ancillary and register systems has the potential to simplify any experimental implementation. In this paper we consider how to minimise the control needed to implement universal quantum computation in an ancilla-mediated fashion. Considering computational schemes which require no measurements and hence evolve by unitary dynamics for the global system, we show that when employing an ancilla qubit there are certain fixed-time ancilla-register interactions which, along with ancilla initialisation in the computational basis, are universal for quantum computation with no additional control of either the ancilla or the register. We develop two distinct models based on locally inequivalent interactions and we then discuss the relationship between these unitary models and the measurement-based ancilla-mediated models known as ancilla-driven quantum computation.

id: 1404.2532
title: Casimir energy for surfaces with constant conductivity
authors: Nail Khusnutdinov, D. Drosdoff, Lilia M. Woods
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D89, 085033 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2532
abstract: We consider the vacuum energy of the electromagnetic field in systems characterized by a constant conductivity using the zeta-regularization approach. The interaction in two cases is investigated: two infinitely thin parallel sheets and an infinitely thin spherical shell. We found that the Casimir energy for the planar system is always attractive and it has the same characteristic distance dependence as the interaction for two perfect semi-infinite metals. The Casimir energy for the spherical shell depends on the inverse radius of the sphere, but it maybe negative or positive depending on the value of the conductivity. If the conductivity is less than a certain critical value, the interaction is attractive, otherwise the Casimir force is repulsive regardless of the spherical shell radius.

id: 1404.2568
title: Calculating Casimir interactions for Periodic Surface Relief Gratings using the C-Method
authors: Jef Wagner, Roya Zandi
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2568
abstract: We develop a formalism to calculate the fluctuation-induced interactions in periodic systems. The formalism, which combines the scattering theory with the C method borrowed from electromagnetic gratings studies, is suitable and efficient for the calculation of the Casimir forces involving surface relief gratings. We apply the developed technique to obtain the energy and lateral force for simple 1-D sinusoidal gratings. Using this formalism we derived known asymptotic expressions that were previously obtained through perturbative approximations. At close separation, our numerical results match those obtained by the proximity force approximation and its first correction using the derivative expansion.

id: 1404.2621
title: Device-independent certification of high-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Fabrizio Bisesto, Fabio Sciarrino, Johanna F. Barra, Gustavo Lima, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112 (2014) 140503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2621
abstract: An important problem in quantum information processing is the certification of the dimension of quantum systems without making assumptions about the devices used to prepare and measure them, that is, in a device-independent manner. A crucial question is whether such certification is experimentally feasible for high-dimensional quantum systems. Here we experimentally witness in a device-independent manner the generation of six-dimensional quantum systems encoded in the orbital angular momentum of single photons and show that the same method can be scaled, at least, up to dimension 13.

id: 1404.2635
title: The quantum-to-classical transition and decoherence
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer
comments: 22 pages. To appear in: M. Aspelmeyer, T. Calarco, J. Eisert, and F. Schmidt-Kaler (eds.), "Handbook of Quantum Information" (Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2635
abstract: I give a pedagogical overview of decoherence and its role in providing a dynamical account of the quantum-to-classical transition. The formalism and concepts of decoherence theory are reviewed, followed by a survey of master equations and decoherence models. I also discuss methods for mitigating decoherence in quantum information processing and describe selected experimental investigations of decoherence processes.

id: 1404.2643
title: Quantum Benchmark via an Uncertainty Product of Canonical Variables
authors: Ryo Namiki, Koji Azuma
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Corollary 2 is extended for stochastic quantum channels. To appear Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2643
abstract: We present an uncertainty-relation-type quantum benchmark for continuous-variable (CV) quantum channels that works with an input ensemble of Gaussian distributed coherent states and homodyne measurements. It determines an optimal trade-off relation between canonical quadrature noises unbeatable by entanglement breaking channels and refines the notion of two quantum duties introduced in the original papers of CV quantum teleportation. It can verify the quantum-domain performance for all one-mode Gaussian channels.We also address the case of stochastic channels and the effect of asymmetric gains.

id: 1404.2672
title: Two-mode squeezed states in cavity optomechanics via engineering of a single reservoir
authors: M. J. Woolley, A. A. Clerk
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063805 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2672
abstract: We study theoretically a three-mode optomechanical system where two mechanical oscillators are independently coupled to a single cavity mode. By optimized two-tone or four-tone driving of the cavity one can prepare the mechanical oscillators in an entangled two-mode squeezed state, even if they start in a thermal state. The highly-pure, symmetric steady-state achieved allows the optimal fidelity of standard continuous-variable teleportation protocols to be achieved. In contrast to other reservoir engineering approaches to generating mechanical entanglement, only a single reservoir is required to prepare the highly-pure entangled steady-state, greatly simplifying experimental implementation. The entanglement may be verified via a bound on the Duan inequality obtained from the cavity output spectrum. A similar technique may be used for the preparation of a highly-pure two-mode squeezed state of two cavity modes, coupled to a common mechanical oscillator.

id: 1404.2675
title: Beyond Gisin's Theorem and its Applications: Violation of Local Realism by Two-Party Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Hong-Yi Su, Zhen-Peng Xu, Yu-Chun Wu, Chunfeng Wu, Xiang-Jun Ye, Marek Zukowski, L. C. Kwek
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2675
abstract: We demonstrate here that for a given mixed multi-qubit state if there are at least two observers for whom mutual Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering is possible, i.e. each observer is able to steer the other qubits into two different pure states by spontaneous collapses due to von Neumann type measurements on his/her qubit, then nonexistence of local realistic models is fully equivalent to quantum entanglement (this is not so without this condition). This result leads to an enhanced version of Gisin's theorem (originally: all pure entangled states violate local realism). Local realism is violated by all mixed states with the above steering property. The new class of states allows one e.g. to perform three party secret sharing with just pairs of entangled qubits, instead of three qubit entanglements (which are currently available with low fidelity). This significantly increases the feasibility of having high performance versions of such protocols. Finally, we discuss some possible applications.

id: 1404.2680
title: Compressive Direct Measurement of the Quantum Wave Function
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Omar S. Maga?a-Loaiza, Seyed Mohammad Hashemi Rafsanjani, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 090402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2680
abstract: The direct measurement of a complex wavefunction has been recently realized by using weak-values. In this paper, we introduce a method that exploits sparsity for compressive measurement of the transverse spatial wavefunction of photons. The procedure involves a weak measurement in random projection operators in the spatial domain followed by a post-selection in the momentum basis. Using this method, we experimentally measure a 192-dimensional state with a fidelity of $90\%$ using only $25$ percent of the total required measurements. Furthermore, we demonstrate measurement of a 19200 dimensional state; a task that would require an unfeasibly large acquiring time with the conventional direct measurement technique.

id: 1404.2698
title: Two-party LOCC convertibility of quadpartite states and Kraus-Cirac number of two-qubit unitaries
authors: Akihito Soeda, Seiseki Akibue, Mio Murao
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures; accepted for publication in a special issue of Journal of Physics A, "50 years of Bell's theorem"; almost published version
journal: 2014 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 424036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2698
abstract: Nonlocal properties (globalness) of a non-separable unitary determine how the unitary affects the entanglement properties of a quantum state. We apply a given two-qubit unitary on a quadpartite system including two reference systems and analyze its "LOCC partial invertibility" under two-party LOCC. A decomposition given by Kraus and Cirac for two-qubit unitaries shows that the globalness is completely characterized by three parameters. Our analysis shows that the number of non-zero parameters (the Kraus-Cirac number) has an operational significance when converting entanglement properties of multipartite states. All two-qubit unitaries have the Kraus-Cirac number at most 3, while those with at most 1 or 2 are equivalent, up to local unitaries, to a controlled-unitary or matchgate, respectively. The presented operational framework distinguishes the untaries with the Kraus-Cirac number 2 and 3, which was not possible by the known measure of the operator Schmidt decomposition. We also analyze how the Kraus-Cirac number changes when two or more two-qubit unitaries are applied sequentially.

id: 1404.2709
title: Characterization of how errors accumulate in quantum computers
authors: J. Gulliksen, D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, K. M?lmer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2709
abstract: We study the achievements of quantum circuits comprised of several one- and two-qubit gates. Quantum process matrices are determined for the basic one- and two-qubit gate operations and concatenated to yield the process matrix of the combined quantum circuit. Examples are given of process matrices obtained by a Monte Carlo wave function analysis of Rydberg blockade gates in neutral atoms. Our analysis is ideally suited to compare different implementations of the same process. In particular, we show that the three-qubit Toffoli gate facilitated by the simultaneous interaction between all atoms may be accomplished with higher fidelity than a concatenation of one- and two-qubit gates.

id: 1404.2749
title: Generation, manipulation, and detection of two-qubit entanglement in waveguide QED
authors: C. Gonzalez-Ballestero, Esteban Moreno, F.J. Garcia-Vidal
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042328 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2749
abstract: We study the possibility of using guided photons to generate, control, and measure the entanglement of two qubits that is mediated by a one-dimensional waveguide. We show how entanglement can be generated both with single photon and with two-photon wavepackets. The introduction of a second photon allows for a manipulation of the entanglement between the qubits, and phenomena such as sudden death and revival of entanglement appear. Finally, we propose a procedure for entanglement detection via the scattering output of a single-photon over a qubit state.

id: 1404.2761
title: Implications of quantum automata for contextuality
authors: Jibran Rashid, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2761
abstract: We construct zero-error quantum finite automata (QFAs) for promise problems which cannot be solved by bounded-error probabilistic finite automata (PFAs). Here is a summary of our results: - There is a promise problem solvable by an exact two-way QFA in exponential expected time, but not by any bounded-error sublogarithmic space probabilistic Turing machine (PTM). - There is a promise problem solvable by an exact two-way QFA in quadratic expected time, but not by any bounded-error $ o(\log \log n) $-space PTMs in polynomial expected time. The same problem can be solvable by a one-way Las Vegas (or exact two-way) QFA with quantum head in linear (expected) time. - There is a promise problem solvable by a Las Vegas realtime QFA, but not by any bounded-error realtime PFA. The same problem can be solvable by an exact two-way QFA in linear expected time but not by any exact two-way PFA. - There is a family of promise problems such that each promise problem can be solvable by a two-state exact realtime QFAs, but, there is no such bound on the number of states of realtime bounded-error PFAs solving the members this family. Our results imply that there exist zero-error quantum computational devices with a \emph{single qubit} of memory that cannot be simulated by any finite memory classical computational model. This provides a computational perspective on results regarding ontological theories of quantum mechanics \cite{Hardy04}, \cite{Montina08}. As a consequence we find that classical automata based simulation models \cite{Kleinmann11}, \cite{Blasiak13} are not sufficiently powerful to simulate quantum contextuality. We conclude by highlighting the interplay between results from automata models and their application to developing a general framework for quantum contextuality.

id: 1404.2777
title: Effects of interactions on the dynamics of driven cold atoms
authors: Alexandra Bakman, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2777
abstract: The quantum fidelity was introduced by Peres to study some fingerprints of classically chaotic behavior in the quantum dynamics of the corresponding systems. In the present paper the signatures of classical dynamics near elliptic points and of interactions between particles are characterized for kicked systems. In particular, the period of the fidelity resulting of the interactions is found using analytical and numerical calculations. A mechanism leading to the oscillations with the intermediate period is proposed. It is of a semiclassical origin and results of the interplay between the oscillations of the width of the wave packets and the rotation of their center around the elliptic fixed point.

id: 1404.2784
title: On the problem of the interpretation of quantum physics
authors: A. A. Grib
comments: 36 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics - Uspekhi 56, No. 12 (2013) 1230-1244
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2784
abstract: Current thinking on the interpretation of quantum physics is reviewed, with special detail given to the Copenhagen and Everett many-worlds interpretations.

id: 1404.2868
title: Fermion-Fermion Scattering in Quantum Field Theory with Superconducting Circuits
authors: L. Garc¨ªa-?lvarez, J. Casanova, A. Mezzacapo, I. L. Egusquiza, L. Lamata, G. Romero, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages + Supplemental Material, 2 + 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 070502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2868
abstract: We propose an analog-digital quantum simulation of fermion-fermion scattering mediated by a continuum of bosonic modes within a circuit quantum electrodynamics scenario. This quantum technology naturally provides strong coupling of superconducting qubits with a continuum of electromagnetic modes in an open transmission line. In this way, we propose qubits to efficiently simulate fermionic modes via digital techniques, while we consider the continuum complexity of an open transmission line to simulate the continuum complexity of bosonic modes in quantum field theories. Therefore, we believe that the complexity-simulating-complexity concept should become a leading paradigm in any effort towards scalable quantum simulations.

id: 1404.2876
title: Single Photon Transistor Mediated by Inter-State Rydberg Interaction
authors: Hannes Gorniaczyk, Christoph Tresp, Johannes Schmidt, Helmut Fedder, Sebastian Hofferberth
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters on March 27, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2876
abstract: We report on the realization of an all-optical transistor by mapping gate and source photons into strongly interacting Rydberg excitations with different principal quantum numbers in an ultracold atomic ensemble. We obtain a record switch contrast of 40 % for a coherent gate input with mean photon number one and demonstrate attenuation of source transmission by over 10 photons with a single gate photon. We use our optical transistor to demonstrate the nondestructive detection of a single Rydberg atom with a fidelity of 0.72(4).

id: 1404.2877
title: Quantum process tomography of unitary and near-unitary maps
authors: Charles H. Baldwin, Amir Kalev, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2877
abstract: We study quantum process tomography given the prior information that the map is a unitary or close to a unitary process. We show that a unitary map on a $d$-level system is completely characterized by a minimal set of $d^2{+}d$ elements associated with a collection of POVMs, in contrast to the $d^4{-}d^2$ elements required for a general completely positive trace-preserving map. To achieve this lower bound, one must probe the map with a particular set of $d$ pure states. We further compare the performance of different compressed sensing algorithms used to reconstruct a near-unitary process from such data. We find that when we have accurate prior information, an appropriate compressed sensing method reduces the required data needed for high-fidelity estimation, and different estimators applied to the same data are sensitive to different types of noise. Compressed sensing techniques can therefore be used both as indicators of error models and to validate the use of the prior assumptions.

id: 1404.2908
title: Galilei covariance and Einstein's equivalence principle in quantum reference frames
authors: S. T. Pereira, R. M. Angelo
comments: 7 pages, thoroughly revised, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022107 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2908
abstract: The covariance of the Schr\"odinger equation under Galilei boosts and the compatibility of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics with Einstein's equivalence principle have been constrained for so long to the existence of a superselection rule which would prevent a quantum particle from being found in superposition states of different masses. In an effort to avoid this expedient, and thus allow nonrelativistic quantum mechanics to account for unstable particles, recent works have suggested that the usual Galilean transformations are inconsistent with the nonrelativistic limit implied by the Lorentz transformation. Here we approach the issue in a fundamentally different way. Using a formalism of unitary transformations and employing quantum reference frames rather than immaterial coordinate systems, we show that the Schr\"odinger equation, although form variant, is fully compatible with the aforementioned principles of relativity.

id: 1404.2970
title: Scaling of the known exact explicit forms of the non-interacting kinetic-energy density functional
authors: L¨¢zaro Calder¨ªn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2970
abstract: It has been previously proven that the Kohn-Sham kinetic energy functional scales homogeneusly under generalized coordinate scaling, in a way that is obeyed by the von Weiz\"acker functional, but seems to be in contradiction with the scaling of the Thomas-Fermi functional. A very puzzling situation, taking in to account that the von Weiz\"acker and Thomas-Fermi functionals are exact cases of the Kohn-Sham kinetic energy functional for two electron systems, and the non-interacting electron gas, respectively. The apparent contradiction is resolved in this paper.

id: 1404.3028
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox in twin images
authors: Paul-Antoine Moreau, Fabrice Devaux, Eric Lantz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3028
abstract: Spatially entangled twin photons provide both promising resources for modern quantum information protocols, because of the high dimensionality of transverse entanglement, and a test of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen(EPR) paradox in its original form of position versus impulsion. Usually, photons in temporal coincidence are selected and their positions recorded, resulting in a priori assumptions on their spatio-temporal behavior. Here, we record on two separate electron-multiplying charge coupled devices (EMCCD) cameras twin images of the entire flux of spontaneous down-conversion. This ensures a strict equivalence between the subsystems corresponding to the detection of either position (image or near-field plane) or momentum (Fourier or far-field plane). We report then highest degree of paradox ever reported and show that this degree corresponds to the number of independent degrees of freedom or resolution cells, of the images.

id: 1404.3035
title: Structure of the sets of mutually unbiased bases with cyclic symmetry
authors: Ulrich Seyfarth, Luis L. Sanchez-Soto, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3035
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases that can be cyclically generated by a single unitary operator are of special interest, since they can be readily implemented in practice. We show that, for a system of qubits, finding such a generator can be cast as the problem of finding a symmetric matrix over the field $\mathbb{F}_2$ equipped with an irreducible characteristic polynomial of a given Fibonacci index. The entanglement structure of the resulting complete sets is determined by two additive matrices of the same size.

id: 1404.3042
title: Acausal measurement-based quantum computing
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 010101(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3042
abstract: In the measurement-based quantum computing, there is a natural "causal cone" among qubits of the resource state, since the measurement angle on a qubit has to depend on previous measurement results in order to correct the effect of byproduct operators. If we respect the no-signaling principle, byproduct operators cannot be avoided. In this paper, we study the possibility of acausal measurement-based quantum computing by using the process matrix framework [O. Oreshkov, F. Costa, and C. Brukner, Nature Communications {\bf3}, 1092 (2012)]. We construct a resource process matrix for acausal measurement-based quantum computing. The resource process matrix is an analog of the resource state of the causal measurement-based quantum computing. We find that the resource process matrix is (up to a normalization factor and trivial ancilla qubits) equivalent to the decorated graph state created from the graph state of the corresponding causal measurement-based quantum computing.

id: 1404.3061
title: Single-Photon Transistor Using a F?rster Resonance
authors: Daniel Tiarks, Simon Baur, Katharina Schneider, Stephan D¨¹rr, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 053602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3061
abstract: An all-optical transistor is a device in which a gate light pulse switches the transmission of a target light pulse with a gain above unity. The gain quantifies the change of the transmitted target photon number per incoming gate photon. We study the quantum limit of one incoming gate photon and observe a gain of 20. The gate pulse is stored as a Rydberg excitation in an ultracold gas. The transmission of the subsequent target pulse is suppressed by Rydberg blockade which is enhanced by a F\"orster resonance. The detected target photons reveal in a single shot with a fidelity above 0.86 whether a Rydberg excitation was created during the gate pulse. The gain offers the possibility to distribute the transistor output to the inputs of many transistors, thus making complex computational tasks possible.

id: 1404.3071
title: Quantum-thermal self-diffusion as a hydrodynamic mechanism for the fluctuation relaxation
authors: O.N. Golubjeva, S.V. Sidorov
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1112.1598
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3071
abstract: We propose a generalization of quantum mechanical equations in the hydrodynamic form by introducing, into the Lagrangian density, terms taking into account the diffusion velocity at zero and finite temperatures and the diffusion pressure energy of the warm vacuum. Based on this, for the model of one-dimensional hydrodynamics, we construct a system of equations that are analogous to the Euler equations but with the inclusion of quantum and thermal effects. They are a generalization of equations of the Nelson stochastic mechanics. The numerical analysis of the behavior of solutions of this system allows concluding that this system can be used to describe the process of quantum-thermal fluctuation relaxation.

id: 1404.3115
title: Quantum Brownian motion near a point-like reflecting boundary
authors: V. A. De Lorenci, E. S. Moreira Jr., M. M. Silva
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review D 90, 027702 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3115
abstract: The Brownian motion of a test particle interacting with a quantum scalar field in the presence of a perfectly reflecting boundary is studied in (1 + 1)-dimensional flat spacetime. Particularly, the expressions for dispersions in velocity and position of the particle are explicitly derived and their behaviors examined. The results are similar to those corresponding to an electric charge interacting with a quantum electromagnetic field near a reflecting plane boundary, mainly regarding the divergent behavior of the dispersions at the origin (where the boundary is placed), and at the time interval corresponding to a round trip of a light pulse between the particle and the boundary. We close by addressing some effects of allowing the position of the particle to fluctuate.

id: 1404.3133
title: Utilizing Nitrogen Vacancy Centers to measure oscillating magnetic fields
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry
comments: 12 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3133
abstract: We show how nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers can be used to determine the amplitude, phase and frequency of unknown weak monochromatic and multichromatic oscillating magnetic fields using only the periodic dynamical decoupling (PDD) and Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequences. The effect of decoherence on the measurement of the magnetic field parameters is explicitly analyzed, and we take into account the fact that different pulse sequences suppress decoherence to different extents. Since the sensitivity increases with increasing sensing time while it decreases due to decoherence, we use the Fisher information matrix in order to optimize the number of pulses that should be used.

id: 1404.3137
title: Optimal control of a qubit in an optical cavity
authors: Sebastian Deffner
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 145502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3137
abstract: We study quantum information processing by means of optimal control theory. To this end, we analyze the damped Jaynes-Cummings model, and derive optimal control protocols that minimize the heating or energy dispersion rates, and controls that drive the system at the quantum speed limit. Special emphasis is put on analyzing the subtleties of optimal control theory for our system. In particular, it is shown how two fundamentally different approaches to the quantum speed limit can be reconciled by carefully formulating the problem.

id: 1404.3150
title: Assessing the non-equilibrium thermodynamics in a quenched quantum many-body system via single projective measurements
authors: L. Fusco, S. Pigeon, T. J. G. Apollaro, A. Xuereb, L. Mazzola, M. Campisi, A. Ferraro, M. Paternostro, G. De Chiara
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4. Revised version: Accepted for publication in PRX
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031029 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3150
abstract: We analyse the nature of the statistics of the work done on or by a quantum many-body system brought out of equilibrium. We show that, for the sudden quench and for an initial state which commutes with the initial Hamiltonian, it is possible to retrieve the whole non-equilibrium thermodynamics via single projective measurements of observables. We highlight in a physically clear way the qualitative implications for the statistics of work coming from considering processes described by operators that either commute or do not commute with the unperturbed Hamiltonian of a given system. We consider a quantum many-body system and derive an expression that allows us to give a physical interpretation, for a thermal initial state, to all of the cumulants of the work in the case of quenched operators commuting with the unperturbed Hamiltonian. In the commuting case the observables that we need to measure have an intuitive physical meaning. Conversely, in the non-commuting case we show that, although it is possible to operate fully within the single-measurement framework irrespectively of the size of the quench, some difficulties are faced in providing a clear-cut physical interpretation to the cumulants. This circumstance makes the study of the physics of the system non-trivial and highlights the non-intuitive phenomenology of the emergence of thermodynamics from the fully quantum microscopic description. We illustrate our ideas with the example of the Ising model in a transverse field showing the interesting behaviour of the high-order statistical moments of the work distribution for a generic thermal state and linking them to the critical nature of the model itself.

id: 1404.3182
title: Characteristic Operator Functions for Quantum Input-Plant-Output Models & Coherent Control
authors: J.E. Gough
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure (To appear Journal Mathematical Physics, January 2015)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56, 013506 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3182
abstract: We introduce the characteristic operator as the generalization of the usual concept of a transfer function of linear input-plant-output systems to arbitrary quantum nonlinear Markovian input-output models. This is intended as a tool in the characterization of quantum feedback control systems that fits in with the general theory of networks. The definition exploits the linearity of noise differentials in both the plant Heisenberg equations of motion and the differential form of the input-output relations. Mathematically, the characteristic operator is a matrix of dimension equal to the number of outputs times the number of inputs (which must coincide), but with entries that are operators of the plant system. In this sense the characteristic operator retains details of the effective plant dynamical structure and is an essentially quantum object. We illustrate the relevance to model reduction and simplification by showing that the convergence of the characteristic operator in adiabatic elimination limit models requires the same conditions and assumptions appearing in the work on limit quantum stochastic differential theorems of Bouten and Silberfarb. This approach also shows in a natural way that the limit coefficients of the quantum stochastic differential equations in adiabatic elimination problems arise algebraically as Schur complements, and amounts to a model reduction where the fast degrees of freedom are decoupled from the slow ones, and eliminated.

id: 1404.3214
title: Bounds on quantum communication via Newtonian gravity
authors: D. Kafri, G. J. Milburn, J. M. Taylor
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3214
abstract: Newtonian gravity yields specific observable consequences, the most striking of which is the emergence of a $1/r^2$ force. In so far as communication can arise via such interactions between distant particles, we can ask what would be expected for a theory of gravity that only allows classical communication. Many heuristic suggestions for gravity-induced decoherence have this restriction implicitly or explicitly in their construction. Here we show that communication via a $1/r^2$ force has a minimum noise induced in the system when the communication cannot convey quantum information, in a continuous time analogue to Bell's inequalities. Our derived noise bounds provide tight constraints from current experimental results on any theory of gravity that does not allow quantum communication.

id: 1404.3225
title: The best Fisher is upstream: data processing inequalities for quantum metrology
authors: Christopher Ferrie
comments: Comments encouraged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 014101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3225
abstract: We apply the classical data processing inequality to quantum metrology to show that manipulating the classical information from a quantum measurement cannot aid in the estimation of parameters encoded in quantum states. We further derive a quantum data processing inequality to show that coherent manipulation of quantum data also cannot improve the precision in estimation. In addition, we comment on the assumptions necessary to arrive at these inequalities and how they might be avoided providing insights into enhancement procedures which are not provably wrong.

id: 1404.3236
title: Extending Noether's theorem by quantifying the asymmetry of quantum states
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: Originally submitted version, Revised version to appear in Nature Communications, 6 pages + 4 pages Supplementary Material
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3821 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3236
abstract: Noether's theorem is a fundamental result in physics stating that every symmetry of the dynamics implies a conservation law. It is, however, deficient in several respects: (i) it is not applicable to dynamics wherein the system interacts with an environment, and (ii) even in the case where the system is isolated, if the quantum state is mixed then the Noether conservation laws do not capture all of the consequences of the symmetries. To address these deficiencies, we introduce measures of the extent to which a quantum state breaks a symmetry. Such measures yield novel constraints on state transitions: for nonisolated systems, they cannot increase, while for isolated systems they are conserved. We demonstrate that the problem of finding nontrivial asymmetry measures can be solved using the tools of quantum information theory. Applications include deriving model-independent bounds on the quantum noise in amplifiers and assessing quantum schemes for achieving high-precision metrology.

id: 1404.3242
title: Observation and interpretation of motional sideband asymmetry in a quantum electro-mechanical device
authors: A. J. Weinstein, C. U. Lei, E. E. Wollman, J. Suh, A. Metelmann, A. A. Clerk, K. C. Schwab
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3242
abstract: Quantum electro-mechanical systems offer a unique opportunity to probe quantum noise properties in macroscopic devices, properties which ultimately stem from the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. A simple example of this is expected to occur in a microwave parametric transducer, where mechanical motion generates motional sidebands corresponding to the up and down frequency-conversion of microwave photons. Due to quantum vacuum noise, the rates of these processes are expected to be unequal. We measure this fundamental imbalance in a microwave transducer coupled to a radio-frequency mechanical mode, cooled near the ground state of motion. We also discuss the subtle origin of this imbalance: depending on the measurement scheme, the imbalance is most naturally attributed to the quantum fluctuations of either the mechanical mode or of the electromagnetic field.

id: 1404.3264
title: Partial traces in decoherence and in interpretation: What do reduced states refer to?
authors: Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 26 pages
journal: S. Fortin and O. Lombardi, Found Phys (2014) 44, 426-446
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3264
abstract: The interpretation of the concept of reduced state is a subtle issue that has relevant consequences when the task is the interpretation of quantum mechanics itself. The aim of this paper is to argue that reduced states are not the quantum states of subsystems in the same sense as quantum states are states of the whole composite system. After clearly stating the problem, our argument is developed in three stages. First, we consider the phenomenon of environment-induced decoherence as an example of the case in which the subsystems interact with each other; we show that decoherence does not solve the measurement problem precisely because the reduced state of the measuring apparatus is not its quantum state. Second, the non-interacting case is illustrated in the context of no-collapse interpretations, in which we show that certain well-known experimental results cannot be accounted for due to the fact that the reduced states of the measured system and the measuring apparatus are conceived as their quantum states. Finally, we prove that reduced states are a kind of coarse-grained states, and for this reason they cancel the correlations of the subsystem with other subsystems with which it interacts or is entangled.

id: 1404.3297
title: Non-existence of a Hohenberg-Kohn Variational Principle in Total Current Density Functional Theory
authors: Andre Laestadius, Michael Benedicks
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032508 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3297
abstract: For a many-electron system, whether the particle density $\rho(\mathbf{r})$ and the total current density $\mathbf{j}(\mathbf{r})$ are sufficient to determine the one-body potential $V(\mathbf{r})$ and vector potential $\mathbf{A}(\mathbf{r})$, is still an open question. For the one-electron case, a Hohenberg-Kohn theorem exists formulated with the total current density. Here we show that the generalized Hohenberg-Kohn energy functional $\mathord{\cal E}_{V_0,\mathbf{A}_0}(\rho,\mathbf{j}) = \langle \psi(\rho,\mathbf{j}),H(V_0,\mathbf{A}_0)\psi(\rho,\mathbf{j})\rangle$ can be minimal for densities that are not the ground-state densities of the fixed potentials $V_0$ and $\mathbf{A}_0$. Furthermore, for an arbitrary number of electrons and under the assumption that a Hohenberg-Kohn theorem exists formulated with $\rho$ and $\mathbf{j}$, we show that a variational principle for Total Current Density Functional Theory as that of Hohenberg-Kohn for Density Functional Theory does not exist. The reason is that the assumed map from densities to the vector potential, written $(\rho,\mathbf{j})\mapsto \mathbf{A}(\rho,\mathbf{j};\mathbf{r})$, enters explicitly in $\mathord{\cal E}_{V_0,\mathbf{A}_0}(\rho,\mathbf{j})$.

id: 1404.3309
title: Physical time-energy cost of a quantum process determines its information fidelity
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022333 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3309
abstract: A quantum system can be described and characterized by at least two different concepts, namely, its physical and informational properties. Here, we explicitly connect these two concepts, by equating the time-energy cost which is the product of the largest energy of a Hamiltonian of quantum dynamics and the evolution time, and the entanglement fidelity which is the informational difference between an input state and the corresponding output state produced by a quantum channel characterized by the Hamiltonian. Specifically, the worst-case entanglement fidelity between the input and output states is exactly the cosine of the channel's time-energy cost (except when the fidelity is zero). The exactness of our relation makes a strong statement about the intimate connection between information and physics. Our exact result may also be regarded as a time-energy uncertainty relation for the fastest state that achieves a certain fidelity.

id: 1404.3333
title: Two charges on plane in a magnetic field: II. Moving neutral quantum system across a magnetic field
authors: M.A.Escobar-Ruiz, A.V.Turbiner
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, 13 tables (6 in main body and 7 moved in a supplementary material), several clarifying sentences and 3 extra references added, Chapter II rectified, typos fixed, Annals of Physics (to be published)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3333
abstract: The moving neutral system of two Coulomb charges on a plane subject to a constant magnetic field $B$ perpendicular to the plane is considered. It is shown that the composite system of finite total mass is bound for any center-of-mass momentum $P$ and magnetic field strength; the energy of the ground state is calculated accurately using a variational approach. Their accuracy is cross-checked in a Lagrange-mesh method for $B=1$ a.u. and in a perturbation theory at small $B$ and $P$. The constructed trial function has the property of being a uniform approximation of the exact eigenfunction. For a Hydrogen atom and a Positronium a double perturbation theory in $B$ and $P$ is developed and the first corrections are found algebraically. A phenomenon of a sharp change of energy behavior for a certain center-of-mass momentum and a fixed magnetic field is indicated.

id: 1404.3348
title: Measurement sharpness cuts nonlocality and contextuality in every physical theory
authors: G. Chiribella, X. Yuan
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3348
abstract: Gathering data through measurements is at the basis of every experimental science. Ideally, measurements should be repeatable and, when extracting only coarse-grained data, they should allow the experimenter to retrieve the finer details at a later time. However, in practice most measurements appear to be noisy. Here we postulate that, despite the imperfections observed in real life experiments, there exists a fundamental level where all measurements are ideal. Combined with the requirement that ideal measurements remain so when coarse-grained or applied in parallel on spacelike separated systems, our postulate places a powerful constraint on the amount of nonlocality and contextuality that can be found in an arbitrary physical theory, bringing down the violation of Bell and Kocher-Specker inequalities near to its quantum value. In addition, it provides a new compelling motivation for the principles of Local Orthogonality and Consistent Exclusivity, recently proposed for the characterization of the quantum set of probability distributions.

id: 1404.3364
title: Spectrometric reconstruction of mechanical-motional states in optomechanics
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023851 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3364
abstract: We propose a spectrometric method to reconstruct the motional states of mechanical modes in optomechanics. This is achieved by detecting the single-photon emission and scattering spectra of the optomechanical cavity. Owing to an optomechanical coupling, the \emph{a priori} phonon-state distributions contribute to the spectral magnitude, and hence we can infer information on the phonon states from the measured spectral data. When the single-photon optomechanical-coupling strength is moderately larger than the mechanical frequency, then our method works well for a wide range of cavity-field decay rates, irrespective of whether or not the system is in the resolved-sideband regime.

id: 1404.3365
title: Binding potentials and interaction gates between microwave-dressed Rydberg atoms
authors: David Petrosyan, Klaus M?lmer
comments: Updated, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 123003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3365
abstract: We demonstrate finite range binding potentials between pairs of Rydberg atoms interacting with each other via attractive and repulsive van der Waals potentials and driven by a microwave field. We show that, using destructive quantum interference to cancel single-atom Rydberg excitation, the Rydberg-dimer states can be selectively and coherently populated from the two-atom ground state. This can be used to realize a two-qubit interaction gate which is not susceptible to mechanical forces between the atoms and is therefore immune to motional decoherence.

id: 1404.3380
title: Motion-enhanced quantum entanglement in the dynamics of excitation transfer
authors: Wei Song, Yi-Sheng Huang, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3380
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of entanglement in the excitation transfer through a chain of interacting molecules. In the case of two-molecule coupled to noisy environments we show that entanglement can be further enhanced if the distance between the molecules is oscillating. Our results demonstrate that motional effect plays a constructive role on quantum entanglement in the dynamics of excitation transfer. This mechanism might provide useful guideline for designing artificial systems to battle against decoherence.

id: 1404.3388
title: Error-disturbance relations in mixed states
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 11 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3388
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle was originally formulated in 1927 as a quantitative relation between the "mean error" of a measurement of one observable and the disturbance thereby caused on another observable. Heisenberg derived this famous relation under an additional assumption on quantum measurements that has been abandoned in the modern theory, and its universal validity was questioned in a debate on the sensitivity limit to gravitational-wave detectors in 1980s. A universally valid form of the error-disturbance relation was shown to be derived in the modern framework of general quantum measurements in 2003. We have experienced a considerable progress in theoretical and experimental study of error-disturbance relations in the last decade. In 2013 Branciard showed a new stronger form of universally valid error-disturbance relations, one of which is proved tight for spin measurements carried out in "pure" states. Nevertheless, a recent information-theoretical study of error-disturbance relations has suggested that Branciard relations can be considerably strengthened for measurements in mixed states. Here, we show a method for strengthening Branciard relations in mixed states and derive several new universally valid and stronger error-disturbance relations in mixed states. In particular, it is proved that one of them gives an ultimate error-disturbance relation for spin measurements, which is tight in any state. The new relations will play an important role in applications to state estimation problems including quantum cryptographic scenarios.

id: 1404.3445
title: Coherent control and feedback cooling in a remotely-coupled hybrid atom-optomechanical system
authors: James S. Bennett, Lars S. Madsen, Mark Baker, Halina Rubinsztein-Dunlop, Warwick P Bowen
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables. Updated to include exemplary experimental parameters and expanded discussion of noise sources
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3445
abstract: Cooling to the motional ground state is an important first step in the preparation of nonclassical states of mesoscopic mechanical oscillators. Light-mediated coupling to a remote atomic ensemble has been proposed as a method to reach the ground state for low frequency oscillators. The ground state can also be reached using optical measurement followed by feedback control. Here we investigate the possibility of enhanced cooling by combining these two approaches. The combination, in general, outperforms either individual technique, though atomic ensemble-based cooling and feedback cooling each individually dominate over large regions of parameter space.

id: 1404.3453
title: Quantum state estimation with informationally overcomplete measurements
authors: Huangjun Zhu
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3453
abstract: We study informationally overcomplete measurements for quantum state estimation so as to clarify their tomographic significance as compared with minimal informationally complete measurements. We show that informationally overcomplete measurements can improve the tomographic efficiency significantly over minimal measurements when the states of interest have high purities. Nevertheless, the efficiency is still too limited to be satisfactory with respect to figures of merit based on monotone Riemannian metrics, such as the Bures metric and quantum Chernoff metric. In this way, we also pinpoint the limitation of nonadaptive measurements and motivate the study of more sophisticated measurement schemes. In the course of our study, we introduce the best linear unbiased estimator and show that it is equally efficient as the maximum likelihood estimator in the large-sample limit. This estimator may significantly outperform the canonical linear estimator for states with high purities. It is expected to play an important role in experimental designs and adaptive quantum state tomography besides its significance to the current study.

id: 1404.3489
title: Cavity-enhanced storage in an optical spin-wave memory
authors: Pierre Jobez, Imam Usmani, Nuala Timoney, Cyril Laplane, Nicolas Gisin, Mikael Afzelius
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 083005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3489
abstract: We report on the experimental demonstration of an optical spin-wave memory, based on the atomic frequency comb (AFC) scheme, where the storage efficiency is strongly enhanced by an optical cavity. The cavity is of low finesse, but operated in an impedance matching regime to achieve high absorption in our intrinsically low-absorbing Eu3+:Y2SiO5 crystal. For storage of optical pulses as an optical excitation (AFC echoes), we reach efficiencies of 53% and 28% for 2 and 10 microseconds delays, respectively. For a complete AFC spin-wave memory we reach an efficiency of 12%, including spin-wave dephasing, which is a 12-fold increase with respect to previous results in this material. This result is an important step towards the goal of making efficient and long-lived quantum memories based on spin waves, in the context of quantum repeaters and quantum networks.

id: 1404.3507
title: Heat-exchange statistics in driven open quantum systems
authors: S. Gasparinetti, P. Solinas, A. Braggio, M. Sassetti
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 115001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3507
abstract: As the dimensions of physical systems approach the nanoscale, the laws of thermodynamics must be reconsidered due to the increased importance of fluctuations and quantum effects. While the statistical mechanics of small classical systems is relatively well understood, the quantum case still poses challenges. Here we set up a formalism that allows to calculate the full probability distribution of energy exchanges between a periodically driven quantum system and a thermalized heat reservoir. The formalism combines Floquet theory with a generalized master equation approach. For a driven two-level system and in the long-time limit, we obtain a universal expression for the distribution, providing clear physical insight into the exchanged energy quanta. We illustrate our approach in two analytically solvable cases and discuss the differences in the corresponding distributions. Our predictions could be directly tested in a variety of systems, including optical cavities and solid-state devices.

id: 1404.3512
title: Improvement of the polarized neutron interferometer setup demonstrating violation of a Bell-like inequality
authors: Hermann Geppert, Tobias Denkmayr, Stephan Sponar, Hartmut Lemmel, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 18 Pages, 12 figures
journal: Nuclear Inst. and Methods in Physics Research, A (2014), pp. 417-423
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3512
abstract: For precise measurements with polarized neutrons high efficient spin-manipulation is required. We developed several neutron optical elements suitable for a new sophisticated setup, i.e., DC spin-turners and Larmor-accelerators which diminish thermal disturbances and depolarisation considerably. The gain in performance is exploited demonstrating violation of a Bell-like inequality for a spin-path entangled single-neutron state. The obtained value of S=2.365(13), which is much higher than previous measurements by neutron interferometry, is 28 $\sigma$ above the limit of S=2 predicted by contextual hidden variable theories. The new setup is more flexible referring to state preparation and analysis, therefore new, more precise measurements can be carried out.

id: 1404.3574
title: Unambiguous discrimination of linearly independent pure quantum states: Optimal average probability of success
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: 16 pages. v2: Typos fixed in examples 1 and 2; v3: journal version, abstract slightly modified, partly rewritten for clarity, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 030301(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3574
abstract: We consider the problem of unambiguous (error-free) discrimination of N linearly independent pure quantum states with prior probabilities, where the goal is to find a measurement that maximizes the average probability of success. We derive an upper bound on the optimal average probability of success using a result on optimal local conversion between two bipartite pure states. We prove that an optimal measurement in general saturates our bound. In the exceptional cases we show that the bound is tight, but not always optimal.

id: 1404.3586
title: Genuinely multipartite entangled states and orthogonal arrays
authors: Dardo Goyeneche, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures. Comments are very welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3586
abstract: A pure quantum state of N subsystems with d levels each is called k-multipartite maximally entangled state, written k-uniform, if all its reductions to k qudits are maximally mixed. These states form a natural generalization of N-qudits GHZ states which belong to the class 1-uniform states. We establish a link between the combinatorial notion of orthogonal arrays and k-uniform states and prove the existence of several new classes of such states for N-qudit systems. In particular, known Hadamard matrices allow us to explicitly construct 2-uniform states for an arbitrary number of N>5 qubits. We show that finding a different class of 2-uniform states would imply the Hadamard conjecture, so the full classification of 2-uniform states seems to be currently out of reach. Additionally, single vectors of another class of 2-uniform states are one-to-one related to maximal sets of mutually unbiased bases. Furthermore, we establish links between existence of k-uniform states, classical and quantum error correction codes and provide a novel graph representation for such states.

id: 1404.3594
title: Generalized entanglement distillation
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3594
abstract: We present a way for the entanglement distillation of genuine mixed state. Different from the conventional mixed state in entanglement purification protocol, each components of the mixed state in our protocol is a less-entangled state, while it is always a maximally entangled state. With the help of the weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity, this entanglement distillation protocol does not require the sophisticated single-photon detectors. Moreover, the distilled high quality entangled state can be retained to perform the further distillation. These properties make it more convenient in practical applications.

id: 1404.3628
title: How not to R¨¦nyi generalize the Quantum Conditional Mutual Information
authors: Paul Erker
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3628
abstract: We study the relation between the Quantum Conditional Mutual Information and the quantum $\alpha$-R\'enyi divergences. We show how not to Renyi generalize the Quantum Conditional Mutual Information by considering the totally antisymmetric state.

id: 1404.3634
title: Optimal Quench for Distance-Independent Entanglement and Maximal Block Entropy
authors: Bedoor Alkurtass, Leonardo Banchi, Sougato Bose
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3634
abstract: We optimize a quantum walk of multiple fermions following a quench in a spin chain to generate near ideal resources for quantum networking. We first prove an useful theorem mapping the correlations evolved from specific quenches to the apparently unrelated problem of quantum state transfer between distinct spins. This mapping is then exploited to optimize the dynamics and produce large amounts of entanglement distributed in very special ways. Two applications are considered: the simultaneous generation of many Bell states between pairs of distant spins (maximal block entropy), or high entanglement between the ends of an arbitrarily long chain (distance-independent entanglement). Thanks to the generality of the result, we study its implementation in different experimental setups using present technology: NMR, ion traps and ultracold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1404.3640
title: Graph-theoretical Bounds on the Entangled Value of Non-local Games
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Laura Man?inska, Giannicola Scarpa, Simone Severini
comments: 10 pages, submission to the 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography (TQC 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3640
abstract: We introduce a novel technique to give bounds to the entangled value of non-local games. The technique is based on a class of graphs used by Cabello, Severini and Winter in 2010. The upper bound uses the famous Lov\'asz theta number and is efficiently computable; the lower one is based on the quantum independence number, which is a quantity used in the study of entanglement-assisted channel capacities and graph homomorphism games.

id: 1404.3649
title: Many-body physics of slow light
authors: I. E. Mazets
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063837 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3649
abstract: We present a quantum theory of slow light beyond the weak probe pulse approximation. By reduction of the full Hamiltonian of the system to an effective Hamiltonian for a single quantum field we demonstrate that the concept of dark-state polaritons can be introduced even if the linearized approach is no longer valid. The developed approach allows us to study the evolution of non-classical quantum states of the polariton field.

id: 1404.3650
title: The maps of matrices and portrait maps of density operators of composite and noncomposite systems
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Vol. 35, issue 3 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3650
abstract: We obtain a new inequality for arbitrary Hermitian matrices. We describe particular linear maps called the matrix portrait of arbitrary NxN matrices. The maps are obtained as analogs of partial tracing of density matrices of multipartite qudit systems. The structure of the maps is inspired by "portrait" map of the probability vectors corresponding to the action on the vectors by stochastic matrices containing either unity or zero matrix elements. We obtain new entropic inequalities for arbitrary qudit states including a single qudit and an discuss entangled single qudit state. We consider in detail the examples of N=3 and 4. Also we point out a possible use of entangled states of systems without subsystems (e.g., a single qudit) as a resource for quantum computations.

id: 1404.3662
title: Exceptional points and Bloch oscillations in non-Hermitian lattices with unidirectional hopping
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figure, to appear in EPL
journal: EPL, 106 (2014) 3400
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3662
abstract: The spectral and transport properties of a non-Hermitian tight-binding lattice with unidirectional hopping are theoretically investigated in three different geometrical settings. It is shown that, while for the infinitely-extended (open) and for the ring lattice geometries the spectrum is complex, lattice truncation makes the spectrum real. However, an exceptional point of order equal to the number of lattice sites emerges. When a homogeneous dc force is applied to the lattice, in all cases an equally-spaced real Wannier-Stark ladder spectrum is obtained, corresponding to periodic oscillatory dynamics in real space. Possible physical realizations of non-Hermitian lattices with unidirectional hopping are briefly discussed.

id: 1404.3726
title: Quantum Nonlinear Optics Near Optomechanical Instabilities
authors: Xunnong Xu, Michael Gullans, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: 6+3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013818 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3726
abstract: Optomechanical systems provide a unique platform for observing quantum behavior of macroscopic objects. However, efforts towards realizing nonlinear behavior at the single photon level have been inhibited by the small size of the radiation pressure interaction. Here we show that it is not necessary to reach the single-photon strong-coupling regime in order to realize significant optomechanical nonlinearities. Instead, nonlinearities at the few quanta level can be achieved, even with weak-coupling, in a two-mode optomechanical system driven near instability. In this limit, we establish a new figure of merit for realizing strong nonlinearity which scales with the single-photon optomechanical coupling and the sideband resolution of the mechanical mode with respect to the cavity linewidth. We find that current devices based on optomechanical crystals, thought to be in the weak-coupling regime, can still achieve strong quantum nonlinearity; enabling deterministic interactions between single photons.

id: 1404.3733
title: Quantum Information Complexity and Amortized Communication
authors: Dave Touchette
comments: v1, 38 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3733
abstract: We define a new notion of information cost for quantum protocols, and a corresponding notion of quantum information complexity for bipartite quantum channels, and then investigate the properties of such quantities. These are the fully quantum generalizations of the analogous quantities for bipartite classical functions that have found many applications recently, in particular for proving communication complexity lower bounds. Our definition is strongly tied to the quantum state redistribution task. Previous attempts have been made to define such a quantity for quantum protocols, with particular applications in mind; our notion differs from these in many respects. First, it directly provides a lower bound on the quantum communication cost, independent of the number of rounds of the underlying protocol. Secondly, we provide an operational interpretation for quantum information complexity: we show that it is exactly equal to the amortized quantum communication complexity of a bipartite channel on a given state. This generalizes a result of Braverman and Rao to quantum protocols, and even strengthens the classical result in a bounded round scenario. Also, this provides an analogue of the Schumacher source compression theorem for interactive quantum protocols, and answers a question raised by Braverman. We also discuss some potential applications to quantum communication complexity lower bounds by specializing our definition for classical functions and inputs. Building on work of Jain, Radhakrishnan and Sen, we provide new evidence suggesting that the bounded round quantum communication complexity of the disjointness function is \Omega (n/M + M), for M-message protocols. This would match the best known upper bound.

id: 1404.3747
title: Low-distance Surface Codes under Realistic Quantum Noise
authors: Yu Tomita, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures, 4 tables, comments welcome
journal: Phys.Rev. A.90, 062320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3747
abstract: We study the performance of distance-three surface code layouts under realistic multi-parameter noise models. We first calculate their thresholds under depolarizing noise. We then compare a Pauli-twirl approximation of amplitude and phase damping to amplitude and phase damping. We find the approximate channel results in a pessimistic estimate of the logical error rate, indicating the realistic threshold may be higher than previously estimated. From Monte-Carlo simulations, we identify experimental parameters for which these layouts admit reliable computation. Due to its low resource cost and superior performance, we conclude that the 17-qubit layout should be targeted in early experimental implementations of the surface code. We find that architectures with gate times in the 5-40 ns range and T1 times of at least 1-2 us range will exhibit improved logical error rates with a 17-qubit surface code encoding.

id: 1404.3774
title: SIC-POVMs and Compatibility among Quantum States
authors: Blake C. Stacey
comments: 7 pages, 4 MUBs, 2 errata for CFS (2002). v2: minor edits in response to feedback
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3774
abstract: An unexpected connection exists between compatibility criteria for quantum states and symmetric informationally complete POVMs. Beginning with Caves, Fuchs and Schack's "Conditions for compatibility of quantum state assignments" [Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002), 062111], I show that a qutrit SIC-POVM studied in other contexts enjoys additional interesting properties. Compatibility criteria provide a new way to understand the relationship between SIC-POVMs and mutually unbiased bases, as calculations in the SIC representation of quantum states make clear. Along the way, I correct two mathematical errors in Caves, Fuchs and Schack's paper. One error is a minor nit to pick, while the other is a missed opportunity.

id: 1404.3784
title: Unlearning Quantum Information
authors: Daniel K. L. Oi
comments: 4 Pages, 2 figures. Updated to include additional citations to prior and related work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3784
abstract: Quantum dynamics can be driven by measurement. By constructing measurements that gain no information, effective unitary evolution can be induced on a quantum system, for example in ancilla driven quantum computation. In the non-ideal case where a measurement does reveal some information about the system, it may be possible to "unlearn" this information and restore unitary evolution through subsequent measurements. Here we analyse two methods of quantum "unlearning" and present a simplified proof of the bound on the probability of successfully applying the required correction operators. We find that the probability of successful recovery is inversely related to the ability of the initial measurement to exclude the possibility of a state.

id: 1404.3810
title: Optimizing Passive Quantum Clocks
authors: Michael Mullan, Emanuel Knill
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3810
abstract: We describe protocols for passive atomic clocks based on quantum interrogation of the atoms. Unlike previous techniques, our protocols are adaptive and take advantage of prior information about the clock's state. To reduce deviations from an ideal clock, each interrogation is optimized by means of a semidefinite program for atomic state preparation and measurement whose objective function depends on the prior information. Our knowledge of the clock's state is maintained according to a Bayesian model that accounts for noise and measurement results. We implement a full simulation of a running clock with power-law noise models and find significant improvements by applying our techniques.

id: 1404.3829
title: Bohmian Trajectories of Airy Packets
authors: Antonio B. Nassar, Salvador Miret-Art¨¦s
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3829
abstract: The discovery of Berry and Balazs in 1979 that the free-particle Schr\"odinger equation allows a non-dispersive and accelerating Airy-packet solution has taken the folklore of quantum mechanics by surprise. Over the years, this intriguing class of wave packets has sparked enormous theoretical and experimental activities in related areas of optics and atom physics. Within the Bohmian mechanics framework, we present new features of Airy wave packet solutions to Schr\"odinger equation with time-dependent quadratic potentials. In particular, we provide some insights to the problem by calculating the corresponding Bohmian trajectories. It is shown that by using general space-time transformations, these trajectories can display a unique variety of cases depending upon the initial position of the individual particle in the Airy wave packet. Further, we report here a myriad of nontrivial Bohmian trajectories associated to the Airy wave packet. These new features are worth introducing to the subject's theoretical folklore in light of the fact that the evolution of a quantum mechanical Airy wave packet governed by the Schr\"odinger equation is analogous to the propagation of a finite energy Airy beam satisfying the paraxial equation. Numerous experimental configurations of optics and atom physics have shown that the dynamics of Airy beams depends significantly on initial parameters and configurations of the experimental set-up.

id: 1404.3831
title: Exploring non-signalling polytopes with negative probability
authors: G. Oas, J. Acacio de Barros, C. Carvalhaes
comments: 8 pages, submitted to Physica Scripta for "Quantum Foundations and Quantum Information" 2013, V\"axj\"o Sweden
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3831
abstract: Bipartite and tripartite EPR-Bell type systems are examined via joint quasi-probability distributions where elementary probabilities are permitted to be negative. It is shown that such distributions exist only when the no-signalling condition is satisfied. A characteristic measure, the probability mass, is introduced and, via its minimization, limits the number of quasi-distributions describing a given marginal probability distribution. The minimized probability mass is shown to be an alternative way to characterize non-local systems. Non-signalling polytopes for two, three, and four settings in the bipartite scenario are examined and compared to prior work. Examining perfect cloning of non-local systems within the tripartite scenario suggests defining two categories of signalling. It is seen that many properties of non-local systems can be efficiently described by quasi-probability theory.

id: 1404.3836
title: Anomalous behavior of control pulses in presence of noise with singular autocorrelation
authors: Daniel Stanek, Benedikt Fauseweh, Christopher Stihl, Stefano Pasini, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Magn. Res. 245 (2014) 133-142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3836
abstract: We report on the anomalous behavior of control pulses for spins under spin-spin relaxation and subject to classical noise with a singular autocorrelation function. This behavior is not detected for noise with analytic autocorrelation functions. The effect is manifest in the different scaling behavior of the deviation of a real pulse to the ideal, instantaneous one. While a standard pulse displays scaling $\propto \tau_\mathrm{p}^1$, a first-order refocusing pulse normally shows scaling $\propto \tau_\mathrm{p}^2$. But in presence of cusps in the noise autocorrelation the scaling $\propto \tau_\mathrm{p}^{3/2}$ occurs. Cusps in the autocorrelation are characteristic for fast fluctuations in the noise with a spectral density of Lorentzian shape. We prove that the anomalous exponent cannot be avoided; it represents a fundamental limit. On the one hand, this redefines the strategies one has to adopt to design refocusing pulses. On the other hand, the anomalous exponent, if found in experiment, provides important information on the noise properties.

id: 1404.3837
title: Landau Levels as a Limiting Case of a Model with the Morse-Like Magnetic Field
authors: H. Fakhri, B. Mojaveri, M.A. Gomshi Nobary
comments: 
journal: Rep. Math. Phys, 66 (2010) 299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3837
abstract: We consider the quantum mechanics of an electron trapped on an infinite band along the $x$-axis in the presence of the Morse-like perpendicular magnetic field $\vec{B}=-B_{0}e^{-\frac{2\pi}{a_{0}}x}\hat{k}$ with $B_{0}>0$ as a constant strength and $a_{0}$ as the width of the band. It is shown that the square integrable pure states realize representations of $su(1,1)$ algebra via the quantum number corresponding to the linear momentum in the $y$-direction. The energy of the states increases by decreasing the width $a_{0}$ while it is not changed by $B_{0}$. It is quadratic in terms of two quantum numbers, and the linear spectrum of the Landau levels is obtained as a limiting case of $a_{0}\rightarrow\infty$. All of the lowest states of the $su(1,1)$ representations minimize uncertainty relation and the minimizing of their second and third states is transformed to that of the Landau levels in the limit $a_{0}\rightarrow\infty$. The compact forms of the Barut-Girardello coherent states corresponding to $l$-representation of $su(1,1)$ algebra and their positive definite measures on the complex plane are also calculated.

id: 1404.3838
title: Generalized $su(2)$ coherent states for the Landau levels and their nonclassical properties
authors: A. Dehghani, B. Mojaveri
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.6888, arXiv:1404.3277
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 264
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3838
abstract: Following the lines of the recent papers [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 495201 (2012); Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 179 (2013)], we construct here a new class of generalized coherent states related to the Landau levels, which can be used as the finite Fock subspaces for the representation of the $su(2)$ Lie algebra. We establish the relationship between them and the deformed truncated coherent states. We have, also, shown that they satisfy the resolution of the identity property through a positive definite measures on the complex plane. Their nonclassical and quantum statistical properties such as quadrature squeezing, higher order `$su(2)$' squeezing, anti-bunching and anti-correlation effects are studied in details. Particularly, the influence of the generalization on the nonclassical properties of two modes is clarified.

id: 1404.3843
title: Coherence properties of high-gain twin beams generated in pump-depletion regime
authors: Alessia Allevi, Ottavia Jedrkiewicz, Enrico Brambilla, Alessandra Gatti, Jan Perina Jr., O. Haderka, Maria Bondani
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063812 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3843
abstract: Twin-beam coherence properties are analyzed both in the spatial and spectral domains at high-gain regime including pump depletion. The increase of the size of intensity auto- and cross-correlation areas at increasing pump power is replaced by a decrease in the pump depletion regime. This effect is interpreted as a progressive loss in the mode selection occurring at high-gain amplification. The experimental determination of the number of spatio-spectral modes from $g^{(2)} $-function measurements confirms this explanation.

id: 1404.3851
title: Finite time cooling in dispersively and dissipatively coupled optomechanics
authors: Tian Chen, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3851
abstract: The cooling performance of an optomechanical system comprising both dispersive and dissipative coupling is studied. We present a scheme to cool a mechanical resonator to its ground state in finite time by employing a chirped pulse. When the cavity damping strength increases, the phonon occupation of the resonator will decrease. Moreover, the cooling behaviors of this dispersively and dissipatively coupled system with different incident pulses, different system coupling strengths are explored. Our scheme is feasible to cool the resonator in a wide parameter region.

id: 1404.3866
title: Generating Nonclassical Quantum Input Field States with Modulating Filters
authors: John E. Gough, Guofeng Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures (paper extended to include the equivalence results for the whole input-system-output model, and not just the Heisenberg dynamics)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3866
abstract: The behaviour of quantum open systems, and their output response, when driven by quantum input noise in a nonclassical state is of key importance to quantum technology. Here we give explicit constructions of quantum modulating filters which generate desired nonclassical states (coherent states, cat states, shaped single and multi-photon states) of quantum optical fields from vacuum noise input. The nonclassical state features (coherence, entanglement, Fock state, etc.) of the modulating filter, itself a linear passive open system, are transferred to the continuous variable output field state. The filter dynamics may additionally shape the output to obtain specific target states. It is shown that the open dynamics of a general quantum Markov system driven by these nonclassical inputs is equivalent to the cascaded filter-plus-system model with vacuum field inputs.

id: 1404.3870
title: Quantum Bayesian rule for weak measurements of qubits in superconducting circuit QED
authors: Peiyue Wang, Lupei Qin, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; version published in New J Phys and with an error correction to Eq. (18) and improved presentation for Eq. (26)
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 123047
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3870
abstract: Compared with the quantum trajectory equation, the quantum Bayesian approach has the advantage of being more efficient to infer quantum state under monitoring, based on the integrated output of measurement. For weak measurement of qubits in circuit quantum electrodynamics(cQED), properly accounting for the measurement backaction effects within the Bayesian framework is an important problem of current interest.Elegant work towards this task was carried out by Korotkov in "bad-cavity" and weak-response limits (arXiv:1111.4016).In the present work, based on insights from the cavity-field states (dynamics) and the help of an effective QTE, we generalize the results of arXiv:1111.4016 to more general system parameters.The obtained Bayesian rule is in full agreement with Korotkov's result in limiting cases and as well holds satisfactory accuracy in non-limiting cases in comparison with the QTE simulations. We expect the proposed Bayesian rule to be useful for future cQED measurement and control experiments.

id: 1404.3879
title: Spectroscopy of Surface-Induced Noise Using Shallow Spins in Diamond
authors: Y. Romach, C. Muller, T. Unden, L. J. Rogers, T. Isoda, K. M. Itoh, M. Markham, A. Stacey, J. Meijer, S. Pezzagna, B. Naydenov, L. P. McGuinness, N. Bar-Gill, F. Jelezko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 017601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3879
abstract: We report on the noise spectrum experienced by few nanometer deep nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond as a function of depth, surface coating, magnetic field and temperature. Analysis reveals a double-Lorentzian noise spectra consistent with a surface electronic spin bath, with slower dynamics due to spin-spin interactions and faster dynamics related to phononic coupling. These results shed new light on the mechanisms responsible for surface noise affecting shallow spins at semiconductor interfaces, and suggests possible directions for further studies. We demonstrate dynamical decoupling from the surface noise, paving the way to applications ranging from nanoscale NMR to quantum networks.

id: 1404.3884
title: Performance Analysis and Coherent Guaranteed Cost Control for Uncertain Quantum Systems
authors: Chengdi Xiang, Ian R. Petersen, Daoyi Dong
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, a shortened version is to appear in the proceedings of the 2014 European Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3884
abstract: This paper presents several results on performance analysis for a class of uncertain linear quantum systems subject to either quadratic or non-quadratic perturbations in the system Hamiltonian. Also, coherent guaranteed cost controllers are designed for the uncertain quantum systems to achieve improved control performance. The coherent controller is realized by adding a control Hamiltonian to the quantum system and its performance is demonstrated by an example.

id: 1404.3889
title: Quantum probabilities and entanglement for multimode quantum systems
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 497 (2014) 012034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3889
abstract: Quantum probabilities are defined for several important physical cases characterizing measurements with multimode quantum systems. These are the probabilities for operationally testable measurements, for operationally uncertain measurements, and for entangled composite events. The role of the prospect and state entanglement is emphasized. Numerical modeling is presented for a two-mode Bose-condensed system of trapped atoms. The interference factor is calculated by invoking the channel-state duality.

id: 1404.3900
title: Randomization theorems for quantum channels
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3900
abstract: The classical randomization criterion is an important result of statistical decision theory. Recently, a quantum analogue has been proposed, giving equivalent conditions for two sets of quantum states, ensuring existence of a quantum channel mapping one set close to the other, in $L_1$-distance. In the present paper, we extend these concepts in several ways. First, sets of states are replaced by channels and randomization is performed by either post- or pre-composition with another channel. The $L_1$-distance is replaced by the diamond norm. Secondly, the maps are not required to be completely positive, but positivity is given by an admissible family of convex cones. It is shown that the randomization theorems, generalizing both quantum and classical randomization criteria, can be proved in the framework of base section norms, including the diamond norm and its dual. The theory of such norms is developed in the Appendix.

id: 1404.3901
title: Divergent nonlinear optical response of three resonator system via Fano resonances
authors: Mehmet Emre Tasgin
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1311.0791
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3901
abstract: In a previous study, we have discovered that nonlinear processes can be enhanced several orders of magnitude due to the path interference effects which are introduced by Fano resonances. Emergence of this phenomenon has been demonstrated also in 3-dimensional solutions of Maxwell equations. However, enhancement has been found to be limited by the decay rate of the plasmonic oscillations. In the present work, we demonstrate that such a limitation can be lifted o? when the path interference from two quantum emitters to a plasmonic resonator (second harmonic converter) is considered. Enhancement factors much larger than 7 orders of magnitude are possible using such an interference scheme. Therefore, a single hybridized system of 3 particles (manufactured carefully) can account for almost all of the second harmonic generated radiation emitted from a sample of plasmonic particle clusters decorated with quantum emitters (e.g. a spaser).

id: 1404.3912
title: Ideal negative measurements in quantum walks disprove theories based on classical trajectories
authors: Carsten Robens, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Clive Emary, Andrea Alberti
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 011003 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3912
abstract: We report on a stringent test of the non-classicality of the motion of a massive quantum particle, which propagates on a discrete lattice. Measuring temporal correlations of the position of single atoms performing a quantum walk, we observe a $6\sigma$ violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality. Our results rigorously excludes (i.e. falsifies) any explanation of quantum transport based on classical, well-defined trajectories. We use so-called ideal negative measurements -- an essential requisite for any genuine Leggett-Garg test -- to acquire information about the atom's position, yet avoiding any direct interaction with it. The interaction-free measurement is based on a novel atom transport system, which allows us to directly probe the absence rather than the presence of atoms at a chosen lattice site. Beyond the fundamental aspect of this test, we demonstrate the application of the Leggett-Garg correlation function as a witness of quantum superposition. We here employ the witness to discriminate different types of walks spanning from merely classical to wholly quantum dynamics.

id: 1404.3922
title: Thirty five classes of solutions of the quantum time-dependent two-state problem in terms of the general Heun functions
authors: A.M. Ishkhanyan, T.A. Shahverdyan, T.A. Ishkhanyan
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 69, 10 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3922
abstract: We derive 35 five-parametric classes of the quantum time-dependent two-state models solvable in terms of the general Heun functions. Each of the classes is defined by a pair of generating functions the first of which is referred to as the amplitude- and the second one as the detuning-modulation function. The classes suggest numerous families of specific field configurations with different physical properties generated by appropriate choices of the transformation of the independent variable, real or complex. There are many families of models with constant detuning or constant amplitude, numerous classes of chirped pulses of controllable amplitude and/or detuning, families of models with double or multiple (periodic) crossings, periodic amplitude modulation field configurations, etc. We present several families of constant-detuning field configurations the members of which are symmetric or asymmetric two-peak finite-area pulses with controllable distance between the peaks and controllable amplitude of each of the peaks. We show that the edge shapes, the distance between the peaks as well as the amplitude of the peaks are controlled almost independently, by different parameters. We identify the parameters controlling each of the mentioned features and discuss other basic properties of pulse shapes. We show that the pulse edges may become step-wise functions and determine the positions of the limiting vertical-wall edges. We show that the pulse width is controlled by only two of the involved parameters. For some values of these parameters the pulse width diverges and for some other values the pulses become infinitely narrow. We show that the effect of the two mentioned parameters is almost similar, that is, both parameters are able to independently produce pulses of almost the same shape and width.

id: 1404.3926
title: A note on the normalization of the momentum eigenfunctions and Dirac delta function
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3926
abstract: We determine the generating function of the harmonic oscillator by a new method. Using this generating function we derive the eigenfunctions of the moment p. We find that the normalization of these eigenfunctions is a real and not complex number with phase factor chosen equal one (standard books of quantum mechanics). We prove that the integral of the delta function is equal to one and we derive the oscillator propagator.

id: 1404.3928
title: Mechanically-mediated optical response in hybrid opto-electromechanical systems
authors: Cheng Jiang, Yuanshun Cui, Hongxiang Liu, Guibin Chen
comments: 
journal: Chinese Phys. B 24, 054206 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3928
abstract: We theoretically investigate the analog of electromagnetically induced transparency, absorption and parametric amplification in a hybrid opto-electromechanical system consisting of an optical cavity and a microwave cavity coupled to a common nanomechanical resonator. When the two cavity modes are driven on their respective red sidebands by two pump beams and a probe beam is applied to the optical cavity to monitor the optical response of the hybrid system, we find that a transparency window appears in the probe transmission spectrum due to destructive interference. When the optical cavity is pumped on its blue sideband, the analog of electromagnetically induced absorption and parametric amplification occur due to constructive interference.

id: 1404.3951
title: Quantum correlations of two-qubit states with one maximally mixed marginal
authors: Antony Milne, David Jennings, Sania Jevtic, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 024302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3951
abstract: We investigate the entanglement, CHSH nonlocality, fully entangled fraction and symmetric extendibility of two-qubit states that have a single maximally mixed marginal. Within this set of states, the steering ellipsoid formalism has recently highlighted an interesting family of so-called 'maximally obese' states. These are found to have extremal quantum correlation properties that are significant in the steering ellipsoid picture and for the study of two-qubit states in general.

id: 1404.3971
title: Near-space flight of a correlated photon system
authors: Tang Zhongkan, Rakhitha Chandrasekara, Yau Yong Sean, Cliff Cheng, Christoph Wildfeuer, Alexander Ling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3971
abstract: We report the successful test flight of a device for generating and monitoring correlated photon pairs under near-space conditions up to 35.5km altitude. Data from ground based qualification tests and the high altitude experiment demonstrate that the device continues to operate even under harsh environmental conditions. The design of the rugged, compact and power-efficient photon pair system is presented. This design enables autonomous photon pair systems to be deployed on low-resource platforms such as nanosatellites hosting remote nodes of a quantum key distribution network. These results pave the way for tests of entangled photon technology in low earth orbit.

id: 1404.3994
title: Digital atom interferometer with single particle control on a discretized spacetime geometry
authors: Andreas Steffen, Andrea Alberti, Wolfgang Alt, Noomen Belmechri, Sebastian Hild, Micha? Karski, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published in 2012 in PNAS journal
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109, 9770 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3994
abstract: Engineering quantum particle systems, such as quantum simulators and quantum cellular automata, relies on full coherent control of quantum paths at the single particle level. Here we present an atom interferometer operating with single trapped atoms, where single particle wave packets are controlled through spin-dependent potentials. The interferometer is constructed from a sequence of discrete operations based on a set of elementary building blocks, which permit composing arbitrary interferometer geometries in a digital manner. We use this modularity to devise a spacetime analogue of the well-known spin echo technique, yielding insight into decoherence mechanisms. We also demonstrate mesoscopic delocalization of single atoms with a "separation-to-localization" ratio exceeding 500; this suggests their utilization beyond quantum logic applications as nano-resolution quantum probes in precision measurements, being able to measure potential gradients with precision $5\times 10^{-4}$ in units of gravitational acceleration $g$.

id: 1404.4103
title: Time evolution of a Gaussian class of quasi-distribution functions under quadratic Hamiltonian
authors: Dimitry Ginzburg, Ady Mann
comments: This paper was published in Applied Optics and is made available as an electronic reprint with the permission of OSA. The paper can be found at this http URL Systematic or multiple reproduction or distribution to multiple locations via electronic or other means is prohibited and is subject to penalties under law
journal: Appl. Opt. 53, 1648-1657 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4103
abstract: A Lie algebraic method for propagation of the Wigner quasi-distribution function under quadratic Hamiltonian was presented by Zoubi and Ben-Aryeh. We show that the same method can be used in order to propagate a rather general class of quasi distribution functions, which we call "Gaussian class". This class contains as special cases the well-known Wigner, Husimi, Glauber and Kirkwood-Rihaczek quasi-distribution functions. We present some examples of the calculation of the time-evolution of those functions.

id: 1404.4110
title: Environment-Assisted Quantum State Restoration Via Weak Measurement
authors: Kelvin Wang, Xinyu Zhao, Ting Yu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4110
abstract: In this paper, a new quantum state restoration scheme is proposed based on the environment-assisted error correction (EAEC) scheme. By introducing a weak measurement reversal (WMR) operation, we shall show how to recover an initial state of a quantum open system without invoking random unitary decompositions which are known to be absent in many important physical systems. We illustrate our new scheme and compare it with a scheme purely based on the WMR operation in the case of dissipative channel. In the proposed new scheme, the successful probability of recovering an unknown initial state can be significantly improved when the information obtained from an environment measurement is taken into account. Moreover, we show that the applicable range of our proposed scheme is wider than the EAEC scheme. Finally, the optimization of the successful probability for possible Kraus decompositions is discussed.

id: 1404.4134
title: Solution to time-energy costs of quantum channels
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau, Chi-Kwong Li, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 9 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 15, 0685-0693 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4134
abstract: We derive a formula for the time-energy costs of general quantum channels proposed in [Phys. Rev. A 88, 012307 (2013)]. This formula allows us to numerically find the time-energy cost of any quantum channel using positive semidefinite programming. We also derive a lower bound to the time-energy cost for any channels and the exact the time-energy cost for a class of channels which includes the qudit depolarizing channels and projector channels as special cases.

id: 1404.4169
title: Protecting a Spin Ensemble against Decoherence in the Strong-Coupling Regime of Cavity QED
authors: Stefan Putz, Dmitry O. Krimer, Robert. Ams¨¹ss, Abhilash Valookaran, Tobias N?bauer, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Stefan Rotter, Johannes Majer
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 10, 720 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4169
abstract: Hybrid quantum systems based on spin ensembles coupled to superconducting microwave cavities are promising candidates for robust experiments in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) and for future technologies employing quantum mechanical effects. Currently the main source of decoherence in these systems is inho- mogeneous spin broadening, which limits their performance for the coherent transfer and storage of quantum information. Here we study the dynamics of a superconducting cavity strongly coupled to an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. We experimentally observe for the first time, how decoherence induced by a non-Lorentzian spin distribution can be suppressed in the strong-coupling regime - a phenomenon known as "cavity protection". To demonstrate the potential of this effect for coherent control schemes, we show how appropriately chosen microwave pulses can increase the amplitude of coherent oscillations between cavity and spin ensemble by two orders of magnitude.

id: 1404.4172
title: Compatibility properties of extreme quantum observables
authors: Erkka Haapasalo, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Roope Uola
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4172
abstract: Recently a problem concerning the equivalence of joint measurability and coexistence of quantum observables was solved [13]. In this paper we generalize two known joint measurability results from sharp observables to the class of extreme observables and study relationships between coexistence, joint measurability, and post-processing of quantum observables when an extreme observable is involved. We also discuss another notion of compatibility and provide a counterexample separating this from the former notions.

id: 1404.4199
title: A qutrit Quantum Key Distribution protocol with better noise resistance
authors: Fran?ois Arnault, Zo¨¦ Amblard
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4199
abstract: The Ekert quantum key distribution protocol uses pairs of entangled qubits and performs checks based on a Bell inequality to detect eavesdropping. The 3DEB protocol uses instead pairs of entangled qutrits to achieve better noise resistance than the Ekert protocol. It performs checks based on a Bell inequality for qutrits named CHSH-3. In this paper, we present a new protocol, which also uses pairs of entangled qutrits, but achieves even better noise resistance than 3DEB. This gain of performance is obtained by using another inequality called here hCHSH-3. As the hCHSH3 inequality involve products of observables which become incompatible when using quantum states, we show how the parties running the protocol can measure the violation of hCHSH3 in the presence of noise, to ensure the secrecy of the key.

id: 1404.4205
title: Implementation of a Measurement-Device-Independent Entanglement Witness
authors: Ping Xu, Xiao Yuan, Luo-Kan Chen, He Lu, Xing-Can Yao, Xiongfeng Ma, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140506 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4205
abstract: Entanglement, the essential resource in quantum information processing, should be witnessed in many tasks such as quantum computing and quantum communication. The conventional entanglement witness method, relying on an idealized implementation of measurements, could wrongly conclude a separable state to be entangled due to imperfect detections. Inspired by the idea of a time-shift attack, we construct an attack on the conventional entanglement witness process and demonstrate that a separable state can be falsely identified to be entangled. To close such detection loopholes, based on a recently proposed measurement-device-independent entanglement witness method, we design and experimentally demonstrate a measurement-device-independent entanglement witness for a variety of two-qubit states. By the new scheme, we show that an entanglement witness can be realized without detection loopholes.

id: 1404.4241
title: Minimal evolution time and quantum speed limit of non-Markovian open systems
authors: Xiangyi Meng, Chengjun Wu, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4241
abstract: We derive a new sharp bound as the quantum speed limit (QSL) for the minimal evolution time of quantum open systems in the non-Markovian strong-coupling regime with initial mixed states by considering the effects of both renormalized Hamiltonian and dissipator. We find that the minimal evolution time and its QSL can decrease steeply by adjusting the coupling strength of the dissipator, which thus provides potential improvements of efficiency in many quantum physics and quantum information areas.

id: 1404.4242
title: Feasibility of UV lasing without inversion in mercury vapor
authors: Martin R. Sturm, Benjamin Rein, Thomas Walther, Reinhold Walser
comments: changes were made according to reviewer comments (accepted for publication in JOSA B)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4242
abstract: We investigate the feasibility of UV lasing without inversion at a wavelength of $253.7$ nm utilizing interacting dark resonances in mercury vapor. Our theoretical analysis starts with radiation damped optical Bloch equations for all relevant 13 atomic levels. These master equations are generalized by considering technical phase noise of the driving lasers. From the Doppler broadened complex susceptibility we obtain the stationary output power from semiclassical laser theory. The finite overlap of the driving Gaussian laser beams defines an ellipsoidal inhomogeneous gain distribution. Therefore, we evaluate the intra-cavity field inside a ring laser self-consistently with Fourier optics. This analysis confirms the feasibility of UV lasing and reveals its dependence on experimental parameters.

id: 1404.4257
title: Fast shuttling of a trapped ion in the presence of noise
authors: Xiao-Jing Lu, J. G. Muga, Xi Chen, U. G. Poschinger, F. Schmidt-Kaler, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4257
abstract: We theoretically investigate the motional excitation of a single ion caused by spring-constant and position uctuations of a harmonic trap during trap shuttling processes. A detailed study of the sensitivity on noise for several transport protocols and noise spectra is provided. The e?ect of slow spring-constant drifts is also analyzed. Trap trajectories that minimize the excitation are designed combining invariant-based inverse engineering, perturbation theory, and optimal control.

id: 1404.4277
title: Experimental Implementation of a Quantum Optical State Comparison Amplifier
authors: Ross J. Donaldson, Robert J. Collins, Electra Eleftheriadou, Stephen M. Barnett, John Jeffers, Gerald S. Buller
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120505 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4277
abstract: Quantum optical amplification that beats the noise addition limit for deterministic amplifiers has been realized experimentally using several different nondeterministic protocols. These schemes either require single-photon sources, or operate by noise addition and photon subtraction. Here we present an experimental demonstration of a protocol that allows nondeterministic amplification of known sets of coherent states with high gain and high fidelity. The experimental system employs the two mature quantum optical technologies of state comparison and photon subtraction and does not rely on elaborate quantum resources such as single-photon sources. The use of coherent states rather than single photons allows for an increased rate of amplification and a less complex photon source. Furthermore it means that the amplification is not restricted to low amplitude states. With respect to the two key parameters, fidelity and amplified state production rate, we demonstrate, without the use of quantum resources, significant improvements over previous experimental implementations.

id: 1404.4296
title: Fractional Revivals, Multiple-Cat States and Quantum Carpets in the Interaction of a Qubit with $N$ Qubits
authors: Shane Dooley, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4296
abstract: We study the dynamics of a system comprising a single qubit interacting equally with $N$ qubits (a "spin star" system). Although this model can be solved exactly, the exact solution does not give much intuition for the dynamics of the model. Here, we find an approximation that gives some insight into the dynamics for a particular class of initial spin coherent states of the $N$ qubits. We find an effective Hamiltonian for the system that is a finite Kerr (one-axis twisting) Hamiltonian for the $N+1$ qubits. The initial spin coherent state evolves to spin squeezed states on short timescales, and to "multiple-cat" states (superpositions of many spin coherent states) on longer timescales, a manifestation of the phenomenon of fractional revivals of the initial state. The evolution of the system is visualised with phase space plots ($Q$-functions) that, when plotted against time, reveal a "quantum carpet" pattern. Of particular interest is the fact that our approximation captures the qualitative features of the model even for small values of $N$. This suggests the possibility of observing the phenomenon of fractional revival in this model for systems of few qubits.

id: 1404.4308
title: Orthogonalization of partly unknown quantum states
authors: M. Jezek, M. Micuda, I. Straka, M. Mikova, M. Dusek, J. Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4308
abstract: A quantum analog of the fundamental classical NOT gate is a quantum gate that would transform any input qubit state onto an orthogonal state. Intriguingly, this universal NOT gate is forbidden by the laws of quantum physics. This striking phenomenon has far-reaching implications concerning quantum information processing and encoding information about directions and reference frames into quantum states. It also triggers the question under what conditions the preparation of quantum states orthogonal to input states becomes possible. Here we report on experimental demonstration of orthogonalization of partly unknown single- and two-qubit quantum states. A state orthogonal to an input state is conditionally prepared by quantum filtering, and the only required information about the input state is a mean value of a single arbitrary operator. We show that perfect orthogonalization of partly unknown two-qubit entangled states can be performed by applying the quantum filter to one of the qubits only.

id: 1404.4324
title: Ruling out stray thermal radiation in analogue black holes
authors: Jason Doukas, Gerardo Adesso, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4324
abstract: Experimental searches for the thermal radiation from analogue black holes require the measurement of very low temperatures in regimes where other thermal noises may interfere or even mimic the sought-after effect. In this letter, we parameterize the family of bosonic thermal channels which give rise to such thermal effects and show that by use of coherent states and homodyne detection one can rule out the non-Hawking contributions and identify those candidate sources which arise from Hawking-like processes.

id: 1404.4327
title: Notes on Some Questions in Mathematical Physics and Quantum Information
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4327
abstract: This is a set of notes on some unrelated topics in mathematical physics, at varying levels of detail. First, I consider certain questions relating to the decay of correlation functions in matrix product states, in particular those generated by quantum expanders. This is discussed in relation to recent results of Brandao and Horodecki on area laws on systems with exponentially decaying correlation function\cite{areaexp}. Second, I consider some difficulties in trying to construct a tensor product state (or PEPS) describing a two-dimensional fermionic system with non-vanishing Hall conductance. Third, I present some relations between the theory of almost commuting matrices and that of vector bundles, making the connection between the classifications more explicit. Fourth, I present an open question about quantum channels, and some partial results.

id: 1404.4329
title: On Bell-Like Inequalities for Testing Local Realism
authors: Donald A. Graft
comments: Minor corrections throughout
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4329
abstract: Objections to the use of inequalities to address foundational issues are considered and shown to be invalid. The Clauser-Horne (CH) inequality is considered and interpreted in this light. It is shown that, applied correctly, the CH inequality can validly test aspects of locality. This paper establishes a firm methodological ground for a following paper analyzing a recent CH experiment.

id: 1404.4369
title: Unconditional quantum teleportation between distant solid-state qubits
authors: Wolfgang Pfaff, Bas Hensen, Hannes Bernien, Suzanne B. van Dam, Machiel S. Blok, Tim H. Taminiau, Marijn J. Tiggelman, Raymond N. Schouten, Matthew Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, Ronald Hanson
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures; added supplementary material and DOI
journal: Science 345, 532-535 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4369
abstract: Realizing robust quantum information transfer between long-lived qubit registers is a key challenge for quantum information science and technology. Here we demonstrate unconditional teleportation of arbitrary quantum states between diamond spin qubits separated by 3 meters. We prepare the teleporter through photon-mediated heralded entanglement between two distant electron spins and subsequently encode the source qubit in a single nuclear spin. By realizing a fully deterministic Bell-state measurement combined with real-time feed-forward we achieve teleportation in each attempt while obtaining an average state fidelity exceeding the classical limit. These results establish diamond spin qubits as a prime candidate for the realization of quantum networks for quantum communication and network-based quantum computing.

id: 1404.4433
title: Quantum Diagrams and Quantum Networks
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures, LaTeX document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4433
abstract: This paper is an introduction to diagrammatic methods for representing quantum processes and quantum computing. We review basic notions for quantum information and quantum computing. We discuss topological diagrams and some issues about using category theory in representing quantum computing and teleportation. We analyze very carefully the diagrammatic meaning of the usual representation of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, and we show how it can be generalized to associate to each composition of unitary transformations a "laboratory quantum diagram" such that particles moving though the many alternate paths in this diagram will mimic the quantum process represented by the composition of unitary transformations. This is a finite dimensional way to think about the Feynman Path Integral. We call our representation result the Path Theorem. Then we go back to the basics of networks and matrices and show how elements of quantum measurement can be represented with network diagrams.

id: 1404.4447
title: Entanglement in N-harmonium: bosons and fermions
authors: C. L. Benavides-Riveros, I. V. Toranzo, J. S. Dehesa
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures, minor changes, 4 improved figures, references added, some typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 19550
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4447
abstract: The ground-state entanglement of a single particle of the N-harmonium system (i.e., a completely-integrable model of $N$ particles where both the confinement and the two-particle interaction are harmonic) is shown to be analytically determined in terms of $N$ and the relative interaction strength. For bosons, we compute the von Neumann entropy of the one-body reduced density matrix by using the corresponding natural occupation numbers. There exists a critical number $N_c$ of particles so that below it, for positive values of the coupling constant, the entanglement grows when the number of particles is increasing; the opposite occurs for $N > N_c$. For fermions, we compute the one-body reduced density matrix for the closed-shell spinned case. In the strong coupling regime, the linear entropy of the system decreases when $N$ is growing. For fixed $N$, the entanglement is found (a) to decrease (increase) for negatively (positively) increasing values of the coupling constant, and (b) to grow when the energy is increasing. Moreover, the spatial and spin contributions to the total entanglement are found to be of comparable size.

id: 1404.4454
title: Gate operators for N-strategies quantum game
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek-Laso¨½
comments: 8 pages, no figures, two references added, Introduction extended, No change in conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4454
abstract: The quantization of 2-players N-strategies games is considered. The general form of gate operator is determined under the assumption that the classical pure strategies are contained in the set of pure quantum ones.

id: 1404.4457
title: A General Derivation of Pointer States: Decoherence and Classicality
authors: Kentaro Urasaki
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, The Physical Society of Japan 2014 Annual Meeting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4457
abstract: The purpose of the present study is to derive the pointer states of a macroscopic system interacting with its environment, under the general assumptions, i.e., without assuming any form of the interaction Hamiltonian. The lowest order perturbation leads that the interaction energy shifts the phase factors of the state vectors. For a macroscopic system, these factors are the macroscopic quantities even for the very weak interaction. When we group the state vector of the total system by the view point of environmental side, the destructive interference occurs and the stationary phase approximation can be adopted. Only the pointer states then survive and the decoherence also occurs. The present approach is within the standard quantum mechanics as same as the standard decoherence theory, but the meaning of the classical state is much clear.

id: 1404.4466
title: Matrix product operators and states: NP-hardness and undecidability
authors: M. Kliesch, D. Gross, J. Eisert
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; published version with improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4466
abstract: Tensor network states constitute an important variational set of quantum states for numerical studies of strongly correlated systems in condensed-matter physics, as well as in mathematical physics. This is specifically true for finitely correlated states or matrix-product operators, designed to capture mixed states of one-dimensional quantum systems. It is a well-known open problem to find an efficient algorithm that decides whether a given matrix-product operator actually represents a physical state that in particular has no negative eigenvalues. We address and answer this question by showing that the problem is provably undecidable in the thermodynamic limit and that the bounded version of the problem is NP-hard in the system size. Furthermore, we discuss numerous connections between tensor network methods and (seemingly) different concepts treated before in the literature, such as hidden Markov models and tensor trains.

id: 1404.4499
title: Discrete Lorentz covariance for Quantum Walks and Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini, Marcelo Forets
comments: 21 pages, 15 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 093007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4499
abstract: We formalize a notion of discrete Lorentz transforms for Quantum Walks (QW) and Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA), in (1 + 1)-dimensional discrete spacetime. The theory admits a diagrammatic representation in terms of a few local, circuit equivalence rules. Within this framework, we show the first-order-only covariance of the Dirac QW. We then introduce the Clock QW and the Clock QCA, and prove that they are exactly discrete Lorentz covariant. The theory also allows for non-homogeneous Lorentz transforms, between non-inertial frames.

id: 1404.4509
title: Discrete time quantum walks on percolation graphs
authors: B¨¢lint Koll¨¢r, Jaroslav Novotn?, Tam¨¢s Kiss, Igor Jex
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus 129, 103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4509
abstract: Randomly breaking connections in a graph alters its transport properties, a model used to describe percolation. In the case of quantum walks, dynamic percolation graphs represent a special type of imperfections, where the connections appear and disappear randomly in each step during the time evolution. The resulting open system dynamics is hard to treat numerically in general. We shortly review the literature on this problem. We then present our method to solve the evolution on finite percolation graphs in the long time limit, applying the asymptotic methods concerning random unitary maps. We work out the case of one dimensional chains in detail and provide a concrete, step by step numerical example in order to give more insight into the possible asymptotic behavior. The results about the case of the two-dimensional integer lattice are summarized, focusing on the Grover type coin operator.

id: 1404.4513
title: One-photon wavepacket interacting with two separated atoms in a one-dimensional waveguide: Influence of virtual photons
authors: S. Derouault, M. A. Bouchene
comments: 30 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023828 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4513
abstract: We present a theoretical study of one photon wave-packet scattered by two atoms in one dimensional waveguide. We investigate the role of non rotating wave approximation terms to take into account correctly for the effects of the virtual photons that are exchanged between the atoms. These terms are shown to influence drastically the reflected and the transmitted fields, imposing strict constraints on their temporal envelopes.

id: 1404.4555
title: The Screen representation of spin networks: 2D recurrence, eigenvalue equation for 6j symbols, geometric interpretation and Hamiltonian dynamics
authors: Roger W. Anderson, Vincenzo Aquilanti, Ana Carla P. Bitencourt, Dimitri Marinelli, Mirco Ragni
comments: 14 pages,9 figures, presented at ICCSA 2013 13th International Conference on Computational Science and Application
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 7972, 4659 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4555
abstract: This paper treats 6j symbols or their orthonormal forms as a function of two variables spanning a square manifold which we call the "screen". We show that this approach gives important and interesting insight. This two dimensional perspective provides the most natural extension to exhibit the role of these discrete functions as matrix elements that appear at the very foundation of the modern theory of classical discrete orthogonal polynomials. Here we present 2D and 1D recursion relations that are useful for the direct computation of the orthonormal 6j, which we name U. We present a convention for the order of the arguments of the 6j that is based on their classical and Regge symmetries, and a detailed investigation of new geometrical aspects of the 6j symbols. Specifically we compare the geometric recursion analysis of Schulten and Gordon with the methods of this paper. The 1D recursion relation, written as a matrix diagonalization problem, permits an interpretation as a discrete Schr\"odinger-like equations and an asymptotic analysis illustrates semiclassical and classical limits in terms of Hamiltonian evolution.

id: 1404.4559
title: Multipartite Dense Coding vs. Quantum Correlation: Noise Inverts Relative Capability of Information Transfer
authors: Tamoghna Das, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4559
abstract: A highly entangled bipartite quantum state is more advantageous for the quantum dense coding protocol than states with low entanglement. Such a correspondence, however, does not exist even for pure quantum states in the multipartite domain. We establish a connection between the multiparty capacity of classical information transmission in quantum dense coding and several multipartite quantum correlation measures of the shared state, used in the dense coding protocol. In particular, we show that for the noiseless channel, if multipartite quantum correlations of an arbitrary multipartite state of arbitrary number of qubits is the same as that of the corresponding generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, then the multipartite dense coding capability of former is the same or better than that of the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. Interestingly, in a noisy channel scenario, where we consider both uncorrelated and correlated noise models, the relative abilities of the quantum channels to transfer classical information can get inverted by administering a sufficient amount of noise. When the shared state is an arbitrary multipartite mixed state, we also establish a link between the classical capacity for the noiseless case and multipartite quantum correlation measures.

id: 1404.4603
title: Complex modes in unstable quadratic bosonic forms
authors: R. Rossignoli, A.M. Kowalski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 72, 032101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4603
abstract: We discuss the necessity of using non-standard boson operators for diagonalizing quadratic bosonic forms which are not positive definite and its convenience for describing the temporal evolution of the system. Such operators correspond to non-hermitian coordinates and momenta and are associated with complex frequencies. As application, we examine a bosonic version of a BCS-like pairing Hamiltonian, which, in contrast with the fermionic case, is stable just for limited values of the gap parameter and requires the use of the present extended treatment for a general diagonal representation. The dynamical stability of such forms and the occurrence of non-diagonalizable cases are also discussed.

id: 1404.4611
title: Dynamics of entanglement between two harmonic modes in stable and unstable regimes
authors: L. Reb¨®n, N. Canosa, R. Rossignoli
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 042312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4611
abstract: The exact dynamics of the entanglement between two harmonic modes generated by an angular momentum coupling is examined. Such system arises when considering a particle in a rotating anisotropic harmonic trap or a charged particle in a fixed harmonic potential in a magnetic field, and exhibits a rich dynamical structure, with stable, unstable and critical regimes according to the values of the rotational frequency or field and trap parameters. Consequently, it is shown that the entanglement generated from an initially separable gaussian state can exhibit quite distinct evolutions, ranging from quasiperiodic behavior in stable sectors to different types of unbounded increase in critical and unstable regions. The latter lead respectively to a logarithmic and linear growth of the entanglement entropy with time. It is also shown that entanglement can be controlled by tuning the frequency, such that it can be increased, kept constant or returned to a vanishing value just with stepwise frequency variations. Exact asymptotic expressions for the entanglement entropy in the different dynamical regimes are provided.

id: 1404.4617
title: Possible physical self-asserting of the homogeneous vector potential. A testing puzzle based on a G.P. Thomson-like arrangement
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 12pages, 2 figures, 18 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4617
abstract: It is suggested a testing puzzle able to reveal the self-asserting property of the homogeneous vector potential field. As pieces of the puzzle are taken three reliable entities : (i) influence of a potential vector on the de Broglie wavelength (ii) a G.P. Thomson-like experimental arrangement and (iii) a special coil designed to create a homogeneous vector potential. The alluded property is not connected with magnetic fluxes surrounded by the vector potential field lines, but it depends on the fluxes which are outside of the respective lines. Also the same property shows that in the tested case the vector potential field is uniquely defined physical quantity, free of any adjusting gauge. So the phenomenology of the suggested quantum test differs on that of macroscopic theory where the vector potential is not uniquely defined and allows a gauge adjustment. Of course that the proposed test has to be subjected to adequate experimental validation.

id: 1404.4643
title: Quantum limited amplification and entanglement in coupled nonlinear resonators
authors: C. Eichler, Y. Salathe, J. Mlynek, S. Schmidt, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 110502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4643
abstract: We demonstrate a coupled cavity realization of a Bose Hubbard dimer to achieve quantum limited amplification and to generate frequency entangled microwave fields with squeezing parameters well below -12 dB. In contrast to previous implementations of parametric amplifiers our dimer can be operated both as a degenerate and as a nondegenerate amplifier. The large measured gain-bandwidth product of more than 250 MHz for nondegenerate operation and the saturation at input photon numbers as high as 2000 per us are both expected to be improvable even further, while maintaining wide frequency tunability of about 2 GHz. Featuring flexible control over all relevant system parameters, the presented Bose-Hubbard dimer based on lumped element circuits has significant potential as an elementary cell in nonlinear cavity arrays for quantum simulation.

id: 1404.4673
title: Coherent quantum dynamics in steady-state manifolds of strongly dissipative systems
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 4+2 pages, 1+1 figures, updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 240406 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4673
abstract: It has been recently realized that dissipative processes can be harnessed and exploited to the end of coherent quantum control and information processing. In this spirit we consider strongly dissipative quantum systems admitting a non-trivial manifold of steady states. We show how one can enact adiabatic coherent unitary manipulations e.g., quantum logical gates, inside this {steady-state} manifold by adding a weak, time-rescaled, Hamiltonian term into the system's Liouvillian. The effective long-time dynamics is governed by a projected Hamiltonian which results from the interplay between the weak unitary control and the fast relaxation process. The leakage outside the {steady-state} manifold entailed by the Hamiltonian term is suppressed by an environment-induced symmetrization of the dynamics. We present applications to quantum-computation in decoherence-free subspaces and noiseless subsystems and numerical analysis of non-adiabatic errors.

id: 1404.4675
title: Masking Property of Quantum Random Cipher with Phase Mask Encryption -Towards Quantum Enigma Cipher-
authors: Masaki Sohma, Osamu Hirota
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. Quantum Information Processing (Published online: 02 April, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4675
abstract: The security analysis of physical encryption protocol based on coherent pulse position modulation(CPPM) originated by Yuen is one of the most interesting topics in the study of cryptosystem with a security level beyond the Shannon limit. Although the implementation of CPPM scheme has certain difficulty, several methods have been proposed recently. This paper deals with the CPPM encryption in terms of symplectic transformation, which includes a phase mask encryption as a special example, and formulates a unified security analysis for such encryption schemes. Specifically, we give a lower bound of Eve's symbol error probability using reliability function theory to ensure that our proposed system exceeds the Shannon limit. Then we assume the secret key is given to Eve after her heterodyne measurement. Since this assumption means that Eve has a great advantage in the sense of the conventional cryptography, the lower bound of her error indeed ensures the security level beyond the Shannon limit. In addition, we show some numerical examples of the security performance.

id: 1404.4732
title: Geometric phase gate for entangling two Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Mahmood Irtiza Hussain, Ebubechukwu O. Ilo-Okeke, Tim Byrnes
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 053607 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4732
abstract: We propose a method of entangling two spinor Bose-Einstein condensates using a geometric phase gate. The scheme relies upon only the ac Stark shift and a common controllable optical mode coupled to the spins. Our scheme allows for the creation of an SzSz type interaction where Sz is the total spin. The geometric phase gate can be executed in times of the order of 2{\pi} /G, where G is the magnitude of the Stark shift. In contrast to related schemes which relied on a fourth order interaction to produce entanglement this is a second order interaction in the number of atomic transitions. Closed expressions for the entangling phase are derived and the effects of decoherence due to cavity decay, spontaneous emission and incomplete de-entangling of the light to BEC are analyzed.

id: 1404.4794
title: Topological Basis Associated with B-M-W algebra: Two Spin-1/2 Realization
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Kang Xue, Chunfang Sun, Bo Liu, Ying Liu, Yan Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, 379 (1-2), p1-4, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4794
abstract: In this letter, we study the two-spin-1/2 realization for the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl (B-M-W) algebra and the corresponding Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}(\theta,\phi)$ matrix. Based on the two-spin-1/2 realization for the B-M-W algebra, the three-dimensional topological space, which is spanned by topological basis, is investigated. By means of such topological basis realization, the four-dimensional Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}(\theta,\phi)$ can be reduced to Wigner $D^{J}$ function with $J=1$. The entanglement and Berry phase in the spectral parameter space are also explored. The results show that one can obtain a set of entangled basis via Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}(\theta,\phi)$ matrix acting on the standard basis, and the entanglement degree is maximum when the $\breve{R}_{i}(\theta,\phi)$ turns to the braiding operator.

id: 1404.4812
title: Beyond Bell's Theorem II: Scenarios with arbitrary causal structure
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: comments and questions welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4812
abstract: It has recently been found that Bell scenarios are only a small subclass of interesting setups for studying the non-classical features of quantum theory within spacetime. We find that it is possible to talk about classical correlations, quantum correlations and other kinds of correlations on any directed acyclic graph, and this captures various extensions of Bell scenarios which have been considered in the literature. From a conceptual point of view, the main feature of our approach is its high level of unification: while the notions of source, choice of setting and measurement play all seemingly different roles in a Bell scenario, our formalism shows that they are all instances of the same concept of "event". Our work can also be understood as a contribution to the subject of causal inference with latent variables. Among other things, we introduce hidden Bayesian networks as a generalization of hidden Markov models.

id: 1404.4842
title: Monoatomically thin polarizable sheets
authors: M. Bordag
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4842
abstract: We consider a flat lattice of dipoles modeled by harmonic oscillators interacting with the electromagnetic field in dipole approximation. Eliminating the variables from the coupled equations of motion, we come to effective Maxwell equations. These allow for taking the lattice spacing $a$ to zero. As a result, we obtain reflection coefficients for the scattering of electromagnetic waves off the sheet. These are a generalization of that known from the hydrodynamic model. For instance, we get a non trivial scattering for polarizability perpendicular to the sheet. Also we show that the case of a sheet polarizable parallel to the sheet can be obtained in a natural way from a plasma layer of finite thickness. As an alternative approach we discuss the elimination of the electromagnetic fields resulting in effective equations for the oscillators. These show, for $a\to 0$, divergent behavior, resulting from the electrostatic interaction of the dipoles.

id: 1404.4855
title: Multimode Optomechanics as a Prototype of Mediated Interactions
authors: L. F. Buchmann, D. M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4855
abstract: We theoretically investigate two quantum modes interacting via local couplings to a dissipative field. Our model considers two mechanical modes with distinct frequencies coupled optomechanically to the same cavity mode. The dissipative cavity field mediates the interaction between the mechanical modes but also leads to decoherence of the mechanical oscillators. Depending on the ratio between effective interaction strength and dissipation rate, which can be chosen via the pump detuning, the interaction assumes a quantum mechanical or classical character. For any cavity decay, there is a regime where the two mechanical modes interact in a non-classical way, which leads us to conclude that optomechanical systems can serve as a model to experimentally study the effects of long-range interactions mediated by classical or quantum-mechanical fields.

id: 1404.4862
title: Entanglement entropies in the ground states of helium-like atoms
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4862
abstract: We examine the entanglement in the ground states of helium and helium-like ions using an original Hylleraas expansion. The von Neumann and linear entropies of the reduced density matrix are accurately computed by performing the Schmidt decomposition of the S singlet spatial wavefunctions. The results presented are more accurate than currently available in published literature.

id: 1404.4863
title: Coherent optical non-reciprocity in axisymmetric resonators
authors: Erik J. Lenferink, Guohua Wei, Nathaniel P. Stern
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 13, pp. 16099-16111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4863
abstract: We describe an approach to optical non-reciprocity that exploits the local helicity of evanescent electric fields in axisymmetric resonators. By interfacing an optical cavity to helicity-sensitive transitions, such as Zeeman levels in a quantum dot, light transmission through a waveguide becomes direction-dependent when the state degeneracy is lifted. Using a linearized quantum master equation, we analyze the configurations that exhibit non-reciprocity, and we show that reasonable parameters from existing cavity QED experiments are sufficient to demonstrate a coherent non-reciprocal optical isolator operating at the level of a single photon.

id: 1404.4897
title: Multipartite $d-$level GHZ bases associated with generalized braid matrices
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Chunfang Sun, Chunfeng Wu, Bo Liu, Yan Zhang, Kang Xue
comments: 5 pages
journal: EPL (Europhysics Letters), 108 (2014) 10001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4897
abstract: We investigate the generalized braid relation ($d-$level $N-$body braid relation) and its application to quantum entanglement. By means of finite-dimensional representations of Heisenberg-Weyl algebra, a set of $d^{N}\times d^{N}$ unitary matrix representations satisfying the generalized braid relation can be constructed. Such generalized braid matrices can entangle $d-$level $N-$partite quantum states. Acting the generalized braid matrices on the standard basis, one can obtain a set of maximally entangled basis. Further study shows that such entangled basis can be viewed as the $d-$level $N-$partite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) basis.

id: 1404.4912
title: The relation between tangle and local unitary invariants for pure three and four-qubit states
authors: Xin-wei Zha, Yun-Guang Zhang, Jian-Xia Qi, Hai-Yang Song
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4912
abstract: A new form of local unitary (LU) transformation invariant is given for multi-qubit states . The general relation between tangle and the LU transformation invariant of pure three and four-qubit states is given. We find that the tangle actually is a special LU transformation invariant. Furthermore, the tangle is a important local unitary (LU) transformation invariant which is a nessesary condition for maximally multi-qubit entangled state.

id: 1404.4943
title: Cooperative pulses in robust quantum control: Application to broadband Ramsey-type pulse sequence elements
authors: Michael Braun, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 45 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4943
abstract: A general approach is introduced for the efficient simultaneous optimization of pulses that compensate each other' s imperfections within the same scan. This is applied to broadband Ramsey-type experiments, resulting in pulses with significantly shorter duration compared to individually optimized broadband pulses. The advantage of the cooperative pulse approach is demonstrated experimentally for the case of two-dimensional nuclear Overhauser enhancement spectroscopy. In addition to the general approach, a symmetry-adapted analysis of the optimization of Ramsey sequences is presented. Furthermore, the numerical results led to the disovery of a powerful class of pulses with a special symmetry property, which results in excellent performance in Ramsey-type experiments. A significantly different scaling of pulse sequence performance as a function of pulse duration is found for characteristic pulse families, which is explained in terms of the different numbers of available degrees of freedom in the offset dependence of the associated Euler angles.

id: 1404.4953
title: High-precision description and new properties of a spin-1 particle in a magnetic field
authors: Alexander J. Silenko
comments: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89 (2014) 121701(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4953
abstract: The exact Foldy-Wouthuysen Hamiltonian is derived for a pointlike spin-1 particle with a normal magnetic moment in a nonuniform magnetic field. For a uniform magnetic field, it is exactly separated into terms linear and quadratic in spin. New unexpected properties of a particle with an anomalous magnetic moment are found. Spin projections of a particle moving in a uniform magnetic field are not integer and the tensor polarization is asymmetric in the plane orthogonal to the field. Previously described spin-tensor effects caused by the tensor magnetic polarizability exist not only for nuclei but also for pointlike particles.

id: 1404.4979
title: Wireless Josephson Amplifier
authors: A. Narla, K.M. Sliwa, M. Hatridge, S. Shankar, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf, M.H. Devoret
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 104, 232605 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4979
abstract: Josephson junction parametric amplifiers are playing a crucial role in the readout chain in superconducting quantum information experiments. However, their integration with current 3D cavity implementations poses the problem of transitioning between waveguide, coax cables and planar circuits. Moreover, Josephson amplifiers require auxiliary microwave components, like directional couplers and/or hybrids, that are sources of spurious losses and impedance mismatches that limit measurement efficiency and amplifier tunability. We have developed a new wireless architecture for these parametric amplifiers that eliminates superfluous microwave components and interconnects. This greatly simplifies their assembly and integration into experiments. We present an experimental realization of such a device operating in the $9-11$ GHz band with about $100$ MHz of amplitude gain-bandwidth product, on par with devices mounted in conventional sample holders. The simpler impedance environment presented to the amplifier also results in increased amplifier tunability.

id: 1404.5033
title: Optimal receiver for binary coherent signals
authors: Denis Sych, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5033
abstract: One of the most fascinating aspects of quantum mechanics is the principle impossibility of deterministic errorless discrimination of nonorthogonal signals, such as coherent states. On the one hand, it prevents perfect cloning of quantum states and enables secure communication. On the other hand, it makes a grand challenge to reach the ultimate measurement precision. Although the minimum possible error rate (the Helstrom bound) has been known for almost five decades, there is no practical way to achieve it. Developing the realistic optimal measurement strategies to attain the Helstrom bound is of utmost importance for high-precision applications, long-distance free-space and optical fiber communication, gravitational wave detection, optical sensing in biology and medicine, to name a few. In this work, we show an optimal receiver for coherent states which admits a relatively simple technological implementation. The receiver is based on multichannel splitting of the signal, followed by feed-forward signal displacement and photon detection.

id: 1404.5074
title: Relativistic Dynamical Collapse Model for a Scalar Field
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: The paper has been withdrawn because it requires two incompatible properties of the kernel G, that it be positive definite and that it not vanish only for space-like values of its argument
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5074
abstract: A natural generalization of the CSL (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) theory of dynamical collapse is applied to a relativistic quantum scalar field $\phi({\bf x},t)$. It is shown that the modified Schr\"odinger equation is relativistically invariant, that the probabilities associated to all possible values of the classical scalar random field $w({\bf x},t)$ (which determines the eventual state of collapse) add up to 1, that there is no energy production out of the vacuum and, in the limit of large time, the collapse is toward eigenstates of $\phi({\bf x},0)$.

id: 1404.5081
title: Strong Local Passivity in Finite Quantum Systems
authors: Michael Frey, Ken Funo, Masahiro Hotta
comments: This newer version is longer and more detailed. Published 24 July 2014
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 012127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5081
abstract: Passive states of quantum systems are states from which no system energy can be extracted by any cyclic (unitary) process. Gibbs states of all temperatures are passive. Strong local (SL) passive states are defined to allow any general quantum operation, but the operation is required to be local, being applied only to a specific subsystem. Any mixture of eigenstates in a system-dependent neighborhood of a nondegenerate, entangled ground state is found to be SL passive. In particular, Gibbs states are SL passive with respect to a subsystem only at or below a critical, system-dependent temperature. SL passivity is associated in many-body systems with the presence of ground state entanglement in a way suggestive of collective quantum phenomena such as quantum phase transitions, superconductivity, and the quantum Hall effect. The presence of SL passivity is detailed for some simple spin systems where it is found that SL passivity is neither confined to systems of just a few particles nor limited to the near vicinity of the ground state.

id: 1404.5095
title: No-signaling non-unitary modification of quantum dynamics within a deterministic model of quantization
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: accepted for publication in Annals of Physics. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1310.6028, arXiv:1301.5345, arXiv:1404.1528
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5095
abstract: We have developed in the previous works a statistical model of quantum fluctuation based on a chaotic deviation from infinitesimal stationary action which is constrained by the principle of Locality to have a unique exponential distribution up to a parameter that determines its average. The unitary Schr\"odinger time evolution with Born's statistical interpretation of wave function is recovered as a specific case when the average deviation from infinitesimal stationary action is given by $\hbar/2$ for all the time. This naturally suggests a possible generalization of the quantum dynamics and statistics by allowing the average deviation fluctuates effectively randomly around $\hbar/2$ with a finite yet very small width and a finite time scale. We shall show that averaging over such fluctuation will lead to a non-unitary average-energy-conserving time evolution providing an intrinsic mechanism of decoherence in energy basis in macroscopic regime. A possible cosmological origin of the fluctuation is suggested. Coherence and decoherence are thus explained as two features of the same statistical model corresponding to microscopic and macroscopic regimes, respectively. Moreover, noting that measurement-interaction can be treated in equal footing as the other types of interaction, the objective locality of the model is argued to imply no-signaling between a pair of arbitrarily separated experiments.

id: 1404.5153
title: Optimal bounds for parity-oblivious random access codes
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis, Srijita Kundu, Jamie Sikora
comments: Version 2. 15 pages. Results unchanged, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5153
abstract: Random access coding is an information task that has been extensively studied and found many applications in quantum information. In this scenario, Alice receives an $n$-bit string $x$, and wishes to encode $x$ into a quantum state $\rho_x$, such that Bob, when receiving the state $\rho_x$, can choose any bit $i \in [n]$ and recover the input bit $x_i$ with high probability. Here we study a variant called parity-oblivious random access codes, where we impose the cryptographic property that Bob cannot infer any information about the parity of any subset of bits of the input, apart from the single bits $x_i$. We provide the optimal quantum parity-oblivious random access codes and show that they are asymptotically better than the optimal classical ones. For this, we relate such encodings to a non-local game and provide tight bounds for the success probability of the non-local game via semidefinite programming. We also extend the well-known quantum random access codes for encoding $2$ or $3$ classical bits into a single qubit. Our results provide a large non-contextuality inequality violation and resolve the main open problem in a work of Spekkens, Buzacott, Keehn, Toner, and Pryde (2009).

id: 1404.5179
title: Degree of Fuzziness in Coarsened Measurement References
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 5pages,5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5179
abstract: It has been found that the quantum-to-classical transition can be observed independent of macroscopicity of the quantum state for a fixed degree of fuzziness in the coarsened references of measurements. Here, a general situation, that is the degree of fuzziness can change with the rotation angle between two states (different rotation angles represent different references), is researched based on the reason that the fuzziness of reference can come from two kinds: the Hamiltonian (rotation frequency) and the timing (rotation time). Our results show that, for the fuzziness of Hamiltonian alone, the degree of fuzziness for reference will change with the rotation angle between two states and the quantum effects can still be observed no matter how much degree of fuzziness of Hamiltonian; for the fuzziness of timing, the degree of coarsening reference is unchanged with the rotation angle. Moreover, during the rotation of the measurement axis, the decoherence environment can also help the classical-to-quantum transition due to changing the direction of measurement axis.

id: 1404.5186
title: A Defense of the Paraconsistent Approach to Quantum Superpositions (Answer to Arenhart and Krause)
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: 28 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5186
abstract: In (da Costa and de Ronde, 2014), Newton da Costa together with the author of this paper argued in favor of the possibility to consider quantum superpositions in terms of a paraconsistent approach. We claimed that, even though most interpretations of quantum mechanics attempt to escape contradictions, there are many hints that indicate it could be worth while to engage in a research of this kind. Recently, Arenhart and Krause (2014) have raised several arguments against this approach. In the present paper we attempt to answer the main questions presented by Arenhart and Krause. We will argue, firstly, that the obstacles presented by them are based on a specific metaphysical stance, which we will characterize in terms of what we call the Orthodox Line of Research (OLR). Secondly, that this is not necessarily the only possible line, and that a different one, namely, a Constructive Metaphysical Line of Research (CMLR) provides a different perspective in which the Paraconsistent Approach to Quantum Superpositions (PAQS) can be regarded as a valuable prospect that could be used by different interpretations of quantum mechanics. Finally, we provide a set of specific answers to the main problems raised by Arenhart and Krause in order to clarify our line of research as well as the original perspective introduced by the PAQS.

id: 1404.5275
title: Accelerated Randomized Benchmarking
authors: Christopher Granade, Christopher Ferrie, D. G. Cory
comments: 10 pages, full source code at this https URL #quantuminfo #benchmarking
journal: New Journal of Physics 17 013042 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5275
abstract: Quantum information processing offers promising advances for a wide range of fields and applications, provided that we can efficiently assess the performance of the control applied in candidate systems. That is, we must be able to determine whether we have implemented a desired gate, and refine accordingly. Randomized benchmarking reduces the difficulty of this task by exploiting symmetries in quantum operations. Here, we bound the resources required for benchmarking and show that, with prior information, we can achieve several orders of magnitude better accuracy than in traditional approaches to benchmarking. Moreover, by building on state-of-the-art classical algorithms, we reach these accuracies with near-optimal resources. Our approach requires an order of magnitude less data to achieve the same accuracies and to provide online estimates of the errors in the reported fidelities. We also show that our approach is useful for physical devices by comparing to simulations. Our results thus enable the application of randomized benchmarking in new regimes, and dramatically reduce the experimental effort required to assess control fidelities in quantum systems. Finally, our work is based on open-source scientific libraries, and can readily be applied in systems of interest.

id: 1404.5280
title: Crossover Between Non-Markovian and Markovian Dynamics Induced by a Hierarchical Environment
authors: Tiantian Ma, Yusui Chen, Tian Chen, Samuel R. Hedemann, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 (2014) 042108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5280
abstract: Non-Markovian evolution of an open quantum system can be induced by the memory effects of a reservoir. Although a reservoir with stronger memory effects may seem like it should cause stronger non-Markovian effects on the system of interest, this seemingly intuitive thinking may not always be correct. We illustrate this by investigating a qubit (a two-level atom) that is coupled to a hierarchical environment, which contains a single-mode cavity and a reservoir consisting of infinite numbers of modes. We show how the non-Markovian character of the system is influenced by the coupling strength between the qubit and cavity and the correlation time of the reservoir. In particular, we found a new phenomenon whereby the qubit Markovian and non-Markovian transition exhibits a anomalous pattern in a parameter space depicted by the coupling strength and the correlation time of the reservoir.

id: 1404.5287
title: Quantification of entanglement entropy in helium by the Schmidt-Slater decomposition method
authors: Chien-Hao Lin, Yew Kam Ho
comments: Final version to be published in Few-Body Systems (accepted on May 2nd, 2014)
journal: Few-Body Systems 55, 1141 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5287
abstract: In this work, we present an investigation on the spatial entanglement entropies in the helium atom by using highly correlated Hylleraas functions to represent the S-wave states. Singlet-spin 1sns 1Se states (with n = 1 to 6) and triplet-spin 1sns 3Se states (with n = 2 to 6) are investigated. As a measure on the spatial entanglement, von Neumann entropy and linear entropy are calculated. Furthermore, we apply the Schmidt-Slater decomposition method on the two-electron wave functions, and obtain eigenvalues of the one-particle reduced density matrix, from which the linear entropy and von Neumann entropy can be determined.

id: 1404.5308
title: Quantum gates via relativistic remote control
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Chris Sutherland
comments: 4 pages (+ 4 pages Appendix). 4 figures. RevTex 4.1
journal: Phys. Lett. B 739, 74-82 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5308
abstract: We harness general relativistic effects to gain quantum control on a stationary qubit in an optical cavity by controlling the non-inertial motion of a different probe atom. Furthermore, we show that by considering relativistic trajectories of the probe, we enhance the efficiency of the quantum control. We explore the possible use of these relativistic techniques to build universal quantum gates.

id: 1404.5320
title: Efficient synthesis of universal Repeat-Until-Success circuits
authors: Alex Bocharov, Martin Roetteler, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures; reformatted and minor edits; added Fig. 2 to visualize the density of z-rotations implementable via RUS protocols
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 080502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5320
abstract: Recently, it was shown that Repeat-Until-Success (RUS) circuits can achieve a $2.5$ times reduction in expected $T$-count over ancilla-free techniques for single-qubit unitary decomposition. However, the previously best known algorithm to synthesize RUS circuits requires exponential classical runtime. In this paper we present an algorithm to synthesize an RUS circuit to approximate any given single-qubit unitary within precision $\varepsilon$ in probabilistically polynomial classical runtime. Our synthesis approach uses the Clifford+$T$ basis, plus one ancilla qubit and measurement. We provide numerical evidence that our RUS circuits have an expected $T$-count on average $2.5$ times lower than the theoretical lower bound of $3 \log_2 (1/\varepsilon)$ for ancilla-free single-qubit circuit decomposition.

id: 1404.5327
title: A Non-Commuting Stabilizer Formalism
authors: Xiaotong Ni, Oliver Buerschaper, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 52 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5327
abstract: We propose a non-commutative extension of the Pauli stabilizer formalism. The aim is to describe a class of many-body quantum states which is richer than the standard Pauli stabilizer states. In our framework, stabilizer operators are tensor products of single-qubit operators drawn from the group $\langle \alpha I, X,S\rangle$, where $\alpha=e^{i\pi/4}$ and $S=\operatorname{diag}(1,i)$. We provide techniques to efficiently compute various properties related to bipartite entanglement, expectation values of local observables, preparation by means of quantum circuits, parent Hamiltonians etc. We also highlight significant differences compared to the Pauli stabilizer formalism. In particular, we give examples of states in our formalism which cannot arise in the Pauli stabilizer formalism, such as topological models that support non-Abelian anyons.

id: 1404.5348
title: Self-ordering dynamics of ultracold atoms in multicolored cavity fields
authors: Sebastian Kr?mer, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033833 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5348
abstract: We study light induced spatial crystallization of ultracold quantum particles confined along the axis of a high-$Q$ linear cavity via a transverse multicolor pump using numerical simulations. Whenever a pump frequency is tuned close to resonance with a longitudinal cavity mode, the dynamics favors bistable spatial particle ordering into a Bragg grating at a wavelength distance. Simultaneous pumping at several resonant frequencies fosters competition between the different spatial lattice orders, exhibiting complex nonlinear field dynamics involving several metastable atom-field states. For few particles even superpositions of different spatial orders entangled with different light mode amplitudes appear. By a proper choice of trap geometry and pump frequencies a broad variety of many particle Hamiltonians with a nontrivial long range coupling can be emulated in such a setup. When applying quantum Monte Carlo wave function simulations to study time evolution we find simultaneous super radiant scattering into several light modes and the buildup of strong non-classical atom field correlations.

id: 1404.5382
title: Meaning of delayed choice experiment and quantum uncertainty
authors: Zinkoo Yun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5382
abstract: By slight modifying of the delayed-choice experiment, it is argued that the quantum wave function must be interpreted as real physical entity; With this interpretation in mind, multiple least action paths due to uncertainty leads us to new perspective on the Compton wavelength and the uncertainty principle itself.

id: 1404.5392
title: Reply to "Comment on Protocol for Direct Counterfactual Quantum Communication"
authors: Hatim Salih, Zheng-Hong Li, M. Al-Amri, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 1 page, one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 208902 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5392
abstract: In reply to Vaidman's Comment [arXiv:1304.6689], we show that his claim that our Protocol for Direct Counterfactual Quantum Communication [PRL 110, 170502 (2013), arXiv:1206.2042] is counterfactual only for one type of information bit is wrong.

id: 1404.5444
title: Experimental simulation of charge conservation violation and Majorana dynamics
authors: R. Keil, C. Noh, A. Rai, S. St¨¹tzer, S. Nolte, D. G. Angelakis, A. Szameit
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5444
abstract: Unphysical particles are commonly ruled out from the solution of physical equations, as they fundamentally cannot exist in any real system and, hence, cannot be examined experimentally in a direct fashion. One of the most celebrated equations that allows unphysical solutions is the relativistic Majorana equation\cite{Majorana} which might describe neutrinos and other exotic particles beyond the Standard Model. The equation's physical solutions, the Majorana fermions, are predicted to be their own anti-particles and as a consequence they have to be neutrally charged; the charged version however (called Majoranon) is, due to charge non-conservation, unphysical and cannot exist. On the other hand, charge conservation violation has been contemplated in alternative theories associated with higher spacetime dimensions or a non-vanishing photon mass; theories whose exotic nature makes experimental testing with current technology an impossible task. In our work, we present an experimental scheme based on optics with which we simulate the dynamics of a Majoranon, involving the implementation of unphysical charge conjugation and complex conjugation. We show that the internal dynamics of the Majoranon is fundamentally different from that of its close cousin, the Dirac particle, to illustrate the nature of the unphysical operations. For this we exploit the fact that in quantum mechanics the wave function itself is not a measurable quantity. Therefore, wave functions of real physical particles, in our case Dirac particles with opposite masses, can be superposed to a wave function of an unphysical particle, the Majoranon. Our results open a new front in the field of quantum simulations of exotic phenomena, with possible applications in condensed matter physics, topological quantum computing, and testing theories within and beyond the Standard Model with existing technology.

id: 1404.5498
title: Experimental demonstration of a graph state quantum error-correction code
authors: B. A. Bell, D. A. Herrera-Mart¨ª, M. S. Tame, D. Markham, W. J. Wadsworth, J. G. Rarity
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3658 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5498
abstract: Scalable quantum computing and communication requires the protection of quantum information from the detrimental effects of decoherence and noise. Previous work tackling this problem has relied on the original circuit model for quantum computing. However, recently a family of entangled resources known as graph states has emerged as a versatile alternative for protecting quantum information. Depending on the graph's structure, errors can be detected and corrected in an efficient way using measurement-based techniques. In this article we report an experimental demonstration of error correction using a graph state code. We have used an all-optical setup to encode quantum information into photons representing a four-qubit graph state. We are able to reliably detect errors and correct against qubit loss. The graph we have realized is setup independent, thus it could be employed in other physical settings. Our results show that graph state codes are a promising approach for achieving scalable quantum information processing.

id: 1404.5504
title: Single-shot fault-tolerant quantum error correction
authors: H. Bombin
comments: Extended version with more details and additional results, 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5504
abstract: Conventional quantum error correcting codes require multiple rounds of measurements to detect errors with enough confidence in fault-tolerant scenarios. Here I show that for suitable topological codes a single round of local measurements is enough. This feature is generic and is related to self-correction and confinement phenomena in the corresponding quantum Hamiltonian model. 3D gauge color codes exhibit this single-shot feature, which applies also to initialization and gauge-fixing. Assuming the time for efficient classical computations negligible, this yields a topological fault-tolerant quantum computing scheme where all elementary logical operations can be performed in constant time.

id: 1404.5540
title: Tripartite Counterfactual Quantum Cryptography
authors: Hatim Salih
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012333 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5540
abstract: We show how two distrustful parties, "Bob" and "Charlie", can share a secret key with the help of a mutually trusted "Alice", counterfactually - that is with no information-carrying particles travelling between any of the three parties.

id: 1404.5542
title: Thermofield qubits, generalized expectations and quantum information protocols
authors: T. Prudencio, T. M. Rocha Filho, A. E. Santana
comments: 9 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5542
abstract: Thermofield dynamics (TFD) approach is a real time quantum field method for dealing with finite temperature quantum states in a purified version of usual density operator formalism at finite temperature. In the domain of quantum information, TFD represents a quite promising direction for dealing with qubits under thermal influence and can also be associated to Gaussian states. Here, we propose a generalized TFD mean expectation for the case of thermofield qubits considering the action of gate operators. We propose quantum teleportation protocols involving thermofield states, considering thermal-to-thermal and thermal-to-non-thermal transfering cases. In particular, we discuss the case in which Alice and Bob are at different temperatures. Action of gate operators on the result of the Mandel parameter for thermofields and on Gibbs-like density operators are also discussed. The no-cloning and non-broadcasting theorems in TFD are also considered and cases of superposed thermofield states and maps connecting thermofield vacua at different temperatures are also addressed and associated to metastable and non-equilibrium scenarios.

id: 1404.5574
title: The prospect of detecting single-photon force effects in cavity optomechanics
authors: H. X. Tang, D. Vitali
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063821 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5574
abstract: Cavity optomechanical systems are approaching a strong-coupling regime where the coherent dynamics of nanomechanical resonators can be manipulated and controlled by optical fields at the single photon level. Here we propose an interferometric scheme able to detect optomechanical coherent interaction at the single-photon level which is experimentally feasible with state-of-the-art devices.

id: 1404.5576
title: Relativistic dynamics compels a thermalized Fermi gas to a unique intrinsic parity eigenstate
authors: Alex E. Bernardini, Salomon S. Mizrahi
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 89 (2014) 075105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5576
abstract: Dirac equation describes the dynamics of a relativistic spin-1/2 particle regarding its spatial motion and intrinsic degrees of freedom. Here we adopt the point of view that the spinors describe the state of a massive particle carrying two qubits of information: helicity and intrinsic parity. We show that the density matrix for a gas of free fermions, in thermal equilibrium, correlates helicity and intrinsic parity. Our results introduce the basic elements for discussing the spin-parity correlation for a Fermi gas: (1) at the ultra-relativistic domains, when the temperature is quite high, $T > 10^{10}\ K$, the fermions have no definite intrinsic parity (50% : 50%), which is maximally correlated with the helicity; (2) at very low temperature, $T \approx 3 \ K$, a unique parity dominates (conventionally chosen positive), by $10^{20}$ to $1$, while the helicity goes into a mixed state for spin up and down, and the quantum correlation decoheres. For the anti-fermions we get the opposite behavior. In the framework of quantum information, our result could be considered as a plausible explanation of why we do accept, as a fact (consistent with the experimental observation), that fermions (and anti-fermions), in our present epoch of a cool universe, have a unique intrinsic parity. The framework for constructing spin-parity entangled states is established.

id: 1404.5615
title: Nanophotonic quantum phase switch with a single atom
authors: T. G. Tiecke, J. D. Thompson, N. P. de Leon, L. R. Liu, V. Vuleti?, M. D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 17 figures, manuscript includes supplementary material
journal: Nature 508, 241-244 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5615
abstract: In analogy to transistors in classical electronic circuits, a quantum optical switch is an important element of quantum circuits and quantum networks. Operated at the fundamental limit where a single quantum of light or matter controls another field or material system, it may enable fascinating applications such as long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum information processing and metrology, and the exploration of novel quantum states of matter. Here, by strongly coupling a photon to a single atom trapped in the near field of a nanoscale photonic crystal cavity, we realize a system where a single atom switches the phase of a photon, and a single photon modifies the atom's phase. We experimentally demonstrate an atom-induced optical phase shift that is nonlinear at the two-photon level, a photon number router that separates individual photons and photon pairs into different output modes, and a single-photon switch where a single "gate" photon controls the propagation of a subsequent probe field. These techniques pave the way towards integrated quantum nanophotonic networks involving multiple atomic nodes connected by guided light.

id: 1404.5621
title: Particle detectors and the zero mode of a quantum field
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Jorma Louko
comments: 14 pages, 3 Figures. RevTex 4.1. v2: Added journal reference and minor edits to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5621
abstract: We study the impact of the zero-mode of a quantum field on the evolution of a particle detector. For a massless scalar field in a periodic cavity, we show that the impact of the zero mode on the Unruh-DeWitt detector and its derivative-coupling generalisation is necessarily nonvanishing but can be made negligible in some limits, including those commonly occurring in non-relativistic quantum optics. For the derivative-coupling detector this can be accomplished by just tuning the zero mode's initial state, but the standard Unruh-DeWitt detector requires a more subtle and careful tuning. Applications include an inertial detector with arbitrary velocity, where we demonstrate the regularity of the ultrarelativistic limit, and a detector with uniform acceleration.

id: 1404.5688
title: Multi-mode effects in cavity QED based on a one-dimensional cavity array
authors: Wei Zhu, Z. H. Wang, D. L. Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043828 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5688
abstract: We present a microscopic mo del of cavity quantum electro dynamics based on a one-dimensional coupled cavity array (1D CCA), where a sup er cavity (SC) is comp osed by a segment of the 1D CCA with relatively smaller couplings with the outsides. The single-photon scattering problem for the SC empty or with a two-level atom is investigated. We obtain the exact theoretical result on the transmission rate for our system, which predicts the transmission p eaks shall app ear near the eigen-energies. Our numerical results further prove that the SC is a well-defined multi-mo de cavity. When a two-level atom resonant with the SC lo cates at the antino de of the resonant mo de, the transmission sp ectrum shows a clear sign of vacuum Rabi splitting as exp ected. However, when the atom lo cates at the no de of the resonant mo de, we observe a deep valley in the transmission p eak, which can b e explained by the destructive interference of two transmission channels, one is the resonant mo de, while the other is arising from the atom coupling with the non-resonance mo des. The effect of non-resonance mo des on vacuum Rabi splitting is also analyzed.

id: 1404.5699
title: Quantum Trajectories for a Class of Continuous Matrix Product Input States
authors: John E. Gough, Matthew R. James, Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 075008 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5699
abstract: We introduce a new class of continuous matrix product (CMP) states and establish the stochastic master equations (quantum filters) for an arbitrary quantum system probed by a bosonic input field in this class of states. We show that this class of CMP states arise naturally as outputs of a Markovian model, and that input fields in these states lead to master and filtering (quantum trajectory) equations which are matrix-valued. Furthermore, it is shown that this class of continuous matrix product states include the (continuous-mode) single photon and time-ordered multi-photon states.

id: 1404.5707
title: Optimal Measurements for Tests of EPR-Steering with No Detection Loophole using Two-Qubit Werner States
authors: D. A. Evans, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 15 pages, 11 Figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 012114 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5707
abstract: It has been shown in earlier works that the vertices of Platonic solids are good measurement choices for tests of EPR-steering using isotropically entangled pairs of qubits. Such measurements are regularly spaced, and measurement diversity is a good feature for making EPR-steering inequalities easier to violate in the presence of experimental imperfections. However, such measurements are provably suboptimal. Here, we develop a method for devising optimal strategies for tests of EPR-steering, in the sense of being most robust to mixture and inefficiency (while still closing the detection loophole of course), for a given number $n$ of measurement settings. We allow for arbitrary measurement directions, and arbitrary weightings of the outcomes in the EPR-steering inequality. This is a difficult optimization problem for large $n$, so we also consider more practical ways of constructing near-optimal EPR-steering inequalities in this limit.

id: 1404.5735
title: Quantum discord for general X and CS states: A piecewise-analytic-numerical formula
authors: M. A. Yurischev
comments: 32 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5735
abstract: Quantum discord is a function of density-matrix elements (and through them, e.~g., of temperature, applied fields, time, and so forth). The domain of such a function in the case of two-qubit system with X or centrosymmetric (CS) density matrix can consist at most of three subdomains: two ones, where the quantum discord is expressed in closed analytical forms (Q_0 and Q_{\pi/2}), and an intermediate subdomain in which for determining the quantum discord Q_\theta it is required to solve numerically a one-dimensional minimization problem to find the optimal measurement angle \theta\in(0,\pi/2). Exact equations for determining the boundaries between these subdomains are obtained and solved for a number of models. The Q_\theta subdomains are discovered in the anisotropic spin dimers in external field. On the other hand, coinciding boundaries and therefore sudden transitions between optimal measurement angles \theta=\pi/2 and \theta=0 are observed in dynamics of spin currying particles in closed nanopore and also in phase flip channels. In latter cases the solutions are entirely analytical.

id: 1404.5746
title: Non-linear optomechanical measurement of mechanical motion
authors: G. A. Brawley, M. R. Vanner, P. E. Larsen, S. Schmid, A. Boisen, W. P. Bowen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5746
abstract: Precise measurement of non-linear observables is an important goal in all facets of quantum optics. This allows measurement-based non-classical state preparation, which has been applied to great success in various physical systems, and provides a route for quantum information processing with otherwise linear interactions. In cavity optomechanics much progress has been made using linear interactions and measurement, but observation of non-linear degrees-of-freedom, such as phonon number, remains outstanding. Here we report the observation of displacement-squared thermal motion of a micro-mechanical resonator by exploiting the optical non-linearity of the radiation pressure interaction. Using this measurement, we conditionally prepare bimodal mechanical states of motion with separations and feature sizes well below 100 pm. Future improvements to this approach will allow the preparation of quantum superposition states, which can be used to experimentally explore collapse models of the wavefunction and the potential for mechanical-resonator based quantum-metrology applications.

id: 1404.5749
title: Quantum Strongly Secure Ramp Secret Sharing
authors: Paul Zhang, Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: svjour3.cls, 14 pages, 1 figure. Versions 1&2 were wrong. V3 is mathematically correct. The first author was moved to the second
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 715-729, February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5749
abstract: Quantum secret sharing is a scheme for encoding a quantum state (the secret) into multiple shares and distributing them among several participants. If a sufficient number of shares are put together, then the secret can be fully reconstructed. If an insufficient number of shares are put together however, no information about the secret can be revealed. In quantum ramp secret sharing, partial information about the secret is allowed to leak to a set of participants, called an unqualified set, that cannot fully reconstruct the secret. By allowing this, the size of a share can be drastically reduced. This paper introduces a quantum analog of classical strong security in ramp secret sharing schemes. While the ramp secret sharing scheme still leaks partial information about the secret to unqualified sets of participants, the strong security condition ensures that qudits with critical information can no longer be leaked.

id: 1404.5762
title: Mapping generalized Jaynes-Cummings interaction into correlated finite-sized systems
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Arpita Chatterjee, Rupamanjari Ghosh
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, IOPclass(iopart.cls). This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 135501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5762
abstract: We consider a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model of a two-level atom interacting with a multimode nondegenerate coherent field. The sum of the mode frequencies is equal to the two-level transition frequency, creating the resonance condition. The intermediate levels associated with the multi-photon process are adiabatically eliminated using the non-resonant conditions for these transitions. Under such general conditions, the infinite atom-multiphoton interaction is effectively mapped onto an equivalent reduced \textit{2}$\times$\textit{2} bipartite qubit system that facilitates the study of the nonclassical features of the interaction using known information-theoretic measures. We observe that the bipartite pure system is highly entangled as quantified by its entanglement of formation. Further, it is shown that the dynamics of the mapped system can be generated using optically truncated, quantum scissored states that reduce the infinite atom-multiphoton interaction to a finite \textit{2}$\times$\textit{k} system, where $k$ is a suitable truncation number. This allows us to introduce atomic dephasing and study the mixed state dynamics, characterized by the decay of quantum correlations such as quantum discord, which is observed to be more robust than entanglement. The quantum correlation dynamics of the dissipative system qualitatively complements the behavior of collapse and revival of the Rabi oscillations in the system. The effective mapping of the composite system proves to be an efficient tool for measuring information-theoretic properties.

id: 1404.5778
title: Scalable quantum memory in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: T. H. Kyaw, S. Felicetti, G. Romero, E. Solano, L.-C. Kwek
comments: We have updated the title, abstract and included a new section on the open-system dynamics
journal: Sci. Rep. 5, 8621 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5778
abstract: Circuit quantum electrodynamics, consisting of superconducting artificial atoms coupled to on-chip resonators, represents a prime candidate to implement the scalable quantum computing architecture because of the presence of good tunability and controllability. Furthermore, recent advances have pushed the technology towards the ultrastrong coupling regime of light-matter interaction, where the qubit-resonator coupling strength reaches a considerable fraction of the resonator frequency. Here, we propose a qubit-resonator system operating in that regime, as a quantum memory device and study the storage and retrieval of quantum information in and from the Z2 parity-protected quantum memory, within experimentally feasible schemes. We are also convinced that our proposal might pave a way to realize a scalable quantum random-access memory due to its fast storage and readout performances.

id: 1404.5789
title: Far-Field Signatures of a Two-Body Bound State in Collective Emission from Interacting Two-Level Atoms on a Lattice
authors: Paolo Longo, J?rg Evers
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplement
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 193601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5789
abstract: The collective emission from a one-dimensional chain of interacting two-level atoms is investigated. We calculate the light scattered by dissipative few-excitation eigenstates in the far-field, and in particular focus on signatures of a lattice two-body bound state. We present analytical results for the angle-resolved, temporal decay of the scattered light intensity. Moreover, we find that the steady-state emission spectrum that emerges when the system is probed by a weak, incoherent driving field exhibits a distinct signature for the existence of a bound state, and allows to determine the momentum distribution of the two-body relative wavefunction. Intriguingly, our study does not rely on single-atom addressability and/or manipulation techniques.

id: 1404.5799
title: Correlation evolution and monogamy of two geometric quantum discords in multipartite systems
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Ting-Ting Zhang, Li-Tao Wang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 68, 274 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5799
abstract: We explore two different geometric quantum discords defined respectively via the trace norm (GQD-1) and Hilbert-Schmidt norm (GQD-2) in multipartite systems. A rigorous hierarchy relation is revealed for the two GQDs in a class of symmetric two-qubit $X$-shape states. For multiqubit pure states, it is found that both GQDs are related to the entanglement concurrence, with the hierarchy relation being saturated. Furthermore, we look into a four-partite dynamical system consisting of two cavities interacting with independent reservoirs. It is found that the GQD-2 can exhibit various sudden change behaviours, while the GQD-1 only evolves asymptotically, with the two GQDs exhibiting different monogamous properties.

id: 1404.5881
title: Interpreting the modal Kochen-Specker theorem: possibility and many worlds in quantum mechanics
authors: Christian de Ronde, Hector Freytes, Graciela Domenech
comments: 
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Science Part B: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 45 (2014) 11-18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5881
abstract: In this paper we attempt to physically interpret the Modal Kochen- Specker (MKS) theorem. In order to do so, we analyze the features of the possible properties of quantum systems arising from the elements in an orthomodular lattice and distinguish the use of "possibility" in the classical and quantum formalisms. Taking into account the modal and many worlds non-collapse interpretation of the projection postulate, we discuss how the MKS theorem rules the constraints to actualization, and thus, the relation between actual and possible realms.

id: 1404.5888
title: The square of opposition in orthomodular logic
authors: Hector Freytes, Christian de Ronde, Graciela Domenech
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0904.4666
journal: Around and Beyond the Square of Opposition: Studies in Universal Logic, Jean-Yves B\'eziau y Dale Jacquette (Eds.), pp. 193-201, Springer, Basel, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5888
abstract: In Aristotelian logic, categorical propositions are divided in Universal Affirmative, Universal Negative, Particular Affirmative and Particular Negative. Possible relations between two of the mentioned type of propositions are encoded in the square of opposition. The square expresses the essential properties of monadic first order quantification which, in an algebraic approach, may be represented taking into account monadic Boolean algebras. More precisely, quantifiers are considered as modal operators acting on a Boolean algebra and the square of opposition is represented by relations between certain terms of the language in which the algebraic structure is formulated. This representation is sometimes called the modal square of opposition. Several generalizations of the monadic first order logic can be obtained by changing the underlying Boolean structure by another one giving rise to new possible interpretations of the square.

id: 1404.5911
title: The derivative expansion approach to the interaction between close surfaces
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: Minor changes, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5911
abstract: The derivative expansion approach to the calculation of the interaction between two surfaces, is a generalization of the proximity force approximation, a technique of widespread use in different areas of physics. The derivative expansion has so far been applied to seemingly unrelated problems in different areas; it is our principal aim here to present the approach in its full generality. To that end, we introduce an unified setting, which is independent of any particular application, provide a formal derivation of the derivative expansion in that general setting, and study some its properties. With a view on the possible application of the derivative expansion to other areas, like nuclear and colloidal physics, we also discuss the relation between the derivative expansion and some time-honoured uncontrolled approximations used in those contexts. By putting them under similar terms as the derivative expansion, we believe that the path is open to the calculation of next to leading order corrections also for those contexts. We also review some results obtained within the derivative expansion, by applying it to different concrete examples and highlighting some important points.

id: 1404.5940
title: A strong converse for the quantum state merging protocol
authors: Naresh Sharma
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5940
abstract: The Polyanskiy-Verd\'{u} paradigm provides an elegant way of using generalized-divergences to obtain strong converses and thus far has remained confined to protocols involving channels (classical or quantum). In this paper, drawing inspirations from it, we provide strong converses for protocols involving LOCC (local operations and classical communication). The key quantity that we work with is the R\'{e}nyi relative entropy of entanglement. We provide a strong converse for the quantum state merging protocol that gives an exponential decay of the fidelity of the protocol for rates below the optimum with the number of copies of the state and are provided both for entanglement rate with LOCC as well as for classical communication with one-way LOCC. As an aside, the developments also yield short strong converses for the entanglement-concentration of pure states and the Schumacher compression.

id: 1404.5948
title: Quantum mechanics and the interpretation of the orthomodular square of opposition
authors: Christian de Ronde, Hector Freytes, G. Domenech
comments: (in press). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1310.4534. substantial text overlap with arXiv:1404.5881
journal: New dimensions of the square of opposition, Jean-Yves B\'eziau & Katarzyna Gan-Krzywoszynska (Eds.), Philosophia Verlag, Munich 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5948
abstract: In this paper we analyze and discuss the historical and philosophical development of the notion of logical possibility focusing on its specific meaning in classical and quantum mechanics. Taking into account the logical structure of quantum theory we continue our discussion regarding the Aristotelian Square of Opposition in orthomodular structures enriched with a monadic quantifier. Finally, we provide an interpretation of the Orthomodular Square of Opposition exposing the fact that classical possibility and quantum possibility behave formally in radically different manners.

id: 1404.5972
title: Non-Hermitian Model for Asymmetrical Tunneling
authors: Roberto Baginski B. Santos, Vin¨ªcius Rocha da Silva
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Mod. Phys. Lett. B
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 28(28), 1450223 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5972
abstract: We present a simple non-hermitian model to describe the phenomenon of asymmetric tunneling between two energy-degenerate sites coupled by a non-reciprocal interaction without dissipation. The system was described using a biorthogonal family of energy eigenvectors, the dynamics of the system was determined by the Schr\"odinger equation, and unitarity was effectively restored by proper normalization of the state vectors. The results show that the tunneling rates are indeed asymmetrical in this model, leading to an equilibrium that displays unequal occupation of the degenerate systems even in the absence of external interactions.

id: 1404.5977
title: An Observed-Data-Consistent Approach to the Assignment of Bit Values in a Quantum Random Number Generator
authors: Pavel Lougovski, Raphael Pooser
comments: submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5977
abstract: The majority of Quantum Random Number Generators (QRNG) are designed as converters of a continuous quantum random variable into a discrete classical random bit value. For the resulting random bit sequence to be minimally biased, the conversion process demands an experimenter to fully characterize the underlying quantum system and implement parameter estimation routines. Here we show that conventional approaches to parameter estimation (such as e.g. {\it Maximum Likelihood Estimation}) used on a finite QRNG data sample without caution may introduce binning bias and lead to overestimation of the randomness of the QRNG output. To bypass these complications, we develop an alternative conversion approach based on the Bayesian statistical inference method. We illustrate our approach using experimental data from a time-of-arrival QRNG and numerically simulated data from a vacuum homodyning QRNG. Side-by-side comparison with the conventional conversion technique shows that our method provides an automatic on-line bias control and naturally bounds the best achievable QRNG bit rate for a given measurement record.

id: 1404.5990
title: Transfer of linear momentum from the quantum vacuum to a magnetochiral molecule
authors: Manuel Donaire, Bart van Tiggelen, Geert Rikken
comments: minor corrections made to agree with the published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5990
abstract: In a recent publication [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 143602] we have shown using a QED approach that, in the presence of a magnetic field, the quantum vacuum coupled to a chiral molecule provides a kinetic momentum directed along the magnetic field. Here we explain the physical mechanisms which operate in the transfer of momentum from the vacuum to the molecule. We show that the variation of the molecular kinetic energy originates from the magnetic energy associated with the vacuum correction to the magnetization of the molecule. We carry out a semiclassical calculation of the vacuum momentum and compare the result with the QED calculation.

id: 1404.5999
title: Bounds on the Concavity of Quantum Entropy
authors: Isaac H. Kim, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 7 pages, fixed several errors
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 092201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5999
abstract: We give new upper and lower bounds on the concavity of quantum entropy. Comparisons are given with other results in the literature.

id: 1404.6017
title: Radiation trapping inside a hollow-core photonic crystal fiber
authors: H. H. Jen, Chang-Yi Wang, Kevin C. J. Lee, Yi-Hsin Chen, Ite A. Yu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to the incompletion of the theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6017
abstract: We report the radiation trapping effect inside a hollow-core photonic crystal fiber (PCF). An optical dipole trap was used to load and confine the atoms in the PCF without contacting the wall of the fiber. The transmission of a probe light propagating through the PCF was studied experimentally and theoretically. With the experimental results and theoretical predictions, we conclude that the radiation trapping can play a significant role and should be taken into account in the spectroscopic measurements inside the PCF.

id: 1404.6025
title: Randomized Benchmarking with Confidence
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Steven T. Flammia
comments: 31 pages, 1 figure. v2: clarifications, refs added
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 103032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6025
abstract: Randomized benchmarking is a promising tool for characterizing the noise in experimental implementations of quantum systems. In this paper, we prove that the estimates produced by randomized benchmarking (both standard and interleaved) for arbitrary Markovian noise sources are remarkably precise by showing that the variance due to sampling random gate sequences is small. We discuss how to choose experimental parameters, in particular the number and lengths of random sequences, in order to characterize average gate errors with rigorous confidence bounds. We also show that randomized benchmarking can be used to reliably characterize time-dependent Markovian noise (e.g., when noise is due to a magnetic field with fluctuating strength). Moreover, we identify a necessary property for time-dependent noise that is violated by some sources of non-Markovian noise, which provides a test for non-Markovianity.

id: 1404.6052
title: The number of orthogonal conjugations
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: The sign of tau_1 has changed in comparison to reference 11
journal: ACTA POLYTECHNICA: 53 (470 - 472) No5/2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6052
abstract: After a short introduction to anti-linearity, bounds for the number of orthogonal (skew) conjugations are proved. They are saturated if the dimension of the Hilbert space is a power of two. For the other dimensions this is an open problem.

id: 1404.6063
title: Steady-state phase diagram of a driven QED-cavity array with cross-Kerr nonlinearities
authors: Jiasen Jin, Davide Rossini, Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann, Rosario Fazio
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023827 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6063
abstract: We study the properties of an array of QED-cavities coupled by nonlinear elements in the presence of photon leakage and driven by a coherent source. The main effect of the nonlinear couplings is to provide an effective cross-Kerr interaction between nearest-neighbor cavities. Additionally, correlated photon hopping between neighboring cavities arises. We provide a detailed mean-field analysis of the steady-state phase diagram as a function of the system parameters, the leakage, and the external driving, and show the emergence of a number of different quantum phases. A photon crystal associated to a spatial modulation of the photon blockade appears. The steady state can also display oscillating behavior and bistability. In some regions the crystalline ordering may coexist with the oscillating behavior. Furthermore we study the effect of short-range quantum fluctuations by employing a cluster mean-field analysis. Focusing on the corrections to the photon crystal boundaries, we show that, apart for some quantitative differences, the cluster mean field supports the findings of the simple single-site analysis. In the last part of the paper we concentrate on the possibility to build up the class of arrays introduced here, by means of superconducting circuits of existing technology. We consider a realistic choice of the parameters for this specific implementation and discuss some properties of the steady-state phase diagram.

id: 1404.6065
title: Quantum which-way information and fringe visibility when the detector is entangled with an ancilla
authors: J. Prabhu Tej, A. R. Usha Devi, H. S. Karthik, Sudha, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 6 pages, 3 pdf figures, typos corrected, accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A, 89, 062116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6065
abstract: Quantum mechanical wave-particle duality is quantified in terms of a trade-off relation between the fringe visibility and the which-way distinguishability in an interference experiment. This relation is recently generalized by Banaszek et. al., (Nature Communications 4, 2594, 2013) when the particle is equipped with an internal degree of freedom such as spin. Here, we extend the visibility-distinguishability trade-off relation to quantum interference of a particle possessing an internal degree of freedom, when the which-way detector state is entangled with an ancillary system. We introduce an extended which-way distinguishability and the associated extended fringe visibility satisfying the duality inequality in this scenario. We illustrate, with the help of three specific examples, that while the which-way information inferred solely from the detector state (without ancilla) vanishes, the extended distinguishability retrievable via measurements on the detector-ancilla entangled state is non-zero. Furthermore, in all the three examples, the extended visibility and the generalized visibility (which was introduced by Banaszek et. al., Nature Communications 4, 2594, 2013)) match identically with each other.

id: 1404.6083
title: Witnessing entanglement in hybrid systems
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Matteo Rossi, Chiara Macchiavello, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 020301(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6083
abstract: We extend the definition of entanglement witnesses based on structure factors to the case in which the position of the scatterers is quantized. This allows us to study entanglement detection in hybrid systems. We provide several examples that show how these extra degrees of freedom affect the detection of entanglement by directly contributing to the measurement statistics. We specialize the proposed witness operators for a chain of trapped ions. Within this framework, we show how the collective vibronic state of the chain can act as an undesired quantum environment and how ions quantum motion can affect the entanglement detection. Finally, we investigate some specific cases where the method proposed leads to detection of hybrid entanglement.

id: 1404.6129
title: Angular Tunneling Effect
authors: Cassio Lima, Jorge Henrique Sales, A. T. Suzuki
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6129
abstract: We investigate the tunneling of an electron with momentum p in the direction of V potential and under an angle {\theta} to the normal potential. Using the boundary conditions, the conditions of continuity and Snell's law, we obtain tunneling for various angles.

id: 1404.6130
title: Interference in a two-mode Bose system with $N$ particles is typical
authors: P. Facchi, H. Nakazato, S. Pascazio, F. V. Pepe, K. Yuasa
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 063625 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6130
abstract: When a Bose-Einstein condensate is divided into two parts, that are subsequently released and overlap, interference fringes are observed. We show here that this interference is typical, in the sense that most wave functions of the condensate, randomly sampled out of a suitable ensemble, display interference. We make no hypothesis of decoherence between the two parts of the condensates.

id: 1404.6140
title: All-Electromagnetic Control of Broadband Quantum Excitations Using Gradient Photon Echoes
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Christoph H. Keitel, Adriana P¨¢lffy
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 123602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6140
abstract: A broadband quantum echo effect in a three level $\varLambda$-type system interacting with two laser fields is investigated theoretically. Inspired by the emerging field of nuclear quantum optics which typically deals with very narrow resonances, we consider broadband probe pulses that couple to the system in the presence of an inhomogeneous control field. We show that such a setup provides an all-electromagnetic-field solution to implement high bandwidth photon echoes, which are easy to control, store and shape on a short time scale and therefore may speed up future photonic information processing. The time compression of the echo signal and possible applications for quantum memories are discussed.

id: 1404.6143
title: Computer Simulation of Quantum Dynamics in a Classical Spin Environment
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: To appear in Theoretical Chemistry Accounts (special issue in honor of Professor Gregory Sion Ezra)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6143
abstract: In this paper a formalism for studying the dynamics of quantum systems coupled to classical spin environments is reviewed. The theory is based on generalized antisymmetric brackets and naturally predicts open-path off-diagonal geometric phases in the evolution of the density matrix. It is shown that such geometric phases must also be considered in the quantum-classical Liouville equation for a classical bath with canonical phase space coordinates; this occurs whenever the adiabatics basis is complex (as in the case of a magnetic field coupled to the quantum subsystem). When the quantum subsystem is weakly coupled to the spin environment, non-adiabatic transitions can be neglected and one can construct an effective non-Markovian computer simulation scheme for open quantum system dynamics in classical spin environments. In order to tackle this case, integration algorithms based on the symmetric Trotter factorization of the classical-like spin propagator are derived. Such algorithms are applied to a model comprising a quantum two-level system coupled to a single classical spin in an external magnetic field. Starting from an excited state, the population difference and the coherences of this two-state model are simulated in time while the dynamics of the classical spin is monitored in detail. It is the author's opinion that the numerical evidence provided in this paper is a first step toward developing the simulation of quantum dynamics in classical spin environments into an effective tool. In turn, the ability to simulate such a dynamics can have a positive impact on various fields, among which, for example, nano-science.

id: 1404.6146
title: Irreversible processes without dissipation in isolated quantum systems
authors: Ricardo Puebla, Armando Rela?o
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6146
abstract: For a certain class of isolated quantum systems, we report the existence of irreversible processes in which the energy is not dissipated. After a closed cycle in which the initial energy distribution is fully recovered, the expected value of a symmetry-breaking observable changes from a value different from zero in the initial state, to zero in the final state. This entails the unavoidable lost of a certain amount of information, and constitutes a source of irreversibility. We show that the von Neumann entropy of time-averaged equilibrium states increases in the same magnitude as a consequence of the process. We support this result by means of numerical calculations in an experimentally feasible system, the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model.

id: 1404.6166
title: Violation of Invariance of Entanglement Under Local PT Symmetric Unitary
authors: Arun Kumar Pati
comments: 5 pages, Latex, No fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6166
abstract: Entanglement is one of the key feature of quantum world and any entanglement measure must satisfy some basic laws. Most important of them is the invariance of entanglement under local unitary operations. We show that this is no longer true with local ${\cal {PT}}$ symmetric unitary operations. If two parties share a maximally entangled state, then under local ${\cal {PT}}$ symmetric unitary evolution the entropy of entanglement for pure bipartite states does not remain invariant. Furthermore, we show that if one of the party has access to ${\cal {PT}}$-symmetric quantum world, then a maximally entangled state in usual quantum theory appears as a non-maximally entangled states for the other party. This we call as the "entanglement mismatch" effect which can lead to the violation of the no-signaling condition.

id: 1404.6176
title: Multipartite entanglement and few-body Hamiltonians
authors: Francesco V. Pepe
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. Proceedings of IQIS 2013 to appear on IJQI
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6176
abstract: We investigate the possibility to obtain higly multipartite-entangled states as nondegenerate eigenstates of Hamiltonians that involve only short-range and few-body interactions. We study small-size systems (with a number of qubits ranging from three to five) and search for Hamiltonians with a Maximally Multipartite Entangled State (MMES) as a nondegenerate eigenstate. We then find conditions, including bounds on the number of coupled qubits, to build a Hamiltonian with a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state as a nondegenerate eigenstate. We finally comment on possible applications.

id: 1404.6182
title: The multilevel four-stroke swap engine and its environment
authors: Raam Uzdin, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 095003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6182
abstract: A multilevel four-stroke engine where the thermalization stokes are generated by unitary collisions with bath particles is analyzed. Our model is solvable even when the engine operates far from thermal equilibrium and in the strong system-bath coupling. Necessary operation conditions for the heat machine to perform as an engine or a refrigerator are derived. We relate the work and efficiency of the device to local and non-local statistical properties of the baths (purity, mutual coincidence etc.). In particular, we relate the Clausius inequality to the symmetrized relative entropy of the baths (Jefferys divergence). Other Clausius-like inequalities are derived as well. Finally, in the ultra-hot regime we optimize the work of the multilevel engine and obtain simpler forms for the work and efficiency.

id: 1404.6206
title: Simple Algorithms for Multi-term Bell-like Bases and Their Quantum Correlations
authors: Asutosh Kumar
comments: 8 pages, 5 tables, revtex4-1, v2: change in presentation, more results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6206
abstract: We introduce two multiple qubit controlled-unitary gates with different working principles. We employ these gates and existing quantum gates to propose simple and efficient algorithms that generate multi-term orthonormal entangled Bell-like bases. All algorithms thus far known for constructing entangled bases turn out to be special cases of our method. The Bell-like states in any basis is superposition of $2^m$-terms with equal probabilities (that is, their amplitudes being $\pm 1/\sqrt{2^m}$). The orthogonality of the basis does not permit arbitrary amplitudes. The quantum correlations of these bases are investigated; we find that the Bell-like bases obtained using different controlled-unitaries have different entanglement contents. We also learn that monogamy score is able to distinguish these bases in the situations where other quantum correlations fail to do so indicating that monogamy score is a more fundamental quantum correlation measure. Our approach can be extended to qudit systems as well.

id: 1404.6255
title: Towards Quantifying Complexity with Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ryan Tan, Daniel R. Terno, Jayne Thompson, Vlatko Vedral, Mile Gu
comments: 10 pages, 6 figure, Published in the Focus Point on Quantum information and complexity edition of EPJ Plus
journal: EPJ Plus, 129 9 (2014) 191
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6255
abstract: While we have intuitive notions of structure and complexity, the formalization of this intuition is non-trivial. The statistical complexity is a popular candidate. It is based on the idea that the complexity of a process can be quantified by the complexity of its simplest mathematical model - the model that requires the least past information for optimal future prediction. Here we review how such models, known as $\epsilon$-machines can be further simplified through quantum logic, and explore the resulting consequences for understanding complexity. In particular, we propose a new measure of complexity based on quantum $\epsilon$-machines. We apply this to a simple system undergoing constant thermalization. The resulting quantum measure of complexity aligns more closely with our intuition of how complexity should behave.

id: 1404.6282
title: Strong driving of a single spin using arbitrarily polarized fields
authors: P. London, P. Balasubramanian, B. Naydenov, L. P. McGuinness, F. Jelezko
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6282
abstract: The strong driving regime occurs when a quantum two-level system is driven with an external field whose amplitude is greater or equal to the energy splitting between the system's states, and is typically identified with the breaking of the rotating wave approximation (RWA). We report an experimental study, in which the spin of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond is strongly driven with microwave (MW) fields of arbitrary polarization. We measure the NV center spin dynamics beyond the RWA, and characterize the limitations of this technique for generating high-fidelity quantum gates. Using circularly polarized MW fields, the NV spin can be harmonically driven in its rotating frame regardless of the field amplitude, thus allowing rotations around arbitrary axes. Our approach can effectively remove the RWA limit in quantum-sensing schemes, and assist in increasing the number of operations in QIP protocols.

id: 1404.6285
title: Coherent cancellation of geometric phase for the OH molecule in external fields
authors: M. Bhattacharya. S. Marin, M. Kleinert
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in PRA. Supplementary Material not included in the arxiv version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6285
abstract: The OH molecule in its ground state presents a versatile platform for precision measurement and quantum information processing. These applications depend vitally on the accurate measurement of transition energies between the OH levels. Significant sources of systematic errors in these measurements are shifts based on the geometric phase arising from the magnetic and electric fields used for manipulating OH. In this article, we present these geometric phases for fields that vary harmonically in time, as in the Ramsey technique. Our calculation of the phases is exact within the description provided by our recent analytic solution of an effective Stark-Zeeman Hamiltonian for the OH ground state. This Hamiltonian has earlier been shown to model experimental data accurately. We find that the OH geometric phases exhibit rich structure as a function of the field rotation rate. Remarkably, we find rotation rates where the geometric phase accumulated by a specific state is zero, or where the relative geometric phase between two states vanishes. We expect these findings to be of importance to precision experiments on OH involving time-varying fields. More specifically, our analysis quantitatively characterizes an important item in the error budget for precision spectroscopy of ground state OH.

id: 1404.6327
title: Reasonable conditions for joint probabilities of non-commuting observables
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Stud.: Math. Found. 1, 39 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6327
abstract: In the operator formalism of quantum mechanics, the density operator describes the complete statistics of a quantum state in terms of d^2 independent elements, where d is the number of possible outcomes for a precise measurement of an observable. In principle, it is therefore possible to express the density operator by a joint probability of two observables that cannot actually be measured jointly because they do not have any common eigenstates. However, such joint probabilities do not refer to an actual measurement outcome, so their definition cannot be based on a set of possible events. Here, I consider the criteria that could specify a unique mathematical form of joint probabilities in the quantum formalism. It is shown that a reasonable set of conditions results in the definition of joint probabilities by ordered products of the corresponding projection operators. It is pointed out that this joint probability corresponds to the quasi probabilities that have recently been observed experimentally in weak measurements.

id: 1404.6329
title: Revisiting Quantum discord for two-qubit X states: Error bound to Analytical formula
authors: Min Namkung, Jinho Chang, Jaehee Shin, Younghun Kwon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6329
abstract: In this article, we investigate the error bound of quantum discord, obtained by the analytic formula of Ali et al.[Phys. Rev. A 81(2010), 042105] in case of general X states and by the analytic formula of Fanchini et al.[Phys. Rev. A 81(2010), 052107] in case of symmetric X states. We show that results of Ali et. al. to general X states and Fanchini et al. to symmetric X states may have worst-case error of 0.004565 and 0.0009 respectively.

id: 1404.6393
title: Signal transduction and conversion with color centers in diamond and piezo-elements
authors: Jianming Cai, Fedor Jelezko, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Originally submitted version, 6 pages + 4 pages Supplementary Information
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4065 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6393
abstract: The ability to measure weak signals such as pressure, force, electric field, and temperature with nanoscale devices and high spatial resolution offers a wide range of applications in fundamental and applied sciences. Here we present a proposal for a hybrid device composed of thin film layers of diamond with color centers implanted and piezo-active elements for the transduction and measurement of a wide variety of physical signals. The magnetic response of a piezomagnetic layer to an external stress or a stress induced by the change of electric field and temperature is shown to affect significantly the spin properties of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. Under ambient conditions, realistic environmental noise and material imperfections, our detailed numerical studies show that this hybrid device can achieve significant improvements in sensitivity over the pure diamond based approach in combination with nanometer scale spatial resolution. Beyond its applications in quantum sensing the proposed hybrid architecture offers novel possibilities for engineering strong coherent couplings between nanomechanical oscillator and solid state spin qubits.

id: 1404.6401
title: Counterfactual quantum-information transfer
authors: Qi Guo, Liu-Yong Cheng, Li Chen, Hong-Fu Wang, Shou Zhang
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6401
abstract: We demonstrate quantum information can be transferred between two distant participants without any physical particles travelling between them. The key procedure of the counterfactual scheme is to entangle two nonlocal qubits with each other without interaction, so the scheme can also be used to generate nonlocal entanglement counterfactually. We here illustrate the scheme by using flying photon qubits and stationary electron-spin qubits assisted by quantum dots inside double-sided optical microcavities. Unlike the typical teleportation, the present scheme does not require prior entanglement sharing or classical communication between the two distant participants.

id: 1404.6421
title: Quantum parameter estimation with imperfect reference frames
authors: Dominik ?afr¨¢nek, Mehdi Ahmadi, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 033012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6421
abstract: Quantum metrology studies quantum strategies which enable us to outperform their classical counterparts. In this framework, the existence of perfect classical reference frames is usually assumed. However, such ideal reference frames might not always be available. The reference frames required in metrology strategies can either degrade or become misaligned during the estimation process. We investigate how the imperfectness of reference frames leads to noise which in general affects the ultimate precision limits in measurement of physical parameters. Moreover, since quantum parameter estimation can be phrased as a quantum communication protocol between two parties, our results provide deeper insight into quantum communication protocols with misaligned reference frames. Our framework allows for the study of general noise on the efficiency of such schemes.

id: 1404.6426
title: Born-series approach to the calculation of Casimir forces
authors: Robert Bennett
comments: Title change, journal ref added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6426
abstract: The Casimir force between two objects is notoriously difficult to calculate in anything other than parallel-plate geometries due to its non-additive nature. This means that for more complicated, realistic geometries one usually has to resort to approaches such as making the crude proximity force approximation (PFA). Another issue with calculation of Casimir forces in real-world situations (such as with realistic materials) is that there are continuing doubts about the status of the standard Lifshitz treatment as a true quantum theory. Here we demonstrate an alternative approach to calculation of Casimir forces for arbitrary geometries which sidesteps both these problems. Our calculations are based upon a Born expansion of the Green's function of the quantised electromagnetic vacuum field, interpreted as multiple scattering, with the relevant coupling strength being the difference in the dielectric functions of the various materials involved. This allows one to consider arbitrary geometries in single or multiple scattering simply by integrating over the desired shape, meaning that extension beyond the PFA is trivial. This work is mostly dedicated to illustration of the method by reproduction of known parallel-slab results -- a process that turns out to be non-trivial and provides several useful insights. We also present a short example of calculation of the Casimir energy for a more complicated geometry, namely that of two finite slabs.

id: 1404.6427
title: Quantum coherence and uncertainty in the anisotropic XY chain
authors: G. Karpat, B. ?akmak, F. F. Fanchini
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. Title changed. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 104431 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6427
abstract: We explore the local quantum coherence and the local quantum uncertainty, based on Wigner-Yanase skew information, in the ground state of the anisotropic spin-1/2 XY chain in transverse magnetic field. We show that the skew information, as a figure of merit, supplies the necessary information to reveal the occurrence of the second order phase transition and the completely factorized ground state in the XY model. Additionally, in the same context, we also discuss the usefulness of a simple experimentally friendly lower bound of local quantum coherence. Furthermore, we demonstrate how the connection between the appearance of non-analyticities in the local quantum uncertainty of the ground state and the quantum phase transitions does not hold in general, by providing explicit examples of the situation. Lastly, we discuss the ability of the local quantum coherence to accurately estimate the critical point of the phase transition, and investigate the robustness of the factorization phenomenon at low temperatures.

id: 1404.6433
title: Monogamy and backflow of mutual information in non-Markovian thermal baths
authors: A. C. S. Costa, R. M. Angelo, M. W. Beims
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6433
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of information among the parties of tripartite systems. We start by proving two results concerning the monogamy of mutual information. The first one states that mutual information is monogamous for generic tripartite pure states. The second shows that in general mutual information is monogamous only if the amount of genuine tripartite correlations is large enough. Then, we analyze the internal dynamics of tripartite systems whose parties do not exchange energy. In particular, we allow for one of the subsystems to play the role of a finite thermal bath. As a result, we find a typical scenario in which local information tends to be converted into delocalized information. Moreover, we show that (i) the information flow is reversible for finite thermal baths at low temperatures, (ii) monogamy of mutual information is respected throughout the dynamics, and (iii) genuine tripartite correlations are typically present. Finally, we analytically calculate a quantity capable of revealing favorable regimes for non-Markovianity in our model.

id: 1404.6441
title: A note on the minimum distance of quantum LDPC codes
authors: Nicolas Delfosse, Zhentao Li, St¨¦phan Thomass¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6441
abstract: We provide a new lower bound on the minimum distance of a family of quantum LDPC codes based on Cayley graphs proposed by MacKay, Mitchison and Shokrollahi. Our bound is exponential, improving on the quadratic bound of Couvreur, Delfosse and Z\'emor. This result is obtained by examining a family of subsets of the hypercube which locally satisfy some parity conditions.

id: 1404.6492
title: Entanglement and nonclassical properties of hypergraph states
authors: O. G¨¹hne, M. Cuquet, F.E.S. Steinhoff, T. Moroder, M. Rossi, D. Bru?, B. Kraus, C. Macchiavello
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 335303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6492
abstract: Hypergraph states are multi-qubit states that form a subset of the locally maximally entangleable states and a generalization of the well--established notion of graph states. Mathematically, they can conveniently be described by a hypergraph that indicates a possible generation procedure of these states; alternatively, they can also be phrased in terms of a non-local stabilizer formalism. In this paper, we explore the entanglement properties and nonclassical features of hypergraph states. First, we identify the equivalence classes under local unitary transformations for up to four qubits, as well as important classes of five- and six-qubit states, and determine various entanglement properties of these classes. Second, we present general conditions under which the local unitary equivalence of hypergraph states can simply be decided by considering a finite set of transformations with a clear graph-theoretical interpretation. Finally, we consider the question whether hypergraph states and their correlations can be used to reveal contradictions with classical hidden variable theories. We demonstrate that various noncontextuality inequalities and Bell inequalities can be derived for hypergraph states.

id: 1404.6496
title: Uncertainty Relation for Mutual Information
authors: James Schneeloch, Curtis J. Broadbent, John C. Howell
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 062119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6496
abstract: We postulate the existence of a universal uncertainty relation between the quantum and classical mutual informations between pairs of quantum systems. Specifically, we propose that the sum of the classical mutual information, determined by two mutually unbiased pairs of observables, never exceeds the quantum mutual information. We call this the complementary-quantum correlation (CQC) relation and prove its validity for pure states, for states with one maximally mixed subsystem, and for all states when one measurement is minimally disturbing. We provide results of a Monte Carlo simulation suggesting the CQC relation is generally valid. Importantly, we also show that the CQC relation represents an improvement to an entropic uncertainty principle in the presence of a quantum memory, and that it can be used to verify an achievable secret key rate in the quantum one-time pad cryptographic protocol.

id: 1404.6499
title: Comment on "Distinguishing Classical and Quantum Models for the D-Wave Device"
authors: Seung Woo Shin, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Revised version. Corrected a typo in the Hamiltonian equation on page 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6499
abstract: The SSSV model is a simple classical model that achieves excellent correlation with published experimental data on the D-Wave machine's behavior on random instances of its native problem, thus raising questions about how "quantum" the D-Wave machine is at large scales. In response, a recent preprint by Vinci et al. proposes a particular set of instances on which the D-Wave machine behaves differently from the SSSV model. In this short note, we explain how a simple modeling of systematic errors in the machine allows the SSSV model to reproduce the behavior reported in the experiments of Vinci et al.

id: 1404.6551
title: Differentiable-Path Integrals in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Benjamin Koch, Ignacio Reyes
comments: 29 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6551
abstract: A method is presented which restricts the space of paths entering the path integral of quantum mechanics to subspaces of $C^\alpha$, by only allowing paths which possess at least $\alpha$ derivatives. The method introduces two external parameters, and induces the appearance of a particular time scale $\epsilon_D$ such that for time intervals longer than $\epsilon_D$ the model behaves as usual quantum mechanics. However, for time scales smaller than $\epsilon_D$, modifications to standard formulation of quantum theory occur. This restriction renders convergent some quantities which are usually divergent in the time-continuum limit $\epsilon\rightarrow 0$. We illustrate the model by computing several meaningful physical quantities such as the mean square velocity $\langle v^2 \rangle $, the canonical commutator, the Schrodinger equation and the energy levels of the harmonic oscillator. It is shown that an adequate choice of the parameters introduced makes the evolution unitary.

id: 1404.6552
title: Contextuality in tree-like graphs
authors: A. A. Strakhov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6552
abstract: The contextuality problem connected with existence of joint probability distribution creating all the given marginals is studied. It is shown for several examples considered previously in literature that there exist some new solutions for the joint probability distributions providing the given marginals and numerical example of the new solution is demonstrated.

id: 1404.6616
title: Experimental demonstration of spinor slow light
authors: Meng-Jung Lee, Julius Ruseckas, Chin-Yuan Lee, Viaceslav Kudriasov, Kao-Fang Chang, Hung-Wen Cho, Gediminas Juzeliunas, Ite A. Yu
comments: 12 pages and 9 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5542 (2014). Open Access
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6616
abstract: Slow light based on the effect of electromagnetically induced transparency is of great interest due to its applications in low-light-level nonlinear optics and quantum information manipulation. The previous experiments all dealt with the single-component slow light. Here we report the experimental demonstration of two-component or spinor slow light using a double tripod atom-light coupling scheme. The scheme involves three atomic ground states coupled to two excited states by six light fields. The oscillation due to the interaction between the two components was observed. Based on the stored light, our data showed that the double tripod scheme behaves like the two outcomes of an interferometer enabling precision measurements of frequency detuning. We experimentally demonstrated a possible application of the double tripod scheme as quantum memory/rotator for the two-color qubit. Our study also suggests that the spinor slow light is a better method than a widely-used scheme in the nonlinear frequency conversion.

id: 1404.6644
title: Gravity-related spontaneous collapse in bulk matter
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 6pp
journal: NewJ.Phys. 16 (2014) 105006-(9)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6644
abstract: In the DP-model, gravity-related spontaneous wave function collapses suppress undesirable Schr\"odinger Cat states. We derive the equations of the model for the hydrodynamic-elastic (acoustic) modes in a bulk. Two particular features are discussed: the universal dominance of spontaneous collapses at large wavelengths, and the reduction of spontaneous heating by a slight refinement of the DP-model.

id: 1404.6708
title: Manifesting the Quantum World
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 50 pages, 1 pstricks figure, to appear in Foundations of Physics, includes changes intended to be made in proof
journal: Foundations of Physics 44 (6), 641-677 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6708
abstract: In resisting attempts to explain the unity of a whole in terms of a multiplicity of interacting parts, quantum mechanics calls for an explanatory concept that proceeds in the opposite direction: from unity to multiplicity. It concerns the process by which what Sellars called the Manifest Image of the world comes into being. This process consists in the progressive differentiation of an intrinsically undifferentiated entity. By entering into reflexive spatial relations, this gives rise to (i) what looks like a multiplicity of relata if the reflexive quality of the relations is not taken into account, and (ii) what looks like a substantial expanse if the spatial quality of the relations is reified. If there is a distinctly quantum domain, it is a non-spatial and non-temporal dimension across which the transition from the unity of this entity to the multiplicity of the world takes place. Instead of being constituents of the physical world, subatomic particles, atoms, and molecules are instrumental in its manifestation. These conclusions are based on the following interpretive principle: whenever calculating probabilities calls for the addition of amplitudes, the distinctions we make between the alternatives lack objective reality. Applied to alternatives involving distinctions between regions of space, this principle implies that the spatiotemporal differentiation of the physical world is incomplete: the existence of a real-valued spatiotemporal background is an unrealistic idealization. This guarantees the existence of observables whose values are real *per se*, as against "real by virtue of being indicated by the values of observables that are real *per se*." Applied to alternatives involving distinctions between things, it implies that, intrinsically, all fundamental particles are numerically identical and thus identifiable with the aforementioned undifferentiated entity.

id: 1404.6712
title: Selective entanglement in a two-mode optomechanical system
authors: Neha Aggarwal, Kamanasish Debnath, Sonam Mahajan, Aranya B. Bhattacherjee, Man Mohan
comments: 11 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.0029 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6712
abstract: We analyze an optomechanical system formed by a mechanical mode and the two optical modes of an optomechanical cavity for the realization of a strongly quantum correlated three-mode system. We show that the steady state of the system shows three possible bipartite continuous variable entanglements in an experimentally accessible parameter regime, which are robust against temperature. We further show that selective entanglement between the mechanical mode and any of the two optical modes is also possible by the proper choice of the system parameters. Such a two-mode optomechanical system can be used for the realization of continuous variable quantum information interfaces and networks.

id: 1404.6775
title: On the (Non)Equivalence of the Schr?dinger and Heisenberg Pictures of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Funded by Austrian Research grant FWF P20442-N13
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6775
abstract: The aim of this short Note is to show that the Schr\"odinger and Heisenberg pictures of quantum mechanics are not equivalent unless one uses a quantization rule clearly stated by Born and Jordan in their famous 1925 paper. This rule is sufficient and necessary to ensure energy conservation in Heisenberg's matrix mechanics. It follows, in particular, that Schr\"odinger and Heisenberg mechanics are not equivalent if one quantizes observables using the Weyl prescription.

id: 1404.6824
title: Prospects and Limitations of Algorithmic Cooling
authors: Gilles Brassard, Yuval Elias, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6824
abstract: Heat-bath algorithmic cooling (AC) of spins is a theoretically powerful effective cooling approach, that (ideally) cools spins with low polarization exponentially better than cooling by reversible entropy manipulations alone. Here, we investigate the limitations and prospects of AC. For non-ideal and semioptimal AC, we study the impact of finite relaxation times of reset and computation spins on the achievable effective cooling. We derive, via simulations, the attainable cooling levels for given ratios of relaxation times using two semioptimal practicable algorithms. We expect this analysis to be valuable for the planning of future experiments. For ideal and optimal AC, we make use of lower bounds on the number of required reset steps, based on entropy considerations, to present important consequences of using AC as a tool for improving signal-to-noise ratio in liquid-state magnetic resonance spectroscopy. We discuss the potential use of AC for noninvasive clinical diagnosis and drug monitoring, where it may have significantly lower specific absorption rate (SAR) with respect to currently used methods.

id: 1404.6852
title: SLOCC Invariants for Multipartite Mixed States
authors: Naihuan Jing, Ming Li, Xianqing Li-Jost, Ting-Gui Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 215303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6852
abstract: We construct a nontrivial set of invariants for any multipartite mixed states under the SLOCC symmetry. These invariants are given by hyperdeterminants and independent from basis change. In particular, a family of d^2 invariants for arbitrary d-dimensional even partite mixed states are explicitly given.

id: 1404.6885
title: Experimental Heat-Bath Cooling of Spins
authors: Gilles Brassard, Yuval Elias, Jos¨¦ M. Fernandez, Haggai Gilboa, Jonathan A. Jones, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein, Li Xiao
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, replaces quant-ph/0511156
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6885
abstract: Algorithmic cooling (AC) is a method to purify quantum systems, such as ensembles of nuclear spins, or cold atoms in an optical lattice. When applied to spins, AC produces ensembles of highly polarized spins, which enhance the signal strength in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). According to this cooling approach, spin-half nuclei in a constant magnetic field are considered as bits, or more precisely, quantum bits, in a known probability distribution. Algorithmic steps on these bits are then translated into specially designed NMR pulse sequences using common NMR quantum computation tools. The $algorithmic$ cooling of spins is achieved by alternately combining reversible, entropy-preserving manipulations (borrowed from data compression algorithms) with $selective$ $reset$, the transfer of entropy from selected spins to the environment. In theory, applying algorithmic cooling to sufficiently large spin systems may produce polarizations far beyond the limits due to conservation of Shannon entropy. Here, only selective reset steps are performed, hence we prefer to call this process "heat-bath" cooling, rather than algorithmic cooling. We experimentally implement here two consecutive steps of selective reset that transfer entropy from two selected spins to the environment. We performed such cooling experiments with commercially-available labeled molecules, on standard liquid-state NMR spectrometers. Our experiments yielded polarizations that $bypass$ $Shannon's$ $entropy$-$conservation$ $bound$, so that the entire spin-system was cooled. This paper was initially submitted in 2005, first to Science and then to PNAS, and includes additional results from subsequent years (e.g. for resubmission in 2007). The Postscriptum includes more details.

id: 1404.6888
title: Geometric chained inequalities for higher-dimensional systems
authors: Marek ?ukowski, Arijit Dutta
comments: 7 pages, Almost identical with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 012106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6888
abstract: For systems of an arbitrary dimension, a theory of geometric chained Bell inequalities is presented. The approach is based on chained inequalities derived by Pykacz and Santos. For maximally entangled states the inequalities lead to a complete $0=1$ contradiction with quantum predictions. Local realism suggests that the probability for the two observes to have identical results is $1$ (that is a perfect correlation is predicted), whereas quantum formalism gives an opposite prediction: the local results always differ. This is so for any dimension. We also show that with the inequalities, one can have a version of Bell's theorem which involves only correlations arbitrarily close to perfect ones.

id: 1404.6891
title: Resource Cost Results for Entanglement Distillation and State Merging under Source Uncertainties
authors: Holger Boche, Gisbert Jan?en
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures. Accepted for presentation at the IEEE ISIT 2014 Honolulu. This is a conference version of arXiv:1401.6063
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6891
abstract: We introduce one-way LOCC protocols for quantum state merging for compound sources, which have asymptotically optimal entanglement as well as classical communication resource costs. For the arbitrarily varying quantum source (AVQS) model, we determine the one-way entanglement distillation capacity, where we utilize the robustification and elimination techniques, well-known from classical as well as quantum channel coding under assumption of arbitrarily varying noise. Investigating quantum state merging for AVQS, we demonstrate by example, that the usual robustification procedure leads to suboptimal resource costs in this case.

id: 1404.6898
title: Quantum Attacks on Classical Proof Systems - The Hardness of Quantum Rewinding
authors: Andris Ambainis, Ansis Rosmanis, Dominique Unruh
comments: An extended abstract has appeared at FOCS 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6898
abstract: Quantum zero-knowledge proofs and quantum proofs of knowledge are inherently difficult to analyze because their security analysis uses rewinding. Certain cases of quantum rewinding are handled by the results by Watrous (SIAM J Comput, 2009) and Unruh (Eurocrypt 2012), yet in general the problem remains elusive. We show that this is not only due to a lack of proof techniques: relative to an oracle, we show that classically secure proofs and proofs of knowledge are insecure in the quantum setting. More specifically, sigma-protocols, the Fiat-Shamir construction, and Fischlin's proof system are quantum insecure under assumptions that are sufficient for classical security. Additionally, we show that for similar reasons, computationally binding commitments provide almost no security guarantees in a quantum setting. To show these results, we develop the "pick-one trick", a general technique that allows an adversary to find one value satisfying a given predicate, but not two.

id: 1404.6912
title: Quantum Error Correction with magnetic molecules
authors: Jos¨¦ J. Baldov¨ª, Salvador Cardona-Serra, Juan M. Clemente-Juan, Luis Escalera-Moreno, Alejandro Gaita-Ari?o, Guillermo M¨ªnguez Espallargas
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6912
abstract: Quantum algorithms often assume independent spin qubits to produce trivial $|\uparrow\rangle=|0\rangle$, $|\downarrow\rangle=|1\rangle$ mappings. This can be unrealistic in many solid-state implementations with sizeable magnetic interactions. Here we show that the lower part of the spectrum of a molecule containing three exchange-coupled metal ions with $S=1/2$ and $I=1/2$ is equivalent to nine electron-nuclear qubits. We derive the relation between spin states and qubit states in reasonable parameter ranges for the rare earth $^{159}$Tb$^{3+}$ and for the transition metal Cu$^{2+}$, and study the possibility to implement Shor's Quantum Error Correction code on such a molecule. We also discuss recently developed molecular systems that could be adequate from an experimental point of view.

id: 1404.6914
title: Crossed crystal scheme for fs-pulsed entangled photon generation in ppKTP
authors: Thomas Scheidl, Felix Tiefenbacher, Robert Prevedel, Fabian Steinlechner, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042324 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6914
abstract: We demonstrate a novel scheme for femto-second pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversion in periodically poled KTP crystals. Our scheme is based on a crossed crystal configuration with collinear quasi-phase-matching. The non-degenerate photon pairs are split in a fiber-based wavelength division multiplexer. The source is easier to align than common pulsed sources based on bulk BBO crystals and exhibits high-quality polarization entanglement as well as non-classical interference capabilities. Hence, we expect this source to be a well-suited candidate for multi-photon state generation e.g. for linear optical quantum computation and quantum communication networks.

id: 1404.6918
title: Parity symmetry and parity breaking in the quantum Rabi model with addition of Ising interaction
authors: Q. Wang, W. L. Yang, T. Liu, M. Feng, K. L. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6918
abstract: We explore the possibility to generate new parity symmetry in the quantum Rabi model after a bias is introduced. In contrast to a mathematical treatment in a previous publication [J. Phys. A 46, 265302 (2013)], we consider a physically realistic method by involving an additional spin into the quantum Rabi model to couple with the original spin by an Ising interaction. The rule can be found that the parity symmetry is broken by introducing a bias and then restored by adding new degrees of freedom. Experimental feasibility of realizing the models under discussion is investigated.

id: 1404.6919
title: Casimir effect from a scattering approach
authors: Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Astrid Lambrecht
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 83, 156 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6919
abstract: The Casimir force is a spectacular consequence of the existence of vacuum fluctuations and thus deserves a place in courses on quantum theory. We argue that the scattering approach within a one-dimensional field theory is well suited to discuss the Casimir effect. It avoids in a transparent way divergences appearing in the evaluation of the vacuum energy. Furthermore, the scattering approach connects in a natural manner to the standard discussion of one-dimensional scattering problems in a quantum theory course. Finally, it allows to introduce students to the methods employed in the current research literature to determine the Casimir force in real-world systems.

id: 1404.6925
title: Unconditionally secure bit commitment by causally independent encryptions
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6925
abstract: We propose a new classical bit commitment protocol using the relativistic constraint that signals cannot travel faster than the speed of light $c$. This protocol is unconditionally secure against both classical or quantum attacks. The sender (Alice) and the receiver (Bob) each controls two secure stations separated by a large distance $d$, and they communicate by exchanging classical information only. Alice commits by sending from her stations two causally independent encrypted messages to the neighboring Bob's stations, after that the protocol is out of her control and she plays no role in the unveiling phase. The commitment remains concealed for a period of $\Delta t=d/2c$. This protocol requires only limited communication resources and is readily implementable with current technologies.

id: 1404.6963
title: Measurement theory for closed quantum systems
authors: Michiel Wouters
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, supplemental information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6963
abstract: We introduce the concept of a "classical observable" as an operator with vanishingly small quantum fluctuations on a set of density matrices. It is shown how to construct them for a time evolved pure state. The study of classical observables provides a natural starting point to analyse the quantum measurement problem. In particular, it allows to identify Schr\"odinger cats and the associated projection operators intrinsically, without the need to invoke an environment. We discuss how our new approach relates to the open system analysis of the quantum measurement problem.

id: 1404.6970
title: Maximally Entangled States
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6970
abstract: Every Maximally Entangled State (MES) of two d-dimensional particles is shown to be a product state of suitably chosen collective coordinates. The state may be viewed as de?fining a "point" in a "phase space" like d^2 array representing d^2 orthonormal Maximally Entangled States basis for the Hilbert space. A ?finite geometry view of MES is presented and its relation with the afore mentioned "phase space" is outlined: "straight lines" in the space depict product of single particle mutually unbiased basis (MUB) states, inverting thereby Schmidt's diagonalization scheme in giving a product single particle states as a d-terms sum of maximally entangled states. To assure self su?fficiency the essential mathematical results are summarized in the appendices.

id: 1404.6986
title: Drawing quantum contextuality with 'dessins d'enfants'
authors: Michel Planat
comments: to appear in the Frontiers Collection: "It from Bit orBit from It", ed. by A. Aguirre, B. Foster, Z. Meralli (Springer, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6986
abstract: In the standard formulation of quantum mechanics, there exists an inherent feedback of the measurement setting on the elementary object under scrutiny. Thus one cannot assume that an 'element of reality' prexists to the measurement and, it is even more intriguing that unperformed/counterfactual observables enter the game. This is called quantum contextuality. Simple finite projective geometries are a good way to picture the commutation relations of quantum observables entering the context, at least for systems with two or three parties. In the essay, it is further discovered a mathematical mechanism for 'drawing' the contexts. The so-called 'dessins d'enfants' of the celebrated mathematician Alexandre Grothendieck feature group, graph, topological, geometric and algebraic properties of the quantum contexts that would otherwise have been 'hidden' in the apparent randomness of measurement outcomes.

id: 1404.7026
title: Spectral gap and the exponential localization in general one-particle systems
authors: Tomotaka Kuwahara
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7026
abstract: We investigate the relationship between the spectral gap delta E_0 and the localization length xi in general one-particle systems. A relationship for many-body systems between the spectral gap and the exponential clustering has been derived from the Lieb-Robinson bound, which reduces to the inequality xi le const. times delta E_0^{-1} for one-particle systems. This inequality, however, turned out not to be optimal qualitatively. As a refined upper bound, we here prove the inequality xi le const. times delta E_0^{-1/2} in general one-particle systems. Our proof is not based on the Lieb-Robinson bound, but on our complementary inequality related to the uncertainty principle [T. Kuwahara, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013)]. We give a specific form of the upper bound and test its tightness in the tight-binding Hamiltonian with a diagonal impurity, where the localization length behaves as xi ~ delta E_0^{-1/2}. We ensure that our upper bound is quantitatively tight in the case of nearest-neighbor hopping.

id: 1404.7038
title: Classical probability model for Bell inequality
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: J. of Physics, conference series, v. 504, 2014. EmQM13; Emergent Quantum Mechanics 2013 3-6 October 2013, Vienna, Austria
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7038
abstract: We show that by taking into account randomness of realization of experimental contexts it is possible to construct common Kolmogorov space for data collected for these contexts, although they can be incompatible. We call such a construction "Kolmogorovization" of contextuality. This construction of common probability space is applied to Bell's inequality. It is well known that its violation is a consequence of collecting statistical data in a few incompatible experiments. In experiments performed in quantum optics contexts are determined by selections of pairs of angles $(\theta_i, \theta^\prime_j)$ fixing orientations of polarization beam splitters. Opposite to the common opinion, we show that statistical data corresponding to measurements of polarizations of photons in the singlet state, e.g., in the form of correlations, can be described in the classical probabilistic framework. The crucial point is that in constructing the common probability space one has to take into account not only randomness of the source (as Bell did), but also randomness of context-realizations (in particular, realizations of pairs of angles $(\theta_i, \theta^\prime_j)$). One may (but need not) say that randomness of "free will" has to be accounted.

id: 1404.7050
title: Fine-grained EPR-steering inequalities
authors: Tanumoy Pramanik, Marc Kaplan, Archan S Majumdar
comments: 5 pages, Accepted for publication as a Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 050305(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7050
abstract: We derive a new steering inequality based on a fine-grained uncertainty relation to capture EPR-steering for bipartite systems. Our steering inequality improves over previously known ones since it can experimentally detect all steerable two-qubit Werner state with only two measurement settings on each side. According to our inequality, pure entangle states are maximally steerable. Moreover, by slightly changing the setting, we can express the amount of violation of our inequality as a function of their violation of the CHSH inequality. Finally, we prove that the amount of violation of our steering inequality is, up to a constant factor, a lower bound on the key rate of a one-sided device independent quantum key distribution protocol secure against individual attacks. To show this result, we first derive a monogamy relation for our steering inequality.

id: 1404.7057
title: Observability of thermal effects in the Casimir interaction from graphene-coated substrates
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A; several minor changes are made in accordance to the Journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7057
abstract: Using the recently proposed theory, we calculate thermal effect in the Casimir interaction from graphene-coated metallic and dielectric substrates. The cases when only one or both of the two parallel plates are coated with graphene are considered. It is shown that the graphene coating does not influence the Casimir interaction between metals, but produces large impact for dielectrics. This impact increases with decreasing static dielectric permittivity of the plate material. The thermal correction to the gradient of the Casimir force between an Au sphere and graphene coated fused silica plate is calculated. It is shown to be significanlty greater than the total experimental error in the recently performed experiment, which is demonstrated to be only one step away from observation of the thermal effect from a graphene-coated substrate at short separation distances. To achieve this goal, one should increase the thickness of the fused silica film from 300 nm to 2000 nm.

id: 1404.7089
title: Density matrix form of Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: V. N. Chernega, O. V. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7089
abstract: We consider the generalized pure state density matrix which depends on di?erent time moments. The evolution equation for this density matrix is obtained in case where the density matrix corresponds to the solutions of Gross-Pitaevskii equation.

id: 1404.7109
title: Security Thresholds of Multicarrier Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 58 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7109
abstract: We prove the secret key rate formulas and derive security threshold parameters of multicarrier continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD). In a multicarrier CVQKD scenario, the Gaussian input quantum states of the legal parties are granulated into Gaussian subcarrier CVs (continuous-variables). The multicarrier communication formulates Gaussian sub-channels from the physical quantum channel, each dedicated to the transmission of a subcarrier CV. The Gaussian subcarriers are decoded by a unitary CV operation, which results in the recovered single-carrier Gaussian CVs. We derive the formulas through the AMQD (adaptive multicarrier quadrature division) scheme, the SVD-assisted (singular value decomposition) AMQD, and the multiuser AMQD-MQA (multiuser quadrature allocation). We prove that the multicarrier CVQKD leads to improved secret key rates and higher tolerable excess noise in comparison to single-carrier CVQKD. We derive the private classical capacity of a Gaussian sub-channel and the security parameters of an optimal Gaussian collective attack in the multicarrier setting. We reveal the secret key rate formulas for one-way and two-way multicarrier CVQKD protocols, assuming homodyne and heterodyne measurements and direct and reverse reconciliation. The results reveal the physical boundaries of physically allowed Gaussian attacks in a multicarrier CVQKD scenario and confirm that the improved transmission rates lead to enhanced secret key rates and security thresholds.

id: 1404.7110
title: Quantum correlations in optical metrology: Heisenberg-limited phase estimation without mode entanglement
authors: Jaspreet Sahota, Nicol¨¢s Quesada
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013808 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7110
abstract: The quantum fisher information and quantum correlation parameters are employed to study the application of non-classical light to the problem of parameter estimation. It is shown that the optimal measurement sensitivity of a quantum state is determined by its inter-mode correlations (which depends of path-entanglement) and intra-mode correlations (which depends of the photon statistics). In light of these results, we consider the performance of quantum-enhanced optical interferometers. Furthermore, we propose a Heisenberg-limited metrology protocol involving standard elements from passive and active linear optics, for which the quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound is saturated with an intensity measurement. Interestingly, the quantum advantage for this scheme is derived solely from the non-classical photon statistics of the probe state and does not depend of entanglement. We study the performance of this scheme in the presence of realistic losses and consequently predict a substantial enhancement over the shot-noise limit with current technological capabilities.

id: 1404.7131
title: Direct generation of three-photon polarization entanglement
authors: Deny R. Hamel, Lynden K. Shalm, Hannes H¨¹bel, Aaron J. Miller, Francesco Marsili, Varun B. Verma, Richard P. Mirin, Sae Woo Nam, Kevin J. Resch, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7131
abstract: Non-classical states of light are of fundamental importance for emerging quantum technologies. All optics experiments producing multi-qubit entangled states have until now relied on outcome post-selection, a procedure where only the measurement results corresponding to the desired state are considered. This method severely limits the usefulness of the resulting entangled states. Here, we show the direct production of polarization-entangled photon triplets by cascading two entangled downconversion processes. Detecting the triplets with high efficiency superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors allows us to fully characterize them through quantum state tomography. We use our three-photon entangled state to demonstrate the ability to herald Bell states, a task which was not possible with previous three-photon states, and test local realism by violating the Mermin and Svetlichny inequalities. These results represent a significant breakthrough for entangled multi-photon state production by eliminating the constraints of outcome post-selection, providing a novel resource for optical quantum information processing.

id: 1404.7160
title: Correlated interference and coherence transfer in reflection: extending the quantum-classical boundary
authors: F.V. Kowalski, R.S. Browne
comments: 16 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7160
abstract: One major puzzle of science today is why quantum effects are not apparent in the macroscopic world even though they are manifest microscopically. The quintessential example is double slit interference where the fringe spacing becomes imperceptibly small with increasing mass. However, reflection of a microscopic particle from a macroscopic `mirror' generates correlated interference from the incident and reflected particle substates and their associated mirror substates, with the mirror fringe spacing determined by the exchange of momentum with the particle which either has or has not reflected. This microscopic momentum difference generates two mirror substates which interfere to produce perceptible fringes even for a macroscopic mirror. Small mirror coherence lengths impose constraints on the extent of this interference, which is mitigated using interference of the two-body states associated with the particle reflecting from both of the surfaces of a slab of matter in a manner analogous to the classical interference of a pulse of light reflecting from a `thin film'. This multiple two-body correlated interference is modeled as a particle traversing a finite barrier or well. Transfer of coherence from the particle to the mirror during reflection is also described and related to its classical counterpart. Such mechanisms could extend measurements of the quantum-classical boundary to larger masses.

id: 1404.7183
title: Rate-loss analysis of an efficient quantum repeater architecture
authors: Saikat Guha, Hari Krovi, Christopher A. Fuchs, Zachary Dutton, Joshua A. Slater, Christoph Simon, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 26 pages, 14 figures. This version includes an exact analysis of the rate-transmittance envelope of the entanglement-distillation rate, and a correction to the theoretical analysis accounting for a post-processing issue with multi-photon detection events, identified in Phys. Rev. A 59, 3301 (1999)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7183
abstract: We analyze an entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) architecture that uses a linear chain of quantum repeaters employing photon-pair sources, spectral-multiplexing, linear-optic Bell-state measurements, multi-mode quantum memories and classical-only error correction. Assuming perfect sources, we find an exact expression for the secret-key rate, and an analytical description of how errors propagate through the repeater chain, as a function of various loss and noise parameters of the devices. We show via an explicit analytical calculation, which separately addresses the effects of the principle non-idealities, that this scheme achieves a secret key rate that surpasses the TGW bound---a recently-found fundamental limit to the rate-vs.-loss scaling achievable by any QKD protocol over a direct optical link---thereby providing one of the first rigorous proofs of the efficacy of a repeater protocol. We extend our theoretical analysis to encompass sources with non-zero two-pair-emission probability, using an efficient exact numerical evaluation of the quantum state propagation and measurements. We expect our results to be useful for analyzing other non-QKD quantum protocols that require establishing long-distance entanglement, and to provide useful abstractions to seed analyses of quantum networks of more complex topologies.

id: 1404.7240
title: Quantum mechanics and the manifestation of the world
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 13 pages, 1 eps figure, previous title "Manifesting the Quantum World (the Short Version)"; paper presented at Berge Fest, a conference celebrating the 60th birthday of Berge Englert (Centre for Quantum Technologies, National University of Singapore, 22--25 April 2014); to appear in Quantum Studies: Mathematics and Foundations
journal: Quantum Studies: Mathematics and Foundations, November 2014, Volume 1, Issue 3-4, pp 195-202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7240
abstract: Quantum theory's irreducible empirical core is a probability calculus. While it presupposes the events to which (and on the basis of which) it serves to assign probabilities, and therefore cannot account for their occurrence, it has to be consistent with it. It must make it possible to identify a system of observables that have measurement-independent values. What makes this possible is the incompleteness of the spatiotemporal differentiation of the physical world. This is shown by applying a novel interpretive principle to interfering alternatives involving distinctions between regions of space. Applying the same interpretive principle to alternatives involving distinctions between things makes it safe to claim that the macroworld comes into being through a progressive differentiation of a single, intrinsically undifferentiated entity. By entering into reflexive spatial relations, this entity gives rise to (i) what looks like a multiplicity of relata if the reflexive quality of the relations is not taken into account, and (ii) what looks like a substantial expanse if the spatial quality of the relations is reified. The necessary distinction between two domains (classical and quantum, or macro and micro) and their mutual dependence is best understood as a distinction between the manifested world and its manifestation.

id: 1404.7256
title: Detecting the degree of macroscopic quantumness using an overlap measurement
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Changsuk Noh, Seunglee Bae, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, to be published in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7256
abstract: We investigate how to experimentally detect a recently proposed measure to quantify macroscopic quantum superpositions [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220401 (2011)], namely, "macroscopic quantumness" $\mathcal{I}$. Schemes based on overlap measurements for harmonic oscillator states and for qubit states are extensively investigated. Effects of detection inefficiency and coarse-graining are analyzed in order to assess feasibility of the schemes.

id: 1404.7294
title: Genuine Multipartite Maximally Nonlocal Mixed States
authors: Hong-Yi Su, Jing-Ling Chen, Fu-Lin Zhang, Chunfeng Wu, Zhen-Peng Xu, Mile Gu, Sai Vinjanampathy, L. C. Kwek
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7294
abstract: Quatum nonlocality as a useful resource is of great interest and high importance in quantum information science. It can be witnessed by violations of Bell-type inequalities and is arguably among various fundamental features of quantum mechanics. In analogy to maximally entangled mixed state, here we introduce the notion of genuine multipartite maximally nonlocal mixed state, which is defined as one that maximally violates Svetlichny's inequality among other states for a given linear entropy. Thus this state is the most noise-resistant quantum resource. To show its power, we also construct a quantum nonlocal game with multiple players based on Svetlichny's inequality. The probability of winning the game has an upper bound of $3/4$ when the state shared by players is biseparable, while, with the genuine multipartite maximally nonlocal mixed state, there is a quantum strategy for them that succeeds with probability up to $(2+\sqrt{1+\gamma^2})/4$, beating the bound with nonvanishing $\gamma$.

id: 1404.7322
title: Analytical stable Gaussian soliton supported by a parity-time-symmetric potential with power-law nonlinearity
authors: Bikashkali Midya
comments: Nonlinear Dynamics (2014)
journal: Nonlinear Dynamics 79 (2015) 409
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7322
abstract: We address the existence and stability of spatial localized modes supported by a parity-time-symmetric complex potential in the presence of power-law nonlinearity. The analytical expressions of the localized modes, which are Gaussian in nature, are obtained in both (1+1) and (2+1) dimensions. A linear stability analysis corroborated by the direct numerical simulations reveals that these analytical localized modes can propagate stably for a wide range of the potential parameters and for various order nonlinearities. Some dynamical characteristics of these solutions, such as the power and the transverse power-flow density, are also examined.

id: 1404.7391
title: Controlling quantum flux through measurement: an idealised example
authors: Antoine Tilloy, Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard
comments: Published version. Principal: 8 pages + references + 6 figures; Supplementary: 6 pages + references + 2 figures
journal: Euro. Phys. Letters 107 (2014) 20010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7391
abstract: Classically, no transfer occurs between two equally filled reservoirs no matter how one looks at them, but the situation can be different quantum mechanically. This paradoxically surprising phenomenon rests on the distinctive property of the quantum world that one cannot stare at a system without disturbing it. It was recently discovered that this seemingly annoying feature could be harnessed to control small quantum systems using weak measurements. Here we present one of the simplest models -- an idealised double quantum dot -- where by toying with the dot measurement strength, i.e. the intensity of the look, it is possible to create a particle flux in an otherwise completely symmetric system. The basic property underlying this phenomena is that measurement disturbances are very different on a system evolving unitarily and a system evolving dissipatively. This effect shows that adaptive measurements can have dramatic effects enabling transport control but possibly inducing biases in the measurement of macroscopic quantities if not handled with care.

id: 1404.7439
title: Lattice Gauge Tensor Networks
authors: Pietro Silvi, Enrique Rico, Tommaso Calarco, Simone Montangero
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 103015 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7439
abstract: We present a unified framework to describe lattice gauge theories by means of tensor networks: this framework is efficient as it exploits the high amount of local symmetry content native of these systems describing only the gauge invariant subspace. Compared to a standard tensor network description, the gauge invariant one allows to speed-up real and imaginary time evolution of a factor that is up to the square of the dimension of the link variable. The gauge invariant tensor network description is based on the quantum link formulation, a compact and intuitive formulation for gauge theories on the lattice, and it is alternative to and can be combined with the global symmetric tensor network description. We present some paradigmatic examples that show how this architecture might be used to describe the physics of condensed matter and high-energy physics systems. Finally, we present a cellular automata analysis which estimates the gauge invariant Hilbert space dimension as a function of the number of lattice sites and that might guide the search for effective simplified models of complex theories.

id: 1404.7445
title: Sequential generation of Polynomial Invariants and N-body non-local correlations
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: Revised version with improved definitions and changes meant to improve readability
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7445
abstract: We report an inductive process that allows for a sequential construction of polynomial invariants of state coefficients for multipartite quantum states. The starting point can be a physically meaningful invariant of a smaller part of the system. The process is applied to construct a chain of invariants that quantify GHZ state like non-local N-way correlations in an N qubit pure state and the sum of N-way and (N-1)-way correlations. Analytic expressions for four and three-way correlation quantifiers for four qubits, as well as, five-way and four-way correlation quantifiers for a five qubit pure state are given.

id: 1404.7449
title: Witnessing genuine multipartite entanglement with positive maps
authors: Marcus Huber, Ritabrata Sengupta
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, this time the correct file and some last minute comments included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 100501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7449
abstract: We derive a general framework that connects every positive map with a corresponding witness for partial separability in multipartite quantum systems. We show that many previous approaches were intimately connected to the witnesses derived from partial transposition and that such criteria can easily be outperformed in higher dimensions by non-decomposable maps. As an exemplary case we present a witness that is capable of detecting genuine multipartite entanglement in bound entangled states.

id: 1404.7516
title: Classical leakage resilience from fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Felipe G. Lacerda, Joseph M. Renes, Renato Renner
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7516
abstract: Physical implementations of cryptographic algorithms leak information, which makes them vulnerable to so-called side-channel attacks. The problem of secure computation in the presence of leakage is generally known as leakage resilience. In this work, we establish a connection between leakage resilience and fault-tolerant quantum computation. We first prove that for a general leakage model, there exists a corresponding noise model in which fault tolerance implies leakage resilience. Then we show how to use constructions for fault-tolerant quantum computation to implement classical circuits that are secure in specific leakage models.

id: 1404.7520
title: Quantum Measurement Complexity
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: NeuroQuantology 12: 374-381 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7520
abstract: This paper explores the problem of quantum measurement complexity. In computability theory, the complexity of a problem is determined by how long it takes an effective algorithm to solve it. This complexity may be compared to the difficulty for a hypothetical oracle machine, the output of which may be verified by a computable function but cannot be simulated on a physical machine. We define a quantum oracle machine for measurements as one that can determine the state by examining a single copy. The complexity of measurement for a realizable machine will then be respect to the number of copies of the state that needs to be examined. A quantum oracle cannot perform simultaneous exact measurement of conjugate variables, although approximate measurement may be performed as circumscribed by the Heisenberg uncertainty relations. When considering the measurement of a variable, there might be residual uncertainty if the number of copies of the variable is limited. Specifically, we examine the quantum measurement complexity of linear polarization of photons that is used in several quantum cryptography schemes and we present a relation using information theoretic arguments. The idea of quantum measurement complexity is likely to find uses in measurements in biological systems.

id: 1404.7573
title: Real-time imaging of spin-to-orbital angular momentum quantum state teleportation
authors: Manuel Erhard, Hammam Qassim, Harjaspreet Mand, Ebrahim Karimi, Robert W Boyd
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures and 1 table. Submitted!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7573
abstract: Quantum teleportation is a process in which an unknown quantum state is transferred between two spatially separated subspaces of a bipartite quantum system which share an entangled state and communicate classically. In the case of photonic states, this process is probabilistic due to the impossibility of performing a two-particle complete Bell state analysis with linear optics. In order to achieve a deterministic teleportation scheme, harnessing other degrees of freedom of a single particle, rather than a third particle, has been proposed. Indeed, this leads to a novel type of deterministic teleportation scheme, the so-called hybrid teleportation. Here we report the first realization of photonic hybrid quantum teleportation from spin-to-orbital angular momentum degrees of freedom. In our scheme, the polarization state of photon A is transferred to orbital angular momentum of photon B. The teleported states are visualized in real-time by means of an intensified CCD camera. The quality of teleported states is verified by performing quantum state tomography, which confirms an average fidelity higher than 99.4%. We believe this experiment paves the route towards a novel way of quantum communication in which encryption and decryption are carried out in naturally different Hilbert spaces, and therefore may provide means of enhancing security.

id: 1404.7616
title: Sufficient Condition for Entanglement Area Laws in Thermodynamically Gapped Spin Systems
authors: Jaeyoon Cho
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 197204 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7616
abstract: We consider general locally-interacting arbitrary-dimensional lattice spin systems that are gapped for any system size. We show under reasonable conditions that nondegenerate ground states of such systems obey the entanglement area law. In so doing, we offer an intuitive picture on how a spectral gap restricts the correlations that a ground state can accommodate and leads to such a special feature.

id: 1404.7633
title: Derivation of the Lifshitz-Matsubara sum formula for the Casimir pressure between metallic plane mirrors
authors: R. Gu¨¦rout, A. Lambrecht, K. A. Milton, S. Reynaud
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7633
abstract: We carefully re-examine the conditions of validity for the consistent derivation of the Lifshitz-Matsubara sum formula for the Casimir pressure between metallic plane mirrors. We recover the usual expression for the lossy Drude model, but not for the lossless plasma model. We give an interpretation of this new result in terms of the modes associated with the Foucault currents which play a role in the limit of vanishing losses, in contrast to common expectations.

id: 1404.7672
title: Diffraction-limited Fabry-Perot Cavity in the Near Concentric Regime
authors: Kadir Durak, Chi Huan Nguyen, Victor Leong, Stanislav Straupe, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 103002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7672
abstract: Nearly concentric optical cavities can be used to prepare optical fields with a very small mode volume. We implement an anaclastic design of a such a cavity that significantly simplifies mode matching to the fundamental cavity mode. The cavity is shown to have diffraction-limited performance for a mode volume of $\approx10^4\lambda^3$. This is in sharp contrast with the behavior of cavities with plano-concave mirrors, where aberrations significantly increase the losses in the fundamental mode. We estimate the related cavity QED parameters and show that the proposed cavity design allows for strong coupling without a need for high finesse or small physical cavity volume.

id: 1404.7686
title: Entanglement generation through local field and quantum dissipation
authors: J¨¹rgen T. Stockburger, Rebecca Schmidt, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Physica Scripta, invited contribution to special volume "FQMT'13: Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics (Prague, Czech Republic, July 29 -- August 3, 2013)". v2: minor additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7686
abstract: Entanglement in a Gaussian two-mode system can be generated by local driving if additional non-local features are introduced to the dynamics. We demonstrate that weak to moderate ohmic friction arising from a dissipative environment can enable entanglement generation in a driven system. This synergy of driving and dissipation is highly sensitive to the pulse shape; several simple pulse shapes fail to produce this effect at all or deposit large amounts of energy in the system as a side effect. Complex pulse shapes, determined by optimal control techniques, however, are effective without detrimental side effects.

id: 1404.7694
title: Symmetric polynomials in information theory: entropy and subentropy
authors: Richard Jozsa, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 20 pages. Supersedes arXiv:1310.6629
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7694
abstract: Entropy and other fundamental quantities of information theory are customarily expressed and manipulated as functions of probabilities. Here we study the entropy H and subentropy Q as functions of the elementary symmetric polynomials in the probabilities, and reveal a series of remarkable properties. Derivatives of all orders are shown to satisfy a complete monotonicity property. H and Q themselves become multivariate Bernstein functions and we derive the density functions of their Levy-Khintchine representations. We also show that H and Q are Pick functions in each symmetric polynomial variable separately. Furthermore we see that H and the intrinsically quantum informational quantity Q become surprisingly closely related in functional form, suggesting a special significance for the symmetric polynomials in quantum information theory. Using the symmetric polynomials we also derive a series of further properties of H and Q.

id: 1404.7708
title: REE From EOF
authors: Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, several typos corrected, final version to appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7708
abstract: It is well-known that entanglement of formation (EOF) and relative entropy of entanglement (REE) are exactly identical for all two-qubit pure states even though their definitions are completely different. We think this fact implies that there is a veiled connection between EOF and REE. In this context, we suggest a procedure, which enables us to compute REE from EOF without relying on the converse procedure. It is shown that the procedure yields correct REE for many symmetric mixed states such as Bell-diagonal, generalized Vedral-Plenino, and generalized Horodecki states. It also gives a correct REE for less symmetric Vedral-Plenio-type state. However, it is shown that the procedure does not provide correct REE for arbitrary mixed states.

id: 1404.7725
title: Probing spectral-temporal correlations with a versatile integrated source of parametric down-conversion states
authors: Vahid Ansari, Benjamin Brecht, Georg Harder, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7725
abstract: The spectral-temporal correlation and the correlation time of a biphoton wavepacket generated in the process of parametric down-conversion (PDC), is of great importance for a broad range of quantum experiments. We utilise an integrated PDC source to generate biphotons with different types of spectral-temporal correlations and probe their respective correlation times. The outcomes confirms that the correlation time is independent of the coherence time of the pump light, and it is only determined by the waveguide length and its dispersion properties. Furthermore, we investigate the properties of the PDC biphoton wavepacket exhibiting different types of spectral-temporal correlations and their suitability for quantum-enhanced applications.

id: 1404.7730
title: Scattering model description of cascaded cavity configurations
authors: Andr¨¢s Dombi, Peter Domokos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7730
abstract: Cascaded optical cavities appear in various quantum information processing schemes in which atomic qubits are sitting in separate cavities interconnected by photons as flying qubits. The usual theoretical description relies on a coupled-mode Hamiltonian approach. Here we investigate the system of cascaded cavities without modal decomposition by using a scattering model approach and determine the validity regime of the coupled-mode models.

id: 1404.7785
title: Correlation approach to work extraction from finite quantum systems
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Steve Campbell
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 035501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7785
abstract: Reversible work extraction from identical quantum systems via collective operations was shown to be possible even without producing entanglement among the sub-parts. Here, we show that implementing such global operations necessarily imply the creation of quantum correlations, as measured by quantum discord. We also reanalyze the conditions under which global transformations outperform local gates as far as maximal work extraction is considered by deriving a necessary and sufficient condition that is based on classical correlations.

id: 1404.7830
title: Single-Shot Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Abhishek Shukla, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7830
abstract: The standard procedure for quantum process tomography (QPT) involves applying the quantum process on a system initialized in each of a complete set of orthonormal states. The corresponding outputs are then characterized by quantum state tomography (QST), which itself requires the measurement of non-commuting observables realized by independent experiments on identically prepared system states. Thus QPT procedure demands a number of independent measurements, and moreover, this number increases rapidly with the size of the system. However, the total number of independent measurements can be greatly reduced with the availability of ancilla qubits. Ancilla assisted process tomography (AAPT) has earlier been shown to require a single QST of system-ancilla space. Ancilla assisted quantum state tomography (AAQST) has also been shown to perform QST in a single measurement. Here we combine AAPT with AAQST to realize a `single-shot QPT' (SSPT), a procedure to characterize a general quantum process in a single collective measurement of a set of commuting observables. We demonstrate experimental SSPT by characterizing several single-qubit processes using a three-qubit NMR quantum register. Furthermore, using the SSPT procedure we experimentally characterize the twirling process and compare the results with theory.

id: 1404.7834
title: Exact solvability, non-integrability, and genuine multipartite entanglement dynamics of the Dicke model
authors: Shu He, Liwei Duan, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 17, 043033 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7834
abstract: In this paper, the finite size Dicke model of arbitrary number of qubits is solved analytically in an unified way within extended coherent states. For the $N=2k$ or $2k-1$ Dicke models ($k$ is an integer), the $G$-function, which is only an energy dependent $k \times k$ determinant, is derived in a transparent manner. The regular spectrum is completely and uniquely given by stable zeros of the $G$-function. The closed-form exceptional eigenvalues are also derived. The level distribution controlled by the pole structure of the $G$-functions suggests non-integrability for $N>1$ model at any finite coupling in the sense of recent criterion in literature. A preliminary application to the exact dynamics of genuine multipartite entanglement in the finite $N$ Dicke model is presented using the obtained exact solutions.

id: 1404.7837
title: Many-qubit quantum state transfer via spin chains
authors: T. J. G. Apollaro, S. Lorenzo, A. Sindona, S. Paganelli, G. L. Giorgi, F. Plastina
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7837
abstract: The transfer of an unknown quantum state, from a sender to a receiver, is one of the main requirements to perform quantum information processing tasks. In this respect, the state transfer of a single qubit by means of spin chains has been widely discussed, and many protocols aiming at performing this task have been proposed. Nevertheless, the state transfer of more than one qubit has not been properly addressed so far. In this paper, we present a modified version of a recently proposed quantum state transfer protocol [Phys. Rev. A 87, 062309 (2013)] to obtain a quantum channel for the transfer of two qubits. This goal is achieved by exploiting Rabi-like oscillations due to excitations induced by means of strong and localized magnetic fields. We derive exact analytical formulae for the fidelity of the quantum state transfer, and obtain a high-quality transfer for general quantum states as well as for specific classes of states relevant for quantum information processing.

id: 1404.0029
title: Tensile strained $In_{x}Ga_{1-x}P$ membranes for cavity optomechanics
authors: G. D. Cole, P.-L. Yu, C. G?rtner, K. Siquans, R. Moghadas Nia, J. Schm?le, J. Hoelscher-Obermaier, T. P. Purdy, W. Wieczorek, C. A. Regal, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0029
abstract: We investigate the optomechanical properties of tensile-strained ternary InGaP nanomembranes grown on GaAs. This material system combines the benefits of highly strained membranes based on stoichiometric silicon nitride, with the unique properties of thin-film semiconductor single crystals, as previously demonstrated with suspended GaAs. Here we employ lattice mismatch in epitaxial growth to impart an intrinsic tensile strain to a monocrystalline thin film (approximately 30 nm thick). These structures exhibit mechanical quality factors of 2*10^6 or beyond at room temperature and 17 K for eigenfrequencies up to 1 MHz, yielding Q*f products of 2*10^12 Hz for a tensile stress of ~170 MPa. Incorporating such membranes in a high finesse Fabry-Perot cavity, we extract an upper limit to the total optical loss (including both absorption and scatter) of 40 ppm at 1064 nm and room temperature. Further reductions of the In content of this alloy will enable tensile stress levels of 1 GPa, with the potential for a significant increase in the Q*f product, assuming no deterioration in the mechanical loss at this composition and strain level. This materials system is a promising candidate for the integration of strained semiconductor membrane structures with low-loss semiconductor mirrors and for realizing stacks of membranes for enhanced optomechanical coupling.

id: 1404.0090
title: Topologically Robust Transport of Photons in a Synthetic Gauge Field
authors: S. Mittal, J. Fan, S. Faez, A. Migdall, J. M. Taylor, M. Hafezi
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures and supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 087403 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0090
abstract: Electronic transport in low dimensions through a disordered medium leads to localization. The addition of gauge fields to disordered media leads to fundamental changes in the transport properties. For example, chiral edge states can emerge in two-dimensional systems with a perpendicular magnetic field. Here, we implement a "synthetic'' gauge field for photons using silicon-on-insulator technology. By determining the distribution of transport properties, we confirm the localized transport in the bulk and the suppression of localization in edge states, using the "gold standard'' for localization studies. Our system provides a new platform to investigate transport properties in the presence of synthetic gauge fields, which is important both from the fundamental perspective of studying photonic transport and for applications in classical and quantum information processing.

id: 1404.0115
title: A new type of surface waves in a fully degenerate quantum plasma
authors: Yuriy Tyshetskiy, Roman Kompaneets, Sergey V. Vladimirov
comments: Submitted to Phys. Plasmas. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.3039
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0115
abstract: We study the response of a semi-bounded one-component fully degenerate electron plasma to an initial perturbation in the electrostatic limit. We show that the part of the electric potential corresponding to surface waves in such plasma can be represented, at large times, as the sum of two terms, one term corresponding to "conventional" (Langmuir) surface waves and the other term representing a new type of surface waves resulting from specific analytic properties of degenerate plasma's dielectric response function. These two terms are characterized by different oscillation frequencies (for a given wave number), and, while the "conventional" term's amplitude decays exponentially with time, the new term is characterized by a slower, power-law decay of the oscillation amplitude and is therefore dominant at large times.

id: 1404.0185
title: An On-Demand Single-Electron Time-Bin Qubit Source
authors: J. R. Ott, M. Moskalets
comments: 5+ pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0185
abstract: We propose a source capable of on-demand emission of single electrons with a wave packet of controllable shape and phase. The source consists of a hybrid quantum system, relying on currently experimentally accessible components. We analyze in detail the emission of single electron time-bin qubits, which we characterize using the well known electronic Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interferometry scheme. Specifically, we show that, by controlling the phase difference of two time-bin qubits, the Pauli peak, the electronic analogue of the well known optical HOM dip, can be continuously removed. The proposed source constitutes a promising approach for scalable solid-state architectures for quantum operations using electrons and possibly for an interface for photon to electron time-bin qubit conversion.

id: 1404.0460
title: On the form of prior for constrained thermodynamic processes with uncertainty
authors: Preety Aneja, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0460
abstract: We consider the standard thermodynamic processes with constraints, but with additional uncertainty about the control parameters. Motivated by inductive reasoning, we assign prior distribution that provides a rational guess about likely values of the uncertain parameters.The priors are derived explicitly for both the entropy conserving and the energy conserving processes. The proposed form is useful when the constraint equation cannot be treated analytically. The inference is performed using spin-1/2 systems as models for heat reservoirs. Analytical results are derived in the high temperatures limit. Comparisons are found between the estimates of thermal quantities and the optimal values described by extremum principles. We also seek a intuitive interpretation of the prior and show that it becomes uniform over the quantity which is conserved in the process. We find further points of correspondence between the inference based approach and the thermodynamic framework.

id: 1404.0503
title: Non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric relativistic Quantum mechanics with a maximal mass in an external magnetic field
authors: V.N.Rodionov
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1309.0231
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0503
abstract: Starting with the modified Dirac equations for free massive particles with the $\gamma_5$-extension of the physical mass $m\rightarrow m_1 + \gamma_5 m_2$, we consider equations of relativistic quantum mechanics in the presence of an external electromagnetic field. The new approach is developing on the basis of existing methods for study the unbroken $\cal PT$ symmetry of Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. The paper shows that this modified model contains the definition of the mass parameter, which may use as the determination of the magnitude scaling of energy $M$. Obviously that the transition to the standard approach is valid when small in comparison with $M$ energies and momenta. Formally, this limit is performed when $M\rightarrow\infty$, which simultaneously should correspond to the transition to a \emph{Hermitian limit}$m_2\rightarrow 0$. Inequality $m \leq M$ may be considered and as the restriction of the mass spectrum of fermions considered in the model. Within of this approach, the effects of possible \emph{observability} mass parameters: $m_1, m_2$, $M$ are investigated taking into account the interaction of the magnetic field with charged fermions together with the accounting of their anomalous magnetic moments.

id: 1404.0525
title: The Euler and Grace-Danielsson inequalities for nested triangles and tetrahedra: a derivation and generalisation using quantum information theory
authors: Antony Milne
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. v2: figure added. v3: corrected spelling
journal: 
subjects: Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0525
abstract: We derive several results in classical Euclidean elementary geometry using the steering ellipsoid formalism from quantum mechanics. This gives a physically motivated derivation of very non-trivial geometric results, some of which are entirely new. We consider a sphere of radius $r$ contained inside another sphere of radius $R$, with the sphere centres separated by distance $d$. When does there exist a nested tetrahedron circumscribed about the smaller sphere and inscribed in the larger? We derive the Grace-Danielsson inequality $d^2 \leq (R+r)(R-3r)$ as the sole necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of a nested tetrahedron. Our method also gives the condition $d^2 \leq R(R-2r)$ for the existence of a nested triangle in the analogous 2-dimensional scenario. These results imply the Euler inequality in 2 and 3 dimensions. Furthermore, we formulate a new inequality that applies to the more general case of ellipses and ellipsoids.

id: 1404.0534
title: A near-field scanning microwave microscope based on a superconducting resonator for low power measurements
authors: S. E. de Graaf, A. V. Danilov, A. Adamyan, S. E. Kubatkin
comments: 
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 023706 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0534
abstract: We report on the design and performance of a cryogenic (300 mK) near-field scanning microwave microscope. It uses a microwave resonator as the near-field sensor, operating at a frequency of 6 GHz and microwave probing amplitudes down to 100 uV, approaching low enough photon population (N~1000) of the resonator such that coherent quantum manipulation becomes feasible. The resonator is made out of a miniaturized distributed fractal superconducting circuit that is integrated with the probing tip, micromachined to be compact enough such that it can be mounted directly on a quartz tuning-fork, and used for parallel operation as an atomic force microscope (AFM). The resonator is magnetically coupled to a transmission line for readout, and to achieve enhanced sensitivity we employ a Pound-Drever-Hall measurement scheme to lock to the resonance frequency. We achieve a well localized near-field around the tip such that the microwave resolution is comparable to the AFM resolution, and a capacitive sensitivity down to 6.4x10^-20 F/rtHz, limited by mechanical noise. We believe that the results presented here are a significant step towards probing quantum systems at the nanoscale using near-field scanning microwave microscopy.

id: 1404.0604
title: First-order quantum phase transitions: test ground for emergent chaoticity, regularity and persisting symmetries
authors: M. Macek, A. Leviatan
comments: 76 pages, 35 figures. Final version, Annals of Physics, in press
journal: Ann. Phys. 351 (2014) 302-362
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0604
abstract: We present a comprehensive analysis of the emerging order and chaos and enduring symmetries, accompanying a generic (high-barrier) first-order quantum phase transition (QPT). The interacting boson model Hamiltonian employed, describes a QPT between spherical and deformed shapes, associated with its U(5) and SU(3) dynamical symmetry limits. A classical analysis of the intrinsic dynamics reveals a rich but simply-divided phase space structure with a H\'enon-Heiles type of chaotic dynamics ascribed to the spherical minimum and a robustly regular dynamics ascribed to the deformed minimum. The simple pattern of mixed but well-separated dynamics persists in the coexistence region and traces the crossing of the two minima in the Landau potential. A quantum analysis discloses a number of regular low-energy U(5)-like multiplets in the spherical region, and regular SU(3)-like rotational bands extending to high energies and angular momenta, in the deformed region. These two kinds of regular subsets of states retain their identity amidst a complicated environment of other states and both occur in the coexistence region. A symmetry analysis of their wave functions shows that they are associated with partial U(5) dynamical symmetry (PDS) and SU(3) quasi-dynamical symmetry (QDS), respectively. The pattern of mixed but well-separated dynamics and the PDS or QDS characterization of the remaining regularity, appear to be robust throughout the QPT. Effects of kinetic collective rotational terms, which may disrupt this simple pattern, are considered.

id: 1404.0624
title: Centre-of-mass motion in multi-particle Schroedinger-Newton dynamics
authors: Domenico Giulini, Andre Grossardt
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: New Journal of Physics, Volume 16, Year 2014, Article Number 075005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0624
abstract: We investigate the implication of the non-linear and non-local multi-particle Schroedinger-Newton equation for the motion of the mass centre of an extended multi-particle object, giving self-contained and comprehensible derivations. In particular, we discuss two opposite limiting cases. In the first case, the width of the centre-of-mass wave packet is assumed much larger than the actual extent of the object, in the second case it is assumed much smaller. Both cases result in non-linear deviations from ordinary free Schroedinger evolution for the centre of mass. On a general conceptual level we include some discussion in order to clarify the physical basis and intention for studying the Schroedinger-Newton equation.

id: 1404.0637
title: Majorana and Condensed Matter Physics
authors: Frank Wilczek
comments: 28 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0637
abstract: Ettore Majorana contributed several ideas that have had significant, lasting impact in condensed matter physics, broadly construed. Here I will discuss, from a modern perspective, four important topics that have deep roots in Majorana's work: 1. Spin Response and Universal Connection; 2. Level Crossing and Generalized Laplace Transform; 3. Majorana Fermions, From Neutrinos to Electrons; 4. Majorinos and Emergent Symmetry.

id: 1404.0647
title: Nonlinear Zeno dynamics due to atomic interactions in Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: V. G. Navarro, V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Physica B, DOI: 10.1016/j.physb.2014.08.007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0647
abstract: We show that nonlinear interactions induce both the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in the generalised Bose-Josephson model (with the on-site interactions and the second-order tunneling) describing Bose-Einstein condensate in double-well trap subject to particle removal from one of the wells. We find that the on-site interactions induce \textit{only} the Zeno effect, which appears at long evolution times, whereas the second-order tunneling leads to a strong decay of the atomic population at short evolution times, reminiscent of the anti-Zeno effect, and destroys the nonlinear Zeno effect due to the on-site interactions at long times.

id: 1404.0747
title: New Dirac Delta function based methods with applications to perturbative expansions in quantum field theory
authors: Achim Kempf, David M. Jackson, Alejandro H. Morales
comments: Cleared up typos, added comments
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0747
abstract: We derive new all-purpose methods that involve the Dirac Delta distribution. Some of the new methods use derivatives in the argument of the Dirac Delta. We highlight potential avenues for applications to quantum field theory and we also exhibit a connection to the problem of blurring/deblurring in signal processing. We find that blurring, which can be thought of as a result of multi-path evolution, is, in Euclidean quantum field theory without spontaneous symmetry breaking, the strong coupling dual of the usual small coupling expansion in terms of the sum over Feynman graphs.

id: 1404.0825
title: Density Functionals in the Presence of Magnetic Field
authors: Andre Laestadius
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0825
abstract: In this paper density functionals for Coulomb systems subjected to electric and magnetic fields are developed. The density functionals depend on the particle density, $\rho$, and paramagnetic current density, $j^p$. This approach is motivated by an adapted version of the Vignale and Rasolt formulation of Current Density Functional Theory (CDFT), which establishes a one-to-one correspondence between the non-degenerate ground-state and the particle and paramagnetic current density. Definition of $N$-representable density pairs $(\rho,j^p)$ is given and it is proven that the set of $v$-representable densities constitutes a proper subset of the set of $N$-representable densities. For a Levy-Lieb type functional $Q(\rho,j^p)$, it is demonstrated that (i) it is a proper extension of the universal Hohenberg-Kohn functional, $F_{HK}(\rho,j^p)$, to $N$-representable densities, (ii) there exists a wavefunction $\psi_0$ such that $Q(\rho,j^p)=(\psi_0,H_0\psi_0)_{L^2}$, where $H_0$ is the Hamiltonian without external potential terms, and (iii) it is not convex. Furthermore, a convex and universal functional $F(\rho,j^p)$ is studied and proven to be equal the convex envelope of $Q(\rho,j^p)$. For both $Q$ and $F$, we give upper and lower bounds.

id: 1404.0828
title: An order parameter for impurity systems at quantum criticality
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Henrik Johannesson, Sougato Bose, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3784 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0828
abstract: A quantum phase transition may occur in the ground state of a system at zero temperature when a controlling field or interaction is varied. The resulting quantum fluctuations which trigger the transition produce scaling behavior of various observables, governed by universal critical exponents. A particularly interesting class of such transitions appear in systems with quantum impurities where a non-extensive term in the free energy becomes singular at the critical point. Curiously, the notion of a conventional order parameter which exhibits scaling at the critical point is generically missing in these systems. We here explore the possibility to use the Schmidt gap, which is an observable obtained from the entanglement spectrum, as an order parameter. A case study of the two-impurity Kondo model confirms that the Schmidt gap faithfully captures the scaling behavior by correctly predicting the critical exponent of the dynamically generated length scale at the critical point.

id: 1404.0924
title: Thermoelectric efficiency of three-terminal quantum thermal machines
authors: Francesco Mazza, Riccardo Bosisio, Giuliano Benenti, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Fabio Taddei
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures. Final version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 085001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0924
abstract: The efficiency of a thermal engine working in linear response regime in a multi-terminals configuration is discussed. For the generic three-terminal case, we provide a general definition of local and non-local transport coefficients: electrical and thermal conductances, and thermoelectric powers. Within the Onsager formalism, we derive analytical expressions for the efficiency at maximum power, which can be written in terms of generalized figures of merit. Also, using two examples, we investigate numerically how a third terminal could improve the performance of a quantum system, and under which conditions non-local thermoelectric effects can be observed.

id: 1404.0970
title: Bose-Bose Mixtures with Synthetic Spin-Orbit Coupling in Optical Lattices
authors: Liang He, Anchun Ji, Walter Hofstetter
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0970
abstract: We investigate the ground state properties of Bose-Bose mixtures with Rashba-type spin-orbit (SO) coupling in a square lattice. The system displays rich physics from the deep Mott-insulator (MI) all the way to the superfluid (SF) regime. In the deep MI regime, novel spin-ordered phases arise due to the effective Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya type super-exchange interactions. By employing the non-perturbative Bosonic Dynamical Mean-Field-Theory (BDMFT), we numerically study and establish the stability of these magnetic phases against increasing hopping amplitude. We show that as hopping is increased across the MI to SF transition, exotic superfluid phases with magnetic textures emerge. In particular, we identify a new spin-spiral magnetic texture with spatial period 3 in the superfluid close to the MI-SF transition.

id: 1404.1025
title: Reduction of local velocity spreads by linear potentials
authors: Fran?ois Damon, Fran?ois Vermersch, Juan Gonzalo Muga, David Guery-Odelin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89 (2014) 053626
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1025
abstract: We study the spreading of the wave function of a Bose-Einstein condensate accelerated by a constant force both in the absence and in the presence of atom-atom interactions. We show that, despite the initial velocity dispersion, the local velocity dispersion defined at a given position downward can reach ultralow values and be used to probe very narrow energetic structures. We explain how one can define quantum mechanically and without ambiguities the different velocity moments at a given position by extension of their classical counterparts. We provide a common theoretical framework for interacting and non-interacting regimes based on the Wigner transform of the initial wave function that encapsulates the dynamics in a scaling parameter. In the absence of interaction, our approach is exact. Using a numerical simulation of the 1D Gross-Pitaevskii equation, we provide the range of validity of our scaling approach and find a very good agreement in the Thomas-Fermi regime. We apply this approach to the study of the scattering of a matter wave packet on a double barrier potential. We show that a Fabry-Perot resonance in such a cavity with an energy width below the pK range can be probed in this manner. We show that our approach can be readily transposed to a large class of many-body quantum systems that exhibit self-similar dynamics.

id: 1404.1038
title: Life Cycle of Superfluid Vortices and Quantum Turbulence in the Unitary Fermi Gas
authors: Gabriel Wlaz?owski, Aurel Bulgac, Michael McNeil Forbes, Kenneth J. Roche
comments: 4 pages + supplement. Added comparison with ETF model and quantum turbulence. Includes links to movies online at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 031602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1038
abstract: The unitary Fermi gas (UFG) offers an unique opportunity to study quantum turbulence both experimentally and theoretically in a strongly interacting fermionic superfluid. It yields to accurate and controlled experiments, and admits the only dynamical microscopic description via time-dependent density functional theory (DFT) - apart from dilute bosonic gases - of the crossing and reconnection of superfluid vortex lines conjectured by Feynman in 1955 to be at the origin of quantum turbulence in superfluids at zero temperature. We demonstrate how various vortex configurations can be generated by using well established experimental techniques: laser stirring and phase imprinting. New imagining techniques demonstrated by the MIT group [Ku et al. arXiv:1402.7052] should be able to directly visualize these crossings and reconnections in greater detail than performed so far in liquid helium. We demonstrate the critical role played by the geometry of the trap in the formation and dynamics of a vortex in the UFG and how laser stirring and phase imprint can be used to create vortex tangles with clear signatures of the onset of quantum turbulence.

id: 1404.1207
title: Spontaneous creation of the universe from nothing
authors: Dongshan He, Dongfeng Gao, Qing-yu Cai
comments: The problem of singularity can be avoided naturally as the universe can be spontaneously created from nothing
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 083510 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1207
abstract: An interesting idea is that the universe could be spontaneously created from nothing, but no rigorous proof has been given. In this paper, we present such a proof based on the analytic solutions of the Wheeler-DeWitt equation (WDWE). Explicit solutions of the WDWE for the special operator ordering factor p=-2 (or 4) show that, once a small true vacuum bubble is created by quantum fluctuations of the metastable false vacuum, it can expand exponentially no matter whether the bubble is closed, flat or open. The exponential expansion will end when the bubble becomes large and thus the early universe appears. With the de Broglie-Bohm quantum trajectory theory, we show explicitly that it is the quantum potential that plays the role of the cosmological constant and provides the power for the exponential expansion of the true vacuum bubble. So it is clear that the birth of the early universe completely depends on the quantum nature of the theory.

id: 1404.1244
title: Measuring the photon coalescence time-window in the continuous-wave regime for resonantly driven semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Rapha?l Proux, Maria Maragkou, Emmanuel Baudin, Christophe Voisin, Philippe Roussignol, Carole Diederichs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1244
abstract: We revisit Mandel's notion that the degree of coherence equals the degree of indistinguishability by performing Hong-Ou-Mandel- (HOM-)type interferometry with single photons elastically scattered by a cw resonantly driven excitonic transition of an InAs/GaAs epitaxial quantum dot. We present a comprehensive study of the temporal profile of the photon coalescence phenomenon which shows that photon indistinguishability can be tuned by the excitation laser source, in the same way as their coherence time. A new figure of merit, the coalescence time window, is introduced to quantify the delay below which two photons are indistinguishable. This criterion sheds new light on the interpretation of HOM experiments under cw excitation, particularly when photon coherence times are longer than the temporal resolution of the detectors. The photon indistinguishability is extended over unprecedented time scales beyond the detectors' response time, thus opening new perspectives to conducting quantum optics with single photons and conventional detectors.

id: 1404.1276
title: An uncertainty principle for unimodular quantum groups
authors: Jason Crann, Mehrdad Kalantar
comments: A few notational changes and a corrected proof of the final theorem
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, (2014) 081704
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1276
abstract: We present a generalization of Hirschman's entropic uncertainty principle for locally compact abelian groups to unimodular locally compact quantum groups. As a corollary, we strengthen a well-known uncertainty principle for compact groups, and generalize the relation to compact quantum groups of Kac type. We also establish the complementarity of finite-dimensional quantum group algebras. In the non-unimodular setting, we obtain an uncertainty relation for arbitrary locally compact groups using the relative entropy with respect to the Haar weight as the measure of uncertainty. We also show that when restricted to normal central states of discrete quantum groups, the relative entropy with respect to the Haar weight reduces to the canonical entropy of the random walk generated by the central state.

id: 1404.1684
title: Exact quantum algorithms have advantage for almost all Boolean functions
authors: Andris Ambainis, Jozef Gruska, Shenggen Zheng
comments: 17 pages. Accepted to Quantum information & Computation
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1684
abstract: It has been proved that almost all $n$-bit Boolean functions have exact classical query complexity $n$. However, the situation seemed to be very different when we deal with exact quantum query complexity. In this paper, we prove that almost all $n$-bit Boolean functions can be computed by an exact quantum algorithm with less than $n$ queries. More exactly, we prove that ${AND}_n$ is the only $n$-bit Boolean function, up to isomorphism, that requires $n$ queries.

id: 1404.1689
title: Potential of quantum finite automata with exact acceptance
authors: Jozef Gruska, Daowen Qiu, Shenggen Zheng
comments: We have improved the presentation of the paper. Accepted to International Journal of Foundation of Computer Science
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1689
abstract: The potential of the exact quantum information processing is an interesting, important and intriguing issue. For examples, it has been believed that quantum tools can provide significant, that is larger than polynomial, advantages in the case of exact quantum computation only, or mainly, for problems with very special structures. We will show that this is not the case. In this paper the potential of quantum finite automata producing outcomes not only with a (high) probability, but with certainty (so called exactly) is explored in the context of their uses for solving promise problems and with respect to the size of automata. It is shown that for solving particular classes $\{A^n\}_{n=1}^{\infty}$ of promise problems, even those without some very special structure, that succinctness of the exact quantum finite automata under consideration, with respect to the number of (basis) states, can be very small (and constant) though it grows proportional to $n$ in the case deterministic finite automata (DFAs) of the same power are used. This is here demonstrated also for the case that the component languages of the promise problems solvable by DFAs are non-regular. The method used can be applied in finding more exact quantum finite automata or quantum algorithms for other promise problems.

id: 1404.1759
title: High-precision spectroscopy of the forbidden 2 3S1 - 2 1P1 transition in quantum degenerate metastable helium
authors: Remy Notermans, Wim Vassen
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures, paper includes supplemental information. Paper submitted for review
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 253002 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1759
abstract: We have measured the forbidden 2 3S1 - 2 1P1 transition at 887 nm in a quantum degenerate gas of metastable He-4 atoms confined in an optical dipole trap. The determined transition frequency is 338 133 594.4 (0.5) MHz, from which we obtain an ionization energy of the 2 1P1 state of 814 709 148.6 (0.5) MHz. This ionization energy is in disagreement by > 3 sigma with the most accurate quantum electrodynamics (QED) calculations available. Our measurements also provide a new determination of the lifetime of the 2 1P1 state of 0.551 (0.004)stat (+ 0.013,- 0.000)syst ns, which is the most accurate determination to date and in excellent agreement with theory.

id: 1404.1828
title: State-Selective High-Energy Excitation of Nuclei by Resonant Positron Annihilation
authors: N. A. Belov, Z. Harman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1828
abstract: In the annihilation of a positron with a bound atomic electron, the virtual gamma photon created may excite the atomic nucleus. We put forward this effect as a spectroscopic tool for an energy-selective excitation of nuclear transitions. This scheme can efficiently populate nuclear levels of arbitrary multipolarities in the MeV regime, including monopole transitions and giant resonances. In certain cases, it may have a higher cross sections than the conventionally used Coulomb excitation.

id: 1404.1894
title: On Heisenberg--Weyl algebra and subsets of Riordan subgroups
authors: Silvia Goodenough, Christian Lavault
comments: Version 2, 31 pages The present is an extended (1/3 to 1/4) and corrected second version of ''On subsets of Riordan subgroups and Heisenberg--Weyl algebra'' -- hal-00974929v1 \& arXiv:1404.1894 (31 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1894
abstract: (The present paper is an extended and corrected second version of [25].) In a first part, we are concerned with the relationships between polynomials in the two generators of the algebra of Heisenberg--Weyl, its Bargmann--Fock representation with dif-ferential operators and the associated one-parameter group. Upon this basis, the paper is then devoted to the groups of Riordan matrices associated to the related transformations of matrices (i.e. substitutions with prefunctions). Thereby, various properties are studied arising in Riordan arrays, in the Riordan group and, more specifically, in the "striped" Ri-ordan subgroups; further, a striped quasigroup and a semigroup are also examined. A few applications to combinatorial structures are also briefly addressed in the Appendix.

id: 1404.1904
title: The group theoretical description of the three-body problem
authors: J. Nyiri, V.A. Nikonov
comments: 60 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1904
abstract: The group theoretical description of the three-particle problem provides successful techniques for the solution of different questions. We present here a review of this approach.

id: 1404.1944
title: Fine-Structure Constant for Gravitational and Scalar Interactions
authors: U. D. Jentschura
comments: 6 pages; RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.A 90 (2014) 022112
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.1944
abstract: Starting from the coupling of a relativistic quantum particle to the curved Schwarzschild space-time, we show that the Dirac--Schwarzschild problem has bound states and calculate their energies including relativistic corrections. Relativistic effects are shown to be suppressed by the gravitational fine-structure constant alpha_G = G m_1 m_2/(hbar c), where G is Newton's gravitational constant, c is the speed of light and m_1 and m_2 >> m_1 are the masses of the two particles. The kinetic corrections due to space-time curvature are shown to lift the familiar (n,j) degeneracy of the energy levels of the hydrogen atom. We supplement the discussion by a consideration of an attractive scalar potential, which, in the fully relativistic Dirac formalism, modifies the mass of the particle according to the replacement m -> m (1 - \lambda/r), where r is the radial coordinate. We conclude with a few comments regarding the (n,j) degeneracy of the energy levels, where n is the principal quantum number, and j is the total angular momentum, and illustrate the calculations by way of a numerical example.

id: 1404.2070
title: Quantum Non-Abelian Hydrodynamics: Anyonic or Spin-Orbital Entangled liquids, Non-Unitarity of Scattering matrix and Charge Fractionalization
authors: Tribhuvan Prasad Pareek
comments: Typos corrected in eq.(4) and eq.(98), presentation improved, 44 pages(32 main text+ 7 Appendix),4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2070
abstract: In this article we develop an exact(non-adiabatic,non-perturbative) density matrix scattering theory for a two component quantum liquid which interacts or scatters off from a generic spin-dependent quantum potential. We find that the number or charge density in scattered fluid,$\text{Tr}({\varrho}_{sc})$ depends on {non-trivial quantum interference coefficients}, ${\cal{Q}}^{\alpha\beta}_{0ijk}$ which arises due to quantum interference between spin-independent and spin-dependent scattering amplitudes and among spin-dependent scattering amplitudes. The effect of quantum interference coefficients can be include by defining a {\bf vector order parameter} $\bm{Q}$. We find that in presence of spin-dependent interaction the {\bf vector order parameter} $\bm{Q}$ is necessarily non-zero and is related to the commutator and anti-commutator of scattering matrix $\cal{S}$ with its dagger $\cal{S}^{\dagger}$. It is further shown that $\bm{Q}\neq 0$, implies four physically equivalent conditions,i.e, {\bf spin-orbital entanglement is non-zero}, {\bf Non-Abelian scattering phase,i.e, matrices}, scattering matrix is {\bf Non-Unitary} and the broken time reversal symmetry for scattered density matrix. This also implies that quasi particle excitation are anyonic in nature, hence, charge fractionalization is a natural consequence. This aspect has also been discussed from the perspective of number or charge density conservation, which implies i.e, $\text{Tr}({\varrho}_{sc})=\text{Tr}({\varrho}_{in})$. On the other hand $\bm{Q}=0$ turns out to be a mathematically forced unphysical solution in presence of spin-dependent potential or scattering which is equivalent to {\bf Abelian} hydrodynamics ,{\bf Unitary} scattering matrix, absence of spin-space entanglement, and preserved time reversal symmetry.

id: 1404.2079
title: Zero modes and divergence of entanglement entropy
authors: Krishnanand Mallayya, Rakesh Tibrewala, S. Shankaranarayanan, T. Padmanabhan
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 044058 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2079
abstract: We investigate the cause of the divergence of the entanglement entropy for the free scalar fields in $(1+1)$ and $(D + 1)$ dimensional space-times. In a canonically equivalent set of variables, we show explicitly that the divergence in the entanglement entropy of the continuum field in $(1 + 1)-$ dimensions is due to the accumulation of large number of near-zero frequency modes as opposed to the commonly held view of divergence having UV origin. The feature revealing the divergence in zero modes is related to the observation that the entropy is invariant under a hidden scaling transformation even when the Hamiltonian is not. We discuss the role of dispersion relations and the dimensionality of the space-time on the behavior of entanglement entropy.

id: 1404.2103
title: Formulation of fields in terms of path-integrals
authors: S. R. Vatsya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2103
abstract: Path-integral formulation of quantum mechanics defines the amplitude, or wavefunction, as a sum of the phase-factors over trajectories in a base manifold, which is taken here to be a general Riemannian space with trajectories parameterized by their arclengths. Generalized Klein-Gordon equation, deducible from the path-integral representation, provides the quantum mechanical description of a particle. Phase-factors are periodic functions of the classical action. Periodicity of the phase-factors with respect to action is shown in this article to impart corresponding periodicity to one parameter family of amplitudes generated by the translations of arclength. The translation parameter is also identified with arclength that can be adjoined to the base space to obtain an extended manifold, which is endowed with a Riemannian structure induced in it by trajectories in the base. Further, periodicity of the family of amplitudes with respect to the translation parameter together with the solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation are used to develop a quantized field formulation in the extended manifold of a collection of particles defined by the original particle. The extended manifold can replace the base in this treatment and thus, the program continues for higher dimensional manifolds generated in the process. Results are illustrated with the example of the base being the 3D Euclidean space, yielding the classical and quantum descriptions of a photon and its quantized field description with zero vacuum energy in the extended manifold, which with arclength identified with time results in the Minkowski spacetime. Parallel formulation for a massive particle is described briefly.

id: 1404.2243
title: Supersymmetry and eigensurface topology of the planar quantum pendulum
authors: Burkhard Schmidt, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2243
abstract: We make use of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY QM) to find three sets of conditions under which the problem of a planar quantum pendulum becomes analytically solvable. The analytic forms of the pendulum's eigenfuntions make it possible to find analytic expressions for observables of interest, such as the expectation values of the angular momentum squared and of the orientation and alignment cosines as well as of the eigenenergy. Furthermore, we find that the topology of the intersections of the pendulum's eigenenergy surfaces can be characterized by a single integer index whose values correspond to the sets of conditions under which the analytic solutions to the quantum pendulum problem exist.

id: 1404.2244
title: Maximum tunneling velocities in symmetric double well potentials
authors: J?rn Manz, Axel Schild, Burkhard Schmidt, Yonggang Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2244
abstract: We consider coherent tunneling of one-dimensional model systems in non-cyclic or cyclic symmetric double well potentials. Generic potentials are constructed which allow for analytical estimates of the quantum dynamics in the non-relativistic deep tunneling regime, in terms of the tunneling distance, barrier height and mass (or moment of inertia). For cyclic systems, the results may be scaled to agree well with periodic potentials for which semi-analytical results in terms of Mathieu functions exist. Starting from a wavepacket which is initially localized in one of the potential wells, the subsequent periodic tunneling is associated with tunneling velocities. These velocities (or angular velocities) are evaluated as the ratio of the flux densities versus the probability densities. The maximum velocities are found under the top of the barrier where they scale as the square root of the ratio of barrier height and mass (or moment of inertia), independent of the tunneling distance. They are applied exemplarily to several prototypical molecular models of non-cyclic and cyclic tunneling, including ammonia inversion, Cope rearrangment of semibullvalene, torsions of molecular fragments, and rotational tunneling in strong laser fields. Typical maximum velocities and angular velocities are in the order of a few km/s and from 10 to 100 THz for our non-cyclic and cyclic systems, respectively, much faster than time-averaged velocities. Even for the more extreme case of an electron tunneling through a barrier of height of one Hartree, the velocity is only about one percent of the speed of light. Estimates of the corresponding time scales for passing through {the narrow domain just} below the potential barrier are in the domain from 2 to 40 fs, much shorter than the tunneling times.

id: 1404.2250
title: Squeezed and fragmented states of strongly interacting bosons in a double well. Part I: Theoretical models
authors: Joel C. Corbo, Jonathan L. DuBois, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures. Submitted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2250
abstract: We present a systematic study of the phenomena of squeezing and fragmentation for a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a three dimensional double well potential over a range of interaction strengths and barrier heights. We analyze the properties of the condensate in the context of both a standard and an improved two-mode model and a recently-proposed eight-mode model. One fundamental difference between this and previous two-mode work is that we explicitly examine well geometries that exhibit appreciable overlap in the one-body wavefunctions localized in the left and right wells rather than assuming that they are nearly isolated from each other. One particularly surprising observation that we have made in our study of these models is the existence of an interaction strength that maximizes squeezing, which is in stark contrast to the predictions of the two-mode model with no overlap between the wells for which squeezing monotonically increases with interaction strength. We explain this and other novel results through a careful study of the ground state properties produced by various terms in the model Hamiltonians and the relationship between the strength of these terms and the system parameters, such as well geometry and atomic interaction strength.

id: 1404.2251
title: Squeezed and fragmented states of strongly interacting bosons in a double well. Part II: Quantum Monte Carlo simulations
authors: Joel C. Corbo, Jonathan L. DuBois, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, submitted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2251
abstract: We present path integral ground state (PIGS) quantum Monte Carlo calculations for the ground state ($T = 0$) properties of repulsively interacting bosons in a three-dimensional external double well potential over a range of interaction strengths and potential parameters. We focus our calculations on ground state number statistics and the one-body density matrix in order to understand the level of squeezing and fragmentation that the system exhibits as a function of interaction strength. We compare our PIGS results to both a two-mode model and a recently-proposed eight-mode model. For weak interactions, the various models agree with the numerically exact PIGS simulations. However, the models fail to correctly predict the amount of squeezing and fragmentation exhibited by the PIGS simulations for strong interactions. One novel and somewhat surprising result from our simulations involves the relationship between squeezing and interaction strength: rather than a monotonic relationship between these quantities, we find that for certain barrier heights the squeezing increases as a function of interaction strength until it reaches a maximum, after which it decreases again. We also see a similar relationship between fragmentation and interaction strength. We discuss the physical mechanisms that account for this behavior and the implications for the design of atom interferometers, which can use squeezed states to reduce measurement uncertainty.

id: 1404.2326
title: Terahertz emission from AC Stark-split asymmetric intersubband transitions
authors: Nathan Shammah, Chris C. Phillips, Simone De Liberato
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 235309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2326
abstract: Transitions between the two states of an AC Stark-split doublet are forbidden in centro-symmetric systems, and thus almost impossible to observe in experiments performed with atomic clouds. However, electrons trapped in nanoscopic heterostructures can behave as artificial atoms, with the advantage that the wavefunction symmetry can be broken by using asymmetric confining potentials. Here we develop the many-body theory describing the intra-doublet emission of a resonantly pumped intersubband transition in a doped asymmetric quantum well, showing that in such a system the intra-doublet emission can be orders of magnitude higher than in previously studied systems. This emission channel, which lies in the terahertz range, and whose frequency depends upon the pump power, opens the way to the realization of a new class of monolithic and tunable terahertz emitters.

id: 1404.2370
title: Topos Quantum Theory on Quantization-Induced Sheaves
authors: Kunji Nakayama
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2370
abstract: In this paper, we construct a sheaf-based topos quantum theory. It is well known that a topos quantum theory can be constructed on the topos of presheaves on the category of commutative von Neumann algebras of bounded operators on a Hilbert space. Also, it is already known that quantization naturally induces a Lawvere-Tierney topology on the presheaf topos. We show that a topos quantum theory akin to the presheaf-based one can be constructed on sheaves defined by the quantization-induced Lawvere-Tierney topology. That is, starting from the spectral sheaf as a state space of a given quantum system, we construct sheaf-based expressions of physical propositions and truth objects, and thereby give a method of truth-value assignment to the propositions. Furthermore, we clarify the relationship to the presheaf-based quantum theory. We give translation rules between the sheaf-based ingredients and the corresponding presheaf-based ones. The translation rules have `coarse-graining' effects on the spaces of the presheaf-based ingredients; a lot of different proposition presheaves, truth presheaves, and presheaf-based truth-values are translated to a proposition sheaf, a truth sheaf, and a sheaf-based truth-value, respectively. We examine the extent of the coarse-graining made by translation.

id: 1404.2376
title: Spin Transport in non-inertial frame
authors: Debashree Chowdhury, B. Basu
comments: Accepted in Physica B. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1309.1376
journal: Physica B, 448, 155, 2014
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2376
abstract: The influence of acceleration and rotation on spintronic applications is theoretically investigated. In our formulation, considering a Dirac particle in a non-inertial frame, different spin related aspects are studied. The spin current appearing due to the inertial spin-orbit coupling (SOC) is enhanced by the interband mixing of the conduction and valence band states. Importantly, one can achieve a large spin current through the $\vec{k}. \vec{p}$ method in this non-inertial frame. Furthermore, apart from the inertial SOC term due to acceleration, for a particular choice of the rotation frequency, a new kind of SOC term can be obtained from the spin rotation coupling (SRC). This new kind of SOC is of Dresselhaus type and controllable through the rotation frequency. In the field of spintronic applications, utilizing the inertial SOC and SRC induced SOC term, theoretical proposals for the inertial spin filter, inertial spin galvanic effect are demonstrated. Finally, one can tune the spin relaxation time in semiconductors by tuning the non-inertial parameters.

id: 1404.2439
title: Quantum phases of a chain of strongly interacting anyons
authors: Peter E. Finch, Holger Frahm, Marius Lewerenz, Ashley Milsted, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 081111 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2439
abstract: We study a strongly interacting chain of anyons with fusion rules determined by SO(5)2. The phase portrait is identified with a combination of numerical and analytical techniques. Several critical phases with different central charges and their corresponding transitions identified.

id: 1404.2442
title: Gapless topological Fulde-Ferrell superfluidity induced by in-plane Zeeman field
authors: Hui Hu, Lin Dong, Ye Cao, Han Pu, Xia-Ji Liu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 033624 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2442
abstract: Topological superfluids are recently discovered quantum matters that host topologically protected gapless edge states known as Majorana fermions - exotic quantum particles that act as their own anti-particles and obey non-Abelian statistics. Their realizations are believed to lie at the heart of future technologies such as fault-tolerant quantum computation. To date, the most efficient scheme to create topological superfluids and Majorana fermions is based on the Sau-Lutchyn-Tewari-Das Sarma model with a Rashba-type spin-orbit coupling on the }\textbf{\textit{x-y}}\textbf{ plane and a large out-of-plane (perpendicular) Zeeman field along the }\textbf{\textit{z}}\textbf{-direction. Here we propose an alternative setup, where the topological superfluid phase is driven by applying an in-plane Zeeman field. This scheme offers a number of new features, notably Cooper pairings at finite centre-of-mass momentum (i.e., Fulde-Ferrell pairing) and gapless excitations in the bulk. As a result, a novel gapless topological quantum matter with inhomogeneous pairing order parameter appears. It features unidirected Majorana surface states at boundaries, which propagate in the same direction and connect two Weyl nodes in the bulk. We demonstrate the emergence of such an exotic topological matter and the associated Majorana fermions in spin-orbit coupled atomic Fermi gases and determine its parameter space. The implementation of our scheme in semiconductor/superconductor heterostructures is briefly discussed.

id: 1404.2550
title: Conserved symmetries in noncommutative quantum mechanics
authors: V.G. Kupriyanov
comments: Proceedings of the Corfou Workshop on noncommutative field theory and gravity, september 2013
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 69 (2014) 881-886
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2550
abstract: We consider a problem of the consistent deformation of physical system introducing a new features, but preserving its fundamental properties. In particular, we study how to implement the noncommutativity of space-time without violation of the rotational symmetry in quantum mechanics or the Lorentz symmetry in f{i}eld theory. Since the canonical (Moyal) noncommutativity breaks the above symmetries one should work with more general case of coordinate-dependent noncommutative spaces, when the commutator between coordinates is a function of these coordinates. F{i}rst we describe in general lines how to construct the quantum mechanics on coordinate-dependent noncommutative spaces. Then we consider the particular examples: the Hydrogen atom on rotationally invariant noncommutative space and the Dirac equation on covariant noncommutative space-time.

id: 1404.2605
title: Quantum Evolution Leading to Classicality: A Concrete Example
authors: Kinjalk Lochan, Krishnamohan Parattu, T. Padmanabhan
comments: version to appear in Gen.Rel.Grav
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 47 (2015) 1841
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2605
abstract: Can certain degrees of freedom of a closed physical system, described by a time-independent Hamiltonian, become more and more classical as they evolve from some state? This question is important because our universe seems to have done just that! We construct an explicit, simple, example of such a system with just two degrees of freedom, of which one achieves `spontaneous classicalization'. It starts from a quantum state and under the usual Hamiltonian evolution, becomes more and more classical (in a well-defined manner in terms of the Wigner function) as time progresses. This is achieved without the usual procedures of integrating out a large number of environmental degrees of freedom or conventional decoherence. We consider different ranges of parameter space and identify the conditions under which spontaneous classicalization occurs in our model. The mutual interaction between the sub-systems of a larger system can indeed drive some of the subsystems to a classical configuration, with a phase space trajectory of evolution. We also argue that the results of our toy model may well be general characteristics of certain class of interacting systems. Several implications are discussed.

id: 1404.2683
title: Quantum Statistical Mechanics. III. Equilibrium Probability
authors: Phil Attard
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2683
abstract: Given are a first principles derivation and formulation of the probabilistic concepts that underly equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics. The transition to non-equilibrium probability is traversed briefly.

id: 1404.2717
title: Uncovering many-body correlations in nanoscale nuclear spin baths by central spin decoherence
authors: Wen-Long Ma, Gary Wolfowicz, Nan Zhao, Shu-Shen Li, John J. L. Morton, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, Article number: 4822 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2717
abstract: Many-body correlations can yield key insights into the nature of interacting systems; however, detecting them is often very challenging in many-particle physics, especially in nanoscale systems. Here, taking a phosphorus donor electron spin in a natural-abundance 29Si nuclear spin bath as our model system, we discover both theoretically and experimentally that many-body correlations in nanoscale nuclear spin baths produce identifiable signatures in the decoherence of the central spin under multiple-pulse dynamical decoupling control. We find that when the number of decoupling -pulses is odd, central spin decoherence is primarily driven by second-order nuclear spin correlations (pairwise flip-flop processes). In contrast, when the number of -pulses is even, fourth-order nuclear spin correlations (diagonal interaction renormalized pairwise flip-flop processes) are principally responsible for the central spin decoherence. Many-body correlations of different orders can thus be selectively detected by central spin decoherence under different dynamical decoupling controls, providing a useful approach to probing many-body processes in nanoscale nuclear spin baths.

id: 1404.2721
title: Optimal preselection and postselection in weak measurements for observing photonic spin Hall effect
authors: Xinxing Zhou, Xing Li, Hailu Luo, Shuangchun Wen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 104, 051130 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2721
abstract: Photonic spin Hall effect (SHE) holds great potential applications in precision metrology. How to obtain a high measurement precision is an important issue to detect the photonic SHE. In this letter, we propose using optimal preselection and postselection in weak measurements to enhance the measurement precision. We find that the maximum weak value and pointer shift can be obtained with an optimal overlap of preselection and postselection states. These findings offer the possibility for improving the precision of weak measurements and thereby have possible applications for accurately characterizing the parameters of nanostructures.

id: 1404.2786
title: Transmission through a noisy network
authors: Daniel Waltner, Uzy Smilansky
comments: 
journal: 2014 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor 47 355101
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2786
abstract: Quantum graphs with leads to infinity serve as convenient models for studying various aspects of systems which are usually attributed to chaotic scattering. They are also studied in several experimental systems and practical applications. In the present manuscript we investigate the effect of a time dependent random noise on the transmission of such graphs, and in particular on the resonances which dominate the scattering observable such as e.g., the transmission and reflection intensities. We model the noise by a potential $\alpha \delta (x-(x_0 +\gamma(t)))$ localized at an arbitrary point $x_0$ on any of the graph bonds, that fluctuates in time as a Brownian particle bounded in a harmonic potential described by the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck statistics. This statistics, which binds the Brownian motion within a finite interval, enables the use of a second order time-dependent perturbation theory, which can be applied whenever the strength parameter $\alpha$ is sufficiently small. The theoretical frame-work will be explained in full generality, and will be explicitly solved for a simple, yet nontrivial example.

id: 1404.2862
title: Tangle Machines
authors: Avishy Y. Carmi, Daniel Moskovich
comments: 29 pages, 37 figures. Major revision. Introduction rewritten. Definitions simplified, with the Gauss diagram definition pushed to an appendix. Previous appendix removed
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2862
abstract: Tangle machines are topologically inspired diagrammatic models. Their novel feature is their natural notion of equivalence. Equivalent tangle machines may differ locally, but globally they are considered to share the same information content. The goal of tangle machine equivalence is to provide a context-independent method to select, from among many ways to perform a task, the `best' way to perform the task. The concept of equivalent tangle machines is illustrated through examples in which they represent recursive computations, networks of adiabatic quantum computations, and networks of distributed information processing.

id: 1404.2863
title: Tangle Machines II: Invariants
authors: Avishy Y. Carmi, Daniel Moskovich
comments: 26 pages, 30 figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2863
abstract: The preceding paper constructed tangle machines as diagrammatic models, and illustrated their utility with a number of examples. The information content of a tangle machine is contained in characteristic quantities associated to equivalence classes of tangle machines, which are called invariants. This paper constructs invariants of tangle machines. Chief among these are the prime factorizations of a machine, which are essentially unique. This is proven using low dimensional topology, through representing a colour-suppressed machine as a diagram for a network of jointly embedded spheres and intervals in 4-space. The complexity of a tangle machine is defined as its number of prime factors.

id: 1404.2979
title: Exact solutions of an extended Bose-Hubbard model with E2 symmetry
authors: Feng Pan, Ningyun Zhang, Qianyun Wang, J. P. Draayer
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2979
abstract: An extended Bose-Hubbard (BH) model with number-dependent multi-site and infinite-range hopping is proposed, which, similar to the original BH model, describes a phase transition between the delocalized super-fluid (SF) phase and localized Mott insulator (MI) phase. It is shown that this extended model with local Euclidean E2 symmetry is exactly solvable when on-site local potential or disorder is included, while the model without local potential or disorder is quasi-exactly solvable, which means only a part of the excited states including the ground state being exactly solvable. As applications of the exact solution for the ground state, phase diagram of the model in 1D without local potential and on-site disorder for filling factor rho = 1 with M = 6 sites and that with M = 10 are obtained. The probabilities to detect n particles on a single site, Pn, for n = 0, 1, 2 as functions of the control parameter U/t in these two cases are also calculated. It is shown that the critical point in Pn and in the entanglement measure is away from that of the SF-MI transition determined in the phase analysis. It is also shown that the the model-independent entanglement measure is related with Pn, which, therefore, may be practically useful because Pn is measurable experimentally.

id: 1404.3049
title: Categorical Generalization and Physical Structuralism
authors: Raymond Lal, Nicholas J. Teh
comments: 34 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3049
abstract: Category theory has become central to certain aspects of theoretical physics. Bain [Synthese, 190:1621--1635 (2013)] has recently argued that this has significance for ontic structural realism. We argue against this claim. In so doing, we uncover two pervasive forms of category-theoretic generalization. We call these `generalization by duality' and `generalization by categorifying physical processes'. We describe in detail how these arise, and explain their significance using detailed examples. We show that their significance is two-fold: the articulation of high-level physical concepts, and the generation of new models.

id: 1404.3077
title: Asymptotic Freedom, Dimensional Transmutation, and an Infra-red Conformal Fixed Point for the $¦Ä$-Function Potential in 1-dimensional Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, A. M. Shalaby, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 125023 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3077
abstract: We consider the Schr\"odinger equation for a relativistic point particle in an external 1-dimensional $\delta$-function potential. Using dimensional regularization, we investigate both bound and scattering states, and we obtain results that are consistent with the abstract mathematical theory of self-adjoint extensions of the pseudo-differential operator $H = \sqrt{p^2 + m^2}$. Interestingly, this relatively simple system is asymptotically free. In the massless limit, it undergoes dimensional transmutation and it possesses an infra-red conformal fixed point. Thus it can be used to illustrate non-trivial concepts of quantum field theory in the simpler framework of relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 1404.3098
title: Kohn-Sham Theory in the Presence of Magnetic Field
authors: Andre Laestadius
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3098
abstract: In the well-known Kohn-Sham theory in Density Functional Theory, a fictitious non-interacting system is introduced that has the same particle density as a system of $N$ electrons subjected to mutual Coulomb repulsion and an external electric field. For a long time, the treatment of the kinetic energy was not correct and the theory was not well-defined for $N$-representable particle densities. In the work of [Hadjisavvas and Theophilou, Phys. Rev. A, 1984, 30, 2183], a rigorous Kohn-Sham theory for $N$-representable particle densities was developed using the Levy-Lieb functional. Since a Levy-Lieb-type functional can be defined for Current Density Functional Theory formulated with the paramagnetic current density, we here develop a rigorous $N$-representable Kohn-Sham approach for interacting electrons in magnetic field. Furthermore, in the one-electron case, criteria for $N$-representable particle densities to be $v$-representable are given.

id: 1404.3103
title: Radio frequency occupancy state control of a single nanowire quantum dot
authors: Matthias Wei?, Florian J. R. Sch¨¹lein, J?rg B. Kinzel, Michael Heigl, Daniel Rudolph, Max Bichler, Gerhard Abstreiter, Jonathan J. Finley, Achim Wixforth, Gregor Koblm¨¹ller, Hubert J. Krenner
comments: Revised manuscript, 12 pages, submitted to J. Phys. D as a contribution in a Special Issue on Nanowires
journal: J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 47, 394011 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3103
abstract: The excitonic occupancy state of a single, nanowire-based, heterostructure quantum dot is dynamically programmed by a surface acoustic wave. The quantum dot is formed by an interface or thickness fluctuation of a GaAs QW embedded in a AlGaAs shell of a GaAs-AlGaAs core-shell nanowire. As we tune the time at which carriers are photogenerated during the acoustic cycle, we find pronounced intensity oscillations of neutral and negatively charged excitons. At high acoustic power levels these oscillations become anticorrelated which enables direct acoustic programming of the dot's charge configuration, emission intensity and emission wavelength. Numerical simulations confirm that the observed modulations arise from acoustically controlled modulations of the electron and electron-hole-pair concentrations at the position of the quantum dot.

id: 1404.3205
title: A stochastic reorganizational bath model for electronic energy transfer
authors: Takatoshi Fujita, Joonsuk Huh, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3205
abstract: The fluctuations of optical gap induced by the environment play crucial roles in electronic energy transfer dynamics. One of the simplest approaches to incorporate such fluctuations in energy transfer dynamics is the well known Haken-Strobl-Reineker model, in which the energy-gap fluctuation is approximated as a white noise. Recently, several groups have employed molecular dynamics simulations and excited-state calculations in conjunction to take the thermal fluctuation of excitation energies into account. Here, we discuss a rigorous connection between the stochastic and the atomistic bath models. If the phonon bath is treated classically, time evolution of the exciton-phonon system can be described by Ehrenfest dynamics. To establish the relationship between the stochastic and atomistic bath models, we employ a projection operator technique to derive the generalized Langevin equations for the energy-gap fluctuations. The stochastic bath model can be obtained as an approximation of the atomistic Ehrenfest equations via the generalized Langevin approach. Based on the connection, we propose a novel scheme to correct reorganization effects within the framework of stochastic models. The proposed scheme provides a better description of the population dynamics especially in the regime of strong exciton-phonon coupling. Finally, we discuss the effect of the bath reorganization in the absorption and fluorescence spectra of ideal J-aggregates in terms of the Stokes shifts. For this purpose, we introduce a simple relationship that relates the reorganization contribution to the Stokes shifts - the reorganization shift - to three parameters: the monomer reorganization energy, the relaxation time of the optical gap, and the exciton delocalization length. This simple relationship allows one to classify the origin of the Stokes shifts in molecular aggregates.

id: 1404.3216
title: Relative Entropies in Conformal Field Theory
authors: Nima Lashkari
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 051602 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3216
abstract: Relative entropy is a measure of distinguishability for quantum states, and plays a central role in quantum information theory. The family of Renyi entropies generalizes to Renyi relative entropies that include as special cases most entropy measures used in quantum information theory. We construct a Euclidean path-integral approach to Renyi relative entropies in conformal field theory, then compute the fidelity and the relative entropy of states in one spatial dimension at zero and finite temperature using a replica trick. In contrast to the entanglement entropy, the relative entropy is free of ultraviolet divergences, and is obtained as a limit of certain correlation functions. The relative entropy of two states provides an upper bound on their trace distance.

id: 1404.3217
title: Floquet Edge States with Ultracold Atoms
authors: Matthew Reichl, Erich Mueller
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, revtex4; minor corrections, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3217
abstract: We describe an experimental setup for imaging topologically protected Floquet edge states using ultracold bosons in an optical lattice. Our setup involves a deep two dimensional optical lattice with a time dependent superlattice that modulates the hopping between neighboring sites. The finite waist of the superlattice beam yields regions with different topological numbers. One can observe chiral edge states by imaging the real-space density of a bosonic packet launched from the boundary between two topologically distinct regions.

id: 1404.3220
title: A single impurity in an ideal atomic Fermi gas: current understanding and some open problems
authors: Zhihao Lan, Carlos Lobo
comments: Review asked by Journal of the Indian Institute of Science, to appear in Vol. 94 No. 2 (Apr. - Jun. 2014) Cold Atom Quantum Emulators: From Condensed Matter to Filed Theory to Optical Clocks
journal: J. Indian I. Sci. 94, 179 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3220
abstract: We briefly review some current theoretical and experimental aspects of the problem of a single spinless impurity in a 3D polarised atomic Fermi gas at zero temperature where the interactions can be tuned using a wide Feshbach resonance. We show that various few-body states in vacuum composed of the impurity and background gas atoms (single impurity, dimer, trimer, tetramer) give rise to corresponding dressed states ({\em polaron}, {\em dimeron}, {\em trimeron}, {\em tetrameron}) in the gas and inherit many of their characteristics. We study the ground state focussing on the choice of wave function and its properties. We raise a few unsolved problems: whether the polaron and dimeron are really separate branches, what other few-body states might exist, the nature of the groundstate for large numbers of particle-hole pairs and why is the polaron ansatz so good. We then turn to the excited states, and to the calculation of the effective mass. We examine the bounds on the effective mass and raise a conjecture about that of composite quasiparticle states.

id: 1404.3277
title: Generalized $su(1,1)$ coherent states for pseudo harmonic oscillator and their nonclassical properties
authors: B. Mojaveri, A. Dehghani
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.6888
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 179
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3277
abstract: In this paper we define a non-unitary displacement operator, which by acting on the vacuum state of the pseudo harmonic oscillator (PHO), generates new class of generalized coherent states (GCSs). An interesting feature of this approach is that, contrary to the Klauder-Perelomov and Barut-Girardello approaches, it does not require the existence of dynamical symmetries associated with the system under consideration. These states admit a resolution of the identity through positive definite measures on the complex plane. We have shown that the realization of these states for different values of the deformation parameters leads to the well-known Klauder-Perelomov and Barut-Girardello CSs associated with the $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra. This is why we call them the generalized $su(1,1)$ CSs for the PHO. Finally, study of some statistical characters such as squeezing, anti-bunching effect and sub-Poissonian statistics reveals that the constructed GCSs have indeed nonclassical features.

id: 1404.3359
title: Typical Pure Nonequilibrium Steady States
authors: Takaaki Monnai, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 107, 40006 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3359
abstract: We show that typicality holds for a class of nonequilibrium systems, i.e., nonequilibrium steady states (NESSs): almost all the pure states properly sampled from a certain Hilbert space well represent a NESS and characterize its intrinsic thermal nature. We clarify the relevant Hilbert space from which the pure states are to be sampled, and construct practically all the typical pure NESSs. The scattering approach leads us to the natural extension of the typicality for equilibrium systems. Each pure NESS correctly yields the expectation values of observables given by the standard ensemble approach. It means that we can calculate the expectation values in a NESS with only a single pure NESS. We provide an explicit construction of the typical pure NESS for a model with two reservoirs, and see that it correctly reproduces the Landauer-type formula for the current flowing steadily between the reservoirs.

id: 1404.3486
title: Absolute calibration of fiber-coupled single-photon detector
authors: Tommaso Lunghi, Boris Korzh, Bruno Sanguinetti, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3486
abstract: We show a setup for characterising the efficiency of a single-photon-detector absolutely and with a precision better of 1%. Since the setup does not rely on calibrated devices and can be implemented with standard-optic components, it can be realised in any laboratory. Our approach is based on an Erbium-Doped-Fiber-Amplifier (EDFA) radiometer as a primary measurement standard for optical power, and on an ultra-stable source of spontaneous emission. As a proof of principle, we characterise the efficiency of an InGaAs/InP single-photon detector. We verified the correctness of the characterisation with independent measurements. In particular, the measurement of the optical power made with the EDFA radiometer has been compared to that of the Swiss Federal Office of Metrology using a transfer power meter. Our approach is suitable for frequent characterisations of high-efficient single-photon detectors.

id: 1404.3519
title: Time crystal phase in a superconducting ring
authors: Ryosuke Yoshii, Satoshi Takada, Shunji Tsuchiya, Giacomo Marmorini, Hisao Hayakawa, Muneto Nitta
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3519
abstract: We demonstrate a possible setup to exhibit the spontaneous symmetry breaking of the time translation symmetry. Here we consider a quasi-one-dimensional superconducting ring with a static Zeeman magnetic field applied along the ring and static Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux penetrating the ring. The superconducting ring with magnetic flux produces a persistent current, whereas the Zeeman split of Fermi energy results in the spatial modulation of the pair potential. We show that these two magnetic fields stabilize the twisted kink crystal (Fulde-Ferrel-Larkin-Ovchinnikov) phase, in which both the phase and amplitude have spatial modulations. In this phase, the time translation symmetry is spontaneously broken.

id: 1404.3575
title: Three-body recombination at vanishing scattering lengths in an ultracold Bose gas
authors: Zav Shotan, Olga Machtey, Servaas Kokkelmans, Lev Khaykovich
comments: Version with enhanced supplemental materials
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 053202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3575
abstract: We report on measurements of three-body recombination rates in an ultracold gas of $^7$Li atoms in the extremely nonuniversal regime where the two-body scattering length vanishes. We show that the rate is well defined and can be described by two-body parameters only: the scattering length $a$ and the effective range $R_e$. We find the rate to be energy independent, and, by connecting our results with previously reported measurements in the universal limit, we cover the behavior of the three-body recombination in the whole range from weak to strong two-body interactions. We identify a nontrivial magnetic field value in the nonuniversal regime where the rate should be strongly reduced.

id: 1404.3633
title: The ZX-calculus is incomplete for quantum mechanics
authors: Christian Schr?der de Witt, Vladimir Zamdzhiev
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 285-292
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3633
abstract: We prove that the ZX-calculus is incomplete for quantum mechanics. We suggest the addition of a new 'color-swap' rule, of which currently no analytical formulation is known and which we suspect may be necessary, but not sufficient to make the ZX-calculus complete.

id: 1404.3750
title: Cutoff-independent RG flow equations for two-coupled chains model
authors: Thiago Prudencio
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.B, 28, 1450247 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3750
abstract: One-dimensional strongly correlated electron systems coupled via transverse hopping and presence of interband interactions can converge to a Luttinger liquid state or diverge to an even more intricate behavior, as a Mott state. Explicit consideration of the renormalization group (RG) flow of the Fermi points in the Fermi surface, turns the classification of phase transitions more challenging. We reconsider the recent paper for the spinless case [E. Correa and A. Ferraz, Eur. Phys. J. B 87 (2014) 51], where RG flow equations are derived in a cutoff-dependent form up to two-loops order. We demonstrate that the cutoff-dependence can be removed by rewriting the RG flow equations in terms of the energy scale variable. In our paper, the RG flow equations assume a cutoff-independent form and leads to fixed points independent of cutoff choice. The consequence is the invariance under cutoff transformations, more suitable for classifying universality classes and phase transitions.

id: 1404.3825
title: Few-Body Bound States of Dipole-Dipole Interacting Rydberg Atoms
authors: Martin Kiffner, Mingxia Huo, Wenhui Li, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 052717 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3825
abstract: We show that the resonant dipole-dipole interaction can give rise to bound states between two and three Rydberg atoms with non-overlapping electron clouds. The dimer and trimer states arise from avoided level crossings between states converging to different fine structure manifolds in the limit of separated atoms. We analyze the angular dependence of the potential wells, characterize the quantum dynamics in these potentials and discuss methods for their production and detection. Typical distances between the atoms are of the order of several micrometers which can be resolved in state-of-the-art experiments. The potential depths and typical oscillation frequencies are about one order of magnitude larger as compared to the dimer and trimer states investigated in [PRA $\textbf{86}$ 031401(R) (2012)] and [PRL $\textbf{111}$ 233003 (2014)], respectively. We find that the dimer and trimer molecules can be aligned with respect to the axis of a weak electric field.

id: 1404.3832
title: Work and Efficiency of Quantum Otto Cycles in Power Law Trapping Potentials
authors: Yuanjian Zheng, Dario Poletti
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 012145 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3832
abstract: We study the performance of a quantum Otto cycle driven by trapping potentials of the form $V_t(x) \sim x^{2q}$. This family of potentials possesses a simple scaling property which allows for analytical insights into the efficiency and work output of the cycle. We show that, while both the mean work output and the efficiency of two Otto cycles in different trapping potentials can be made equal, the work probability distribution will still be strongly affected by the difference in structure of the energy levels. Lastly, we perform a comparison of quantum Otto cycles in various physically relevant scenarios and find that in certain instances, the efficiency of the cycle is greater when using potentials with larger values of $q$, while, in other cases, with harmonic traps.

id: 1404.3895
title: Study of attosecond delays using perturbation diagrams and exterior complex scaling
authors: J. M. Dahlstr?m, E. Lindroth
comments: 36 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3895
abstract: We describe in detail how attosecond delays in laser-assisted photoionization can be computed using perturbation theory based on two-photon matrix elements. Special emphasis is laid on above-threshold ionization, where the electron interacts with an infrared field after photoionization by an extreme ultraviolet field. Correlation effects are introduced using diagrammatic many-body theory to the level of the random-phase approximation with exchange (RPAE). Our aim is to provide an ab initio route to correlated multi-photon processes that are required for an accurate description of experiments on the attosecond time scale. Here, our results are focused on photoionization of the M -shell of argon atoms, where experiments have been carried out using the so-called RABITT technique. An influence of autoionizing resonances in attosecond delay measurements is observed. Further, it is shown that the delay depends on both detection angle of the photoelectron and energy of the probe photon.

id: 1404.3921
title: Negative probabilities and counter-factual reasoning in quantum cognition
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, Gary Oas
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of the Vaxjo conference in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3921
abstract: In this paper we discuss quantum-like decision-making experiments using negative probabilities. We do so by showing how the two-slit experiment, in the simplified version of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, can be described by this formalism. We show that negative probabilities impose constraints to what types of counter-factual reasoning we can make with respect to (quantum) internal representations of the decision maker.

id: 1404.3962
title: Generalized Uncertainty Principle and Self-Adjoint Operators
authors: Venkat Balasubramanian, Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: v1: 22 pages, LaTeX, revtex4; v2: 19 pages, minor corrections, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3962
abstract: In this work we explore the self-adjointness of the GUP-modified momentum and Hamiltonian operators over different domains. In particular, we utilize the theorem by von-Newmann for symmetric operators in order to determine whether the momentum and Hamiltonian operators are self-adjoint or not, or they have self-adjoint extensions over the given domain. In addition, a simple example of the Hamiltonian operator describing a particle in a box is given. The solutions of the boundary conditions that describe the self-adjoint extensions of the specific Hamiltonian operator are obtained.

id: 1404.4054
title: Variational study of polarons in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Weiran Li, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013618 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4054
abstract: We use a class of variational wave functions to study the properties of an impurity in a Bose-Einstein condensate, i.e. the "Bose polaron". The impurity interacts with the condensate through a contact interaction, which can be tuned by a Feshbach resonance. We find a stable attractive polaron branch that evolves continuously across the resonance to a tight-binding diatomic molecule deep in the positive scattering length side. A repulsive polaron branch with finite lifetime is also observed and it becomes unstable as the interaction strength increases. The effective mass of the attractive polaron also changes smoothly across the resonance connecting the two well-understood limits deep on both sides.

id: 1404.4099
title: Gravity Resonance Spectroscopy Constrains Dark Energy and Dark Matter Scenarios
authors: T. Jenke, G. Cronenberg, J. Burgd?rfer, L.A. Chizhova, P. Geltenbort, A.N. Ivanov, T. Lauer, T. Lins, S. Rotter, H. Saul, U. Schmidt, H. Abele
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 151105 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4099
abstract: We report on precision resonance spectroscopy measurements of quantum states of ultracold neutrons confined above the surface of a horizontal mirror by the gravity potential of the Earth. Resonant transitions between several of the lowest quantum states are observed for the first time. These measurements demonstrate, that Newton's inverse square law of Gravity is understood at micron distances on an energy scale of~$10^{-14}$~eV. At this level of precision we are able to provide constraints on any possible gravity-like interaction. In particular, a dark energy chameleon field is excluded for values of the coupling constant~$\beta > 5.8\times10^8$ at~95% confidence level~(C.L.), and an attractive (repulsive) dark matter axion-like spin-mass coupling is excluded for the coupling strength $g_sg_p > 3.7\times10^{-16}$~($5.3\times10^{-16}$)~at a Yukawa length of~$\lambda = 20$~{\textmu}m~(95% (C.L.).

id: 1404.4113
title: Eigenvalue Attraction
authors: Ramis Movassagh
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures, 1 Matlab code. The abstract reads better in the paper. v2: very minor changes, fixed a reference
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4113
abstract: We prove that the complex conjugate eigenvalues of a real matrix attract in response to additive real randomness. Consider the time discretization 0< t_1< t_2<... and define a stochastic process by M(t_i + dt)=M(t_i)+dt*P(t_i), where M(0) is a fixed real matrix, t_i<dt<t_{i+1} and each P(t_i) is a real random matrix, whose entries are independent with zero mean and bounded moments. We prove that any complex conjugate (c.c.) pair of eigenvalues of M(t) attract. To prove this, we first construct a smooth family of stochastic processes such that M'(t)=P(t), that in the limit recover the original discrete process. We then explicitly write down the differential equations governing the motion of any eigenvalue. The formulas we derive for the expectation value of the force are given by Eqs. (2) and (3). The force is inversely proportional to the distance of any c.c. pair and directly proportional to the 2-norm squared of the corresponding left eigenvector. Therefore, c.c. pairs closest to the real axis, or those that are ill-conditioned, attract most strongly. We then prove that when the perturbation matrix is complex, there is no such force. A special limit of our results is applicable to the, often arising in application, small perturbations of a fixed matrix. We numerically illustrate the theory through various examples and discuss applications, including the Hatano-Nelson model. Lastly, we discuss the aggregation and low density of the eigenvalues of real random matrices on and near the real axis respectively.

id: 1404.4151
title: Coherent and stochastic contributions of compound resonances in atomic processes: Electron recombination, photoionization and scattering
authors: V.V. Flambaum, M.G. Kozlov, G.F. Gribakin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 052704 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4151
abstract: In open-shell atoms and ions, processes such as photoionization, combination (Raman) scattering, electron scattering and recombination, are often mediated by many-electron compound resonances. We show that their interference (neglected in the independent-resonance approximation) leads to a coherent contribution, which determines the energy-averaged total cross sections of electron- and photon-induced reactions obtained using the optical theorem. In contrast, the partial cross sections (e.g., electron recombination, or photon Raman scattering) are dominated by the stochastic contributions. Thus, the optical theorem provides a link between the stochastic and coherent contributions of the compound resonances. Similar conclusions are valid for reactions via compound states in molecules and nuclei.

id: 1404.4190
title: Non-equilibrium quantum fluctuations of work
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan
comments: 10 pages, revtex; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 032137 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4190
abstract: The concept of work is basic for statistical thermodynamics. To gain a fuller understanding of work and its (quantum) features, it needs to be represented as an average of a fluctuating quantity. Here I focus on the work done between two moments of time for a thermally isolated quantum system driven by a time-dependent Hamiltonian. I formulate two natural conditions needed for the fluctuating work to be physically meaningful for a system that starts its evolution from a non-equilibrium state. The existing definitions do not satisfy these conditions due to issues that are traced back to non-commutativity. I propose a definition of fluctuating work that is free of previous drawbacks and that applies for a wide class of non-equilibrium initial states. It allows to deduce a generalized (out of equilibrium) work-fluctuation theorem.

id: 1404.4252
title: The Riemann zeros as energy levels of a Dirac fermion in a potential built from the prime numbers in Rindler spacetime
authors: German Sierra
comments: 32 pages, 5 figs. Correction of typos, addition of comments and some references
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 325204 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4252
abstract: We construct a Hamiltonian H whose discrete spectrum contains, in a certain limit, the Riemann zeros. H is derived from the action of a massless Dirac fermion living in a domain of Rindler spacetime, in 1+1 dimensions, that has a boundary given by the world line of a uniformly accelerated observer. The action contains a sum of delta function potentials that can be viewed as partially reflecting moving mirrors. An appropriate choice of the accelerations of the mirrors, provide primitive periodic orbits associated to the prime numbers $p$, whose periods, measured by the observer's clock, are log p. Acting on the chiral components of the fermion, H becomes the Berry-Keating Hamiltonian (x p + p x)/2, where x is identified with the Rindler spatial coordinate and p with the conjugate momentum. The delta function potentials give the matching conditions of the fermion wave functions on both sides of the mirrors. There is also a phase shift for the reflection of the fermions at the boundary where the observer sits. The eigenvalue problem is solved by transfer matrix methods in the limit where the reflection amplitudes become infinitesimally small. We find that for generic values of the phase shift the spectrum is a continuum, where the Riemann zeros are missing, as in the adelic Connes model. However, for some values of phase shift, related to the phase of the zeta function, the Riemann zeros appear as discrete eigenvalues immersed in the continuum. We generalize this result to the zeros of Dirichlet L-functions, associated to primitive characters, that are encoded in the reflection coefficients of the mirrors. Finally, we show that the Hamiltonian associated to the Riemann zeros belongs to class AIII, or chiral GUE, of Random Matrix Theory.

id: 1404.4280
title: Nonsmooth and level-resolved dynamics illustrated with the tight binding model
authors: J. M. Zhang, Masudul Haque
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; any comment is welcome and will be greatly appreciated!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4280
abstract: We point out that in the first order time-dependent perturbation theory, the transition probability may behave nonsmoothly in time and have kinks periodically. Moreover, the detailed temporal evolution can be sensitive to the exact locations of the eigenvalues in the continuum spectrum, in contrast to coarse-graining ideas. Underlying this nonsmooth and level-resolved dynamics is a simple equality about the sinc function $\sinc x \equiv \sin x / x$. These physical effects appear in many systems with approximately equally spaced spectra, and is also robust for larger-amplitude coupling beyond the domain of perturbation theory. We use a one-dimensional periodically driven tight-binding model to illustrate these effects, both within and outside the perturbative regime.

id: 1404.4307
title: Quantum Tests of the Einstein Equivalence Principle with the STE-QUEST Space Mission
authors: Brett Altschul, Quentin G. Bailey, Luc Blanchet, Kai Bongs, Philippe Bouyer, Luigi Cacciapuoti, Salvatore Capozziello, Naceur Gaaloul, Domenico Giulini, Jonas Hartwig, Luciano Iess, Philippe Jetzer, Arnaud Landragin, Ernst Rasel, Serge Reynaud, Stephan Schiller, Christian Schubert, Fiodor Sorrentino, Uwe Sterr, Jay D. Tasson, Guglielmo M. Tino, Philip Tuckey, Peter Wolf
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Advances in Space Research
journal: Advances in Space Research, 55 (2015) 501-524
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4307
abstract: We present in detail the scientific objectives in fundamental physics of the Space-Time Explorer and QUantum Equivalence Space Test (STE-QUEST) space mission. STE-QUEST was pre-selected by the European Space Agency together with four other missions for the cosmic vision M3 launch opportunity planned around 2024. It carries out tests of different aspects of the Einstein Equivalence Principle using atomic clocks, matter wave interferometry and long distance time/frequency links, providing fascinating science at the interface between quantum mechanics and gravitation that cannot be achieved, at that level of precision, in ground experiments. We especially emphasize the specific strong interest of performing equivalence principle tests in the quantum regime, i.e. using quantum atomic wave interferometry. Although STE-QUEST was finally not selected in early 2014 because of budgetary and technological reasons, its science case was very highly rated. Our aim is to expose that science to a large audience in order to allow future projects and proposals to take advantage of the STE-QUEST experience.

id: 1404.4373
title: Periodically-driven quantum systems: Effective Hamiltonians and engineered gauge fields
authors: N. Goldman, J. Dalibard
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, includes Appendices (A-K) + new references
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4373
abstract: Driving a quantum system periodically in time can profoundly alter its long-time dynamics and trigger topological order. Such schemes are particularly promising for generating non-trivial energy bands and gauge structures in quantum-matter systems. Here, we develop a general formalism that captures the essential features ruling the dynamics: the effective Hamiltonian, but also the effects related to the initial phase of the modulation and the micro-motion. This framework allows for the identification of driving schemes, based on general N-phase modulations, which lead to configurations relevant for quantum simulation. In particular, we explore methods to generate synthetic spin-orbit couplings and magnetic fields in cold-atom setups.

id: 1404.4392
title: Hilbert-Schmidt Operators vs. Integrable Systems of Elliptic Calogero-Moser Type IV. The Relativistic Heun (van Diejen) Case
authors: Simon N.M. Ruijsenaars
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 11 (2015), 004, 78 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4392
abstract: The 'relativistic' Heun equation is an 8-coupling difference equation that generalizes the 4-coupling Heun differential equation. It can be viewed as the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation for an analytic difference operator introduced by van Diejen. We study Hilbert space features of this operator and its 'modular partner', based on an in-depth analysis of the eigenvectors of a Hilbert-Schmidt integral operator whose integral kernel has a previously known relation to the two difference operators. With suitable restrictions on the parameters, we show that the commuting difference operators can be promoted to a modular pair of self-adjoint commuting operators, which share their eigenvectors with the integral operator. Various remarkable spectral symmetries and commutativity properties follow from this correspondence. In particular, with couplings varying over a suitable ball in ${\mathbb R}^8$, the discrete spectra of the operator pair are invariant under the $E_8$ Weyl group. The asymptotic behavior of an 8-parameter family of orthonormal polynomials is shown to be shared by the joint eigenvectors.

id: 1404.4475
title: One-dimensional excitonic systems with diagonal L¨¦vy disorder: A detailed study of the absorption spectra and the disorder scaling of localization length
authors: S. M?bius, S.M. Vlaming, V.A. Malyshev, J. Knoester, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4475
abstract: We present a detailed study of the effects of L\'evy $\alpha$-stable disorder distributions on the optical and localization properties of excitonic systems. These distributions are a generalization of commonly studied Gaussian randomness ($\alpha = 2$). However, the more general case ($\alpha < 2$) includes also heavy-tailed behavior with a divergent second moment. These types of distributions give rise to novel effects, such as exchange broadening of the absorption spectra and anomalous localization of the excitonic states, which has been found in various excitonic systems. We provide a thorough examination of the localization behavior and the absorption spectra of excitons in chains with L\'evy $\alpha$-stable diagonal disorder. Several regimes are considered in detail: (i) weak disorder and small systems, where finite size effects become significant; (ii) intermediate disorder and/or larger systems for which exciton states around the exciton band edge spread over a number of monomers, and (iii) strong disorder where the exciton wave functions resemble the individual molecular states. We propose analytical approaches to describe the disorder scaling of relevant quantities for these three regimes of localization, which match excellently with numerical results. We also show the appearance of short localization segments caused by outliers (monomers having transition energies larger than the exciton band width). Such states give rise to an additional structure in the absorption spectrum, density of states, and in the nontrivial disorder scaling of the absorption band width.

id: 1404.4520
title: Goos-H?nchen like Shifts for Graphene Barrier in Constant Magnetic Field
authors: Ahmed Jellal, Miloud Mekkaoui, Youness Zahidi
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, misprints corrected, one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4520
abstract: We consider a system of Dirac fermions in graphene submitted to a constant perpendicular magnetic field and scattered by a barrier potential. We show that our system can be used to establish a link with quantum optics through the Goos-H\"{a}nchen shifts. This can be done by evaluating the corresponding transmission probability and shift phase. We obtain Goos-H\"{a}nchen like shifts in terms of different physical parameters such as energy, electrostatic potential strength and magnetic field. On the light of this relation, we discuss the obtained results and make comparison with literature.

id: 1404.4593
title: Path Integral Confined Dirac Fermions in a Constant Magnetic Field
authors: Abdeldjalil Merdaci, Ahmed Jellal, Lyazid Chetouani
comments: 17 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4593
abstract: We consider Dirac fermion confined in harmonic potential and submitted to a constant magnetic field. The corresponding solutions of the energy spectrum are obtained by using the path integral techniques. For this, we begin by establishing a symmetric global projection, which provides a symmetric form for the Green function. Based on this, we show that it is possible to end up with the propagator of the harmonic oscillator for one charged particle. After some transformations, we derive the normalized wave functions and the eigenvalues in terms of different physical parameters and quantum numbers. By interchanging quantum numbers, we show that our solutions possed interesting properties. The density of current and the non-relativistic limit are analyzed where different conclusions are obtained.

id: 1404.4597
title: Polarization degenerate micropillars fabricated by designing elliptical oxide apertures
authors: Morten P. Bakker, Ajit V. Barve, Alan Zhan, Larry A. Coldren, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4597
abstract: A method for fabrication of polarization degenerate oxide apertured micropillar cavities is demon- strated. Micropillars are etched such that the size and shape of the oxide front is controlled. The polarization splitting in the circular micropillar cavities due to the native and strain induced bire- fringence can be compensated by elongating the oxide front in the [110] direction, thereby reducing stress in this direction. By using this technique we fabricate a polarization degenerate cavity with a quality factor of 1.7*?10^4 and a mode volume of 2.7 u?m3, enabling a calculated maximum Purcell factor of 11.

id: 1404.4826
title: Ultracold mixtures of metastable He and Rb: scattering lengths from ab initio calculations and thermalization measurements
authors: S. Knoop, P. S. ?uchowski, D. K?dziera, ?. Mentel, M. Puchalski, H. P. Mishra, A. S. Flores, W. Vassen
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022709 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4826
abstract: We have investigated the ultracold interspecies scattering properties of metastable triplet He and Rb. We performed state-of-the-art ab initio calculations of the relevant interaction potential, and measured the interspecies elastic cross section for an ultracold mixture of metastable triplet $^4$He and $^{87}$Rb in a quadrupole magnetic trap at a temperature of 0.5 mK. Our combined theoretical and experimental study gives an interspecies scattering length $a_{4+87}=+17^{+1}_{-4}$ $a_0$, which prior to this work was unknown. More general, our work shows the possibility of obtaining accurate scattering lengths using ab initio calculations for a system containing a heavy, many-electron atom, such as Rb.

id: 1404.4899
title: Hydrodynamic and kinetic models for spin-1/2 electron-positron quantum plasmas: Annihilation interaction, helicity conservation, and wave dispersion in magnetized plasmas
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4899
abstract: We discuss complete theory of spin-1/2 electron-positron quantum plasmas, when electrons and positrons move with velocities mach smaller than the speed of light. We derive a set of two fluid quantum hydrodynamic equations consisting of the continuity, Euler, spin (magnetic moment) evolution equations for each species. We explicitly include the Coulomb, spin-spin, Darwin and annihilation interactions. The annihilation interaction is the main topic of the paper. We consider contribution of the annihilation interaction in the quantum hydrodynamic equations and in spectrum of waves in magnetized electron-positron plasmas. We consider propagation of waves parallel and perpendicular to an external magnetic field. We also consider oblique propagation of longitudinal waves. We derive set of quantum kinetic equations for electron-positron plasmas with the Darwin and annihilation interactions. We apply the kinetic theory for the linear wave behavior in absence of external fields. We calculate contribution of the Darwin and annihilation interactions in the Landau damping of the Langmuir waves. We should mention that the annihilation interaction does not change number of particles in the system. It does not related to annihilation itself, but it exists as a result of interaction of an electron-positron pair via conversion of the pair into virtual photon. A pair of the non-linear Schrodinger equations for electron-positron plasmas including the Darwin and annihilation interactions. Existence of conserving helicity in electron-positron quantum plasmas of spinning particles with the Darwin and annihilation interactions is demonstrated. We show that annihilation interaction plays an important role in quantum electron-positron plasmas giving contribution of the same magnitude as the spin-spin interaction.

id: 1404.4913
title: Nonlinearity in Electro- and Magneto-statics with and without External Field
authors: T. C. Adorno, Caio Costa, D. M. Gitman, A. E. Shabad
comments: An updated talk, given by A.E.Shabad at the XVI Lomonosov Conference held at Moscow State University, August 2013, to appear in Proceedings, World Scientific, Singapore, edited by A.I. Studenikin
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4913
abstract: Due to the nonlinearity of QED, a static charge becomes a magnetic dipole if placed in a magnetic field. Already without external field, the cubic Maxwell equation for the field of a point charge has a soliton solution with a finite field energy. Equations are given for self-coupling dipole moments. Any theoretically found value for a multipole moment of a baryon or a meson should be subjected to nonlinear renormalization.

id: 1404.4955
title: Equations of motion for natural orbitals of strongly driven two-electron systems
authors: J. Rapp, M. Brics, D. Bauer
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX. Update: Include latest changes made for publishing
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012518 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4955
abstract: Natural orbital theory is a computationally useful approach to the few and many-body quantum problem. While natural orbitals are known and applied since many years in electronic structure applications, their potential for time-dependent problems is being investigated only since recently. Correlated two-particle systems are of particular importance because the structure of the two-body reduced density matrix expanded in natural orbitals is known exactly in this case. However, in the time-dependent case the natural orbitals carry time-dependent phases that allow for certain time-dependent gauge transformations of the first kind. Different phase conventions will, in general, lead to different equations of motion for the natural orbitals. A particular phase choice allows us to derive the exact equations of motion for the natural orbitals of any (laser-) driven two-electron system explicitly, i.e., without any dependence on quantities that, in practice, require further approximations. For illustration, we solve the equations of motion for a model helium system. Besides calculating the spin-singlet and spin-triplet ground states, we show that the linear response spectra and the results for resonant Rabi flopping are in excellent agreement with the benchmark results obtained from the exact solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1404.4961
title: A general perspective on time observables
authors: Bryan W. Roberts
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4961
abstract: I propose a general geometric framework in which to discuss the existence of time observables. This frameworks allows one to describe a local sense in which time observables always exist, and a global sense in which they can sometimes exist subject to a restriction on the vector fields that they generate. Pauli's prohibition on quantum time observables is derived as a corollary to this result. I will then discuss how time observables can be regained in modest extensions of quantum theory beyond its standard formulation.

id: 1404.5216
title: Entanglement spreading in a many-body localized system
authors: Arun Nanduri, Hyungwon Kim, David A. Huse
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 064201 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5216
abstract: Motivated by the findings of logarithmic spreading of entanglement in a many-body localized system, we more closely examine the spreading of entanglement in the fully many-body localized phase, where all many-body eigenstates are localized. Performing full diagonalizations of an XXZ spin model with random longitudinal fields, we identify two factors contributing to the spreading rate: the localization length ($\xi$), which depends on the disorder strength, and the final value of entanglement per spin ($s_\infty$), which primarily depends on the initial state. We find that the entanglement entropy grows with time as $\sim \xi \times s_\infty \log t$, providing support for the phenomenology of many-body localized systems recently proposed by Huse and Oganesyan [arXiv:1305.4915v1].

id: 1404.5219
title: General Displaced SU (1,1) number states-revisited
authors: A.Dehghani
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 55, 043502 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5219
abstract: The most general displaced number states, based on the bosonic and an irreducible representation(IREP) of the Lie algebra symmetry of su(1, 1) and associated to the Calogero-Sutherland model are introduced. Here, we utilize the Barut-Girardello displacement operator instead of the Klauder- Perelomov counterpart, to construct new kind of the displaced number states which can be classified in nonlinear coherent states regime, too, with special nonlinearity functions. They depend on two parameters, and can be converted into the well known Barut-Girardello coherent and number states respectively, depending on which of the parameters equal to zero. A discussion of the statistical properties of these states is included. Significant are their squeezing properties and anti bunching effects which can be raised by increasing the energy quantum number. Depending on the particular choice of the parameters of the above scenario, we are able to determine the status of compliance with flexible statistics. Major parts of the issue is spent on something that these states, in fact, should be considered as new kind of photon-added coherent states, too. Which can be reproduced through an iterated action of a creation operator on new nonlinear Barut-Girardello coherent states. Where the latter carry, also, outstanding statistical features.

id: 1404.5326
title: Quantum Spin Ice and dimer models with Rydberg atoms
authors: Alexander W. Glaetzle, Marcello Dalmonte, Rejish Nath, Ioannis Rousochatzakis, Roderich Moessner, Peter Zoller
comments: 26 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5326
abstract: Quantum spin ice represents a paradigmatic example on how the physics of frustrated magnets is related to gauge theories. In the present work we address the problem of approximately realizing quantum spin ice in two dimensions with cold atoms in optical lattices. The relevant interactions are obtained by weakly admixing van der Waals interactions between laser admixed Rydberg states to the atomic ground state atoms, exploiting the strong angular dependence of interactions between Rydberg p-states together with the possibility of designing step-like potentials. This allows us to implement Abelian gauge theories in a series of geometries, which could be demonstrated within state of the art atomic Rydberg experiments. We numerically analyze the family of resulting microscopic Hamiltonians and find that they exhibit both classical and quantum order by disorder, the latter yielding a quantum plaquette valence bond solid. We also present strategies to implement Abelian gauge theories using both s- and p-Rydberg states in exotic geometries, e.g. on a 4-8 lattice.

id: 1404.5333
title: The trouble with orbits: the Stark effect in the old and the new quantum theory
authors: Anthony Duncan, Michel Janssen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5333
abstract: The old quantum theory and Schr\"odinger's wave mechanics (and other forms of quantum mechanics) give the same results for the line splittings in the first-order Stark effect in hydrogen, the leading terms in the splitting of the spectral lines emitted by a hydrogen atom in an external electric field. We examine the account of the effect in the old quantum theory, which was hailed as a major success of that theory, from the point of view of wave mechanics. First, we show how the new quantum mechanics solves a fundamental problem one runs into in the old quantum theory with the Stark effect. It turns out that, even without an external field, it depends on the coordinates in which the quantum conditions are imposed which electron orbits are allowed in a hydrogen atom. The allowed energy levels and hence the line splittings are independent of the coordinates used but the size and eccentricity of the orbits are not. In the new quantum theory, this worrisome non-uniqueness of orbits turns into the perfectly innocuous non-uniqueness of bases in Hilbert space. Second, we review how the so-called WKB (Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin) approximation method for solving the Schr\"odinger equation reproduces the quantum conditions of the old quantum theory amended by some additional half-integer terms. These extra terms remove the need for some arbitrary extra restrictions on the allowed orbits that the old quantum theory required over and above the basic quantum conditions

id: 1404.5341
title: The Stark effect in the Bohr-Sommerfeld theory and in Schr?dinger's wave mechanics
authors: Anthony Duncan, Michel Janssen
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the conference, One hundred years of the Bohr atom, Copenhagen, June 2013
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5341
abstract: The explanation of the first-order Stark effect in hydrogen by Epstein and Schwarzschild in 1916 was seen as a great success for the old quantum theory. Yet, it also revealed some serious limitations of the theory. To recover the experimentally found line splittings, one had to make some arbitrary assumptions in addition to the basic quantum conditions to rule out certain orbits. The calculation of intensities of lines on the basis of Bohr's correspondence principle likewise required arbitrary additional assumptions. Finally, the actual orbits predicted by the old quantum theory depend on the coordinates chosen to impose the quantum conditions. Both Sommerfeld and Epstein recognized this problem but offered no solution for it. All these problems were solved in 1926 when Schr\"odinger and Epstein explained the Stark effect on the basis of the new wave mechanics. The calculations in the two theories are similar. In particular, both the Schr\"odinger equation in the new theory and the Hamilton-Jacobi equation in the old theory are separated in parabolic coordinates. The new quantum mechanics determines all allowed states and transitions without any additional assumptions. It also replaced the ambiguous guidelines based on the correspondence principle for calculating intensities by the straightforward prescription that intensities are given by the squares of the matrix elements of position, leading to results that agreed much better with the experimental data. Finally, the embarrassing non-uniqueness of orbits in the old quantum theory turned into the innocuous non-uniqueness of bases of eigenfunctions in wave mechanics. To this day, the Stark effect is remembered as one of the few qualified successes of the old quantum theory. We suspect that this is largely because after 1926 it became just one of the many unqualified successes of the new quantum theory.

id: 1404.5419
title: On holographic entanglement entropy of non-local field theories
authors: Da-Wei Pang
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 126005 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5419
abstract: We study holographic entanglement entropy of non-local field theories both at extremality and finite temperature. The gravity duals, constructed in arXiv:1208.3469 [hep-th], are characterized by a parameter $w$. Both the zero temperature backgrounds and the finite temperature counterparts are exact solutions of Einstein-Maxwell-dilaton theory. For the extremal case we consider the examples with the entangling regions being a strip and a sphere. We find that the leading order behavior of the entanglement entropy always exhibits a volume law when the size of the entangling region is sufficiently small. We also clarify the condition under which the next-to-leading order result is universal. For the finite temperature case we obtain the analytic expressions both in the high temperature limit and in the low temperature limit. In the former case the leading order result approaches the thermal entropy, while the finite contribution to the entanglement entropy at extremality can be extracted by taking the zero temperature limit in the latter case. Moreover, we observe some peculiar properties of the holographic entanglement entropy when $w=1$.

id: 1404.5420
title: Capacitative coupling of singlet-triplet qubits in different inter-qubit geometries
authors: Tuukka Hiltunen, Ari Harju
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5420
abstract: In the singlet-triplet qubit architecture, the two-qubit interactions required in universal quantum computing can be implemented by capacitative coupling, by exploiting the charge distribution differences of the singlet and triplet states. The efficiency of this scheme is limited by decoherence, that can be mitigated by stronger coupling between the qubits. In this paper, we study the capacitative coupling of singlet-triplet qubits in different geometries of the two-qubit system. The effects of the qubit-qubit distance and the relative orientation of the qubits on the capacitative coupling strength are discussed using an accurate microscopic model and exact diagonalization of it. We find that the trapezoidal quantum dot formations allow strong coupling with low charge distribution differences between the singlet and triplet states. The analysis of geometry on the capacitative coupling is also extended to the many-qubit case and the creation of cluster states.

id: 1404.5486
title: Conservation of the spin and orbital angular momenta in electromagnetism
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Justin Dressel, Franco Nori
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, minor inaccuracies corrected, to appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093037 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5486
abstract: We review and re-examine the description and separation of the spin and orbital angular momenta (AM) of an electromagnetic field in free space. While the spin and orbital AM of light are not separately-meaningful physical quantities in orthodox quantum mechanics or classical field theory, these quantities are routinely measured and used for applications in optics. A meaningful quantum description of the spin and orbital AM of light was recently provided by several authors, which describes separately conserved and measurable integral values of these quantities. However, the electromagnetic field theory still lacks corresponding locally-conserved spin and orbital AM currents. In this paper, we construct these missing spin and orbital AM densities and fluxes that satisfy the proper continuity equations. We show that these are physically measurable and conserved quantities. These are, however, not Lorentz-covariant, so only make sense in the single laboratory reference frame of the measurement probe. The fluxes we derive improve the canonical (non-conserved) spin and orbital AM fluxes, and include a `spin-orbit' term that describes the spin-orbit interaction effects observed in nonparaxial optical fields. We also consider both standard and dual-symmetric versions of the electromagnetic field theory. Applying the general theory to nonparaxial optical vortex beams validates our results and allows us to discriminate between earlier approaches to the problem. Our treatment yields the complete and consistent description of the spin and orbital AM of free Maxwell fields in both quantum-mechanical and field-theory approaches.

id: 1404.5517
title: Influence of spatially varying pseudo-magnetic field on a 2D electron gas in graphene
authors: L. G. da Silva Leite, D. Cogollo, C. Filgueiras, Edilberto O. Silva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5517
abstract: The effect of a varying pseudo-magnetic field, which falls as $1/x^2$, on a two dimensional electron gas in graphene is investigated. By considering the second order Dirac equation, we show that its correct general solution is that which might present singular wavefunctions since such field induced by elastic deformations diverges as $x\rightarrow0$. We show that only this consideration yields the known relativistic Landau levels when we remove such elastic field. We have observed that the zero Landau level fails to develop for certain values of it. We then speculate about the consequences of these facts to the quantum Hall effect on graphene. We also analyze the changes in the relativistic cyclotron frequency. We hope our work being probed in these contexts, since graphene has great potential for electronic applications.

id: 1404.5565
title: On the Satisfiability of Quantum Circuits of Small Treewidth
authors: Mateus de Oliveira Oliveira
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5565
abstract: It has been known since long time that many NP-hard optimization problems can be solved in polynomial time when restricted to structures of constant treewidth. In this work we provide the first extension of such results to the quantum setting. We show that given a quantum circuit $C$ with $n$ uninitialized inputs, $poly(n)$ gates and treewidth $t$, one can compute in time $(\frac{n}{\delta})^{\exp(O(t))}$ a classical witness $y\in \{0,1\}^n$ that maximizes the acceptance probability of $C$ up to a $\delta$ additive factor. In particular our algorithm runs in polynomial time if $t$ is constant and $1/poly(n) \leq \delta < 1$. For unrestricted values of $t$ this problem is known to be hard for the complexity class QCMA, a quantum generalization of NP. In contrast, we show that the same problem is already NP-hard if $t=O(\log n)$ even when $\delta$ is constant. Finally, we show that for $t=O(\log n)$ and constant $\delta$, it is QMA-hard to find a quantum witness $\ket{\varphi}$ that maximizes the acceptance probability of a quantum circuit of treewidth $t$ up to a $\delta$ additive factor.

id: 1404.5583
title: Nondestructive imaging of an ultracold lattice gas
authors: Y. S. Patil, L. M. Aycock, S. Chakram, M. Vengalattore
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033422 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5583
abstract: We demonstrate the nondestructive imaging of a lattice gas of ultracold bosons. Atomic fluorescence is induced in the simultaneous presence of degenerate Raman sideband cooling. The combined influence of these processes controllably cycles an atom between a dark state and a fluorescing state while eliminating heating and loss. Through spatially resolved sideband spectroscopy following the imaging sequence, we demonstrate the efficacy of this imaging technique in various regimes of lattice depth and fluorescence acquisition rate. Our work provides an important extension of quantum gas imaging to the nondestructive detection, control and manipulation of atoms in optical lattices. In addition, our technique can also be extended to atomic species that are less amenable to molasses-based lattice imaging.

id: 1404.5631
title: Coherent magnon optics in a ferromagnetic spinor Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: G. Edward Marti, Andrew MacRae, Ryan Olf, Sean Lourette, Fang Fang, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 155302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5631
abstract: We measure the mass, gap, and magnetic moment of a magnon in the ferromagnetic $F=1$ spinor Bose-Einstein condensate of $^{87}$Rb. We find an unusually heavy magnon mass of $1.038(2)_\mathrm{stat}(8)_\mathrm{sys}$ times the atomic mass, as determined by interfering standing and running coherent magnon waves within the dense and trapped condensed gas. This measurement is shifted significantly from theoretical estimates. The magnon energy gap of $h\times 2.5(1)_\mathrm{stat}(2)_\mathrm{sys}\;\mathrm{Hz}$ and the effective magnetic moment of $-1.04(2)_\mathrm{stat}(8)\,\mu_\textrm{bare}$ times the atomic magnetic moment are consistent with mean-field predictions. The nonzero energy gap arises from magnetic dipole-dipole interactions.

id: 1404.5740
title: Classicalization of inflationary perturbations by collapse models in the light of BICEP2
authors: Suratna Das, Satyabrata Sahu, Shreya Banerjee, T. P. Singh
comments: 6 pages, no figure. RevTeX4, v2: References added, Submitted to journal,v3: Minor modification, References added, Accepted for publication in Physical Review D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 043503 (2014)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5740
abstract: Inflationary and hence quantum origin of primordial perturbations is on a firmer ground than ever post the BICEP2 observations of primordial gravitational waves. One crucial ingredient of success of this paradigm rests on explaining the observed classicality of cosmological inhomogeinities despite their quantum origin. Although decoherence provides a partial understanding of this issue, the question of single outcome motivates the analysis of quantum collapse models in cosmological context which generically modify the dynamics of primordial perturbations and hence can leave their imprints on observables. We revisit one such recently proposed working model of classicalization by spontaneous collapse \cite{Das:2013qwa} in the light of BICEP2 observations to look for possible modifications to tensor power spectra and their implications. We show that it can potentially change the consistency relation of single-field models and a precise measurement of $n_T$ and its running could serve as a test of such dynamics in the early universe.

id: 1404.5754
title: Quantum entanglement due to modulated Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Xavier Busch, Renaud Parentani, Scott Robertson
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures. Version 2 similar to the journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5754
abstract: We study the creation and entanglement of quasiparticle pairs due to a periodic variation of the mode frequencies of a homogeneous quantum system. Depending on the values of the parameters describing the periodic modulation, the number of created pairs either oscillates or, in a narrow resonant frequency interval, grows exponentially in time. For a system initially in a thermal state, we determine in which cases the final state is quantum mechanically entangled, i.e., where the bipartite state is nonseparable. We include some weak dissipation, expected to be found in any experimental setup, and study the corresponding reduction of the quantum entanglement. Our findings are used to interpret the results of two recent experiments.

id: 1404.5761
title: Ultracold atom-electron interaction: from two to many-body physics
authors: Anita Gaj, Alexander T. Krupp, Jonathan B. Balewski, Robert L?w, Sebastian Hofferberth, Tilman Pfau
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4546 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5761
abstract: The transition from a few-body system to a many-body system can result in new length scales, novel collective phenomena or even in a phase transition. Such a threshold behavior was shown for example in 4He droplets, where 4He turns into a superfluid for a specific number of particles [1]. A particularly interesting question in this context is at which point a few-body theory can be substituted by a mean field model, i. e. where the discrete number of particles can be treated as a continuous quantity. Such a transition from two non-interacting fermionic particles to a Fermi sea was demonstrated recently [2]. In this letter, we study a similar crossover to a many-body regime based on ultralong-range Rydberg molecules [3] forming a model system with binary interactions.

id: 1404.5941
title: What is- and what is not- Electromagnetically-Induced-Transparency in Whispering-Gallery-Microcavities
authors: Bo Peng, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Weijian Chen, Franco Nori, Lan Yang
comments: 32 pages (24 pages Main text + 8 pages Appendix), 12 figures (6 in Main text + 6 in Appendix), 44 references
journal: Nature Communications, 5, 5082 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5941
abstract: Electromagnetically-induced-transparency (EIT) and Autler-Townes splitting (ATS) are two prominent examples of coherent interactions between optical fields and multilevel atoms. They have been observed in various physical systems involving atoms, molecules, meta-structures and plasmons. In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in the implementations of all-optical analogues of EIT and ATS via the interacting resonant modes of one or more optical microcavities. Despite the differences in their underlying physics, both EIT and ATS are quantified by the appearance of a transparency window in the absorption or transmission spectrum, which often leads to a confusion about its origin. While in EIT the transparency window is a result of Fano interference among different transition pathways, in ATS it is the result of strong field-driven interactions leading to the splitting of energy levels. Being able to tell objectively whether a transparency window observed in the spectrum is due to EIT or ATS is crucial for clarifying the physics involved and for practical applications. Here we report a systematic study of the pathways leading to EIT, Fano, and ATS, in systems of two coupled whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) microtoroidal resonators. Moreover, we report for the first time the application of the Akaike Information Criterion discerning between all-optical analogues of EIT and ATS, and clarifying the transition between them.

id: 1404.5947
title: Emergence of the Dirac Equation in the Solitonic Source of the Kerr Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 12 pages, 2 figs. Corrections. Added a comment on overlap with paper Atiyah et al. arXiv:1412.5915
journal: Gravitation and Cosmology, Vol. 21 (1), 28 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5947
abstract: Gravitational and electromagnetic (EM) field of the Dirac electron is described by the Kerr-Newman (KN) solution. We elaborate a regular source of the KN solution which satisfies the requirement of flat space-time inside the source and realization of the exact KN solution outside the source. This requirement removes conflict between gravity and quantum theory and determines many details of the source structure. In particular, we obtain that the KN source should forms a gravitating bag model, similar to the known MIT and SLAC bag models. As opposite to the known bag models, the self-interacting Higgs field should be confined inside the bag, while outside the bag the gauge symmetry should be unbroken to provide the external KN gravity. We show that twistorial structure of the Kerr geometry (the Kerr theorem) determines structure of the Dirac equation, resulting in a variable mass term, which is generated inside the bag through interaction with the confined Higgs field. Similar to the other bag models, ellipsoidal deformations of the KN bag creates a string-like structure of the dressed electron -- circular string positioned along perimeter of the KN bag.

id: 1404.5987
title: Explicit Bound States for Certain N-Body Hamiltonians
authors: George A. Hagedorn, Edward F. Valeev
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. We learned that the model had already been discovered
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5987
abstract: We construct explicit bound state wave functions and bound state energies for certain $N$--body Hamiltonians in one dimension that are analogous to $N$--electron Hamiltonians for (three-dimensional) atoms and monatomic ions.

id: 1404.6242
title: Spin conservation in high-order-harmonic generation using bicircular fields
authors: Emilio Pisanty, Misha Ivanov, Suren Sukiasyan
comments: Final changes from published version. Updated license to CC-BY-NC-SA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043829 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6242
abstract: We present an alternative theoretical model for a recent experiment [A.Fleischer et al., Nature Photon. 8, 543 (2014)] which used bichromatic, counter-rotating high intensity laser pulses to probe the conservation of spin angular momentum in high harmonic generation. We separate elliptical polarizations into independent circular fields with definite angular momentum, instead of using the expectation value of spin for each photon in the conservation equation, and we find good agreement with the experimental results. In our description the generation of each individual harmonic conserves spin angular momentum, in contrast to the model proposed by Fleischer et al. Our model also correctly describes analogous processes in standard perturbative optics.

id: 1404.6311
title: Quantum criticality from Ising model on fractal lattices
authors: Beni Yoshida, Aleksander Kubica
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6311
abstract: We study the quantum Ising model on the Sierpi\'{n}ski triangle, whose Hausdorff dimension is $\log 3/ \log 2 \approx 1.585$, and demonstrate that it undergoes second-order phase transition with scaling relations satisfied precisely. We also study the quantum $3$-state Potts model on the Sierpi\'{n}ski triangle and find first-order phase transition, which is consistent with a prediction from $\epsilon$-expansion that the transition becomes first-order for $D > 1.3$. We then compute critical exponents of the Ising model on higher-dimensional Sierpi\'{n}ski pyramids with various Hausdorff dimension via Monte-Carlo simulations and real-space RG analysis for $D\in[1,3]$. We find that only the correlation length exponent $\nu$ interpolates the values of integer-dimensional models. This implies that, contrary to a generally held belief, the universality class of quantum phase transition may not be uniquely determined by symmetry and spatial dimension of the system. This work initiates studies on quantum critical phenomena on graphs and networks which may be of significant importance in the context of quantum networks and communication.

id: 1404.6377
title: Amended Proof of Pitaevskii-Stringari's Theorem
authors: Hironobu Fujishima, Tetsu Yajima
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because it has turned out that our claim lacked the novelty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6377
abstract: An amended proof of Pitaevskii-Stringari's theorem is given in mathematically coherent manner without resorting to the Bogoliubov approximation. This approach is based on the orthodox quantum field theory which rigorously maintains the canonical commutation relations. Moreover, we make a sound argument by taking the thermodynamic limit which the authors of the original papers did not refer to. We conclude that there is no Bose Einstein Condensation (BEC) as a phase transition based on the Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking (SSB) of the global $U(1)$ gauge symmetry in flat one dimensional geometry even absolute zero temperature.

id: 1404.6541
title: Quantum inequality for a scalar field with a background potential
authors: Eleni-Alexandra Kontou, Ken D. Olum
comments: 20 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 024031 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6541
abstract: Quantum inequalities are bounds on negative time-averages of the energy density of a quantum field. They can be used to rule out exotic spacetimes in general relativity. We study quantum inequalities for a scalar field with a background potential (i.e., a mass that varies with spacetime position) in Minkowski space. We treat the potential as a perturbation and explicitly calculate the first-order correction to a quantum inequality with an arbitrary sampling function, using general results of Fewster and Smith. For an arbitrary potential, we give bounds on the correction in terms of the maximum values of the potential and its first three derivatives. The techniques we develop here will also be applicable to quantum inequalities in general spacetimes with small curvature, which are necessary to rule out exotic phenomena.

id: 1404.6588
title: Is Bohm's interpretation of quantum mechanics consistent?
authors: Michael Nauenberg
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6588
abstract: The supposed equivalence of the conventional interpretation of quantum mechanics with Bohm's interpretation is generally demonstrated only in the coordinate representation. It is shown, however, that in the momentum representation this equivalence is not valid.

id: 1404.6676
title: Multichannel quantum-defect theory for magnetic Feshbach resonances in heteronuclear group I systems
authors: Constantinos Makrides, Bo Gao
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6676
abstract: We present a multichannel quantum-defect theory for magnetic Feshbach resonances in the interaction of two heteronuclear group I atoms. The theory provides a unified and a uniform description of resonances in all partial waves, and enables the characterization of large number of resonances in terms of very few parameters. For the sample system of $^6$Li$^{40}$K, we present descriptions of all resonances in $aa$, $ab$, and $ba$ channels, in partial waves $s$ ($l=0$) through $h$ ($l=5$), and in a magnetic field of 0 through 1000 Gauss. All resonances, including those in nonzero partial waves, are fully characterized using the newly developed parametrization of Gao [Phy. Rev. A \textbf{84}, 022706 (2011)].

id: 1404.6738
title: Exploring chaos in Dicke Model using ground state fidelity and Loschmidt echo
authors: Utso Bhattacharya, Sayak Dasgupta, Amit Dutta
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 90, 022920, 2014
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6738
abstract: We study the quantum critical behaviour of the Dicke Hamiltonian, with finite number of atoms and explore the signature of quantum chaos using measures like the ground state fidelity and the Loschmidt echo. We show that both these quantities clearly point to the chaotic nature of the system in the super-radiant phase.

id: 1404.6797
title: Quantum Gravity models - brief conceptual summary
authors: Jerzy Lukierski
comments: 24 pages; invited article for the book "Mathematical Structure of the Universe", publ. Copernicus Center Press, Copernicus Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, Cracow 2014, p.277-300; v2:the text (besides added Abstract and Contents in hep version) as published in the book, with minor errors corrected, references ordered alphabetically
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6797
abstract: After short historical overview we describe the difficulties with application of standard QFT methods in quantum gravity (QG). The incompatibility of QG with the use of classical continuous space-time required conceptually new approach. We present briefly three proposals: loop quantum gravity (LQG), the field-theoretic framework on noncommutative space-time and QG models formulated on discretized (triangularized) space-time. We evaluate these models as realizing expected important properties of QG: background independence, consistent quantum diffeomorphisms, noncommutative or discrete structure of space-time at very short distances, finite/renormalizable QG corrections. We only briefly outline an important issue of embedding QG into larger geometric and dynamical frameworks (e.g. supergravity, (super)strings, p-branes, M-theory), with the aim to achieve full unification of all fundamental interactions.

id: 1404.6944
title: On the Sign Problem of the Fermionic Shadow Wave Function
authors: Francesco Calcavecchia, Francesco Pederiva, Malvin H. Kalos, Thomas D. K¨¹hne
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 053304 (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6944
abstract: We present a whole series of novel methods to alleviate the sign problem of the Fermionic Shadow Wave Function in the context of Variational Monte Carlo. The effectiveness of our new techniques is demonstrated on the example of liquid 3He. We found that although the variance is substantially reduced, the gain in efficiency is restricted by the increased computational cost. Yet, this development not only extends the scope of the Fermionic Shadow Wave Function, but also facilitates highly accurate Quantum Monte Carlo simulations previously thought not feasible.

id: 1404.6946
title: Detection of non-classical space-time correlations with a novel type of single-photon camera
authors: Felix Just, Mykhaylo Filipenko, Andrea Cavanna, Thilo Michel, Thomas Gleixner, Michael Taheri, John Vallerga, Michael Campbell, Timo Tick, Gisela Anton, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.6946
abstract: During the last decades, multi-pixel detectors have been developed capable of registering single photons. The newly developed Hybrid Photon Detector camera has a remarkable property that it has not only spatial but also temporal resolution. In this work, we use this device for the detection of non-classical light from spontaneous parametric down-conversion and use two-photon correlations for the absolute calibration of its quantum efficiency.

id: 1404.7002
title: Weakly bound states of two- and three-boson systems in the crossover from two to three dimension
authors: M. T. Yamashita, F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revised version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 025302
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7002
abstract: The spectrum and properties of quantum bound states is strongly dependent on the dimensionality of space. How this comes about and how one may theoretically and experimentally study the interpolation between different dimensions is a topic of great interest in different fields of physics. In this paper we study weakly bound states of non-relativistic two and three boson systems when passing continuously from a three (3D) to a two-dimensional (2D) regime within a 'squeezed dimension' model. We use periodic boundary conditions to derive a surprisingly simple form of the three-boson Schr{\"o}dinger equation in momentum space that we solve numerically. Our results show a distinct dimensional crossover as three-boson states will either disappear into the continuum or merge with a 2D counterpart, and also a series of sharp transitions in the ratios of three-body and two-body energies from being purely 2D to purely 3D.

id: 1404.7077
title: Quantum Non-Objectivity from Performativity of Quantum Phenomena
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Andrew Schumann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014020
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7077
abstract: We analyze the logical foundations of quantum mechanics (QM) by stressing non-objectivity of quantum observables which is a consequence of the absence of logical atoms in QM. We argue that the matter of quantum non-objectivity is that, on the one hand, the formalism of QM constructed as a mathematical theory is self-consistent, but, on the other hand, quantum phenomena as results of experimenter's performances are not self-consistent. This self-inconsistency is an effect of that the language of QM differs much from the language of human performances. The first is the language of a mathematical theory which uses some Aristotelian and Russellian assumptions (e.g., the assumption that there are logical atoms). The second language consists of performative propositions which are self-inconsistent only from the viewpoint of conventional mathematical theory, but they satisfy another logic which is non-Aristotelian. Hence, the representation of quantum reality in linguistic terms may be different: from a mathematical theory to a logic of performative propositions. To solve quantum self-inconsistency, we apply the formalism of non-classical self-referent logics.

id: 1404.7104
title: A path integral Monte Carlo method for R¨¦nyi entanglement entropies
authors: C. M. Herdman, Stephen Inglis, P.-N. Roy, R. G. Melko, A. Del Maestro
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures; updated figures, fixed typos, and fixed notational inconsistencies
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 013308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7104
abstract: We introduce a quantum Monte Carlo algorithm to measure the R\'enyi entanglement entropies in systems of interacting bosons in the continuum. This approach is based on a path integral ground state method that can be applied to interacting itinerant bosons in any spatial dimension with direct relevance to experimental systems of quantum fluids. We demonstrate how it may be used to compute spatial mode entanglement, particle partitioned entanglement, and the entanglement of particles, providing insights into quantum correlations generated by fluctuations, indistinguishability and interactions. We present proof-of-principle calculations, and benchmark against an exactly soluble model of interacting bosons in one spatial dimension. As this algorithm retains the fundamental polynomial scaling of quantum Monte Carlo when applied to sign-problem-free models, future applications should allow for the study of entanglement entropy in large scale many-body systems of interacting bosons.

id: 1404.7115
title: Quantum Algorithms for Fermionic Quantum Field Theories
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Keith S. M. Lee, John Preskill
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7115
abstract: Extending previous work on scalar field theories, we develop a quantum algorithm to compute relativistic scattering amplitudes in fermionic field theories, exemplified by the massive Gross-Neveu model, a theory in two spacetime dimensions with quartic interactions. The algorithm introduces new techniques to meet the additional challenges posed by the characteristics of fermionic fields, and its run time is polynomial in the desired precision and the energy. Thus, it constitutes further progress towards an efficient quantum algorithm for simulating the Standard Model of particle physics.

id: 1404.7162
title: Closed time path approach to the Casimir energy in real media
authors: Adrian E. Rubio Lopez, Fernando C. Lombardo
comments: 28 pages, no figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7162
abstract: The closed time path formalism is applied, in the framework of open quantum systems, to study the time evolution of the expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor of a scalar field in the presence of real materials. We analyze quantum fluctuations in a fully non-equilibrium scenario, when the scalar field is interacting with the polarization degrees of freedom of matter, described as quantum Brownian particles. A generalized analysis was done for two types of couplings between the field and the material. On the one hand, we considered a bilinear coupling, and on the other hand, a (more realistic) current-type coupling as in the case of the electromagnetic field interacting with matter. We considered the high temperature limit for the field, keeping arbitrary temperatures for each part of the volume elements of the material. We obtained a closed form for the Hadamard propagator, which let us study the dynamical evolution of the expectations values of the energy-momentum tensor components from the initial time. We showed that two contributions always take place in the transient evolution: one of these is associated to the material and the other one is only associated to the field. Transient features were studied and the long-time limit was derived in several cases. We proved that in the steady situation of a field in n + 1 dimensions, the material always contribute unless is non-dissipative. Conversely, the proper field contribution vanishes unless the material is non-dissipative or, moreover, at least for the 1 + 1 case, if there are regions without material. We conclude that any steady quantization scheme in 1 + 1 dimensions must consider both contributions and we argue why these results are physically expected from a dynamical point of view, and also could be valid for higher dimensions based on the expected continuity between the non-dissipative and real material cases.

id: 1404.7248
title: Aspects of Floquet Bands and Topological Phase Transitions in a Continuously Driven Superlattice
authors: Longwen Zhou, Hailong Wang, Derek Y.H. Ho, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 29 pages, 9 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: European Physical Journal B vol. 87, 204 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7248
abstract: Recently the creation of novel topological states of matter by a periodic driving field has attracted great attention. To motivate further experimental and theoretical studies, we investigate interesting aspects of Floquet bands and topological phase transitions in a continuously driven Harper model. In such a continuously driven system with an odd number of Floquet bands, the bands are found to have nonzero Chern numbers in general and topological phase transitions take place as we tune various system parameters, such as the amplitude or the period of the driving field. The nontrivial Floquet band topology results in a quantized transport of Wannier states in the lattice space. For certain parameter choices, very flat yet topologically nontrivial Floquet bands may also emerge, a feature that is potentially useful for the simulation of physics of strongly correlated systems. Some cases with an even number of Floquet bands may also have intriguing Dirac cones in the spectrum. Under open boundary conditions, anomalous counter-propagating chiral edge modes and degenerate zero modes are also found as the system parameters are tuned. These results should be of experimental interest because a continuously driven system is easier to realize than a periodically kicked system.

id: 1404.7347
title: Covert Optical Communication
authors: Boulat A. Bash, Andrei H. Gheorghe, Monika Patel, Jonathan Habif, Dennis Goeckel, Don Towsley, Saikat Guha
comments: v4: improved organization and figures, no changes to the results; v3: significant changes, included new theoretical results as well as re-organized; v2: updated figure 3 with theoretical channel capacity curves + minor fixes, no changes to experiments or other main results
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7347
abstract: Encryption prevents unauthorized decoding, but does not ensure stealth---a security demand that a mere presence of a message be undetectable. We characterize the ultimate limit of covert communication that is secure against the most powerful physically-permissible adversary. We show that, although it is impossible over a pure-loss channel, covert communication is attainable in the presence of any excess noise, such as a $300$K thermal blackbody. In this case, $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{n})$ bits can be transmitted reliably and covertly in $n$ optical modes using standard optical communication equipment. The all-powerful adversary may intercept all transmitted photons not received by the intended receiver, and employ arbitrary quantum memory and measurements. Conversely, we show that this square root scaling cannot be outperformed. We corroborate our theory in a proof-of-concept experiment. We believe that our findings will enable practical realizations of covert communication and sensing, both for point-to-point and networked scenarios.

id: 1404.7385
title: Spin dynamics in a two dimensional quantum gas
authors: Poul L. Pedersen, Miroslav Gajdacz, Frank Deuretzbacher, Luis Santos, Carsten Klempt, Jacob F. Sherson, Andrew J. Hilliard, Jan J. Arlt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 (2014), 051603(R)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7385
abstract: We have investigated spin dynamics in a 2D quantum gas. Through spin-changing collisions, two clouds with opposite spin orientations are spontaneously created in a Bose-Einstein condensate. After ballistic expansion, both clouds acquire ring-shaped density distributions with superimposed angular density modulations. The density distributions depend on the applied magnetic field and are well explained by a simple Bogoliubov model. We show that the two clouds are anti-correlated in momentum space. The observed momentum correlations pave the way towards the creation of an atom source with non-local Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement.

id: 1404.7480
title: Multipulse Double-Quantum Magnetometry With Near-Surface Nitrogen Vacancy Centers
authors: H. J. Mamin, M. H. Sherwood, M. Kim, C. T. Rettner, K. Ohno, D. D. Awschalom, D. Rugar
comments: main text: 14 pages plus 4 pages figures (all in one pdf file); Supplementary material 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7480
abstract: We discuss multipulse magnetometry that exploits all three magnetic sublevels of the S=1 nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond to achieve enhanced magnetic field sensitivity. Based on dual frequency microwave pulsing, the scheme works in arbitrary magnetic bias fields and is twice as sensitive to ac magnetic fields as conventional two-level magnetometry. We derive the spin evolution operator for dual frequency microwave excitation and show its effectiveness for double-quantum state swaps. Using multipulse sequences of up to 128 pulses under optimized conditions, we show enhancement of the SNR by up to a factor of 2 in detecting NMR statistical signals, with a 4 times enhancement theoretically possible.

id: 1404.7720
title: Bistability effect in the extreme strong coupling regime of the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Andr¨¢s Dombi, Andr¨¢s Vukics, Peter Domokos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7720
abstract: We study the nonlinear response of a driven cavity QED system in the extreme strong coupling regime where the saturation photon number is below one by many orders of magnitude. In this regime, multi-photon resonances within the Jaynes--Cummings spectrum up to high order can be resolved. We identify an intensity and frequency range of the external coherent drive for which the system exhibits bistability instead of resonant multi-photon transitions. The cavity field evolves into a mixture of the vacuum and another quasi-classical state well separated in phase space. The corresponding time evolution of the outgoing intensity is a telegraph signal alternating between two attractors.

id: 1404.7816
title: Noise-Assisted Quantum Electron Transfer in Multi-Level Donor-Acceptor System
authors: Shmuel Gurvitz, Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7816
abstract: We analytically and numerically study noise-assisted quantum electron transfer (ET) in bio-complexes consisting of a single-level electron donor and an acceptor which is modeled by many electron energy levels. Interactions are included between the donor and the acceptor energy levels and with the protein environment, which is modeled by a diagonal classical noise acting on all donor and acceptor energy levels. Different regions of parameters characterizing (i) the number of the acceptor levels, (ii) the acceptor "band-width", and (iii) the amplitude of noise and its correlation time are considered. Under some conditions, we derive analytical expressions for the ET rate and efficiency, which reveal the coarse-grain features. We obtain equal occupation of all levels at large times, independently of the structure of the acceptor band. We discuss the multi-scale regime of the acceptor population, and the accompanying effect of quantum coherent oscillations, which are analogous to those observed in experiments on exciton dynamics in photosynthetic complexes. We also demonstrate that, for a relatively wide acceptor band, the efficiency of ET from donor to acceptor can be close to 100% for a broad range of noise amplitudes, for both sharp and flat redox potentials.

id: 1404.7822
title: Universality of single quantum gates
authors: Bela Bauer, Claire Levaillant, Michael Freedman
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; added references to previous proofs
journal: 
subjects: Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7822
abstract: We supply a rigorous proof that an open dense set of all possible 2-qubit gates G has the property that if the quantum circuit model is restricted to only permit swap of qubits lines and the application of G to pairs of lines, then the model is still computationally universal.

id: 1404.7840
title: Interaction Quench Induced Multimode Dynamics of Finite Atomic Ensembles
authors: S.I. Mistakidis, L. Cao, P. Schmelcher
comments: 30 pages,9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 225303
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7840
abstract: The correlated non-equilibrium dynamics of few-boson systems in one-dimensional finite lattices is investigated. Starting from weak interactions we perform a sudden interaction quench and employ the numerically exact Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration time-dependent Hartree method for bosons to obtain the resulting quantum dynamics. Focusing on the low-lying modes of the finite lattice we observe the emergence of density-wave tunneling, breathing and cradle-like processes. In particular, the tunneling induced by the quench leads to a "global" density-wave oscillation. The resulting breathing and cradle modes are inherent to the local intrawell dynamics and connected to excited-band states. Moreover, the interaction quenches couple the density-wave and the cradle modes allowing for resonance phenomena. These are associated with an avoided-crossing in the respective frequency spectrum and lead to a beating dynamics for the cradle. Finally, complementing the numerical studies, an effective Hamiltonian in terms of the relevant Fock states is derived for the description of the spectral properties and the related resonant dynamics.

id: 1404.5012
title: On the MacWilliams Identity for Classical and Quantum Convolutional Codes
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Hsiao-feng Lu
comments: Part of this work will appear in Proceedings of 2014 IEEE Intl. Symp. Inf. Theory. We included additional results (Subsections III.D and III.E) in the second version. 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.5012
abstract: The usual weight generating functions associating with a convolutional code (CC) are based on state space realizations or the weight adjacency matrices (WAMs). The MacWilliams identity for CCs on the WAMs was first established by Gluesing-Luerssen and Schneider in the case of minimal encoders, and generalized by Forney using the normal factor graph theorem. We define the dual of a convolutional code in the viewpoint of constraint codes and obtain a simple and direct proof of the MacWilliams identity for CCs. By considering the weight enumeration functions over infinite stages, i.e. all codewords of a CC, we establish additional relations between a CC and its dual. Relations between various notions of weight generating function are also clarified, and the reason that no MacWilliams identity exists for free-distance enumerators is clear now. Hence the MacWilliams theorem for CCs can be considered complete. For our purpose, we choose a different representation for the exact weight generating function (EWGF) of a block code, by defining it as a linear combination of orthonormal vectors in Dirac bra-ket notation, rather than the standard polynomial representation. Within this framework, the MacWilliams identity for the EWGFs can be derived with simply a Fourier transform. This representation provides great flexibility so that various notions of weight generating functions and their MacWilliams identities can be easily obtained from the MacWilliams identity for the EWGFs. As a result, we also obtain the MacWilliams identity for the input-output weight adjacency matrices (IOWAMs) of a systematic convolutional code and its dual, which cannot be obtained from previous approaches. Finally, paralleling the development of the classical case, we establish the MacWilliams identity for quantum convolutional codes.

id: 1404.7854
title: Non-Abelian String and Particle Braiding in Topological Order: Modular SL(3,Z) Representation and 3+1D Twisted Gauge Theory
authors: Juven Wang, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 36 pages, many figures, 17 tables. v3: Accepted by Phys. Rev. B. Add acknowledgements to Louis H. Kauffman
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 035134 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.7854
abstract: String and particle braiding statistics are examined in a class of topological orders described by discrete gauge theories with a gauge group $G$ and a 4-cocycle twist $\omega_4$ of $G$'s cohomology group $\mathcal{H}^4(G,\mathbb{R}/\mathbb{Z})$ in 3 dimensional space and 1 dimensional time (3+1D). We establish the topological spin and the spin-statistics relation for the closed strings, and their multi-string braiding statistics. The 3+1D twisted gauge theory can be characterized by a representation of a modular transformation group SL$(3,\mathbb{Z})$. We express the SL$(3,\mathbb{Z})$ generators $\mathsf{S}^{xyz}$ and $\mathsf{T}^{xy}$ in terms of the gauge group $G$ and the 4-cocycle $\omega_4$. As we compactify one of the spatial directions $z$ into a compact circle with a gauge flux $b$ inserted, we can use the generators $\mathsf{S}^{xy}$ and $\mathsf{T}^{xy}$ of an SL$(2,\mathbb{Z})$ subgroup to study the dimensional reduction of the 3D topological order $\mathcal{C}^{3\text{D}}$ to a direct sum of degenerate states of 2D topological orders $\mathcal{C}_b^{2\text{D}}$ in different flux $b$ sectors: $\mathcal{C}^{3\text{D}} = \oplus_b \mathcal{C}_b^{2\text{D}}$. The 2D topological orders $\mathcal{C}_b^{2\text{D}}$ are described by 2D gauge theories of the group $G$ twisted by the 3-cocycles $\omega_{3(b)}$, dimensionally reduced from the 4-cocycle $\omega_4$. We show that the SL$(2,\mathbb{Z})$ generators, $\mathsf{S}^{xy}$ and $\mathsf{T}^{xy}$, fully encode a particular type of three-string braiding statistics with a pattern that is the connected sum of two Hopf links. With certain 4-cocycle twists, we discover that, by threading a third string through two-string unlink into three-string Hopf-link configuration, Abelian two-string braiding statistics is promoted to non-Abelian three-string braiding statistics.

id: 1404.2506
title: Entanglement entropy in Fermi gases and Anderson's orthogonality catastrophe
authors: A. Ossipov
comments: 5+2 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 130402 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2506
abstract: We study the ground-state entanglement entropy of a subsystem of size $L$ of non-interacting fermions scattered by a potential of finite range $a$. We derive a general relation between the scattering matrix and the overlap matrix and use it to prove, that for a one-dimensional symmetric potential the von Neumann entropy, the R\'enyi entropies and the full counting statistics are robust against potential scattering, provided that $L/a\gg 1$. The results of numerical calculations support the validity of this conclusion for a generic potential.

