id: 1405.0031
title: Asynchronous quantum correlation: measurement acting as a beamsplitter
authors: F.V. Kowalski, R.S. Browne
comments: 20 pages 16 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1404.7160
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0031
abstract: A two-body quantum correlation is calculated for a particle either reflecting from a mirror, traversing a finite barrier/well, or trapped within an infinite well. Correlated interference results when the incident and reflected particle substates and their associated mirror (or barrier-well) substates overlap. Using the Copenhagen interpretation, an asynchronous joint probability density, which is a function both of the different positions and different times at which the particle and mirror (or barrier-well) are measured, is derived assuming that no interaction occurs between each measurement. Measurement of the particle first, in the correlated interference region, causes a splitting of the mirror (or barrier-well) substate into ones which have and have not reflected the particle. Later measurement of the mirror's (or barrier-well's) position reveals this interference. Synchronous correlated interference is limited spatially and temporally by the two-body wavegroup size and speed. However, the splitting caused by first measuring the particle can prolong the interference of these split mirror (or barrier-well) states. An analog of the Doppler shift in this two-body system is shown to be a consequence of the asynchronous measurement formalism. Coherence transfer and the use of asynchronous correlations to observe macroscopic interference effects in the mirror (or barrier-well), after having reflected a microscopic particle, are also described. This theoretical work, modeling asynchronous measurement in such two-body systems, relies fundamentally on wavefunction collapse.

id: 1405.0051
title: Linking Measures for Macroscopic Quantum States via Photon-Spin Mapping
authors: F. Fr?wis, N. Sangouard, N. Gisin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; published in a special issue of Optics Communications: "Macroscopic quantumness: theory and applications in optical sciences"; v2: minor changes
journal: Optics Communications, 337, 2 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0051
abstract: We review and compare several measures that identify quantum states that are "macroscopically quantum". These measures were initially formulated either for photonic systems or spin ensembles. Here, we compare them through a simple model which maps photonic states to spin ensembles. On the one hand, we reveal problems for some spin measures to handle correctly photonic states that typically are considered to be macroscopically quantum. On the other hand, we find significant similarities between other measures even though they were differently motivated.

id: 1405.0052
title: Maximally informative ensembles for SIC-POVMs in dimension 3
authors: Anna Szymusiak
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 445301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0052
abstract: In order to find out for which initial states of the system the uncertainty of the measurement outcomes will be minimal, one can look for the minimizers of the Shannon entropy of the measurement. In case of group covariant measurements this question becomes closely related to the problem how informative the measurement is in the sense of its informational power. Namely, the orbit under group action of the entropy minimizer corresponds to a maximally informative ensemble of equiprobable elements. We give a characterization of such ensembles for 3-dimensional group covariant (Weyl-Heisenberg) SIC-POVMs in both geometric and algebraic terms. It turns out that a maximally informative ensemble arises from the input state orthogonal to a subspace spanned by three linearly dependent vectors defining a SIC-POVM (geometrically) or from an eigenstate of certain Weyl's matrix (algebraically).

id: 1405.0053
title: The quantum laws of physics: a new description of dynamics and causality
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: This paper explains and highlights the important consequences of the results in PRA 89, 042115 (arXiv:1306.2993) for fundamental physics. It was written as the contribution to the proceedings of QIT 30, held in Nagoya, May 12-13 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0053
abstract: It is possible to completely explain all aspects of quantum mechanics by expressing the relations between physical properties in terms of complex conditional probabilities (Phys. Rev. A 89, 042115(2014)). These fully deterministic probabilities replace the classical notions of phase space geometries and continuous trajectories with a more accurate description that takes into account the role of dynamics in the emergence of reality. We can then understand why so many previous attempts to find a detailed explanation of quantum phenomena have failed: the assumption of a static reality breaks down when the interaction needed to obtain a real effect exceeds Planck`s constant. Beyond that limit, complex conditional probabilities are the only valid expression of the fundamental laws of physics.

id: 1405.0063
title: Superoscillations underlying remote state preparation for relativistic fields
authors: Ran Ber, Oded Kenneth, Benni Reznik
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 052312 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0063
abstract: We present a physical (gedanken) implementation of a generalized remote state preparation of relativistic quantum field states for an arbitrary set of observers. The prepared states are created in regions that are outside the future light-cone of the generating region. The mechanism, which is based on utilizing the vacuum state of a relativistic quantum field as a resource, sheds light on the well known Reeh-Schlieder theorem, indicating its strong connection with the mathematical phenomenon of superoscillations.

id: 1405.0070
title: Optically detected nuclear quadrupolar interaction of 14N in nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Chang S. Shin, Mark C. Butler, Hai-Jing Wang, Claudia E. Avalos, Scott J. Seltzer, Ren-Bao Liu, Alexander Pines, Vikram S. Bajaj
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev B. 89. 205202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0070
abstract: We report sensitive detection of the nuclear quadrupolar interaction of the 14N nuclear spin of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center using the electron spin echo envelope modulation technique. We applied a weak transverse magnetic field to the spin system so that certain forbidden transitions became weakly allowed due to second-order effects involving the nonsecular terms of the hyperfine interaction. The weak transitions cause modulation of the electron spin-echo signal, and a theoretical analysis suggests that the modulation frequency is primarily determined by the nuclear quadrupolar frequency; numerical simulations confirm the analytical results and show excellent quantitative agreement with experiments. This is an experimentally simple method of detecting quadrupolar interactions, and it can be used to study spin systems with an energy structure similar to that of the nitrogen vacancy center.

id: 1405.0137
title: On the informational completeness of local observables
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 4+0.5pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0137
abstract: For a general multipartite quantum state, we formulate a locally checkable condition, under which the expectation values of certain nonlocal observables are completely determined by the expectation values of some local observables. The condition is satisfied by ground states of gapped quantum many-body systems in two spatial dimensions, assuming a widely conjectured form of area law is correct. Its implications on the studies of gapped quantum many-body systems, quantum state tomography, and quantum state verification are discussed. These results are based on a partial characterization of states with small yet nonzero conditional mutual information, which may be of independent interest.

id: 1405.0198
title: No Superluminal Signaling Implies Unconditionally Secure Bit Commitment
authors: H. F. Chau, C.-H. Fred Fung, H.-K. Lo
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a crucial oversight on an earlier work by A. Kent
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0198
abstract: Bit commitment (BC) is an important cryptographic primitive for an agent to convince a mutually mistrustful party that she has already made a binding choice of 0 or 1 but only to reveal her choice at a later time. Ideally, a BC protocol should be simple, reliable, easy to implement using existing technologies, and most importantly unconditionally secure in the sense that its security is based on an information-theoretic proof rather than computational complexity assumption or the existence of a trustworthy arbitrator. Here we report such a provably secure scheme involving only one-way classical communications whose unconditional security is based on no superluminal signaling (NSS). Our scheme is inspired by the earlier works by Kent, who proposed two impractical relativistic protocols whose unconditional securities are yet to be established as well as several provably unconditionally secure protocols which rely on both quantum mechanics and NSS. Our scheme is conceptually simple and shows for the first time that quantum communication is not needed to achieve unconditional security for BC. Moreover, with purely classical communications, our scheme is practical and easy to implement with existing telecom technologies. This completes the cycle of study of unconditionally secure bit commitment based on known physical laws.

id: 1405.0204
title: Searching for quantum optimal controls in the presence of singular critical points
authors: Gregory Riviello, Constantin Brif, Ruixing Long, Re-Bing Wu, Katharine Moore Tibbetts, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0204
abstract: Quantum optimal control has enjoyed wide success for a variety of theoretical and experimental objectives. These favorable results have been attributed to advantageous properties of the corresponding control landscapes, which are free from local optima if three conditions are met: (1) the quantum system is controllable, (2) the Jacobian of the map from the control field to the evolution operator is full rank, and (3) the control field is not constrained. This paper explores how gradient searches for globally optimal control fields are affected by deviations from assumption (2). In some quantum control problems, so-called singular critical points, at which the Jacobian is rank-deficient, may exist on the landscape. Using optimal control simulations, we show that search failure is only observed when a singular critical point is also a second-order trap, which occurs if the control problem meets additional conditions involving the system Hamiltonian and/or the control objective. All known second-order traps occur at constant control fields, and we also show that they only affect searches that originate very close to them. As a result, even when such traps exist on the control landscape, they are unlikely to affect well-designed gradient optimizations under realistic searching conditions.

id: 1405.0262
title: Steering bound entangled states: A counterexample to the stronger Peres conjecture
authors: Tobias Moroder, Oleg Gittsovich, Marcus Huber, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 050404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0262
abstract: Quantum correlations are at the heart of many applications in quantum information science and, at the same time, they form the basis for discussions about genuine quantum effects and their difference to classical physics. On one hand, entanglement theory provides the tools to quantify correlations in information processing and many results have been obtained to discriminate useful entanglement, which can be distilled to a pure form, from bound entanglement, being of limited use in many applications. On the other hand, for discriminating quantum phenomena from their classical counterparts, Schr\"odinger and Bell introduced the notions of steering and local hidden variable models. We provide a method to generate systematically bound entangled quantum states which can still be used for steering and therefore to rule out local hidden state models. This sheds light on the relations between the various views on quantum correlations and disproves a widespread conjecture known as the stronger Peres conjecture. For practical applications, it implies that even the weakest form of entanglement can be certified in a semi-device independent way.

id: 1405.0303
title: Quantum Non-Markovianity: Characterization, Quantification and Detection
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Review article. Close to published version
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 77, 094001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0303
abstract: We present a comprehensive and up to date review on the concept of quantum non-Markovianity, a central theme in the theory of open quantum systems. We introduce the concept of quantum Markovian process as a generalization of the classical definition of Markovianity via the so-called divisibility property and relate this notion to the intuitive idea that links non-Markovianity with the persistence of memory effects. A detailed comparison with other definitions presented in the literature is provided. We then discuss several existing proposals to quantify the degree of non-Markovianity of quantum dynamics and to witness non-Markovian behavior, the latter providing sufficient conditions to detect deviations from strict Markovianity. Finally, we conclude by enumerating some timely open problems in the field and provide an outlook on possible research directions.

id: 1405.0311
title: Negative Casimir Entropies in Nanoparticle Interactions
authors: K. A. Milton, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, to be published in JPCM special issue on Casimir forces; revision includes small clarifications and additional references
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27, 214003 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0311
abstract: Negative entropy has been known in Casimir systems for some time. For example, it can occur between parallel metallic plates modeled by a realistic Drude permittivity. Less well known is that negative entropy can occur purely geometrically, say between a perfectly conducting sphere and a conducting plate. The latter effect is most pronounced in the dipole approximation, which is reliable when the size of the sphere is small compared to the separation between the sphere and the plate. Therefore, here we examine cases where negative entropy can occur between two electrically and magnetically polarizable nanoparticles or atoms, which need not be isotropic, and between such a small object and a conducting plate. Negative entropy can occur even between two perfectly conducting spheres, between two electrically polarizable nano-particles if there is sufficient anisotropy, between a perfectly conducting sphere and a Drude sphere,and between a sufficiently anisotropic electrically polarizable nano-particle and a transverse magnetic conducting plate.

id: 1405.0348
title: Numerical Techniques for Finding the Distances of Quantum Codes
authors: Ilya Dumer, Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Proceedings of ISIT 2014 - IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, Honolulu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0348
abstract: We survey the existing techniques for calculating code distances of classical codes and apply these techniques to generic quantum codes. For classical and quantum LDPC codes, we also present a new linked-cluster technique. It reduces complexity exponent of all existing deterministic techniques designed for codes with small relative distances (which include all known families of quantum LDPC codes), and also surpasses the probabilistic technique for sufficiently high code rates.

id: 1405.0387
title: Entanglement Routers via Wireless Quantum Network Based on Arbitrary Two Qubit Systems
authors: N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 89 (2014) 125103 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0387
abstract: A wireless quantum network is generated between multi-hop, where each hop consists of two entangled nodes. These nodes share a finite number of entangled two qubit systems randomly. Different types of wireless quantum bridges are generated between the non-connected nodes. The efficiency of these wireless quantum bridges to be used as quantum channels between its terminals to perform quantum teleportation is investigated. We suggest a theoretical wireless quantum communication protocol to teleport unknown quantum signals from one node to another, where the more powerful wireless quantum bridges are used as quantum channels. It is shown that, by increasing the efficiency of the sources which emit the initial partial entangled states, one can increase the efficiency of the wireless quantum communication protocol.

id: 1405.0420
title: Optimum topology of quasi-one dimensional nonlinear optical quantum systems
authors: Rick Lytel, Shoresh Shafei, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: 
journal: Journal of Nonlinear Optical Physics & Materials Vol. 23, No. 2 (2014) 1450025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0420
abstract: We determine the optimum topology of quasi-one dimensional nonlinear optical structures using generalized quantum graph models. Quantum graphs are relational graphs endowed with a metric and a multiparticle Hamiltonian acting on the edges, and have a long application history in aromatic compounds, mesoscopic and artificial materials, and quantum chaos. Quantum graphs have recently emerged as models of quasi-one dimensional electron motion for simulating quantum-confined nonlinear optical systems. This paper derives the nonlinear optical properties of quantum graphs containing the basic star vertex and compares their responses across topological and geometrical classes. We show that such graphs have exactly the right topological properties to generate energy spectra required to achieve large, intrinsic optical nonlinearities. The graphs have the exquisite geometrical sensitivity required to tune wave function overlap in a way that optimizes the transition moments. We show that this class of graphs consistently produces intrinsic optical nonlinearities near the fundamental limits. We discuss the application of the models to the prediction and development of new nonlinear optical structures.

id: 1405.0430
title: Trace of broken integrability in stationary correlation properties
authors: Ioannis Brouzos, Angela Foerster
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures. Published with minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 89 (2014) 053623
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0430
abstract: We show that the breaking of integrability in the fundamental one-dimensional model of bosons with contact interactions has consequences on the stationary correlation properties of the system. We calculate the energies and correlation functions of the integrable Lieb-Liniger case, comparing the exact Bethe-ansatz solution with a corresponding Jastrow ansatz. Then we examine the non-integrable case of different interaction strengths between each pair of atoms by means of a variationally optimized Jastrow ansatz, proposed in analogy to the Laughlin ansatz. We show that properties of the integrable state are more stable close to the Tonks-Girardeau regime than for weak interactions. All energies and correlation functions are given in terms of explicit analytical expressions enabled by the Jastrow ansatz. We finally compare the correlations of the integrable and non-integrable cases and show that apart from symmetry breaking the behavior changes dramatically, with additional and more pronounced maxima and minima interference peaks appearing.

id: 1405.0435
title: Quantum random number generation on a mobile phone
authors: Bruno Sanguinetti, Anthony Martin, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 031056 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0435
abstract: Quantum random number generators (QRNGs) can significantly improve the security of cryptographic protocols, by ensuring that generated keys cannot be predicted. However, the cost, size, and power requirements of current QRNGs has prevented them from becoming widespread. In the meantime, the quality of the cameras integrated in mobile telephones has improved significantly, so that now they are sensitive to light at the few-photon level. We demonstrate how these can be used to generate random numbers of a quantum origin.

id: 1405.0445
title: Equivalence between free quantum particles and those in harmonic potentials and its application to instantaneous changes
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 8 pages, 5 Figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2014) 129: 114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0445
abstract: In quantum physics the free particle and the harmonically trapped particle are arguably the most important systems a physicist needs to know about. It is little known that, mathematically, they are one and the same. This knowledge helps us to understand either from the viewpoint of the other. Here we show that all general time-dependent solutions of the free-particle Schroedinger equation can be mapped to solutions of the Schroedinger equation for harmonic potentials, both the trapping oscillator and the inverted 'oscillator'. This map is fully invertible and therefore induces an isomorphism between both types of system, they are equivalent. A composition of the map and its inverse allows us to map from one harmonic oscillator to another with a different spring constant and different center position. The map is independent of the state of the system, consisting only of a coordinate transformation and multiplication by a form factor, and can be chosen such that the state is identical in both systems at one point in time. This transition point in time can be chosen freely, the wave function of the particle evolving in time in one system before the transition point can therefore be linked up smoothly with the wave function for the other system and its future evolution after the transition point. Such a cut-and-paste procedure allows us to describe the instantaneous changes of the environment a particle finds itself in. Transitions from free to trapped systems, between harmonic traps of different spring constants or center positions, or, from harmonic binding to repulsive harmonic potentials are straightforwardly modelled. This includes some time-dependent harmonic potentials. The mappings introduced here are computationally more efficient than either state-projection or harmonic oscillator propagator techniques conventionally employed when describing instantaneous (non-a 1,920 characters

id: 1405.0457
title: Can Quantum Key Distribution Be Secure
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: This new version is a rewriting of the last v1 for a broader group of readers. It also contains a new specific counter-example not in v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0457
abstract: The importance of quantum key distribution as a cryptographic method depends upon its purported strong security guarantee. The following gives reasons on why such strong security guarantee has not been validly established and why good QKD security is difficult to obtain.

id: 1405.0529
title: Characterization of a spatial light modulator as a polarization quantum channel
authors: G. Barreto Lemos, J. O. de Almeida, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, M. Hor-Meyll
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0529
abstract: Spatial light modulators are versatile devices employed in a vast range of applications to modify the transverse phase or amplitude profile of an incident light beam. Most experiments are designed to use a specific polarization which renders optimal sensitivity for phase or amplitude modulation. Here we take a different approach and apply the formalism of quantum information to characterize how a phase modulator affects a general polarization state. In this context, the spatial modulators can be exploited as a resource to couple the polarization and the transverse spatial degrees of freedom. Using a quasi-monochromatic single photon beam obtained from a pair of twin photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion, we performed quantum process tomography in order to obtain a general analytic model for a quantum channel that describes the action of the device on the polarization qubits. We illustrate the application of these concepts by demonstrating the implementation of a controllable phase flip channel. This scheme can be applied in a straightforward manner to characterize the resulting polarization states of different types of phase or amplitude modulators and motivates the combined use of polarization and spatial degrees of freedom in innovative applications.

id: 1405.0555
title: Concise analytic solutions to the quantum Rabi model with two arbitrary qubits
authors: Liwei Duan, Shu He, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 355, 121(2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0555
abstract: Using extended coherent states, an analytical exact study has been carried out for the quantum Rabi model (QRM) with two arbitrary qubits in a very concise way. The $G$-functions with $2 \times 2$ determinants are generally derived. For the same coupling constants, the simplest $G$-function, resembling that in the one-qubit QRM, can be obtained. Zeros of the $G$-function yield the whole regular spectrum. The exceptional eigenvalues, which do not belong to the zeros of the $G$ function, are obtained in the closed form. The Dark states in the case of the same coupling can be detected clearly in a continued-fraction technique. The present concise solution is conceptually clear and practically feasible to the general two-qubit QRM and therefore has many applications.

id: 1405.0619
title: Quantum correlation between a particle and potential well or barrier
authors: F.V. Kowalski, R.S. Browne
comments: 10 pages with 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1405.0031
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0619
abstract: A two-body quantum correlation is calculated for a particle and an infinite potential well in which it is trapped or either a barrier or finite well over which it traverses. Correlated interference results when the incident and reflected particle substates and their associated well or barrier substates overlap. Measurement of the particle in this region causes a splitting of the well or barrier substate at subsequent times. The joint probability density, which is a function both of the different positions and different times at which the particle and well or barrier are measured, is derived assuming that no interaction occurs between the time each is measured.

id: 1405.0635
title: Decoherence of a quantum system coupled to an XY spin chain: Role of the initial state of the spin chain
authors: Zi-Gang Yuan, Ping Zhang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0635
abstract: We study the decoherence of a coupled quantum system consisting of a central spin and its correlated environment described by a general $XY$ spin-chain model. We make it clear that the evolution of the coherence factor sensitively depends on the initial states of the environment spin-chain. Specially, the dynamical evolution of the coherence factor of the central spin is numerically and analytically investigated in both weak and strong coupling cases for different initial states including thermal equilibrium state. In both weak and strong coupling regimes, the decay of the coherence factor can be approximated by a Gaussian and in the strong coupling regime the coherence factor oscillate rapidly under a Gaussian envelope. The width of the Gaussian decay (envelope) has been studied in details and we explained the origin of the so-called universal regime.

id: 1405.0811
title: Robust stationary distributed discord in Jordan-Wigner fermion system under perturbations of initial state
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: JETP Vol. 119 (3) (2014) 412-422
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0811
abstract: We investigate the Jordan-Wigner fermion clusters with the stationary distributed pairwise quantum discord. Such clusters appear after the Jordan-Wigner transformation of a spin chain governed by the nearest-neighbor XY-Hamiltonian with the particular initial state having one polarized node. We show that the quantum discord stationarity in such systems is not destroyed by the "parasitic" polarization of at least two types. First type appears because the initial state with a single polarized node is hardly realizable experimentally, so that the low polarization of neighboring nodes must be taken into account. Second, the additional noise-polarization of all nodes is unavoidable. Although the stationarity may not be destroyed by perturbations of the above two types, the parasitic polarizations deform the distribution of the pairwise discord and may destroy the clusters of correlated fermions with equal pairwise discords. Such deformations are studied in this paper.

id: 1405.0837
title: The Screen representation of spin networks. Images of 6j symbols and semiclassical features
authors: Mirco Ragni, Robert G. Littlejohn, Ana Carla P. Bitencourt, Vincenzo Aquilanti, Roger W. Anderson
comments: 16 pages, 13 figures, presented at ICCSA 2013 13th International Conference on Computational Science and Application
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 7972, 60-72 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0837
abstract: This article presents and discusses in detail the results of extensive exact calculations of the most basic ingredients of spin networks, the Racah coefficients (or Wigner 6j symbols), exhibiting their salient features when considered as a function of two variables - a natural choice due to their origin as elements of a square orthogonal matrix - and illustrated by use of a projection on a square "screen" introduced recently. On these screens, shown are images which provide a systematic classification of features previously introduced to represent the caustic and ridge curves (which delimit the boundaries between oscillatory and evanescent behaviour according to the asymptotic analysis of semiclassical approaches). Particular relevance is given to the surprising role of the intriguing symmetries discovered long ago by Regge and recently revisited; from their use, together with other newly discovered properties and in conjunction with the traditional combinatorial ones, a picture emerges of the amplitudes and phases of these discrete wavefunctions, of interest in wide areas as building blocks of basic and applied quantum mechanics.

id: 1405.0879
title: Integrated Information-induced quantum collapse
authors: Kobi Kremnizer, Andr¨¦ Ranchin
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0879
abstract: We present a novel spontaneous collapse model where size is no longer the property of a physical system which determines its rate of collapse. Instead, we argue that the rate of spontaneous localization should depend on a system's quantum Integrated Information (QII), a novel physical property which describes a system's capacity to act like a quantum observer. We introduce quantum Integrated Information, present our QII collapse model and briefly explain how it may be experimentally tested against quantum theory.

id: 1405.0903
title: Long-time correlated quantum dynamics of phonon cooling
authors: Sergiu Carlig, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013817 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0903
abstract: We investigate the steady-state cooling dynamics of vibrational degrees of freedom related to a nanomechanical oscillator coupled with a laser-pumped quantum dot in an optical resonator. Correlations between phonon-cooling and quantum-dot photon emission processes occur respectively when a photon laser absorption together with a vibrational phonon absorption is followed by photon emission in the optical resonator. Therefore, the detection of photons generated in the cavity mode concomitantly contribute to phonon cooling detection of the nanomechanical resonator.

id: 1405.0937
title: All-Optical Routing of Single Photons by a One-Atom Switch Controlled by a Single Photon
authors: Itay Shomroni, Serge Rosenblum, Yulia Lovsky, Orel Bechler, Gabriel Guendelman, Barak Dayan
comments: 
journal: Science 345, 903--906 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0937
abstract: The prospect of quantum networks, in which quantum information is carried by single photons in photonic circuits, has long been the driving force behind the effort to achieve all-optical routing of single photons. Here we realize the most basic unit of such a photonic circuit: a single-photon activated switch, capable of routing a photon from any of its two inputs to any of its two outputs. Our device is based on a single 87Rb atom coupled to a fiber-coupled, chip-based microresonator, and is completely all-optical, requiring no other fields beside the in-fiber single-photon pulses. Nonclassical statistics of the control pulse confirm that a single reflected photon toggles the switch from high reflection (65%) to high transmission (90%), with average of ~1.5 control photons per switching event (~3 including linear losses). The fact that the control and target photons are both in-fiber and practically identical makes this scheme compatible with scalable architectures for quantum information processing.

id: 1405.0943
title: Encoding secret information in measurement settings
authors: Syed. M. Assad, Amir Kalev
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0943
abstract: Secure communication protocols are often formulated in a paradigm where the message is encoded in measurement outcomes. In this work we propose a rather unexplored framework in which the message is encoded in measurement settings rather than in their outcomes. In particular, we study two different variants of such secure communication protocols in which the message alphabet corresponds to measurement settings of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1405.0955
title: Quantifying the nonlinearity of a quantum oscillator
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris, Marco G. Genoni, Nathan Shammah, Berihu Teklu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0955
abstract: We address the quantification of nonlinearity for quantum oscillators and introduce two measures based on the properties of the ground state rather than on the form of the potential itself. The first measure is a fidelity-based one, and corresponds to the renormalized Bures distance between the ground state of the considered oscillator and the ground state of a reference harmonic oscillator. Then, in order to avoid the introduction of this auxiliary oscillator, we introduce a different measure based on the non-Gaussianity (nG) of the ground state. The two measures are evaluated for a sample of significant nonlinear potentials and their properties are discussed in some detail. We show that the two measures are monotone functions of each other in most cases, and this suggests that the nG-based measure is a suitable choice to capture the anharmonic nature of a quantum oscillator, and to quantify its nonlinearity independently on the specific features of the potential. We also provide examples of potentials where the Bures measure cannot be defined, due to the lack of a proper reference harmonic potential, while the nG-based measure properly quantify their nonlinear features. Our results may have implications in experimental applications where access to the effective potential is limited, e.g., in quantum control, and protocols rely on information about the ground or thermal state.

id: 1405.0964
title: Characterization of quantum dynamics using quantum error correction
authors: S. Omkar, R. Srikanth, S. Banerjee
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012324 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0964
abstract: Characterizing noisy quantum processes is important to quantum computation and communication (QCC), since quantum systems are generally open. To date, all methods of characterization of quantum dynamics (CQD), typically implemented by quantum process tomography, are \textit{off-line}, i.e., QCC and CQD are not concurrent, as they require distinct state preparations. Here we introduce a method, "quantum error correction based characterization of dynamics", in which the initial state is any element from the code space of a quantum error correcting code that can protect the state from arbitrary errors acting on the subsystem subjected to the unknown dynamics. The statistics of stabilizer measurements, with possible unitary pre-processing operations, are used to characterize the noise, while the observed syndrome can be used to correct the noisy state. Our method requires at most $2(4^n-1)$ configurations to characterize arbitrary noise acting on $n$ qubits.

id: 1405.0986
title: A unified approach to entanglement criteria using the Cauchy-Schwarz and H?lder inequalities
authors: Sabine W?lk, Marcus Huber, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0986
abstract: We present unified approach to different recent entanglement criteria. Although they were developed in different ways, we show that they are all applications of a more general principle given by the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality. We explain this general principle and show how to derive with it not only already known but also new entanglement criteria. We systematically investigate its potential and limits to detect bipartite and multipartite entanglement.

id: 1405.1010
title: Capacitive Coupling of Two Transmission Line Resonators Mediated by the Phonon Number of a Nanoelectromechanical Oscillator
authors: O. P. de S¨¢ Neto, M. C. de Oliveira, F. Nicacio, G. J. Milburn
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1010
abstract: Detection of quantum features in mechanical systems at the nanoscale constitutes a challenging task, given the weak interaction with other elements and the available technics. Here we describe how the interaction between two monomodal transmission-line resonators (TLRs) mediated by vibrations of a nano-electromechanical oscillator can be described. This scheme is then employed for quantum non-demolition detection of the number of phonons in the nano-electromechanical oscillator through a direct current measurement in the output of one of the TLRs. For that to be possible an undepleted field inside one of the TLR works as a amplifier for the interaction between the mechanical resonator and the remaining TLR. We also show how how the non-classical nature of this system can be used for generation of tripartite entanglement and conditioned mechanical coherent superposition states, which may be further explored for detection processes.

id: 1405.1062
title: On state vs. channel quantum extension problems: exact results for UxUxU symmetry
authors: Peter Johnson, Lorenza Viola
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 035307 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1062
abstract: We develop a framework which unifies seemingly different extension (or "joinability") problems for bipartite quantum states and channels. This includes well known extension problems such as optimal quantum cloning and quantum marginal problems as special instances. Central to our generalization is a variant of the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism between bipartite states and dynamical maps which we term the "homocorrelation map": while the former emphasizes the preservation of the positivity constraint, the latter is designed to preserve statistical correlations, allowing direct contact with entanglement. In particular, we define and analyze state-joining, channel-joining, and local-positive joining problems in three-party settings exhibiting collective UxUxU symmetry, obtaining exact analytical characterizations in low dimension. Suggestively, we find that bipartite quantum states are limited in the degree to which their measurement outcomes may agree, while quantum channels are limited in the degree to which their measurement outcomes may disagree. Loosely speaking, quantum mechanics enforces an upper bound on the extent of positive correlation across a bipartite system at a given time, as well as on the extent of negative correlation between the state of a same system across two instants of time. We argue that these general statistical bounds inform the quantum joinability limitations, and show that they are in fact sufficient for the three-party UxUxU-invariant setting.

id: 1405.1066
title: Entangling two distant non-interacting microwave modes
authors: M. Abdi, P. Tombesi, D. Vitali
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; to appear in the special issue "Quantum and Hybrid Mechanical Systems - From Fundamentals to Applications" in Annalen der Physik
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 527, 139-146 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1066
abstract: We propose a protocol able to prepare two remote and initially uncorrelated microwave modes in an entangled stationary state, which is certifiable using only local optical homodyne measurements. The protocol is an extension of continuous variable entanglement swapping, and exploits two hybrid quadripartite opto-electro-mechanical systems in which a nanomechanical resonator acts as a quantum interface able to entangle optical and microwave fields. The proposed protocol allows to circumvent the problems associated with the fragility of microwave photons with respect to thermal noise and may represent a fundamental tool for the realization of quantum networks connecting distant solid-state and superconducting qubits, which are typically manipulated with microwave fields. The certifying measurements on the optical modes guarantee the success of entanglement swapping without the need of performing explicit measurements on the distant microwave fields.

id: 1405.1097
title: Black holes as bosonic Gaussian channels
authors: Kamil Bradler, Christoph Adami
comments: v2: typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1097
abstract: We identify the quantum channels corresponding to the interaction of a Gaussian quantum state with an already formed Schwarzschild black hole. Using recent advances in the classification of one-mode bosonic Gaussian channels we find that (with one exception) the black hole Gaussian channels lie in the non-entanglement breaking subset of the lossy channels C(loss), amplifying channels C(amp) and classical-noise channels B_2. We show that the channel parameters depend on the black hole mass and the properties of the potential barrier surrounding it. This classification enables us to calculate the classical and quantum capacity of the black hole and to estimate the quantum capacity where no tractable quantum capacity expression exists today. We discuss these findings in the light of the black hole quantum information loss problem.

id: 1405.1099
title: Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking via Measurement: From Bose-Einstein Condensates to Josephson Effect
authors: Takaaki Monnai, Mauro Iazzi, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1099
abstract: Why does spontaneous symmetry breaking occur? Why is a state breaking symmetry realized? We explore an idea that measurement selects such a state even if a system is given in a state respecting the symmetry of the system. We point out that the spectrum of the relevant observable is important, and simply apply the projection postulate for quantum measurement. We first show that this approach correctly describes the well-known interference of Bose-Einstein condensates. We then examine a fermionic system and prove that superconducting states with a definite relative phase are selected by the measurement of the current flowing between two superconductors, eliminating the need to assume the presence of an a priori phase to explain the Josephson effect.

id: 1405.1109
title: Quantum resource studied from the perspective of quantum state superposition
authors: Chengjun Wu, Junhui Li, Bin Luo, Hong Guo
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1109
abstract: Quantum resources,such as discord and entanglement, are crucial in quantum information processing. In this paper, quantum resources are studied from the aspect of quantum state superposition. We define the local superposition (LS) as the superposition between basis of single part, and nonlocal superposition (NLS) as the superposition between product basis of multiple parts. For quantum resource with nonzero LS, quantum operation must be introduced to prepare it, and for quantum resource with nonzero NLS, nonlocal quantum operation must be introduced to prepare it. We prove that LS vanishes if and only if the state is classical and NLS vanishes if and only if the state is separable. From this superposition aspect, quantum resources are categorized as superpositions existing in different parts. These results are helpful to study quantum resources from a unified frame.

id: 1405.1123
title: Renormalized quantum Fisher information manifestation of Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless phase transition for spin-1/2 XXZ chain
authors: Qiang Zheng, Yao Yao, Xun-Wei Xu, Yong Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1123
abstract: Combining the ideas of quantum Fisher information and quantum renormalization group method, the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless quantum phase transition of spin- 1/2 XXZ chain is investigated. Quantum Fisher informations of the whole N sites and the partial N/3 sites are studied. They display very similar behaviors, even though their mathematical formulas are very different from each other. The universally critical exponent of quantum Fisher information is obtained as beta=0.47, which is consistent with the results obtained by the renormalized concurrence or discord. We also discuss the relationship between quantum Fisher information and entanglement

id: 1405.1168
title: Probabilistic quantum phase-space simulation of Bell violations and their dynamical evolution
authors: Laura Rosales-Z¨¢rate, Bogdan Opanchuk, Peter D. Drummond, Margaret D. Reid
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1168
abstract: Quantum simulations of Bell inequality violations are numerically obtained using probabilistic phase space methods, namely the positive P-representation. In this approach the moments of quantum observables are evaluated as moments of variables that have values outside the normal eigenvalue range. There is thus a parallel with quantum weak measurements and weak values. Nevertheless, the representation is exactly equivalent to quantum mechanics. A number of states violating Bell inequalities are sampled, demonstrating that these quantum paradoxes can be treated with probabilistic methods. We treat quantum dynamics by simulating the time evolution of the Bell state formed via parametric down-conversion, and discuss multi-mode generalizations.

id: 1405.1174
title: Nonclassical Light from Semiconductor Quantum Wells
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1174
abstract: The fluorescence light from semiconductor quantum wells is analyzed with respect to its quantum optical properties. The light emitted by the excitons is described by bosonic excitations with a Kerr-type nonlinear interaction. To create the excitons, the incoming pump laser light is absorbed and the absorption acts as a spectral filter for the emitted light. The quantum properties of the emitted light are analyzed for the bare excitonic and the quantum-well systems. Squeezing of the quantum-well fluorescence persists for higher pump laser powers than the squeezing of the excitonic fluorescence. For strong pumping, the nonlinearity suppresses the creation of photon pairs and the photon statistics becomes sub-Poisson.

id: 1405.1180
title: Majorana zero modes on a 1D chain for quantum computation
authors: Lei Chen, W. LiMing, Jia-Hui Huang
comments: 5 figures, 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 90, 012323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1180
abstract: Numerical calculations for Majorana zero modes on a one-dimensional chain are performed using the technique of block diagonalization for general parameter settings. It is found that Majorana zero modes occur near the ends of the chain and decay exponentially away from the ends. The phase diagrams show that Majorana zero modes of a long-enough chain indeed have a parameter domain of $2t>|\mu|$ as predicted from the bulk property of the chain, but a short chain has a much smaller parameter domain than the prediction. Through a numerical simulation Majorana zero modes are found to be robust under the disturbance of noise. Finally the reversion of the parity of the ground states is studied by applying a bias voltage on the quantum dot at an end of the chain. It is found that for a weak coupling between a chain and a quantum dot the parity of the ground states can be reversed through adiabatically tuning the bias voltage.

id: 1405.1190
title: Spatial properties of twin-beam correlations at low- to high-intensity transition
authors: Radek Machulka, Ondrej Haderka, Jan Perina Jr., Marco Lamperti, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1190
abstract: It is shown that spatial correlation functions measured for correlated photon pairs at the single-photon level correspond to speckle patterns visible at high intensities. This correspondence is observed for the first time in one experimental setup by using different acquisition modes of an intensified CCD camera in low and high intensity regimes. The behavior of intensity auto- and cross-correlation functions in dependence on pump-beam parameters including power and transverse profile is investigated.

id: 1405.1227
title: Open system geometric phase based on system-reservoir joint state evolution
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 6 pages + Supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1227
abstract: The geometric phase is of fundamental interest and plays an important role in quantum information processing. However, the definition and calculation of this phase for open systems remains a problem due to the lack of agreement on generalizations of the parallel transport condition to mixed state nonunity evolutions. Here we tackle this problem by associating the open system geometric phase with the parallel transport of the joint system-reservoir state. Our approach not only provides a way around the nonunitary evolution obstacle, but also sheds light on the relation between the geometric phase and the system-reservoir entanglement, which has not been investigated. Based on this approach, we calculate the geometric phase of different quantum systems subject to energy decay, showing that it is robust against decoherence, which is in distinct contrast with previous results.

id: 1405.1255
title: Pointer-based simultaneous measurements of conjugate observables in a thermal environment
authors: Raoul Heese, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1255
abstract: We combine traditional pointer-based simultaneous measurements of conjugate observables with the concept of quantum Brownian motion of multipartite systems to phenomenologically model simultaneous measurements of conjugate observables in a thermal environment. This approach provides us with a formal solution of the complete measurement dynamics for quadratic Hamiltonians and we can therefore discuss the measurement uncertainty and optimal measurement times. As a main result, we obtain a lower bound for the uncertainty of a noisy measurement, which is an extension of a previously known uncertainty relation and in which the squeezing of the system state to be measured plays an important role. This also allows us to classify minimal uncertainty states in more detail.

id: 1405.1296
title: Pretty good state transfer of entangled states through quantum spin chains
authors: R¨²ben Sousa, Yasser Omar
comments: Version published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 123003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1296
abstract: The XX model with uniform couplings represents the most natural choice for quantum state transfer through spin chains. Given that it has long been established that single-qubit states cannot be transferred with perfect fidelity in this model, the notion of pretty good state transfer has been recently introduced as a relaxation of the constraints on fidelity. In this paper, we study the transfer of multi-qubit entangled and unentangled states through unmodulated spin chains, and we prove that it is possible to have pretty good state transfer of any multi-particle state. This significantly generalizes the previous results on single-qubit state transfer, and opens way to using uniformly coupled spin chains as quantum channels for the transfer of arbitrary states of any dimension. Our results could be tested with current technology.

id: 1405.1312
title: Propagation of quantum correlations after a quench in the Mott-insulator regime of the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: K.V. Krutitsky, P. Navez, F. Queisser, R. Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 1:12 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1312
abstract: We study a quantum quench in the Bose-Hubbard model where the tunneling rate $J$ is suddenly switched from zero to a finite value in the Mott regime. In order to solve the many-body quantum dynamics far from equlibrium, we consider the reduced density matrices for a finite number (one, two, three, etc.) of lattice sites and split them up into on-site density operators, i.e., the mean field, plus two-point and three-point correlations etc. Neglecting three-point and higher correlations, we are able to numerically simulate the time-evolution of the few-site density matrices and the two-point quantum correlations (e.g., their effective light-cone structure) for a comparably large number ${\cal O}(10^3)$ of lattice sites.

id: 1405.1454
title: Scalable extraction of error models from the output of error detection circuits
authors: Austin G. Fowler, D. Sank, J. Kelly, R. Barends, John M. Martinis
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, comments and additional reference suggestions welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1454
abstract: Accurate methods of assessing the performance of quantum gates are extremely important. Quantum process tomography and randomized benchmarking are the current favored methods. Quantum process tomography gives detailed information, but significant approximations must be made to reduce this information to a form quantum error correction simulations can use. Randomized benchmarking typically outputs just a single number, the fidelity, giving no information on the structure of errors during the gate. Neither method is optimized to assess gate performance within an error detection circuit, where gates will be actually used in a large-scale quantum computer. Specifically, the important issues of error composition and error propagation lie outside the scope of both methods. We present a fast, simple, and scalable method of obtaining exactly the information required to perform effective quantum error correction from the output of continuously running error detection circuits, enabling accurate prediction of large-scale behavior.

id: 1405.1463
title: Mixed quantum states in higher categories
authors: Chris Heunen, Jamie Vicary, Linde Wester
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 304-315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1463
abstract: There are two ways to describe the interaction between classical and quantum information categorically: one based on completely positive maps between Frobenius algebras, the other using symmetric monoidal 2-categories. This paper makes a first step towards combining the two. The integrated approach allows a unified description of quantum teleportation and classical encryption in a single 2-category, as well as a universal security proof applicable simultaneously to both scenarios.

id: 1405.1470
title: Interfacing GHz-bandwidth heralded single photons with a room-temperature Raman quantum memory
authors: P. S. Michelberger, T. F. M. Champion, M. R. Sprague, K. T. Kaczmarek, M. Barbieri, X. M. Jin, D. G. England, W. S. Kolthammer, D. J. Saunders, J. Nunn, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1470
abstract: Photonics is a promising platform for quantum technologies. However, photon sources and two-photon gates currently only operate probabilistically. Large-scale photonic processing will therefore be impossible without a multiplexing strategy to actively select successful events. High time-bandwidth-product quantum memories - devices that store and retrieve single photons on-demand - provide an efficient remedy via active synchronisation. Here we interface a GHz-bandwidth heralded single-photon source and a room-temperature Raman memory with a time-bandwidth product exceeding 1000. We store heralded single photons and observe a clear influence of the input photon statistics on the retrieved light, which agrees with our theoretical model. The preservation of the stored field's statistics is limited by four-wave-mixing noise, which we identify as the key remaining challenge in the development of practical memories for scalable photonic information processing.

id: 1405.1519
title: Environment induced entanglement in many-body mesoscopic systems
authors: F. Benatti, F. Carollo, R. Floreanini
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 1700
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1519
abstract: We show that two, non interacting, infinitely long spin chains can become globally entangled at the mesoscopic level of their fluctuation operators through a purely noisy microscopic mechanism induced by the presence of a common heat bath. By focusing on a suitable class of mesoscopic observables, the behaviour of the dissipatively generated quantum correlations between the two chains is studied as a function of the dissipation strength and bath temperature.

id: 1405.1526
title: Absolute calibration of a CCD camera with twin beams
authors: I. Ruo-Berchera, A. Meda, I. P. Degiovanni, G. Brida, M. L. Rastello, M. Genovese
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 101113 (2014);
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1526
abstract: We report on the absolute calibration of a CCD camera by exploiting quantum correlation. This novel method exploits a certain number of spatial pairwise quantum correlated modes produced by spontaneous parametric-down-conversion. We develop a measurement model taking into account all the possible source of losses and noise that are not related to the quantum efficiency,accounting for all the uncertainty contributions, and we reach the relative uncertainty of 0.3% in low photon flux regime. This represents a significant step forward for the characterizaion of (scientific) CCDs used in mesoscopic light regime.

id: 1405.1548
title: The Cellular Automaton Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics. A View on the Quantum Nature of our Universe, Compulsory or Impossible?
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 207 pages, 20 figures. The revisions mainly consist of further clarifications and subsections added, in response to comments received
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1548
abstract: When investigating theories at the tiniest conceivable scales in nature, "quantum logic" is taking over from "classical logic" in the minds of almost all researchers today. Dissatisfied, the author investigated how one can look at things differently. This report is an overview of older material, but also contains many new observations and calculations. Quantum mechanics is looked upon as a tool, not as a theory. Examples are displayed of models that are classical in essence, but can be analysed by the use of quantum techniques, and we argue that even the Standard Model, together with gravitational interactions, may be viewed as a quantum mechanical approach to analyse a system that could be classical at its core. We then explain how these apparently heretic thoughts can be reconciled with Bell's theorem and the usual objections voiced against the notion of 'super determinism'. Our proposal would eradicate the collapse problem and the measurement problem.

id: 1405.1557
title: Exact decoherence dynamics of $1/f$ noise
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Ping-Yuan Lo, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures (Accepted for publication in New J. Phys.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1557
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the exact decoherence dynamics of a superconducting resonator coupled to an electromagnetic reservoir characterized by the $1/f$ noise at finite temperature, where a full quantum description of the environment with $1/f^{x}$ noise (with $x \approx 1$) is presented. The exact master equation and the associated non-equilibrium Green's functions are solved exactly for such an open system. We show a clear signal of non-Markovian dynamics induced purely by $1/f$ noise. Our analysis is also applicable to another nano/micro mechanical oscillators. Finally, we demonstrate the non-Markovian decoherence dynamics of photon number superposition states using Wigner distribution that could be measured in experiments.

id: 1405.1591
title: Large suppression of quantum fluctuations of light from a single emitter by an optical nanostructure
authors: Diego Mart¨ªn Cano, Harald R. Haakh, Karim Murr, Mario Agio
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263605 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1591
abstract: We investigate the reduction of the electromagnetic field fluctuations in resonance fluorescence from a single emitter coupled to an optical nanostructure. We find that such hybrid system can lead to the creation of squeezed states of light, with quantum fluctuations significantly below the shot noise level. Moreover, the physical conditions for achieving squeezing are strongly relaxed with respect to an emitter in free space. A high degree of control over squeezed light is feasible both in the far and near fields, opening the pathway to its manipulation and applications on the nanoscale with state-of-the-art setups.

id: 1405.1634
title: Testing the Pauli Exclusion Principle for electrons at LNGS
authors: H. Shi, S. Bartalucci, S. Bertolucci, C. Berucci, A.M. Bragadireanu, M. Cargnelli, A. Clozza, C. Curceanu, L. De Paolis, S. Di Matteo, A. d'Uffizi, J.-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, J. Marton, M. Laubenstein, E. Milotti, D. Pietreanu, K. Piscicchia, T. Ponta, A. Romero Vidal, E. Sbardella, A. Scordo, D.L. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, O. Vazquez Doce, E. Widmann, J. Zmeskal
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, conference proceedings on TAUP 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1634
abstract: High-precision experiments have been done to test the Pauli exclusion principle (PEP) for electrons by searching for anomalous $K$-series X-rays from a Cu target supplied with electric current. With the highest sensitivity, the VIP (VIolation of Pauli Exclusion Principle) experiment set an upper limit at the level of $10^{-29}$ for the probability that an external electron captured by a Cu atom can make the transition from the 2$p$ state to a 1$s$ state already occupied by two electrons. In a follow-up experiment at Gran Sasso, we aim to increase the sensitivity by two orders of magnitude. We show proofs that the proposed improvement factor is realistic based on the results from recent performance tests of the detectors we did at Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati (LNF).

id: 1405.1640
title: Quantumness of correlations, quantumness of ensembles and quantum data hiding
authors: Marco Piani, Varun Narasimhachar, John Calsamiglia
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures, close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1640
abstract: We study the quantumness of correlations for ensembles of bi- and multi-partite systems and relate it to the task of quantum data hiding. Quantumness is here intended in the sense of minimum average disturbance under local measurements. We consider a very general framework, but focus on local complete von Neumann measurements as cause of the disturbance, and, later on, on the trace-distance as quantifier of the disturbance. We discuss connections with entanglement and previously defined notions of quantumness of correlations. We prove that a large class of quantifiers of the quantumness of correlations are entanglement monotones for pure bipartite states. In particular, we define an entanglement of disturbance for pure states, for which we give an analytical expression. Such a measure coincides with negativity and concurrence for the case of two qubits. We compute general bounds on disturbance for both single states and ensembles, and consider several examples, including the uniform Haar ensemble of pure states, and pairs of qubit states. Finally, we show that the notion of ensemble quantumness of correlations is most relevant in quantum data hiding. Indeed, while it is known that entanglement is not necessary for a good quantum data hiding scheme, we prove that ensemble quantumness of correlations is.

id: 1405.1645
title: A Full Stochastic Model of Coupled Nanomechanical Electron Shuttles
authors: Mo Zhao, Robert H. Blick
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1645
abstract: We discuss operation of nanomechanical electron shuttles as a ratchet for radiofrequency current rectification based on a fully stochastic model. In such devices, the mechanical motion of coupled nanopillars and the incoherent electronic tunneling can be modeled as a Markov chain. By treating the process in a correlated stochastic fashion, we present a stochastic model represented by a linear master equation. This is crucial for analyzing symmetry breaking, which is in turn responsible for the observed rectification mechanism. For full device simulation, we propose deterministic equations assuming the multivariate Gaussian distributions.

id: 1405.1669
title: Theoretical study of the Compton effect with correlated three-photon emission: From the differential cross section to high-energy triple-photon entanglement
authors: E. L?tstedt, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 14 pages; RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.A 87 (2013) 033401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1669
abstract: The three-photon Compton effect is studied. An incoming photon undergoes triple scattering off a free electron, which leads to the emission of three entangled photons. We investigate the properties of both the total cross section, assuming a low-energy cutoff for the detected photons, and the differential cross section. Particular emphasis is laid on evaluating polarization-resolved cross sections. The entanglement of the final three-photon state is analyzed.

id: 1405.1683
title: Some Physics And System Issues In The Security Analysis Of Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1683
abstract: In this paper we review a number of issues on the security of quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols that bear directly on the relevant physics or mathematical representation of the QKD cryptosystem. It is shown that the cryptosystem representation itself may miss out many possible attacks which are not accounted for in the security analysis and proofs. Hence the final security claims drawn from such analysis are not reliable, apart from foundational issues about the security criteria that are discussed elsewhere. The cases of continuous-variable QKD and multi-photon sources are elaborated upon.

id: 1405.1754
title: Entanglement sensitivity to signal attenuation and amplification
authors: Sergey N. Filippov, Mario Ziman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, corrected, selected by the journal as Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 010301(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1754
abstract: We analyze general laws of continuous-variable entanglement dynamics during the deterministic attenuation and amplification of the physical signal carrying the entanglement. These processes are inevitably accompanied by noises, so we find fundamental limitations on noise intensities that destroy entanglement of gaussian and non-gaussian input states. The phase-insensitive amplification $\Phi_1 \otimes \Phi_2 \otimes \ldots \Phi_N$ with the power gain $\kappa_i \ge 2$ ($\approx 3$ dB, $i=1,\ldots,N$) is shown to destroy entanglement of any $N$-mode gaussian state even in the case of quantum limited performance. In contrast, we demonstrate non-gaussian states with the energy of a few photons such that their entanglement survives within a wide range of noises beyond quantum limited performance for any degree of attenuation or gain. We detect entanglement preservation properties of the channel $\Phi_1 \otimes \Phi_2$, where each mode is deterministically attenuated or amplified. Gaussian states of high energy are shown to be robust to very asymmetric attenuations, whereas non-gaussian states are at an advantage in the case of symmetric attenuation and general amplification. If $\Phi_1 = \Phi_2$, the total noise should not exceed $\frac{1}{2} \sqrt{\kappa^2+1}$ to guarantee entanglement preservation.

id: 1405.1766
title: Fault-tolerance against loss for photonic FTQEC
authors: Ben Fortescue, Sameer Nawaf, Mark Byrd
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1766
abstract: In general, fault-tolerant quantum error correction (FTQEC) procedures are designed to detect, correct, and be fault-tolerant against errors occurring within the qubit subspace. But in some qubit implementations, additional "leakage" errors can occur in which the system leaves this subspace, and standard FTQEC procedures may not be fault-tolerant against such errors. Generic methods for achieving fault-tolerance against leakage are costly in terms of resources. In this paper we demonstrate that for a leakage model common to many photonic gate implementations, FTQEC can be implemented with far fewer additional operations than in the generic case.

id: 1405.1797
title: Second-Order Coding Rates for Entanglement-Assisted Communication
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Marco Tomamichel, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1797
abstract: The entanglement-assisted capacity of a quantum channel is known to provide the formal quantum generalization of Shannon's classical channel capacity theorem, in the sense that it admits a single-letter characterization in terms of the quantum mutual information and does not increase in the presence of a noiseless quantum feedback channel from receiver to sender. In this work, we investigate the second-order asymptotics of the entanglement-assisted communication task. That is, we consider how quickly the rates of entanglement-assisted codes converge to the entanglement-assisted capacity of a channel as a function of the number of channel uses and the error tolerance. We define a quantum generalization of the mutual information variance of a channel in the entanglement-assisted setting. For covariant channels, we show that this quantity is equal to the channel dispersion, and characterizes the convergence towards the entanglement-assisted capacity when the number of channel uses increases. More generally, we prove that the Gaussian approximation of the second-order coding rate is achievable for all quantum channels.

id: 1405.1798
title: Quantum Subsystems: Exploring the Complementarity of Quantum Privacy and Error Correction
authors: Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, David W. Kribs, Raymond Laflamme, Sarah Plosker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1798
abstract: This paper addresses and expands on the contents of the recent Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 030502 (2013)] discussing private quantum subsystems. Here we prove several previously presented results, including a condition for a given random unitary channel to not have a private subspace (although this does not mean that private communication cannot occur, as was previously demonstrated via private subsystems) and algebraic conditions that characterize when a general quantum subsystem or subspace code is private for a quantum channel. These conditions can be regarded as the private analogue of the Knill-Laflamme conditions for quantum error correction, and we explore how the conditions simplify in some special cases. The bridge between quantum cryptography and quantum error correction provided by complementary quantum channels motivates the study of a new, more general definition of quantum error correcting code, and we initiate this study here. We also consider the concept of complementarity for the general notion of private quantum subsystem.

id: 1405.1801
title: Improved transfer matrix methods for calculating quantum transmission-coefficient
authors: Debabrata Biswas, Vishal Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1801
abstract: Methods for calculating the transmission coefficient are proposed, all of which arise from improved non-reflecting WKB boundary conditions at the edge of the computational domain in 1-dimensional geometries. In the first, the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is solved numerically while the second is a transfer matrix (TM) algorithm where the potential is approximated by steps, but with the first and last matrix modified to reflect the new boundary condition. Both methods give excellent results with first order WKB boundary conditions. The third uses the transfer matrix method with third order WKB boundary conditions. For the the parabolic potential, the average error for the modified third order TM method reduces by factor of 4100 over the unmodified TM method.

id: 1405.1847
title: On the spectral distribution of photons between planar interfaces
authors: V. E. Mkrtchian, C. Henkel
comments: 
journal: Armen. J. Phys. 7 (2014) 106-112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1847
abstract: Using a phenomenological approach to field quantization, an expression for the Keldysh function of photons between two planar interfaces (Casimir geometry) is found for any stationary quantum state of the two bodies. The case of one interface sliding against the other is considered in detail.

id: 1405.1852
title: Effects of stochastic noise on dynamical decoupling procedures
authors: J. Z. Bern¨¢d, H. Frydrych
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062327 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1852
abstract: Dynamical decoupling is an important tool to counter decoherence and dissipation effects in quantum systems originating from environmental interactions. It has been used successfully in many experiments; however, there is still a gap between fidelity improvements achieved in practice compared to theoretical predictions. We propose a model for imperfect dynamical decoupling based on a stochastic Ito differential equation which could explain the observed gap. We discuss the impact of our model on the time evolution of various quantum systems in finite- and infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. Analytical results are given for the limit of continuous control, whereas we present numerical simulations and upper bounds for the case of finite control.

id: 1405.1877
title: Hard spheres model of the atom
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1877
abstract: The finite size effect of electron and nucleus is accounted for in the model of atom. Due to their hard sphere repulsion the energy of the 1s orbital decreases and the corrections amount up to 8% in Uranium. Several models for boundary conditions on the atomic nucleus surface are discussed as well.

id: 1405.1886
title: Extended Wigner function formalism for the spatial propagation of particles with internal degrees of freedom
authors: Marcel Utz, Malcolm H Levitt, Nathan Cooper, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1886
abstract: An extended Wigner function formalism is introduced for describing the quantum dynamics of particles with internal degrees of freedom in the presence of spatially inhomogeneous fields. The approach is used for quantitative simulations of molecular beam experiments involving space-spin entanglement, such as the Stern-Gerlach and the Rabi experiment. The formalism allows a graphical visualization of entanglement and decoherence processes.

id: 1405.1913
title: Hybridizing ferromagnetic magnons and microwave photons in the quantum limit
authors: Yutaka Tabuchi, Seiichiro Ishino, Toyofumi Ishikawa, Rekishu Yamazaki, Koji Usami, Yasunobu Nakamura
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 083603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1913
abstract: We demonstrate large normal-mode splitting between a magnetostatic mode (the Kittel mode) in a ferromagnetic sphere of yttrium iron garnet and a microwave cavity mode. Strong coupling is achieved in the quantum regime where the average number of thermally or externally excited magnons and photons is less than one. We also confirm that the coupling strength is proportional to the square root of the number of spins. A nonmonotonic temperature dependence of the Kittel-mode linewidth is observed below 1 K and is attributed to the dissipation due to the coupling with a bath of two-level systems.

id: 1405.1915
title: Tunable coupler for superconducting Xmon qubits: Perturbative nonlinear model
authors: Michael R. Geller, Emmanuel Donate, Yu Chen, Charles Neill, Pedram Roushan, John M. Martinis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1915
abstract: We study a recently demonstrated design for a high-performance tunable coupler suitable for superconducting Xmon and planar transmon qubits [Y. Chen et al., arXiv:1402.7367]. The coupler circuit uses a single flux-biased Josephson junction and acts as a tunable current divider. We calculate the effective qubit-qubit interaction Hamiltonian by treating the nonlinearity of the qubit and coupler junctions perturbatively. We find that the qubit nonlinearity has two principal effects: The first is to suppress the magnitude of the transverse XX coupling from that obtained in the harmonic approximation by about 15%. The second is to induce a small diagonal ZZ coupling. The effects of the coupler junction nonlinearity are negligible in the parameter regime considered.

id: 1405.1939
title: Challenging preconceptions about Bell tests with photon pairs
authors: V. Caprara Vivoli, P. Sekatski, J.-D. Bancal, C.C.W. Lim, B.G. Christensen, A. Martin, R.T. Thew, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin, N. Sangouard
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures,updated figure 1 and appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012107 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1939
abstract: Motivated by very recent experiments, we consider a scenario "\`a la Bell" in which two protagonists test the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality using a photon-pair source based on spontaneous parametric down conversion and imperfect photon detectors. The conventional wisdom says that (i) if the detectors have unit efficiency, the CHSH violation can reach its maximum quantum value $2\sqrt{2}$. To obtain the maximal possible violation, it suffices that the source emits (ii) maximally entangled photon pairs (iii) in two well defined single modes. Through a non-perturabive calculation of non-local correlations, we show that none of these statements are true. By providing the optimal pump parameters, measurement settings and state structure for any detection efficiency and dark count probability, our results give the recipe to close all the loopholes in a Bell test using photon pairs.

id: 1405.1940
title: Quantum metrology and detection of Unruh effect
authors: Jieci Wang, Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing, Heng Fan
comments: 24 pages,3 figures, typos corrected, new references added
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 7195 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1940
abstract: We study the quantum metrology for a pair of entangled Unruh-Dewitt detectors when one of them is accelerated and coupled to a massless scalar field. Comparing with previous schemes, our model requires only local interaction and avoids the use of cavities in the probe state preparation process. We show that the probe state preparation and the interaction between the accelerated detector and the external field have significant effects on the value of quantum Fisher information, correspondingly pose variable ultimate limit of precision in the estimation of Unruh effect. We find that the precision of the estimation can be improved by a larger effective coupling strength and a longer interaction time. Alternatively, the energy gap of the detector has a range that can provide us a better precision. Thus we may adjust those parameters and attain a higher precision in the estimation. We also find that an extremely high acceleration is not required in the quantum metrology process.

id: 1405.1945
title: Operator space approach to steering inequality
authors: Michal Horodecki, Marcin Marciniak, Zhi Yin
comments: Revised version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1945
abstract: In \cite{JP2011,JPPVW2010} the operator space theory was applied to study bipartite Bell inequalities. The aim of the paper is to follow this line of research and use the operator space technique to analyze the steering scenario. We obtain a bipartite steering functional with unbounded largest violation of steering inequality, as well as we can construct all ingredients explicitly. It turns out that the unbounded largest violation is obtained by non maximally entangled state. Moreover, we focus on the bipartite dichotomic case where we construct a steering functional with unbounded largest violation of steering inequality. This phenomenon is different to the Bell scenario where only bounded largest violation can be obtained by any bipartite dichotomic Bell functional.

id: 1405.1961
title: Compatible Quantum Theory
authors: R Friedberg, P C Hohenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1961
abstract: Formulations of quantum mechanics can be characterized as realistic, operationalist, or a combination of the two. In this paper a realistic theory is defined as describing a closed system entirely by means of entities and concepts pertaining to the system. An operationalist theory, on the other hand, requires in addition entities external to the system. A realistic formulation comprises an ontology, the set of (mathematical) entities that describe the system, and assertions, the set of correct statements (predictions) the theory makes about the objects in the ontology. Classical mechanics is the prime example of a realistic physical theory. The present realistic formulation of the histories approach originally introduced by Griffiths, which we call 'Compatible Quantum Theory (CQT)', consists of a 'microscopic' part (MIQM), which applies to a closed quantum system of any size, and a 'macroscopic' part (MAQM), which requires the participation of a large (ideally, an infinite) system. The first (MIQM) can be fully formulated based solely on the assumption of a Hilbert space ontology and the noncontextuality of probability values, relying in an essential way on Gleason's theorem and on an application to dynamics due in large part to Nistico. The microscopic theory does not, however, possess a unique corpus of assertions, but rather a multiplicity of contextual truths ('c-truths'), each one associated with a different framework. This circumstance leads us to consider the microscopic theory to be physically indeterminate and therefore incomplete, though logically coherent. The completion of the theory requires a macroscopic mechanism for selecting a physical framework, which is part of the macroscopic theory (MAQM). Detailed definitions and proofs are presented in the appendices

id: 1405.1968
title: Indirect precise angular control using four-wave mixing
authors: Wei Zhang, Dong-Sheng Ding, Yun-Kun Jiang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Accepted by Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1968
abstract: Here we show indirect precise angular control using a four-wave mixing (FWM) process. This was performed with a superposition of light with orbital angular momentum (OAM) in an M-Type configuration of a hot 85Rb atomic ensemble. A gear-shaped interference pattern is observed at FWM light with a donut-shaped input signal. The gear could be rotated and is controlled through the change of the polarization of the pump laser. Our experimental results that are based on nonlinear coherent interactions have applications in image processing and precise angular control.

id: 1405.1991
title: Deterministic and Robust Generation of Single Photons On a Chip with 99.5% Indistinguishability Using Rapid Adiabatic Passage
authors: Yu-Jia Wei, Yu-Ming He, Ming-Cheng Chen, Yi-Nan Hu, Yu He, Dian Wu, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Sven H?fling, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Nano Lett. 14, 6515-6519 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1991
abstract: We demonstrate deterministic and robust generation of pulsed resonance fluorescence single photons from a single InGaAs quantum dot using the method of rapid adiabatic passage. Comparative study is performed with transform-limited, negatively chirped and positively chirped pulses, identifying the last one to be the most robust against fluctuation of driving strength. The generated single photons are background free, have a vanishing two-photon emission probability of 0.3% and a raw (corrected) two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel interference visibility of 97.9% (99.5%), reaching a precision that places single photons at the threshold for fault-tolerant surface-code quantum computing. The single-photon source can be readily scaled up to multi-photon entanglement and used for quantum metrology, boson sampling and linear optical quantum computing.

id: 1405.2021
title: Universal methods for extending any entanglement witness from the bipartite to the multipartite case
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Hai-Ru Xu, Simone Severini
comments: 7 pages, to rewrite the abstract in details
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90,022312(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2021
abstract: Any bipartite entanglement witness $W$ can be written as $W=c_{\sigma}I-\sigma$, where $\sigma$ is a quantum state, $I$ is the identity matrix, and $c_{\sigma}$ is a non-negative number. We present a general method to extend the given entanglement witness to multipartite cases via purification, partial purification, and direct tensor of the quantum state $\sigma$. Our methods extend $\sigma$ but leave the parameter $c_{\sigma}$ untouched. This is very valuable since the parameter is generally not easy to compute.

id: 1405.2068
title: On-chip interaction-free measurements via the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Xiang Guo, Carsten Schuck, King Y. Fong, Liang Jiang, Hong X. Tang
comments: 4.5 pages + supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2068
abstract: Although interference is a classical-wave phenomenon, the superposition principle, which underlies interference of individual particles, is at the heart of quantum physics. An interaction-free measurements (IFM) harnesses the wave-particle duality of single photons to sense the presence of an object via the modification of the interference pattern, which can be accomplished even if the photon and the object haven't interacted with each other. By using the quantum Zeno effect, the efficiency of an IFM can be made arbitrarily close to unity. Here we report an on-chip realization of the IFM based on silicon photonics. We exploit the inherent advantages of the lithographically written waveguides: excellent interferometric phase stability and mode matching, and obtain multipath interference with visibility above 98%. We achieved a normalized IFM efficiency up to 68.2%, which exceeds the 50% limit of the original IFM proposal.

id: 1405.2116
title: Contextuality is About Identity of Random Variables
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta T163, 014009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2116
abstract: Contextual situations are those in which seemingly "the same" random variable changes its identity depending on the conditions under which it is recorded. Such a change of identity is observed whenever the assumption that the variable is one and the same under different conditions leads to contradictions when one considers its joint distribution with other random variables (this is the essence of all Bell-type theorems). In our Contextuality-by-Default approach, instead of asking why or how the conditions force "one and the same" random variable to change "its" identity, any two random variables recorded under different conditions are considered different "automatically". They are never the same, nor are they jointly distributed, but one can always impose on them a joint distribution (probabilistic coupling). The special situations when there is a coupling in which these random variables are equal with probability 1 are considered non-contextual. Contextuality means that such couplings do not exist. We argue that the determination of the identity of random variables by conditions under which they are recorded is not a causal relationship and cannot violate laws of physics.

id: 1405.2136
title: Proof-of-principle experiment of reference-frame-independent quantum key distribution with phase coding
authors: Wen-Ye Liang, Shuang Wang, Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Wei Chen, Yao Yao, Jing-Zheng Huang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 19 pages
journal: Scientific reports 4 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2136
abstract: We have demonstrated a proof-of-principle experiment of reference-frame-independent phase coding quantum key distribution (RFI-QKD) over an 80-km optical fiber. After considering the finite-key bound, we still achieve a distance of 50 km. In this scenario, the phases of the basis states are related by a slowly time-varying transformation. Furthermore, we developed and realized a new decoy state method for RFI-QKD systems with weak coherent sources to counteract the photon-number-splitting attack. With the help of a reference-frame-independent protocol and a Michelson interferometer with Faraday rotator mirrors, our system is rendered immune to the slow phase changes of the interferometer and the polarization disturbances of the channel, making the procedure very robust.

id: 1405.2184
title: Entanglement spectrum and number fluctuations in the spin-partitioned BCS ground state
authors: Xavier M. Puspus, Kristian Hauser Villegas, Francis N. C. Paraan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Some additions and corrections made
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2184
abstract: We study entanglement between the spin components of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) ground state by calculating the full entanglement spectrum and the corresponding von Neumann entanglement entropy. The entanglement spectrum is effectively modeled by a generalized Gibbs ensemble (GGE) of non-interacting electrons, which may be approximated by a canonical ensemble at the BCS critical temperature. We further demonstrate that the entanglement entropy is jointly proportional to the pairing energy and to the number of electrons about the Fermi surface (an area law). Furthermore, the entanglement entropy is also proportional to the number fluctuations of either spin component in the BCS state.

id: 1405.2188
title: Description of quantum coherence in thermodynamic processes requires constraints beyond free energy
authors: Matteo Lostaglio, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: new title, 11 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Nature Communications 6, 6383 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2188
abstract: Recent studies have developed fundamental limitations on nanoscale thermodynamics, in terms of a set of independent free energy relations. Here we show that free energy relations cannot properly describe quantum coherence in thermodynamic processes. By casting time-asymmetry as a quantifiable, fundamental resource of a quantum state we arrive at an additional, independent set of thermodynamic constraints that naturally extend the existing ones. These asymmetry relations reveal that the traditional Szilard engine argument does not extend automatically to quantum coherences, but instead only relational coherences in a multipartite scenario can contribute to thermodynamic work. We find that coherence transformations are always irreversible. Our results also reveal additional structural parallels between thermodynamics and the theory of entanglement.

id: 1405.2237
title: Dynamics of fluctuations in a quantum system
authors: Yi-Jen Chen, Stefan Pabst, Zheng Li, Oriol Vendrell, Robin Santra
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 052113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2237
abstract: "\textit{The noise is the signal}"[R. Landauer, Nature \textbf{392}, 658 (1998)] emphasizes the rich information content encoded in fluctuations. This paper assesses the dynamical role of fluctuations of a quantum system driven far from equilibrium, with laser-aligned molecules as a physical realization. Time evolutions of the expectation value and the uncertainty of a standard observable are computed quantum mechanically and classically. We demonstrate the intricate dynamics of the uncertainty that are strikingly independent of those of the expectation value, and their exceptional sensitivity to quantum properties of the system. In general, detecting the time evolution of the fluctuations of a given observable provides information on the dynamics of correlations in a quantum system.

id: 1405.2333
title: Single-mode optical fiber for high-power, low-loss UV transmission
authors: Yves Colombe, Daniel H. Slichter, Andrew C. Wilson, Dietrich Leibfried, David J. Wineland
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express 22, 19783-19793 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2333
abstract: We report large-mode-area solid-core photonic crystal fibers made from fused silica that resist ultraviolet (UV) solarization even at relatively high optical powers. Using a process of hydrogen loading and UV irradiation of the fibers, we demonstrate stable single-mode transmission over hundreds of hours for fiber output powers of 10 mW at 280 nm and 125 mW at 313 nm (limited only by the available laser power). Fiber attenuation ranges from 0.9 dB/m to 0.13 dB/m at these wavelengths, and is unaffected by bending for radii above 50 mm.

id: 1405.2354
title: Gates for Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Richard H. Warren
comments: 19 pages, 2 major tables, 18 references, Changes from version 2 include: added Hadamard gate and Acknowledgement, revised Abstract and Introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2354
abstract: The goal of this paper is to introduce building blocks for adiabatic quantum algorithms. Adiabatic quantum computing uses the principle of quantum annealing, which implies that a carefully controlled energy solution is optimal and corresponds to minimizing a discrete function. The input function can be influenced by rewards and penalties to favor a solution that meets restrictions that are imposed by the problem. We show how to accomplish this influence for gates in adiabatic quantum computing, particularly the controlled-NOT gate (CNOT gate) which is fundamental to all quantum gates on two or more qubits. In addition, we adapt the Toffoli gate, the Fredkin gate, and the Hadamard gate to the Ising objective function which is a foundation for discrete optimization on D-Wave System machines. The quantum work in this paper encompasses Boolean operations, some of which are used to construct gates. We think the possible advantages of the building blocks in this paper will enhance quantum algorithms on D-Wave System computers.

id: 1405.2355
title: Local Causality in a Friedmann-Robertson-Walker Spacetime
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure (included)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2355
abstract: A local, deterministic, and realistic model within a Friedmann-Robertson-Walker spacetime with constant spatial curvature is presented which describes simultaneous measurements of the spins of two fermions emerging in a singlet state from the decay of a spinless boson. Exact agreement with the probabilistic predictions of quantum theory is achieved in the model without data rejection, remote contextuality, superdeterminism, or backward causation. An event-by-event numerical simulation of the model is presented, which confirms our analytical results with the accuracy of 4 in ${10^4}$ parts.

id: 1405.2390
title: My Struggles with the Block Universe
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Maximilian Schlosshauer, Blake C. Stacey
comments: CAUTION, do not unthinkingly print from a printer: 2,349 pages, 4 indices, 6 figures, with extensive hyperlinking. Foreword by M. Schlosshauer, edited by B. C. Stacey. v2: more footnotes, fewer typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2390
abstract: This document is the second installment of three in the Cerro Grande Fire Series. Like its predecessor arXiv:quant-ph/0105039, "Notes on a Paulian Idea," it is a collection of letters written to various friends and colleagues, most of whom regularly circuit this archive. The unifying theme of all the letters is that each has something to do with the quantum. Particularly, the collection chronicles the emergence of Quantum Bayesianism as a robust view of quantum theory, eventually evolving into the still-more-radical "QBism" (with the B standing for no particular designation anymore), as it took its most distinctive turn away from various Copenhagen Interpretations. Included are many anecdotes from the history of quantum information theory: for instance, the story of the origin of the terms "qubit" and "quantum information" from their originator's own mouth, a copy of a rejection letter written by E. T. Jaynes for one of Rolf Landauer's original erasure-cost principle papers, and much more. Specialized indices are devoted to historical, technical, and philosophical matters. More roundly, the document is an attempt to provide an essential ingredient, unavailable anywhere else, for turning QBism into a live option within the vast spectrum of quantum foundational thought.

id: 1405.2397
title: Enhanced interferometry using squeezed thermal states and even or odd states
authors: Qing-Shou Tan, Jie-Qiao Liao, Xiaoguang Wang, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, Phys. Rev. A in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053822 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2397
abstract: We derive a general expression of the quantum Fisher information for a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, with the port inputs of an \emph{arbitrary} pure state and a squeezed thermal state. We find that the standard quantum limit can be beaten, when even or odd states are applied to the pure-state port. In particular, when the squeezed thermal state becomes a thermal state, all the even or odd states have the same quantum Fisher information for given photon numbers. For a squeezed thermal state, optimal even or odd states are needed to approach the Heisenberg limit. As examples, we consider several common even or odd states: Fock states, even or odd coherent states, squeezed vacuum states, and single-photon-subtracted squeezed vacuum states. We also demonstrate that super-precision can be realized by implementing the parity measurement for these states.

id: 1405.2400
title: Estimating Franck-Condon factors using an NMR quantum processor
authors: Sharad Joshi, Abhishek Shukla, Hemant Katiyar, Anirban Hazra, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2400
abstract: Interaction of molecules with light may lead to electronic transitions and simultaneous vibrational excitations. Franck-Condon factors (FCFs) play an important role in quantifying the intensities of such vibronic transitions occurring during molecular photo-excitations. In this article, we describe a general method for estimating FCFs using a quantum information processor. The method involves the application of a translation operator followed by the measurement of certain projections. We also illustrate the method by experimentally estimating FCFs with the help of a three-qubit NMR quantum information processor. We describe two methods for the measurement of projections - (i) using diagonal tomography and (ii) using Moussa protocol. The experimental results agree fairly well with the theory.

id: 1405.2408
title: Bell-state Analysis for Logic Qubits Entanglement
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2408
abstract: Decoherence is one of the main obstacles in long-distance quantum communication. Recently, the theoretical work of Fr\"{o}wis and W. D\"{u}r (Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{106}, 110402 (2011)) and the experiment of Lu \emph{et al.} (Nat. Photon. \textbf{8}, 364 (2014)) both showed that the logic qubits entanglement say the concatenated Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (C-GHZ) state is more robust under decoherence. In this paper, we describe a protocol for Bell-state analysis for this logic qubits entanglement. This protocol can also be extended to the multipartite C-GHZ state analysis. Also, we discuss its application in the quantum teleportation of a unknown logic qubit and in the entanglement swapping of logic Bell states. As the logic qubits entanglement is more robust under decoherence, our protocol shows that it is possible to realize the long-distance quantum communication based on logic qubits entanglement.

id: 1405.2438
title: Error analysis of the density-matrix renormalization group algorithm for a chain of harmonic oscillators
authors: Yongjun Ma, Jiaxiang Wang, Xinye Xu, Qi Wei, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2438
abstract: We investigate the application of the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) algorithm to a one-dimensional harmonic oscillator chain and compare the results with exact solutions, aiming to improve the algorithm efficiency. It has been demonstrated that the algorithm can give quite accurate results if the procedure is proper organized, for example, by using the optimized bases. The errors of calculated ground state energy and the energy gap between the ground state and the first excited state are analyzed, which are found to be critically dependent upon the size of the system or the energy level structure of the studied system and the number of states targeted during the DMRG procedure.

id: 1405.2440
title: Analytic Representations of Bath Correlation Functions for Ohmic and Superohmic Spectral Densities Using Simple Poles
authors: Gerhard Ritschel, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2440
abstract: We present a scheme to express a bath correlation function (BCF) corresponding to a given spectral density (SD) as a sum of damped harmonic oscillations. Such a representation is needed, for example, in many open quantum system approaches. To this end we introduce a class of fit functions that enables us to model ohmic as well as superohmic behavior. We show that these functions allow for an analytic calculation of the BCF using pole expansions of the temperature dependent hyperbolic cotangent. We demonstrate how to use these functions to fit spectral densities exemplarily for cases encountered in the description of photosynthetic light harvesting complexes. Finally, we compare absorption spectra obtained for different fits with exact spectra and show that it is crucial to take properly into account the behavior at small frequencies when fitting a given SD.

id: 1405.2473
title: Normal forms, inner products and Maslov indices of general multimode squeezings
authors: A. M. Chebotarev, T. V. Tlyachev
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2473
abstract: In this paper we present a pure algebraic construction of the normal factorization of multimode squeezed states and calculate their inner products. This procedure allows one to orthonormalize bases generated by squeezed states. We calculate several correct representations of the normalizing constant for the normal factorization, discuss an analogue of the Maslov index for squeezed states, and show that the Jordan decomposition is a useful mathematical tool for problems with degenerate Hamiltonians. As an application of this theory we consider a non-trivial class of squeezing problems which are solvable in any dimension.

id: 1405.2495
title: Phonon amplification in two coupled cavities containing one mechanical resonator
authors: Hui Wang, Zhixin Wang, Jing Zhang, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Lan Yang, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053814 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2495
abstract: We study a general theory of phonon lasing [I. S. Grudinin et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 083901 (2010)] in coupled optomechancial systems. We derive the dynamical equation of the phonon lasing using supermodes formed by two cavity modes. A general threshold condition for phonon lasing is obtained. We also show the differences between phonon lasing and photon lasing, generated by photonic supermodes and two-level atomic systems, respectively. We find that the phonon lasing can be realized in certain parameter regime near the threshold. The phase diagram and second-order correlation function of the phonon lasing are also studied to show some interesting phenomena that cannot be observed in the common photon lasing with the two-level systems.

id: 1405.2502
title: Maximal Entanglement - A New Measure of Entanglement
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 8 pages, presented at IWCIT 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2502
abstract: Maximal correlation is a measure of correlation for bipartite distributions. This measure has two intriguing features: (1) it is monotone under local stochastic maps; (2) it gives the same number when computed on i.i.d. copies of a pair of random variables. This measure of correlation has recently been generalized for bipartite quantum states, for which the same properties have been proved. In this paper, based on maximal correlation, we define a new measure of entanglement which we call maximal entanglement. We show that this measure of entanglement is faithful (is zero on separable states and positive on entangled states), is monotone under local quantum operations, and gives the same number when computed on tensor powers of a bipartite state.

id: 1405.2510
title: Preserving Information from the Beginning to the End of time in a Robertson-Walker Spacetime
authors: Stefano Mancini, Roberto Pierini, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures. Presentation updated, matches the published version
journal: New Journal of Physics, vol. 16, page 123049, December 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2510
abstract: Preserving information stored in a physical system subjected to noise can be modeled in a communication-theoretic paradigm, in which storage and retrieval correspond to an input encoding and output decoding, respectively. The encoding and decoding are then constructed in such a way as to protect against the action of a given noisy quantum channel. This paper considers the situation in which the noise is not due to technological imperfections, but rather to the physical laws governing the evolution of the universe. In particular, we consider the dynamics of quantum systems under a 1+1 Robertson-Walker spacetime and find that the noise imparted to them is equivalent to the well known amplitude damping channel. Since one might be interested in preserving both classical and quantum information in such a scenario, we study trade-off coding strategies and determine a region of achievable rates for the preservation of both kinds of information. For applications beyond the physical setting studied here, we also determine a trade-off between achievable rates of classical and quantum information preservation when entanglement assistance is available.

id: 1405.2516
title: Quantum Resource Theory for Charge-Parity-Time Inversion
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Borzu Toloui, Ian T. Durham, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2516
abstract: We develop a complete resource theory of charge-parity-time (CPT) inversion symmetry for both massive and massless relativistic particles of arbitrary spin. We show that a unitary representation of CPT can be consistently constructed for all spins and develop the resource theory associated with CPT super-selection, thereby identifying and quantifying the resources required to lift the super-selection rule.

id: 1405.2519
title: Born--Jordan Quantization and the Equivalence of Matrix and Wave Mechanics
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Errors corrected; slightly expanded. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1404.6775
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2519
abstract: The aim of the famous Born and Jordan 1925 paper was to put Heisenberg's matrix mechanics on a firm mathematical basis. Born and Jordan showed that if one wants to ensure energy conservation in Heisenberg's theory it is necessary and sufficient to quantize observables following a certain ordering rule. One apparently unnoticed consequence of this fact is that Schr\"odinger's wave mechanics cannot be equivalent to Heisenberg's more physically motivated matrix mechanics unless its observables are quantized using this rule, and not the more symmetric prescription proposed by Weyl in 1926, which has become the standard procedure in quantum mechanics. This observation confirms the superiority of Born-Jordan quantization, as already suggested by Kauffmann. We also show how to explicitly determine the Born--Jordan quantization of arbitrary classical variables, and discuss the conceptual advantages in using this quantization scheme. We finally suggest that it might be possible to determine the correct quantization scheme by using the results of weak measurement experiments.

id: 1405.2534
title: Adiabatic potentials using multiple radio frequencies
authors: T. Morgan, Th. Busch, T. Fernholz
comments: 9 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2534
abstract: Adiabatic radio frequency (RF) potentials are powerful tools for creating advanced trapping geometries for ultra-cold atoms. While the basic theory of RF trapping is well understood, studies of more complicated setups involving multiple resonant frequencies in the limit where their effects cannot be treated independently are rare. Here we present an approach based on Floquet theory and show that it offers significant corrections to existing models when two RF frequencies are near degenerate. Furthermore it has no restrictions on the dimension, the number of frequencies or the orientation of the RF fields. We show that the added degrees of freedom can, for example, be used to create a potential that allows for easy creation of ring vortex solitons.

id: 1405.2549
title: Low-frequency anomalies in dynamic localization
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. To appear in J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 (2014) 255504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2549
abstract: Quantum mechanical spreading of a particle hopping on tight binding lattices can be suppressed by the application of an external ac force, leading to periodic wave packet reconstruction. Such a phenomenon, referred to as dynamic localization (DL), occurs for certain magic values of the ratio $\Gamma=F_0/ \omega$ between the amplitude $F_0$ and frequency $\omega$ of the ac force. It is generally believed that in the low-frequency limit ($\omega \rightarrow 0$) DL can be achieved for an infinitesimally small value of the force $F_0$, i.e. at finite values of $\Gamma$. Such a normal behavior is found in homogeneous lattices as well as in inhomogeneous lattices of Glauber-Fock type. Here we introduce a tight-binding lattice model with inhomogeneous hopping rates, referred to as pseudo Glauber-Fock lattice, which shows DL but fails to reproduce the normal low-frequency behavior of homogeneous and Glauber-Fock lattices. In pseudo Glauber-Fock lattices, DL can be exactly realized, however at the DL condition the force amplitude $F_0$ remains finite as $\omega \rightarrow 0$. Such an anomalous behavior is explained in terms of a $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking transition of an associated two-level non-Hermitian Hamiltonian that effectively describes the dynamics of the Hermitian lattice model.

id: 1405.2572
title: Theory-independent limits on correlations from generalised Bayesian networks
authors: Joe Henson, Raymond Lal, Matthew F. Pusey
comments: 26+14 pages, many figures, code at this http URL v2: Various minor improvements, esp. to appendix A
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113043 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2572
abstract: Bayesian networks provide a powerful tool for reasoning about probabilistic causation, used in many areas of science. They are, however, intrinsically classical. In particular, Bayesian networks naturally yield the Bell inequalities. Inspired by this connection, we generalise the formalism of classical Bayesian networks in order to investigate non-classical correlations in arbitrary causal structures. Our framework of `generalised Bayesian networks' replaces latent variables with the resources of any generalised probabilistic theory, most importantly quantum theory, but also, for example, Popescu-Rohrlich boxes. We obtain three main sets of results. Firstly, we prove that all of the observable conditional independences required by the classical theory also hold in our generalisation; to obtain this, we extend the classical $d$-separation theorem to our setting. Secondly, we find that the theory-independent constraints on probabilities can go beyond these conditional independences. For example we find that no probabilistic theory predicts perfect correlation between three parties using only bipartite common causes. Finally, we begin a classification of those causal structures, such as the Bell scenario, that may yield a separation between classical, quantum and general-probabilistic correlations.

id: 1405.2604
title: Exact Solution of a Master Equation Applied to the Two Level System of an Atom
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex, 23 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1304.1591
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys, 11(2014), 1450085 (18 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2604
abstract: In this paper we discuss a master equation applied to the two level system of an atom and derive an exact solution to it in an abstract manner. We also present a problem and a conjecture based on the three level system. Our results may give a small hint to understand the huge transition from Quantum World to Classical World. To the best of our knowledge this is the finest method up to the present.

id: 1405.2623
title: Numerical Evidence for Robustness of Environment-Assisted Quantum Transport
authors: A. Shabani, M. Mohseni, H. Rabitz., S. Lloyd
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.4812
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 89, 042706, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2623
abstract: Recent theoretical studies show that decoherence process can enhance transport efficiency in quantum systems. This effect is known as environment-assisted quantum transport (ENAQT). The role of ENAQT in optimal quantum transport is well investigated, however, it is less known how robust ENAQT is with respect to variations in the system or its environment characteristic. Toward answering this question, we simulated excitonic energy transfer in Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) photosynthetic complex. We found that ENAQT is robust with respect to many relevant parameters of environmental interactions and Frenkel-exciton Hamiltonian including reorganization energy, bath frequency cutoff, temperature, and initial excitations, dissipation rate, trapping rate, disorders, and dipole moments orientations. Our study suggests that the ENAQT phenomenon can be exploited in robust design of highly efficient quantum transport systems.

id: 1405.2634
title: Transfer arbitrary photon state along a cavity array without initialization
authors: Yang Liu, D. L. Zhou
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 013032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2634
abstract: We propose a quantum state transfer (QST) scheme that transfers any single-mode photon state along a one-dimensional coupled-cavity array (CCA). By building a map from QST in a CCA to that in a spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ chain, we show that all the previous results of QST schemes for the spin chain system find paralleled applications in that in the CCA system. Further more, high fidelity QST along a long CCA can be achieved for arbitrary initial states. Using numerical simulations we provide a visual presentation of the result: at some time $\tau$ the CCA system get high fidelity QST under different initial conditions. Finally we discuss possible experimental realizations of our QST scheme.

id: 1405.2665
title: Quantum coherence rather than quantum correlations reflect the effects of reservoir on the system's work capability
authors: Hai Li, Jian Zou, Wen-Li Yu, Bao-Ming Xu, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2665
abstract: We consider a model of an optical cavity with a nonequilibrium reservoir consisting of a beam of identical two-level atom pairs (TLAPs) in the general X-state. We find that coherence of multiparticle nonequilibrium reservoir plays a central role on the potential work capability of cavity. We show that no matter whether there are quantum correlations in each TLAP (including quantum entanglement and quantum discord) or not the coherence of the TLAPs has an effect on the work capability of the cavity. Additionally, constructive and destructive interferences could be induced to influence the work capability of cavity only by adjusting the relative phase with which quantum correlations have nothing to do. In this paper, the coherence of reservoir rather than the quantum correlations effectively reflecting the effects of reservoir on the system's work capability is demonstrated clearly.

id: 1405.2694
title: Strain-optic active control for quantum integrated photonics
authors: Peter C. Humphreys, Benjamin J. Metcalf, Justin B. Spring, Merritt Moore, Patrick S. Salter, Martin J. Booth, W. Steven Kolthammer, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Updated to be consistent with published version
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 18, pp. 21719-21726 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2694
abstract: We present a practical method for active phase control on a photonic chip that has immediate applications in quantum photonics. Our approach uses strain-optic modification of the refractive index of individual waveguides, effected by a millimeter-scale mechanical actuator. The resulting phase change of propagating optical fields is rapid and polarization-dependent, enabling quantum applications that require active control and polarization encoding. We demonstrate strain-optic control of non-classical states of light in silica, showing the generation of 2-photon polarisation N00N states by manipulating Hong-Ou-Mandel interference. We also demonstrate switching times of a few microseconds, which are sufficient for silica-based feed-forward control of photonic quantum states.

id: 1405.2696
title: Quantum Simulation of Helium Hydride in a Solid-State Spin Register
authors: Ya Wang, Florian Dolde, Jacob Biamonte, Ryan Babbush, Ville Bergholm, Sen Yang, Ingmar Jakobi, Philipp Neumann, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, James D. Whitfield, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2696
abstract: \emph{Ab initio} computation of molecular properties is one of the most promising applications of quantum computing. While this problem is widely believed to be intractable for classical computers, efficient quantum algorithms exist which have the potential to vastly accelerate research throughput in fields ranging from material science to drug discovery. Using a solid-state quantum register realized in a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defect in diamond, we compute the bond dissociation curve of the minimal basis helium hydride cation, HeH$^+$. Moreover, we report an energy uncertainty (given our model basis) of the order of $10^{-14}$ Hartree, which is ten orders of magnitude below desired chemical precision. As NV centers in diamond provide a robust and straightforward platform for quantum information processing, our work provides several important steps towards a fully scalable solid state implementation of a quantum chemistry simulator.

id: 1405.2710
title: Photon modulated coherent states of a generalized isotonic oscillator by Weyl ordering and their non-classical properties
authors: V. Chithiika Ruby, M. Senthilvelan
comments: To appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys., 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2710
abstract: We construct photon modulated coherent states of a generalized isotonic oscillator by expanding the newly introduced superposed operator through Weyl ordering method. We evaluate the parameter $A_3$ and the $s$-parameterized quasi probability distribution function to confirm the non - classical nature of the states. We also calculate the identities related with the quadrature squeezing to explore the squeezing property of the states. Finally, we investigate the fidelity between the photon modulated coherent states and coherent states to quantify the non-Gaussianity of the states. The constructed states and their associated non - classical properties will add further knowledge on the potential.

id: 1405.2744
title: Benford's law gives better scale exponents in phase transitions of quantum XY models
authors: Ameya Deepak Rane, Utkarsh Mishra, Anindya Biswas, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, REVTeX4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022144 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2744
abstract: Benford's law is an empirical law predicting the distribution of the first significant digits of numbers obtained from natural phenomena and mathematical tables. It has been found to be applicable for numbers coming from a plethora of sources, varying from seismographic, biological, financial, to astronomical. We apply this law to analyze the data obtained from physical many-body systems described by the one-dimensional anisotropic quantum XY models in a transverse magnetic field. We detect the zero-temperature quantum phase transition and find that our method gives better finite-size scaling exponents for the critical point than many other known scaling exponents using measurable quantities like magnetization, entanglement, and quantum discord. We extend our analysis to the same system but at finite temperature and find that it also detects the finite temperature phase transition in the model. Moreover, we compare the Benford distribution analysis with the same obtained from the uniform and Poisson distributions. The analysis is furthermore important in that the high-precision detection of the cooperative physical phenomena is possible even from low-precision experimental data.

id: 1405.2749
title: A quantum algorithm for additive approximation of Ising partition functions
authors: Akira Matsuo, Keisuke Fujii, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2749
abstract: We investigate quantum computational complexity of calculating partition functions of Ising models. We construct a quantum algorithm for an additive approximation of Ising partition functions on square lattices. To this end, we utilize the overlap mapping developed by Van den Nest, D\"ur, and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 117207 (2007)] and its interpretation through measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC). We specify an algorithmic domain, on which the proposed algorithm works, and an approximation scale, which determines the accuracy of the approximation. We show that the proposed algorithm does a nontrivial task, which would be intractable on any classical computer, by showing the problem solvable by the proposed quantum algorithm are BQP-complete. In the construction of the BQP-complete problem coupling strengths and magnetic fields take complex values. However, the Ising models that are of central interest in statistical physics and computer science consist of real coupling strengths and magnetic fields. Thus we extend the algorithmic domain of the proposed algorithm to such a real physical parameter region and calculate the approximation scale explicitly. We found that the overlap mapping and its MBQC interpretation improves the approximation scale exponentially compared to a straightforward constant depth quantum algorithm. On the other hand, the proposed quantum algorithm also provides us a partial evidence that there exist no efficient classical algorithm for a multiplicative approximation of the Ising partition functions even on the square lattice. This result supports that the proposed quantum algorithm does a nontrivial task also in the physical parameter region.

id: 1405.2757
title: Pre-entaglement shows that individual quantum systems do not possess states
authors: D. J. Miller, Matt Farr
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, title changed, discussion revised, extra references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2757
abstract: We consider an experiment in which quantum tomography data is collected before and after an entangling measurement performed on two independently prepared, maximally-mixed ensembles. We show that each sub-ensemble that is, as expected, entangled after the measurement is also entangled before it. We call the latter pre-entanglement. If individual systems possessed quantum states, their independent preparations would mean the sub-ensembles were in separable states prior to the entanglement event. The contradiction can be resolved by assigning states only to ensembles and not individual quantum systems. Pre-entanglement found here at the quantum level makes very doubtful the assumption of preparation independence at the ontic level required for a recent theorem.

id: 1405.2774
title: Square-Well Approximation for the Anharmonic and the Double-Well Oscillators
authors: B. P. Mahapatra, N. B. Pradhan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2774
abstract: A novel general approximation scheme (NGAS) proposed earlier (ref.2-3) is applied to the problem of the quartic anharmonic (QAHO) and the double-well-oscillator (QDWO) in quantum theory by choosing the infinite square-well-potential in one dimension as the input approximation. The leading order (LO) results obtained for the energy eigen-values are uniformly accurate to within a few percent of the exact results for $arbitrary$ values of the quartic coupling: $\lambda > 0$ and the level-index $n_s$. These results are shown to be non-perturbative in the LO and reproduce the known analytic and scaling properties of energy as a function of the coupling $\lambda$ and $n_s$. The LO-results are further improved in accuracy by including the perturbative-correction at the next non-trivial order of an improved perturbation theory (IPT) based upon NGAS. The method can be trivially extended to other cases of higher anharmonicity.

id: 1405.2825
title: Non-equilibrium Quantum Many-Body Green Function Formalism in the light of Quantum Information Theory
authors: A. K. Rajgaopal
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2825
abstract: The following issues are discussed inspired by the recent paper of Kadanoff (arXiv: 1403:6162): (a) Construction of a generalized one-particle Wigner distribution (GWD) function (analog of the classical distribution function) from which the quantum kinetic equation due to Kadanoff and Baym (KB) is derived, often called the Quantum Boltzmann Equation (QBE); (b) The equation obeyed by this has a collision contribution in the form of a two-particle Green function. This term is manipulated to have Kinetic Entropy in parallel to its counterpart in the classical Boltzmann kinetic equation for the classical distribution function. This proved to be problematic in that unlike in the classical Boltzmann kinetic equation, the contribution from the kinetic entropy term was non-positive; (3) Kadanoff surmised that this situation could perhaps be related to quantum entanglement that may not have been included in his theory. It is shown that GWD is not positive everywhere (indicating dynamical quantumness) just like the commonly recognized property of the Wigner function (negative property indicating quantumness of the state). The issue of non-positive feature appearing in approximate evaluation of patently positive entities in many particle systems is here pointed to an early discussion of this issue (Phys. Rev. A10, 1852 (1974)) in terms of a theorem on truncation of cumulant expansion of a probability distribution function due to Marcinkeiwicz. The last issue of presence or absence of entanglement in an approximate evaluation of a many particle correlation poses a new problem; it is considered here in terms of fermionic entanglement theory in the light of density matrix and Green function theory of many-fermion systems. The clue comes from the fact that the Hartree-Fock approximation exhbits no entantanglement in two-particle fermion density matrix and hence also in two-particle Green function.

id: 1405.2831
title: What is a quantum simulator?
authors: T. H. Johnson, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 2014, 1:10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2831
abstract: Quantum simulators are devices that actively use quantum effects to answer questions about model systems and, through them, real systems. Here we expand on this definition by answering several fundamental questions about the nature and use of quantum simulators. Our answers address two important areas. First, the difference between an operation termed simulation and another termed computation. This distinction is related to the purpose of an operation, as well as our confidence in and expectation of its accuracy. Second, the threshold between quantum and classical simulations. Throughout, we provide a perspective on the achievements and directions of the field of quantum simulation.

id: 1405.2845
title: Extending a characterization of majorization to infinite dimensions
authors: Rajesh Pereira, Sarah Plosker
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2845
abstract: We consider recent work linking majorization and trumping, two partial orders that have proven useful with respect to the entanglement transformation problem in quantum information, with general Dirichlet polynomials, Mellin transforms, and completely monotone sequences. We extend a basic majorization result to the more physically realistic infinite-dimensional setting through the use of generalized Dirichlet series and Riemann-Stieltjes integrals.

id: 1405.2868
title: Optomechanical sensing of spontaneous wave-function collapse
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 3 figures, revised version with extended supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2868
abstract: Quantum experiments with nanomechanical oscillators are regarded as a testbed for hypothetical modifications of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which predict a breakdown of the superposition principle and induce classical behavior at the macro-scale. It is generally believed that the sensitivity to these unconventional effects grows with the mass of the mechanical quantum system. Here we show that the opposite is the case for optomechanical systems in the presence of generic noise sources, such as thermal and measurement noise. We determine conditions for distinguishing these decoherence processes from possible collapse-induced decoherence in continuous optomechanical force measurements.

id: 1405.2944
title: Wigner formalism for a particle on an infinite lattice: dynamics and spin
authors: M. Hinarejos, M. C. Ba?uls, A. P¨¦rez
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 013037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2944
abstract: The recently proposed Wigner function for a particle in an infinite lattice [NJP 14, 103009 (2012)] is extended here to include an internal degree of freedom, as spin. The formalism is developed to account for dynamical processes, with or without decoherence. We show explicit solutions for the case of Hamiltonian evolution under a position-dependent potential, and for evolution governed by a master equation under some simple models of decoherence. Discrete processes are also discussed. Finally we discuss the possibility of introducing a negativity concept for the Wigner function in the case in which the spin degree of freedom is included.

id: 1405.2959
title: Type I parametric down conversion of highly focused Gaussian beams in finite length crystals
authors: Yasser Jeronimo-Moreno, R. J¨¢uregui
comments: accepted for publication in Journal of Optics (jopt). 8 pages 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. 16 (2014) 065201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2959
abstract: We study the correlations in wave vector space of photon pairs generated by type I spontaneous parametric down conversion using a Gaussian pump beam. We analyze both moderate focused and highly focused regimes taking special attention to the angular spectrum and the conditional angular spectrum. Simple analytic expressions are derived that allow us to study in detail the dependence of these spectra on the waist of the source and the length of the nonlinear crystal. These expressions are in good agreement with numerical expectations and reported experimental results. They are used to make a systematic search of optimization parameters that improve the feasibility of using highly focused Gaussian beams to generate idler and signal photons with predetermined mean values and spread of their transverse wave vectors.

id: 1405.2964
title: Dicke-type phase transition in a multimode optomechanical system
authors: Jesse Mumford, D. H. J. O'Dell, Jonas Larson
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 527, 115 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2964
abstract: We consider the "membrane in the middle" optomechanical model consisting of a laser pumped cavity which is divided in two by a flexible membrane that is partially transmissive to light and subject to radiation pressure. Steady state solutions at the mean-field level reveal that there is a critical strength of the light-membrane coupling above which there is a symmetry breaking bifurcation where the membrane spontaneously acquires a displacement either to the left or the right. This bifurcation bears many of the signatures of a second order phase transition and we compare and contrast it with that found in the Dicke model. In particular, by studying limiting cases and deriving dynamical critical exponents using the fidelity susceptibility method, we argue that the two models share very similar critical behaviour. For example, the obtained critical exponents indicate that they fall within the same universality class. Away from the critical regime we identify, however, some discrepancies between the two models. Our results are discussed in terms of experimentally relevant parameters and we evaluate the prospects for realizing Dicke-type physics in these systems.

id: 1405.2990
title: Magnetically driven quantum heat engine
authors: Enrique Mu?oz, Francisco J. Pe?a
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1207.6149
journal: Physical Review E 89, 052107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2990
abstract: We studied the efficiency of two different schemes for a magnetically driven quantum heat engine, by considering as the working substance a single nonrelativistic particle trapped in a cylindrical potential well, in the presence of an external magnetic field. The first scheme is a cycle, composed of two adiabatic and two isoenergetic reversible trajectories in configuration space. The trajectories are driven by a quasistatic modulation of the external magnetic-field intensity. The second scheme is a variant of the former, where the isoenergetic trajectories are replaced by isothermal ones, along which the system is in contact with macroscopic thermostats. This second scheme constitutes a quantum analog of the classical Carnot cycle.

id: 1405.3039
title: Limits to catalysis in quantum thermodynamics
authors: Nelly Huei Ying Ng, Laura Man?inska, Cristina Cirstoiu, Jens Eisert, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 6+12 pages revtex, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3039
abstract: Quantum thermodynamics is a research field that aims at fleshing out the ultimate limits of thermodynamic processes in the deep quantum regime. A complete picture of quantum thermodynamics allows for catalysts, i.e., systems facilitating state transformations while remaining essentially intact in their state, very much reminding of catalysts in chemical reactions. In this work, we present a comprehensive analysis of the power and limitation of such thermal catalysis. Specifically, we provide a family of optimal catalysts that can be returned with minimal trace distance error after facilitating a state transformation process. To incorporate the genuine physical role of a catalyst, we identify very significant restrictions on arbitrary state transformations under dimension or mean energy bounds, using methods of convex relaxations. We discuss the implication of these findings on possible thermodynamic state transformations in the quantum regime.

id: 1405.3046
title: Circuit QED flip-flop memory with all-microwave switching
authors: Christian Kraglund Andersen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures and Supplementary Information
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 3, 024002 - Published 6 February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3046
abstract: We present a theoretical proposal for a microwave driven circuit composed of superconducting resonators and qubits which shows a bistable behaviour, and we present a simple mechanism that allows single- or few-photon microwave pulses to work as Set- and Reset-signals that switch the circuit between its stable modes. The resulting system constitutes an ultra-low-energy Set-Reset flip-flop, and we show that its memory lifetime far exceeds the lifetime of states stored in any of its separate components.

id: 1405.3053
title: Controllable linear $¦Ð$-phase modulation in a thermal atom vapor without diffraction or absorption
authors: Lida Zhang, J?rg Evers
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023826 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3053
abstract: A scheme is proposed to achieve substantial controllable phase modulation for a probe field propagating through a thermal atomic vapor in double-$\Lambda$ configuration. The phase modulation is based on the linear susceptibility of the probe field, paraxial diffraction is eliminated by exploiting the thermal motion of atoms, and residual absorption is compensated via an incoherent pump field. As a result, a strong controllable uniform phase modulation without paraxial diffraction is achieved essentially independent of the spatial profile or the intensity of the probe field. This phase shift can be controlled via the intensities of the control or the incoherent pump fields. A possible proof-of-principle experiment in alkali atoms is discussed.

id: 1405.3063
title: Quantum-entangled light from localized emitters
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, W. Vogel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3063
abstract: Localized radiation sources are analyzed with respect to the relation of nonclassicality and quantum entanglement of the emitted light. The source field parts of the radiation emitted in different directions are closely related to each other. As a consequence, nonclassicality of the light fields in one direction directly implies entanglement of the field modes in different directions. This implication can be extended to multipartite-entanglement and multi-time quantum correlations. Given that a nonclassical effect is observed, our approach explicitly yields the multipartite entanglement witnesses. Two examples are considered, the fluorescence radiation of a system of two-level atoms and of excitons in a semiconductor quantum well.

id: 1405.3067
title: Trajectories without quantum uncertainties
authors: Eugene S. Polzik, Klemens Hammerer
comments: Submitted to the special issue "Quantum and Hybrid Mechanical Systems - From Fundamentals to Applications" in Annalen der Physik
journal: Ann. Phys. 527, A15 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3067
abstract: A common knowledge suggests that trajectories of particles in quantum mechanics always have quantum uncertainties. These quantum uncertainties set by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle limit precision of measurements of fields and forces, and ultimately give rise to the standard quantum limit in metrology. With the rapid developments of sensitivity of measurements these limits have been approached in various types of measurements including measurements of fields and acceleration. Here we show that a quantum trajectory of one system measured relatively to the other "reference system" with an effective negative mass can be quantum uncertainty--free. The method crucially relies on the generation of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled state of two objects, one of which has an effective negative mass. From a practical perspective these ideas open the way towards force and acceleration measurements at new levels of sensitivity far below the standard quantum limit.

id: 1405.3104
title: Security of modified Ping-Pong protocol in noisy and lossy channel
authors: Yun-Guang Han, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, published in scientific reports
journal: Scientific reports 4,4936(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3104
abstract: The "Ping-Pong" (PP) protocol is a two-way quantum key protocol based on entanglement. In this protocol, Bob prepares one maximally entangled pair of qubits, and sends one qubit to Alice. Then, Alice performs some necessary operations on this qubit and sends it back to Bob. Although this protocol was proposed in 2002, its security in the noisy and lossy channel has not been proven. In this report, we add a simple and experimentally feasible modification to the original PP protocol, and prove the security of this modified PP protocol against collective attacks when the noisy and lossy channel is taken into account. Simulation results show that our protocol is practical.

id: 1405.3211
title: Bell Inequalities with Communication Assistance
authors: Katherine Maxwell, Eric Chitambar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3211
abstract: In this paper we consider the possible correlations between two parties using local machines and shared randomness with an additional amount of classical communication. This is a continuation of the work initiated by Bacon and Toner in Ref. [\textit{Phys. Rev. Lett.} \textbf{90}, 157904 (2003)] who characterized the correlation polytope for $2\times 2$ measurement settings with binary outcomes plus one bit of communication. Here, we derive a complete set of Bell Inequalities for $3\times 2$ measurement settings and a shared bit of communication. When the communication direction is fixed, nine Bell Inequalities characterize the correlation polytope, whereas when the communication direction is bi-directional, 143 inequalities describe the correlations. We then prove a tight lower bound on the amount of communication needed to simulate all no-signaling correlations for a given number of measurement settings.

id: 1405.3234
title: Proposal for the generation of photon pairs with nonzero orbital angular momentum in a ring fiber
authors: Dalibor Jav?rek, Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Jan Pe?ina Jr
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 22, 23743 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3234
abstract: We present a method for the generation of correlated photon pairs in desired orbital-angular-momentum states using a non-linear silica ring fiber and spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Photon-pair emission under quasi-phase-matching conditions with quantum conversion efficiency $ 6\times 10^{-11} $ is found in a 1-m long fiber with a thermally induced $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinearity in a ring-shaped core.

id: 1405.3254
title: Causality and chance in relativistic quantum field theories
authors: Richard Healey
comments: Forthcoming in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics.Healey,R.A. Causality and chance in relativistic quantum field theories. Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics (2014), this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3254
abstract: Bell appealed to the theory of relativity in formulating his principle of local causality. But he maintained that quantum field theories do not conform to that principle, even when their field equations are relativistically covariant and their observable algebras satisfy a relativistically motivated microcausality condition. A pragmatist view of quantum theory and an interventionist approach to causation prompt the reevaluation of local causality and microcausality. Local causality cannot be understood as a reasonable requirement on relativistic quantum field theories: it is unmotivated even if applicable to them. But microcausality emerges as a sufficient condition for the consistent application of a relativistic quantum field theory.

id: 1405.3259
title: Algorithms for finite Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Michael Lubasch, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mari-Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 064425 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3259
abstract: Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) are a promising ansatz for the study of strongly correlated quantum many-body systems in two dimensions. But due to their high computational cost, developing and improving PEPS algorithms is necessary to make the ansatz widely usable in practice. Here we analyze several algorithmic aspects of the method. On the one hand, we quantify the connection between the correlation length of the PEPS and the accuracy of its approximate contraction, and discuss how purifications can be used in the latter. On the other, we present algorithmic improvements for the update of the tensor that introduce drastic gains in the numerical conditioning and the efficiency of the algorithms. Finally, the state-of-the-art general PEPS code is benchmarked with the Heisenberg and quantum Ising models on lattices of up to $21 \times 21$ sites.

id: 1405.3280
title: The Logic of Identity: Distinguishability and Indistinguishability in Classical and Quantum Physics
authors: Dennis Dieks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3280
abstract: The suggestion that particles of the same kind may be indistinguishable in a fundamental sense, even so that challenges to traditional notions of individuality and identity may arise, has first come up in the context of classical statistical mechanics. In particular, the Gibbs paradox has sometimes been interpreted as a sign of the untenability of the classical concept of a particle and as a premonition that quantum theory is needed. This idea of a quantum connection stubbornly persists in the literature, even though it has also been criticized frequently. Here we shall argue that although this criticism is justified, the proposed alternative solutions have often been wrong and have not put the paradox in its right perspective. In fact, the Gibbs paradox is unrelated to fundamental issues of particle identity; only distinguishability in a pragmatic sense plays a role (in this we develop ideas of van Kampen [10]), and in principle the paradox always is there as long as the concept of a particle applies at all. In line with this we show that the paradox survives even in quantum mechanics, in spite of the quantum mechanical (anti-)symmetrization postulates.

id: 1405.3289
title: Implementation of the Dicke lattice model in hybrid quantum system arrays
authors: Liujun Zou, David Marcos, Sebastian Diehl, Stefan Putz, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Johannes Majer, Peter Rabl
comments: 4+1 pages, 3 figures and supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 023603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3289
abstract: Generalized Dicke models can be implemented in hybrid quantum systems built from ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond coupled to superconducting microwave cavities. By engineering cavity assisted Raman transitions between two spin states of the NV defect, a fully tunable model for collective light-matter interactions in the ultra-strong coupling limit can be obtained. Our analysis of the resulting non-equilibrium phases for a single cavity and for coupled cavity arrays shows that different superradiant phase transitions can be observed using existing experimental technologies, even in the presence of large inhomogeneous broadening of the spin ensemble. The phase diagram of the Dicke lattice model displays distinct features induced by dissipation, which can serve as a genuine experimental signature for phase transitions in driven open quantum systems.

id: 1405.3325
title: Plasmon-assisted quantum control of distant emitters
authors: C. E. Susa, J. H. Reina, R. Hildner
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014) 2371-2376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3325
abstract: We show how to generate and control the correlations in a set of two distant quantum emitters coupled to a one-dimensional dissipative plasmonic waveguide. An external laser field enhances the dimer's steady-state correlations and allows an active control (switching on/off) of nonclassical correlations. The plasmon-assisted dipolar-interacting qubits exhibit persistent correlations, which in turn can be decoupled and made to evolve independently from each other. The setup enables long-distance ($\sim 1\, \mu$m) qubit control that works for both resonant and detuned emitters. For suitable emitter initialization, we also show that the quantum correlation is always greater than the classical one.

id: 1405.3337
title: Thermal effects on bipartite and multipartite correlations in fiber coupled cavity arrays
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Ai-Xi Chen
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 1126 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3337
abstract: We investigate the thermal influence of fibers on the dynamics of bipartite and multipartite correlations in fiber coupled cavity arrays where each cavity is resonantly coupled to a two-level atom. The atom-cavity systems connected by fibers can be considered as polaritonic qubits. We first derive a master equation to describe the evolution of the atom-cavity systems. The bipartite (multipartite) correlations is measured by concurrence and discord (spin squeezing). Then, we solve the master equation numerically and study the thermal effects on the concurrence, discord, and spin squeezing of qubits. On the one hand, at zero temperature, there are steady-state bipartite and multipartite correlations. One the other hand, the thermal fluctuations of a fiber may blockade the generation of entanglement of two qubits connected directly by the fiber while the discord can be generated and stored for a long time. This thermal-induced blockade effects of bipartite correlations may be useful for quantum information processing. The bipartite correlations of a longer chain of qubits is more robust than a shorter one in the presence of thermal fluctuations.

id: 1405.3355
title: Quantum and classical correlations in the solid-state NMR free induction decay
authors: V. E. Zobov, A. A. Lundin
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3355
abstract: The free-induction decay (FID) of the transverse magnetization in a dipolar-coupled rigid lattice is a fundamental problem in magnetic resonance and in the theory of many-body systems. As it was shown earlier the FID shapes for the systems of classical magnetic moments and for quantum nuclear spins ones coincide if there are many quite equivalent nearest neighbors V in a solid lattice. In this paper, we reduce a multispin density matrix of above system to a two-spin matrix. Then we obtain analytic expressions for the mutual information and the quantum and classical parts of correlations at the arbitrary spin quantum number S, in the high-temperature approximation. The time dependence of these functions is expressed via the derivative of the FID shape. To extract classical correlations for S>1/2 we provide generalized POVM measurement using the basis of spin coherent states. We show that in every pair of spins the portion of quantum correlations changes from 1/2 to 1/(S+1) when S is growing up, and quantum properties disappear completely only if S tend to infinity and not in the case when V tend to infinity.

id: 1405.3364
title: Explanation of Superluminal Phenomena Based on Wave-Particle Duality and Proposed Optical Experiments
authors: Hai-Long Zhao
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, experiments perfected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3364
abstract: We suggest an explanation for superluminal phenomena based on wave-particle duality of photons. A single photon can be regarded as a wavepacket, whose spatial extension is its coherence volume. As photon propagates as a wave train, its velocity is just the speed of light in vacuum. When it tunnels through a barrier as a particle, its wave function collapses and it travels faster than light. But superluminal phenomena can only occur within the coherence length, and the duration is restricted by uncertainty principle. On the other hand, a particle with non-vanishing mass cannot travel faster than light. So superluminal phenomena do not violate causality. We explain the principle of existing superluminal experiments and propose three types of experiments to further verify superluminal phenomena. The first is to show that a single photon is equivalent to a wavepacket, which occupies certain spatial volume. The second demonstrates that superluminal phenomena can only occur within the coherence length. The third indicates that superluminal velocity and negative group velocity in anomalous dispersion media are the consequence of reshaping of the pulse but not the true superluminal propagations.

id: 1405.3415
title: On positive maps in quantum information
authors: Wladyslaw A. Majewski
comments: Paper dedicated to the memory of Viacheslav "Slava" Belavkin. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1005.3949
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3415
abstract: Using Grothendieck approach to the tensor product of locally convex spaces we review a characterization of positive maps as well as Belavkin-Ohya characterization of PPT states. Moreover, within this scheme, \textit{ a generalization of the idea of Choi matrices for genuine quantum systems will be presented}.

id: 1405.3473
title: Coherent polariton dynamics in coupled highly-dissipative cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Yong-Chun Liu, Xingsheng Luan, Hao-Kun Li, Qihuang Gong, Chee Wei Wong, Yun-Feng Xiao
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 213602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3473
abstract: Coherent light-matter interaction at the single photon and electronic qubit level promises the remarkable potential for nonclassical information processing. Against the efforts of improving the figure of merit of the cavities, here we demonstrate strong anharmonicity in the polariton dressed states via dark state resonances in a highly dissipative cavity. It is shown that vacuum Rabi oscillation occurs for a single quantum emitter inside a cavity even with bosonic decay-to-interaction rate ratio exceeding $10^{2}$, when the photon field is coupled to an auxiliary high-$Q$ cavity. Moreover, photon blockade is observable in such a highly-dissipative cavity quantum electrodynamics system. This study provides a promising platform for overcoming decoherence and advancing the coherent manipulation of polariton qubits.

id: 1405.3483
title: Quantum Mechanics Without State Vectors
authors: Steven Weinberg
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3483
abstract: It is proposed to give up the description of physical states in terms of ensembles of state vectors with various probabilities, relying instead solely on the density matrix as the description of reality. With this definition of a physical state, even in entangled states nothing that is done in one isolated system can instantaneously effect the physical state of a distant isolated system. This change in the description of physical states opens up a large variety of new ways that the density matrix may transform under various symmetries, different from the unitary transformations of ordinary quantum mechanics. Such new transformation properties have been explored before, but so far only for the symmetry of time translations into the future, treated as a semi-group. Here new transformation properties are studied for general symmetry transformations forming groups, rather than semi-groups. Arguments are given that such symmetries should act on the density matrix as in ordinary quantum mechanics, but loopholes are found for all of these arguments.

id: 1405.3565
title: General-dyne unravelling of a thermal master equation
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Stefano Mancini, Alessio Serafini
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; v2: published version in "Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics - Special Issue dedicated to Viacheslav Belavkin"; Ref. [19] added in the arXiv version but missing in the journal version
journal: Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics 21, 329 (2014) - Special Issue dedicated to Viacheslav Belavkin
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3565
abstract: We analyse the unravelling of the quantum optical master equation at finite temperature due to direct, continuous, general-dyne detection of the environment. We first express the general-dyne Positive Operator Valued Measure (POVM) in terms of the eigenstates of a non-hermitian operator associated to the general-dyne measurement. Then, we derive the stochastic master equation obtained by considering the interaction between the system and a reservoir at thermal equilibrium, which is measured according to the POVM previously determined. Finally, we present a feasible measurement scheme which reproduces general-dyne detection for any value of the parameter characterising the stochastic master equation.

id: 1405.3569
title: Any realistic model of a physical system must be computationally realistic
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 5 pages, replaces the earlier attempt arXiv:1401.1747 and answers some critiques of arXiv:1403.7686
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 574 012088, Issue 1 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3569
abstract: It is argued that any possible definition of a realistic physics theory -- i.e., a mathematical model representing the real world -- cannot be considered comprehensive unless it is supplemented with requirement of being computationally realistic. That is, the mathematical structure of a realistic model of a physical system must allow the collection of all the system's physical quantities to compute all possible measurement outcomes on some computational device not only in an unambiguous way but also in a reasonable amount of time. In the paper, it is shown that a deterministic quantum model of a microscopic system evolving in isolation should be regarded as realistic since the NP-hard problem of finding the exact solution to the Schrodinger equation for an arbitrary physical system can be surely solved in a reasonable amount of time in the case, in which the system has just a small number of degrees of freedom. In contrast to this, the deterministic quantum model of a truly macroscopic object ought to be considered as non-realistic since in a world of limited computational resources the intractable problem possessing that enormous amount of degrees of freedom would be the same as mere unsolvable.

id: 1405.3613
title: Spin oscillations of relativistic fermions in the field of a traveling circularly polarized electromagnetic wave and a constant magnetic field
authors: Boris V. Gisin
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3613
abstract: The Dirac equation, in the field of a traveling circularly polarized electromagnetic wave and a constant magnetic field, has singular solutions, corresponding the expansion of energy in vicinity of some singular point. These solutions described relativistic fermions. States relating to these solutions are not stationary. The temporal change of average energy, momentum and spin for single and mixed states is studied in the paper. A distinctive feature of the states is the disappearance of the longitudinal component of the average spin. Another feature is the equivalence of the condition of fermion minimal energy and the classical condition of the magnetic resonance. Finding such solutions assumes the use of a transformation for rotating and co-moving frames of references. Comparison studies of solutions obtained with the Galilean and non-Galilean transformation shown that some parameters of the non-Galilean transformation may be measured in high-energy physics.

id: 1405.3657
title: Anonymous Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Florian John Curchod, Joseph Bowles, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 + 4 pages, 2 figures; comments welcomed!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 130401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3657
abstract: We show that for all $n\ge3$, an example of an $n$-partite quantum correlation that is not genuinely multipartite nonlocal but rather exhibiting anonymous nonlocality, that is, nonlocal but biseparable with respect to all bipartitions, can be obtained by locally measuring the $n$-partite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state. This anonymity is a manifestation of the impossibility to attribute unambiguously the underlying multipartite nonlocality to any definite subset(s) of the parties, even though the correlation can indeed be produced by nonlocal collaboration involving only such subsets. An explicit biseparable decomposition of these correlations is provided for any partitioning of the $n$ parties into two groups. Two possible applications of these anonymous GHZ correlations in the device-independent setting are discussed: multipartite secret sharing between any two groups of parties and bipartite quantum key distribution that is robust against nearly arbitrary leakage of information.

id: 1405.3681
title: Terminality implies non-signalling
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 27-35
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3681
abstract: A 'process theory' is any theory of systems and processes which admits sequential and parallel composition. `Terminality' unifies normalisation of pure states, trace-preservation of CP-maps, and adding up to identity of positive operators in quantum theory, and generalises this to arbitrary process theories. We show that terminality and non-signalling coincide in any process theory, provided one makes causal structure explicit. In fact, making causal structure explicit is necessary to even make sense of non-signalling in process theories. We conclude that because of its much simpler mathematical form, terminality should be taken to be a more fundamental notion than non-signalling.

id: 1405.3720
title: New signatures of the dynamical Casimir effect in a superconducting circuit
authors: Andreson L. C. Rego, Hector O. Silva, Danilo T. Alves, C. Farina
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3720
abstract: We found new signatures of the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) in the context of superconducting circuits. We show that if the recent experiment made by Wilson {\it et al}, which brought the DCE into reality for the first time, is repeated with slight modifications (for instance, different values for the capacitance of the SQUID), three remarkable results will show up, namely: {\it (i)} a quite different spectral distribution for the created particles, deviating from the typical parabolic shape; {\it (ii)} an enhancement by a factor of approximately $5 \times 10^3 $ in the number of created particles with half driven frequency of the effective moving mirror and {\it (iii)} an enhancement by a factor of $3 \times 10^2$ in the particle creation rate. These results may guide the experimentalists in their search for alternative routes to observe the DCE in future experiments.

id: 1405.3761
title: Experimental Passive Decoy-State Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Qi-Chao Sun, Wei-Long Wang, Yang Liu, Fei Zhou, Jason S. Pelc, M. M. Fejer, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Xian-Feng Chen, Xiongfeng Ma, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 11 085202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3761
abstract: The decoy-state method is widely used in practical quantum key distribution systems to replace ideal single photon sources with realistic light sources by varying intensities. Instead of active modulation, the passive decoy-state method employs built-in decoy states in a parametric down-conversion photon source, which can decrease the side channel information leakage in decoy state preparation and hence increase the security. By employing low dark count up-conversion single photon detectors, we have experimentally demonstrated the passive decoy-state method over a 50-km-long optical fiber and have obtained a key rate of about 100 bit/s. Our result suggests that the passive decoy-state source is a practical candidate for future quantum communication implementation.

id: 1405.3765
title: Polarization entangled photons from quantum dots embedded in nanowires
authors: Tobias Huber, Ana Predojevi?, Milad Khoshnegar, Dan Dalacu, Philip J. Poole, Hamed Majedi, Gregor Weihs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3765
abstract: We present a first measurement of photon polarization entanglement from the biexciton to ground state cascade of a single InAsP quantum dot embedded in an InP nanowire. We observe a fidelity of 0.76(2) to a reference maximally entangled state as well as a concurrence of 0.57(6).

id: 1405.3776
title: Exclusive quantum channels in quantum networks
authors: Xi Chen, He-Ming Wang, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3776
abstract: Quantum state can be teleported to a remote site by only local measurement and classical communication if the prior Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen quantum channel is available between the sender and the receiver. Those quantum channels shared by multiple nodes can constitute a quantum network. Yet, studies on the efficiency of quantum communication between nodes of quantum networks remain limited, which differs from classical case in that the quantum channel will be consumed if teleportation is performed. Here, we introduce the exclusive quantum channels (EQC) as the measure of efficiency of quantum information transmission. It quantifies the amount of quantum information which can be teleported between nodes in a quantum network. We show that different types of EQC are local quantities with effective circles. Significantly, capacity of quantum communication of quantum networks quantified by EQC is independent of distance for the communicating nodes. Thus, the quantum network can be dealt as the isotropic medium where quantum communication is no-decaying. EQC are studied by both analytical and numerical methods. The EQC can be enhanced by transformations of lattices of quantum network via entanglement swapping. Our result opens the avenue in studying the quantum communication of the quantum networks.

id: 1405.3822
title: Relativistic Bohmain Mechanics
authors: Jafar Khodagholizadeh, Javad Kazemi, Alireza Babazadeh
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3822
abstract: In this paper we generalize the ideas of de Broglie and Bohm to the relativistic case which is based on the relativistic Schr\"odinger equation. In this regard, the relativistic forms of the guidance equation and quantum potential are derived. In our formulation of Relativistic Bohmian Mechanic, the quantum equilibrium hypothesis $(\rho=|\psi|^{2})$ and the probabilistic interpretation of the wave function are not an intrinsic feature of the theory as well as expected from the theoretical structure of Bohmian mechanics but still we can extract the statistical predictions of this theory. In fact with assuming the quantum equilibrium hypothesis in non-relativistic case and then acceleration to particles by an external field we go to the relativistic regime. So in this case the quantum equilibrium would not be established and theory will have testable predictions that can be experienced, or this will be compared to the result of relativistic quantum mechanics. In some simple cases such calculations have been done.

id: 1405.3971
title: Properties of dimension witnesses and their semi-definite programming relaxations
authors: Piotr Mironowicz, Hong-Wei Li, Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3971
abstract: In this paper we develop a method for investigating semi-device-independent randomness expansion protocols that was introduced in [Li et al., Phys. Rev. A $\mathbf{87}$, 020302(R) (2013)]. This method allows to lower-bound, with semi-definite programming, the randomness obtained from random number generators based on dimension witnesses. We also investigate the robustness of some randomness expanders using this method. We show the role of an assumption about the trace of the measurement operators and a way to avoid it. The method is also generalized to systems of arbitrary dimension, and for a more general form of dimension witnesses, than it the previous paper. Finally, we introduce a procedure of dimension witness reduction, which can be used to obtain from an existing witness a new one with higher amount of certifiable randomness. The presented methods finds an application for experiments [Ahrens et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. $\mathbf{112}$, 140401 (2014)].

id: 1405.3988
title: Information transmission without energy exchange
authors: Robert H. Jonsson, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Achim Kempf
comments: Accepted in Physical Review Letters. RevTex 4.1, 5 pages, 2 figures. v3. Updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 110505 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3988
abstract: We show that it is possible to use a massless field in the vacuum to communicate in such a way that the signal travels arbitrarily slower than the speed of light and such that no energy is transmitted from the sender to the receiver. Instead, the receiver has to supply a signal-dependent amount of work to switch his detector on and off. Because of that, this kind of communication without energy exchange may be called "Quantum Collect Calling". This type of communication is related to Casimir-like interactions and it is made possible by dimension ---and curvature--- dependent subtleties of Huygens' principle.

id: 1405.3989
title: Strong monogamy conjecture for multiqubit entanglement: The four-qubit case
authors: Bartosz Regula, Sara Di Martino, Soojoon Lee, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; significantly revised, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 110501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3989
abstract: We investigate the distribution of bipartite and multipartite entanglement in multiqubit states. In particular we define a set of monogamy inequalities sharpening the conventional Coffman-Kundu-Wootters constraints, and we provide analytical proofs of their validity for relevant classes of states. We present extensive numerical evidence validating the conjectured strong monogamy inequalities for arbitrary pure states of four qubits.

id: 1405.3999
title: Linear optics schemes for entanglement distribution with realistic single-photon sources
authors: Miko?aj Lasota, Czes?aw Radzewicz, Konrad Banaszek, Rob Thew
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, title change, minor corrections in the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033836 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3999
abstract: We study the operation of linear optics schemes for entanglement distribution based on nonlocal photon subtraction when input states, produced by imperfect single-photon sources, exhibit both vacuum and multiphoton contributions. Two models for realistic photon statistics with radically different properties of the multiphoton "tail" are considered. The first model assumes occasional emission of double photons and linear attenuation, while the second one is motivated by heralded sources utilizing spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We find conditions for the photon statistics that guarantee generation of entanglement in the relevant qubit subspaces and compare it with classicality criteria. We also quantify the amount of entanglement that can be produced with imperfect single-photon sources, optimized over setup parameters, using as a measure entanglement of formation. Finally, we discuss verification of the generated entanglement by testing Bell's inequalities. The analysis is carried out for two schemes. The first one is the well-established one-photon scheme, which produces a photon in a delocalized superposition state between two nodes, each of them fed with one single photon at the input. As the second scheme, we introduce and analyze a linear-optics analog of the robust scheme based on interfering two Stokes photons emitted by atomic ensembles, which does not require phase stability between the nodes.

id: 1405.4030
title: Quantum Communication with Continuum Single-Photon Pulses
authors: F. F. S. Rios, R. V. Ramos
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4030
abstract: In this work, we analyze the behavior of continuum single-photon pulses in some quantum communication schemes. In particular, we consider the single-photon interference in a Mach-Zenhder interferometer, the HOM interference and the quantum bit commitment protocol.

id: 1405.4052
title: Robust Quantum Metrological Schemes
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. added new acknowledgement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4052
abstract: Fragile quantum features such as entanglement are employed to improve the precision of parameter estimation and therefore the quantum gain is vulnerable to noises. As an established tool to subdue noises, quantum error correction is unfortunately overprotective because the quantum enhancement can still be achieved even if the states are unrecoverably affected, provided that the quantum Fisher information, which sets the ultimate limit to the precision of metrological schemes, is preserved and attained. Here, we shall develop a novel theory of robust metrological schemes that preserve the quantum Fisher information instead of the quantum states themselves against noises. After deriving a minimal set of testable conditions on this kind of robustness, we construct a family of $2t+1$ qubits metrological schemes that are immune to $t$-qubit errors. In comparison at least five qubits are required for correcting arbitrary 1-qubit errors in standard quantum error correction.

id: 1405.4066
title: Majorization and additivity for multimode bosonic Gaussian channels
authors: V. Giovannetti, A. S. Holevo, A. Mari
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics, 182:2 (2015), 284-293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4066
abstract: Recently, the longstanding Gaussian optimizer conjecture was proven for bosonic Gaussian gauge-covariant or contravariant channels in the work of Giovannetti, Holevo and Garcia-Patron [3]. In the paper of Mari, Giovannetti and Holevo [11] this result was strengthened for one-mode channels by establishing that the output for the vacuum or coherent input majorizes the output for any other input. In the present paper we give the multimode extension of the result of [11], including sufficient conditions under which the coherent states are the only optimizers. We also discuss direct implications of this multimode majorization result to the positive solution of the additivity problem for the Gaussian channels. In particular, we demonstrate the additivity of the output Renyi entropies of arbitrary order p>1. Finally, we present an alternative derivation of a majorization property of Glauber's coherent states by Lieb and Solovej [10], basing on the method of the work [3].

id: 1405.4162
title: Quantum Otto heat engine based on a multiferroic chain working substance
authors: Maryam Azimi, Levan Chotorlishvili, Sunil K. Mishra, Temo Vekua, Wolfgang H¨¹bner, Jamal Berakdar
comments: 29 pages, 17 figures, accepted for publication by New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 063018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4162
abstract: We study a quantum Otto engine operating on the basis of a helical spin- 1/2 multiferroic chain with strongly coupled magnetic and ferroelectric order parameters. The presence of a finite spin chirality in the working substance enables steering of the cycle by an external electric field that couples to the electric polarization. We observe a direct connection between the chirality, the entanglement and the efficiency of the engine. An electric-field dependent threshold temperature is identified above which the pair correlations in the system, as quantified by the thermal entanglement, diminish. In contrast to the pair correlations, the collective many-body thermal entanglement is less sensitive to the electric field, and in the high temperature limit converges to a constant value. We also discuss the correlations between the threshold temperature of the pair entanglement, the spin chirality and the minimum of the fidelities in relation to the electric and magnetic fields. The efficiency of the quantum Otto cycle shows a saturation plateau with increasing electric field amplitude.

id: 1405.4191
title: Entanglement of two-qubit photon beam by magnetic field
authors: A. D. Levin, D. M. Gitman, R. C. Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4191
abstract: We have studied the possibility of affecting the entanglement measure of 2-qubit system consisting of two photons with different fixed frequencies but with two arbitrary linear polarizations, moving in the same direction, by the help of an applied external magnetic field. The interaction between the magnetic field and the photons in our model is achieved through intermediate electrons that interact with both the photons and the magnetic field. The possibility of exact theoretical analysis of this scheme is based on known exact solutions that describe the interaction of an electron subjected to an external magnetic field (or a medium of electrons not interacting with each other) with a quantized field of two photons. We adapt these exact solutions to the case under consideration. Using explicit wave functions for the resulting electromagnetic field, we calculate the entanglement measure of the photon beam as a function of the applied magnetic field and parameters of the electron medium.

id: 1405.4199
title: The similarity of attractive and repulsive forces on a lattice
authors: Marjan-S. Mirahmadi, Amir H. Fatollahi, Mohammad Khorrami
comments: 15 pages, no fig, no table, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4199
abstract: On a lattice, as the momentum space is compact, the kinetic energy is bounded not only from below but also from above. It is shown that this, somehow removes the distinction between repulsive and attractive forces. In particular, it is seen that a region with attractive force would appear forbidden for states with energies higher than a certain value, while repulsive forces could develop bound-states. An explicit transformation is introduced which transforms the spectrum of a system corresponding to a repulsive force, to that of a similar system corresponding to an attractive force. Explicit numerical examples are presented for discrete energies of bound-states of a particle experiencing repulsive force by a piecewise constant potential. Finally, the parameters of a specific one dimensional translationally invariant system on continuum are tuned so that the energy of the system resembles the kinetic energy of a system on a one dimensional lattice. In particular, it is shown that the parameters could be tuned so that while the width of the first energy band and its position are kept finite, the energy gap between the first energy band and the next energy band go to infinity, so that effectively only the first energy band is relevant.

id: 1405.4207
title: Measurement-based implementation makes entanglement purification based on hashing practical
authors: M. Zwerger, H. J. Briegel, W. D¨¹r
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4207
abstract: We investigate entanglement purification protocols based on hashing, where a large number of noisy entangled pairs is jointly processed to obtain a reduced number of perfect, noiseless copies. While hashing and breeding protocols are the only purification protocols that asymptotically obtain a nonzero yield, they are not applicable in a realistic scenario if local gates and measurements are imperfect. We show that such problems can be overcome by a compact measurement-based implementation, yielding entanglement purification schemes with nonzero yield that are applicable also in noisy scenarios, with tolerable noise per particle of several percent. We also generalize these findings to multiparty purification protocols for arbitrary graph states.

id: 1405.4212
title: Generalized Unitarity and Reciprocity Relations for PT-symmetric Scattering Potentials
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 505303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4212
abstract: We derive certain identities satisfied by the left/right-reflection and transmission amplitudes, $R^{l/r}(k)$ and $T(k)$, of general ${\cal PT}$-symmetric scattering potentials. We use these identities to give a general proof of the relations, $|T(-k)|=|T(k)|$ and $|R^r(-k)|=|R^l(k)|$, conjectured in [Z. Ahmed, J. Phys. A 45 (2012) 032004], establish the generalized unitarity relation: $R^{l/r}(k)R^{l/r}(-k)+|T(k)|^2=1$, and show that it is a common property of both real and complex ${\cal PT}$-symmetric potentials. The same holds for $T(-k)=T(k)^*$ and $|R^r(-k)|=|R^l(k)|$.

id: 1405.4222
title: Quantum Theory and Determinism
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Some references updated. Published online in Quantum Studies: Mathematics and Foundations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4222
abstract: Historically, appearance of the quantum theory led to a prevailing view that Nature is indeterministic. The arguments for the indeterminism and proposals for indeterministic and deterministic approaches are reviewed. These include collapse theories, Bohmian Mechanics and the many-worlds interpretation. It is argued that ontic interpretations of the quantum wave function provide simpler and clearer physical explanation and that the many-worlds interpretation is the most attractive since it provides a deterministic and local theory for our physical Universe explaining the illusion of randomness and nonlocality in the world we experience.

id: 1405.4400
title: High-fidelity spatially resolved multiphoton counting for quantum imaging applications
authors: Radoslaw Chrapkiewicz, Wojciech Wasilewski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, 39, 5090, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4400
abstract: We present a method for spatially resolved multiphoton counting based on an intensified camera with the retrieval of multimode photon statistics fully accounting for non-linearities in the detection process. The scheme relies on one-time quantum tomographic calibration of the detector. Faithful, high-fidelity reconstruction of single- and two-mode statistics of multiphoton states is demonstrated for coherent states and their statistical mixtures. The results consistently exhibit classical values of Mandel and Fano parameters in contrast to raw statistics of camera photo-events. Detector operation is reliable for illumination levels up to the average of one photon per an event area, substantially higher than in previous approaches to characterize quantum statistical properties of light with spatial resolution.

id: 1405.4404
title: Generation and delayed retrieval of spatially multimode Raman scattering in warm rubidium vapors
authors: Radoslaw Chrapkiewicz, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 28, pp. 29540-29552 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4404
abstract: We apply collective Raman scattering to create, store and retrieve spatially multimode light in warm rubidium-87 vapors. The light is created in a spontaneous Stokes scattering process. This is accompanied by the creation of counterpart collective excitations in the atomic ensemble -- the spin waves. After a certain storage time we coherently convert the spin waves into the light in deterministic anti-Stokes scattering. The whole process can be regarded as a delayed four-wave mixing which produces pairs of correlated, delayed random images. Storage of higher order spatial modes up to microseconds is possible owing to usage of a buffer gas. We study the performance of the Raman scattering, storage and retrieval of collective excitations focusing on spatial effects and the influence of decoherence caused by diffusion of rubidium atoms in different buffer gases. We quantify the number of modes created and retrieved by analyzing statistical correlations of intensity fluctuations between portions of the light scattered in the far field.

id: 1405.4425
title: The Topology of Grover Algorithm
authors: Ali Nabi Duman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4425
abstract: It has been shown in recent years that quantum information has a topological nature (\cite{AC}, \cite{Co}, \cite{Co2}). In \cite{V}, Vicary undergoes the study of quantum algorithms using this new topological approach. The advantage of this new formalism is that it allows new proofs of correctness of the algorithms such as Deutsch-Jozsa, hidden subgroup and single-shot Grover algorithms. It also provide more clear insight to the generalizations of these algorithms. In this paper, we consider (multi-step) Grover algorithm from this new perspective.

id: 1405.4428
title: Game Theory in Categorical Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ali Nabi Duman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4428
abstract: Categorical quantum mechanics, which examines quantum theory via dagger-compact closed categories, gives satisfying high-level explanations to the quantum information procedures such as Bell-type entanglement or complementary observables (\cite{AC}, \cite{Co}, \cite{Co2}). Inspired by the fact that Quantum Game Theory can be seen as branch of quantum information, we express Quantum Game Theory procedures using the topological semantics provided by Categorical Quantum Mechanics. We also investigate Bayesian Games with correlation from this novel point of view while considering the connection between Bayesian game theory and Bell non-locality investigated recently by Brunner and Linden \cite{BL}.

id: 1405.4443
title: Quantum Recursion and Second Quantisation
authors: Mingsheng Ying
comments: talk at Tsinghua Software Day 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4443
abstract: This paper introduces a new notion of quantum recursion of which the control flow of the computation is quantum rather than classical as in the notions of recursion considered in the previous studies of quantum programming. A typical example is recursive quantum walks, which are obtained by slightly modifying the construction of the ordinary quantum walks. The operational and denotational semantics of quantum recursions are defined by employing the second quantisation method, and they are proved to be equivalent.

id: 1405.4446
title: A protected vortex exciton qubit
authors: Suvabrata De, Tim Spiller
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4446
abstract: We propose a protected qubit which is `dual' to a suggestion of a superconducting current mirror qubit [A. Kitaev, arXiv:0609441 (2006)]. Our construction can be regarded as the magnetic analogue of Kitaev's proposal: it inherits the intrinsic fault-tolerance of the current mirror qubit, but may perform better than it in the laboratory, since magnetic noise is generally less of a problem than electric noise. We adapt the scheme for universal fault-tolerant quantum computation proposed by Kitaev to our construction.

id: 1405.4448
title: Single qubit decoherence under a separable coupling to a random matrix environment
authors: M. Carrera, T. Gorin, T. H. Seligman
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4448
abstract: This paper describes the dynamics of a quantum two-level system (qubit) under the influence of an environment modeled by an ensemble of random matrices. In distinction to earlier work, we consider here separable couplings and focus on a regime where the decoherence time is of the same order of magnitude than the environmental Heisenberg time. We derive an analytical expression in the linear response approximation, and study its accuracy by comparison with numerical simulations. We discuss a series of unusual properties, such as purity oscillations, strong signatures of spectral correlations (in the environment Hamiltonian), memory effects and symmetry breaking equilibrium states.

id: 1405.4449
title: Extraction of genuine tripartite entanglement from the vacuum
authors: Krzysztof Lorek, Daniel Pecak, Eric G. Brown, Andrzej Dragan
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4449
abstract: We demonstrate and characterize the extraction of genuine tripartite entanglement from the vacuum of a periodic cavity field. That is, three probe quantum systems (detectors) can become both bipartitely and tripartitely entangled without coming into causal contact, by means of interaction with a common quantum field. We do this by using an oscillator-detector model that forgoes the need for perturbation theory and which instead is solved exactly. We find that the extraction of tripartite entanglement is considerably easier than that of bipartite. As a secondary result, we also compare a periodic cavity with one that has Dirichlet boundary conditions. We find that the extraction of both bipartite and tripartite entanglement is more easily achieved using the former case.

id: 1405.4483
title: Robustness of continuous-variable entanglement via geometrical nonlinearity
authors: Philippe Djorw¨¦, S.G. Nana Engo, Paul Woafo
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 024303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4483
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate robust stationary continuous-variable entanglement in optomechanical systems, based on geometrical nonlinearity that occurs for large mechanical displacements. Such nonlinearity is often used to correct the dynamics of the systems in the strong coupling regime. It appears that geometrical nonlinearity enhances the entanglement and shifts its maximum towards high detuning values. Using the experimental parameters, we find that such a scheme generates a very robust entanglement against thermal decoherence even at room temperature. Our results show that geometrical nonlinearity affects entanglement as the optomechanical quantum interface.

id: 1405.4495
title: Exact Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation of the Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian by Kutzelnigg's method
authors: Dah-Wei Chiou, Tsung-Wei Chen
comments: 34 pages; follow-up to arXiv:1311.3432; contains the same review materials in arXiv:1310.8513. v3: minor improvements made; two more references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4495
abstract: We apply Kutzelnigg's method for the Foldy-Wouthuysen (FW) transformation upon the Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian. The exact FW transformations exist and agree with those obtained by Eriksen's method for two special cases. In the weak-field limit of static and homogeneous electromagnetic fields, the long-held speculation is rigorously proven, by mathematical induction on the orders of $1/c$ in the power series, that the FW transformed Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian is in full agreement with the classical counterpart, which is the sum of the orbital Hamiltonian for the Lorentz force equation and the spin Hamiltonian for the Thomas-Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi equation.

id: 1405.4502
title: Disproving the Peres conjecture: Bell nonlocality from bipartite bound entanglement
authors: Tamas V¨¦rtesi, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 6 pages, 2 figure, 1 table
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5297 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4502
abstract: Quantum entanglement plays a central role in many areas of physics, from quantum information science to many-body systems. In order to grasp the essence of this phenomenon, it is fundamental to understand how different manifestations of entanglement relate to each other. In 1999, Peres conjectured that Bell nonlocality is equivalent to distillability of entanglement. The intuition of Peres was that the non-classicality of an entangled state, as witnessed via Bell inequality violation, implies that pure entanglement can be distilled from this state, hence making it useful for most quantum information protocols. Subsequently, the Peres conjecture was shown to hold true in several specific cases, and became a central open question in quantum information theory. Here we disprove the Peres conjecture by showing that an undistillable bipartite entangled state---a bound entangled state---can nevertheless violate a Bell inequality. This shows that Bell nonlocality implies neither entanglement distillability, nor non-positivity under partial transposition, thus clarifying the relation between three fundamental aspects of entanglement. Finally, our results lead to a novel application of bound entanglement for device-independent randomness certification.

id: 1405.4558
title: Quantum-enhanced Secure Delegated Classical Computing
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Theodoros Kapourniotis, Elham Kashefi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4558
abstract: We present a quantumly-enhanced protocol to achieve unconditionally secure delegated classical computation where the client and the server have both limited classical and quantum computing capacity. We prove the same task cannot be achieved using only classical protocols. This extends the work of Anders and Browne on the computational power of correlations to a security setting. Concretely, we present how a client with access to a non-universal classical gate such as a parity gate could achieve unconditionally secure delegated universal classical computation by exploiting minimal quantum gadgets. In particular, unlike the universal blind quantum computing protocols, the restriction of the task to classical computing removes the need for a full universal quantum machine on the side of the server and makes these new protocols readily implementable with the currently available quantum technology in the lab.

id: 1405.4649
title: Influence of conformational molecular dynamics on matter wave interferometry
authors: Michael Gring, Stefan Gerlich, Sandra Eibenberger, Stefan Nimmrichter, Tarik Berrada, Markus Arndt, Hendrik Ulbricht, Klaus Hornberger, Marcel M¨¹ri, Marcel Mayor, Marcus B?ckmann, Nikos Doltsinis
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 031604(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4649
abstract: We investigate the influence of thermally activated internal molecular dynamics on the phase shifts of matter waves inside a molecule interferometer. While de Broglie physics generally describes only the center-of-mass motion of a quantum object, our experiment demonstrates that the translational quantum phase is sensitive to dynamic conformational state changes inside the diffracted molecules. The structural flexibility of tailor-made hot organic particles is sufficient to admit a mixture of strongly fluctuating dipole moments. These modify the electric susceptibility and through this the quantum interference pattern in the presence of an external electric field. Detailed molecular dynamics simulations combined with density functional theory allow us to quantify the time-dependent structural reconfigurations and to predict the ensemble-averaged square of the dipole moment which is found to be in good agreement with the interferometric result. The experiment thus opens a new perspective on matter wave interferometry as it demonstrates for the first time that it is possible to collect structural information about molecules even if they are delocalized over more than hundred times their own diameter.

id: 1405.4655
title: Squeezing effect induced by minimal length uncertainty
authors: Yue-Yue Chen, Xun-Li Feng, C. H. Oh, Zhi-Zhan Xu
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4655
abstract: In this work, the dynamics of the deformed one-dimensional harmonic oscillator with minimal length uncertainty is examined and the analytical solutions for time evolution of position and momentum operators are presented in which the rough approximation that neglects the higher order terms in BakerHausdor lemma is avoided. Based on these analytical solutions the uncertainties for position and momentum operators are calculated in a coherent state, and an unexpected squeezing effect in both coordinate and momentum directions is found in comparison with ordinary harmonic oscillator. Obviously such a squeezing effect is induced by the minimal length uncertainty (gravitational effects). Our results are applied to the electrons trapped in strong magnetic fields to examine the degree of the existing squeezing effect in a real system, which shows the squeezing degree induced by minimal length uncertainty is very small.

id: 1405.4724
title: Nonlocally-induced (quasirelativistic) bound states: Harmonic confinement and the finite well
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski, Mariusz ?aba
comments: 23 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4724
abstract: Nonlocal Hamiltonian-type operators, like e.g. fractional and quasirelativistic, seem to be instrumental for a conceptual broadening of current quantum paradigms. However physically relevant properties of related quantum systems have not yet received due (and scientifically undisputable) coverage in the literature. In the present paper we address Schr\"{o}dinger-type eigenvalue problems for $H=T+V$, where a kinetic term $T=T_m$ is a quasirelativistic energy operator $T_m = \sqrt{-\hbar ^2c^2 \Delta + m^2c^4} - mc^2$ of mass $m\in (0,\infty)$ particle. A potential $V$ we assume to refer to the harmonic confinement or finite well of an arbitrary depth. We analyze spectral solutions of the pertinent nonlocal quantum systems with a focus on their $m$-dependence. Extremal mass $m$ regimes for eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of $H$ are investigated: (i) $m\ll 1$ spectral affinity ("closeness") with the Cauchy-eigenvalue problem ($T_m \sim T_0=\hbar c |\nabla |$) and (ii) $m \gg 1$ spectral affinity with the nonrelativistic eigenvalue problem ($T_m \sim -\hbar ^2 \Delta /2m $). To this end we generalize to nonlocal operators an efficient computer-assisted method to solve Schr\"{o}dinger eigenvalue problems, widely used in quantum physics and quantum chemistry. A resultant spectrum-generating algorithm allows to carry out all computations directly in the configuration space of the nonlocal quantum system. This allows for a proper assessment of the spatial nonlocality impact on simulation outcomes. Although the nonlocality of $H$ might seem to stay in conflict with various numerics-enforced cutoffs, this potentially serious obstacle is kept under control and effectively tamed.

id: 1405.4759
title: The Scaling of Weak Field Phase-Only Control in Markovian Dynamics
authors: Morag Am-Shallem, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4759
abstract: We consider population transfer in open quantum systems, which are described by quantum dynamical semigroups (QDS). Using second order perturbation theory of the Lindblad equation, we show that it depends on a weak external field only through the field's autocorrelation function (ACF), which is phase independent. Therefore, for leading order in perturbation, QDS cannot support dependence of the population transfer on the phase properties of weak fields. We examine an example of weak-field phase-dependent population transfer, and show that the phase-dependence comes from the next order in the perturbation.

id: 1405.4767
title: Ultrasensitive measurement of MEMS cantilever displacement sensitivity below the shot noise limit
authors: R.C. Pooser, B.J. Lawrie
comments: Equation 8 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4767
abstract: The displacement of micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) cantilevers is used to measure a broad variety of phenomena in devices ranging from force microscopes to biochemical sensors to thermal imaging systems. We demonstrate the first direct measurement of a MEMS cantilever displacement with a noise floor at 40% of the shot noise limit (SNL). By combining multi-spatial-mode quantum light sources with a simple ?differential measurement, we show that sub-SNL MEMS displacement sensitivity is highly accessible compared to previous efforts that measured the displacement of macroscopic mirrors with very distinct spatial structures crafted with multiple optical parametric amplifiers and locking loops. These results support a new class of quantum MEMS sensor with an ultimate signal to noise ratio determined by quantum correlations, enabling ultra-trace sensing, imaging, and microscopy applications in which signals were previously obscured by shot noise.

id: 1405.4772
title: Bohm's approach and Individuality
authors: P. Pylkk?nen, B. J. Hiley, I. P?ttiniemi
comments: 23 pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4772
abstract: Ladyman and Ross (LR) argue that quantum objects are not individuals (or are at most weakly discernible individuals) and use this idea to ground their metaphysical view, ontic structural realism, according to which relational structures are primary to things. LR acknowledge that there is a version of quantum theory, namely the Bohm theory (BT), according to which particles do have definite trajectories at all times. However, LR interpret the research by Brown {\em et al.} as implying that "raw stuff" or {\em haecceities} are needed for the individuality of particles of BT, and LR dismiss this as idle metaphysics. In this paper we note that Brown {\em et al.}'s research does not imply that {\em haecceities} are needed. Thus BT remains as a genuine option for those who seek to understand quantum particles as individuals. However, we go on to discuss some problems with BT which led Bohm and Hiley to modify it. This modified version underlines that, due to features such as context-dependence and non-locality, Bohmian particles have a very limited autonomy in situations where quantum effects are non-negligible. So while BT restores the possibility of quantum individuals, it also underlines the primacy of the whole over the autonomy of the parts. The later sections of the paper also examine the Bohm theory in the general mathematical context of symplectic geometry. This provides yet another way of understanding the subtle, holistic and dynamic nature of Bohmian individuals. We finally briefly consider Bohm's other main line of research, the "implicate order", which is in some ways similar to LR's structural realism.

id: 1405.4791
title: Invisibility and PT Symmetry: A Simple Geometrical Viewpoint
authors: Luis L. Sanchez-Soto, Juan J. Monzon
comments: 13 pages. No figure. Accepted for publication in Symmetry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4791
abstract: We give a simplified account of the properties of the transfer matrix for a complex one-dimensional potential, paying special attention to the particular instance of unidirectional invisibility. In appropriate variables, invisible potentials appear as performing null rotations, which lead to the helicity-gauge symmetry of massless particles. In hyperbolic geometry, this can be interpreted, via M\"{o}bius transformations, as parallel displacements, a geometric action that has no Euclidean analogy.

id: 1405.4878
title: Quantum metrology from a quantum information science perspective
authors: Geza Toth, Iagoba Apellaniz
comments: 43 pages, 9 figures; v4: typos corrected, published version; special issue "50 years of Bell's theorem"
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 424006 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4878
abstract: We summarise important recent advances in quantum metrology, in connection to experiments in cold gases, trapped cold atoms and photons. First we review simple metrological setups, such as quantum metrology with spin squeezed states, with Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, Dicke states and singlet states. We calculate the highest precision achievable in these schemes. Then, we present the fundamental notions of quantum metrology, such as shot-noise scaling, Heisenberg scaling, the quantum Fisher information and the Cramer-Rao bound. Using these, we demonstrate that entanglement is needed to surpass the shot-noise scaling in very general metrological tasks with a linear interferometer. We discuss some applications of the quantum Fisher information, such as how it can be used to obtain a criterion for a quantum state to be a macroscopic superposition. We show how it is related to the the speed of a quantum evolution, and how it appears in the theory of the quantum Zeno effect. Finally, we explain how uncorrelated noise limits the highest achievable precision in very general metrological tasks.

id: 1405.4883
title: Efficient Algorithms for Maximum Likelihood Decoding in the Surface Code
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Martin Suchara, Alexander Vargo
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4883
abstract: We describe two implementations of the optimal error correction algorithm known as the maximum likelihood decoder (MLD) for the 2D surface code with a noiseless syndrome extraction. First, we show how to implement MLD exactly in time $O(n^2)$, where $n$ is the number of code qubits. Our implementation uses a reduction from MLD to simulation of matchgate quantum circuits. This reduction however requires a special noise model with independent bit-flip and phase-flip errors. Secondly, we show how to implement MLD approximately for more general noise models using matrix product states (MPS). Our implementation has running time $O(n\chi^3)$ where $\chi$ is a parameter that controls the approximation precision. The key step of our algorithm, borrowed from the DMRG method, is a subroutine for contracting a tensor network on the two-dimensional grid. The subroutine uses MPS with a bond dimension $\chi$ to approximate the sequence of tensors arising in the course of contraction. We benchmark the MPS-based decoder against the standard minimum weight matching decoder observing a significant reduction of the logical error probability for $\chi\ge 4$.

id: 1405.4939
title: Non-Equilibrium Quantum Phases of Two-Atom Dicke Model
authors: Aranya B Bhattacherjee
comments: 5 pages, Comments Welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4939
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the non-equilibrium quantum phases of the two-atom Dicke model, which can be realized in a two species Bose-Einstein condensate interacting with a single light mode in an optical cavity. Apart from the usual non-equilibrium normal and inverted phases, a non-equilibrium mixed phase is possible which is a combination of normal and inverted phase. A new kind of quantum phase transition is predicted from non-superradiant mixed phase to the superradiant phase which can be achieved by tuning the two different atom-photon couplings. We also show that a quantum phase transition from the non-superradiant mixed phase to the superradiant phase is forbidden for certain values of the two atom-photon coupling strengths.

id: 1405.4943
title: Classical Control of Large-Scale Quantum Computers
authors: Simon J. Devitt
comments: 14 Pages, 7 Figures, Invited paper for Springer Lecture Notes on Computer Science
journal: RC2014, Springer Lecture Notes on Computer Science (LNCS) 8507, pp. 26-39. Springer International Publishing, Switzerland (2014), Y. Shigeru and M.Shin-ichi (Eds.)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4943
abstract: The accelerated development of quantum technology has reached a pivotal point. Early in 2014, several results were published demonstrating that several experimental technologies are now accurate enough to satisfy the requirements of fault-tolerant, error corrected quantum computation. While there are many technological and experimental issues that still need to be solved, the ability of experimental systems to now have error rates low enough to satisfy the fault-tolerant threshold for several error correction models is a tremendous milestone. Consequently, it is now a good time for the computer science and classical engineering community to examine the {\em classical} problems associated with compiling quantum algorithms and implementing them on future quantum hardware. In this paper, we will review the basic operational rules of a topological quantum computing architecture and outline one of the most important classical problems that need to be solved; the decoding of error correction data for a large-scale quantum computer. We will endeavour to present these problems independently from the underlying physics as much of this work can be effectively solved by non-experts in quantum information or quantum mechanics.

id: 1405.4956
title: Minkovskii-type inequality for arbitrary density matrix of composite and noncomposite systems
authors: V. N. Chernega, O. V. Manko, V. I. Manko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4956
abstract: New kind of matrix inequality known for bipartite system density matrix is obtained for arbitrary density matrix of composite or noncomposite qudit systems including the single qudit state. The examples of two qubit system and qudit with j=3/2 are discussed.

id: 1405.4962
title: Configurable spatio-temporal properties in a photon-pair source based on spontaneous four wave mixing with multiple transverse modes
authors: Daniel Cruz-Delgado, Jorge Monroy-Ruz Angela M. Barragan, Erasto Ortiz-Ricardo, Hector Cruz-Ramirez, Roberto Ramirez-Alarcon, Karina Garay-Palmett, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4962
abstract: We present an experimental and theoretical study of photon pairs generated by spontaneous four wave mixing (SFWM), based on birefringent phasematching, in a fiber which supports more than one transverse mode. We present SFWM spectra, obtained through single-channel and coincidence photon counting, which exhibit multiple peaks shown here to be the result of multiple SFWM processes associated with different combinations of transverse modes for the pump, signal, and idler waves.

id: 1405.4965
title: Global quantum discord and quantum phase transition in XY model
authors: Si-Yuan Liu, Yu-Ran Zhang, Wen-Li Yang, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4965
abstract: We study the relationship between the behavior of global quantum correlations and quantum phase transitions in XY model. We find that the two kinds of phase transitions in the studied model can be characterized by the features of global quantum discord (GQD) and the corresponding quantum correlations. We demonstrate that the maximum of the sum of all the nearest neighbor bipartite GQDs is effective and accurate for signaling the Ising quantum phase transition, in contrast, the sudden change of GQD is very suitable for characterizing another phase transition in the XY model. This may shed lights on the study of properties of quantum correlations in different quantum phases.

id: 1405.5002
title: Tuning quantum discord in Josephson charge qubits system
authors: Bo-xing Shang, Xi-qiang Xi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:cond-mat/0306209 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5002
abstract: A type of two qubits Josephson charge system is constructed in this paper, and properties of the quantum discord (QD) as well as the differences between thermal QD and thermal entanglement were investigated. A detailed calculation shows that the magnetic flux $\Phi_{Xk}$ is more efficient than the voltage $V_{Xi}$ in tuning QD. By choosing proper system parameters, one can realize the maximum QD in our two qubits Josephson charge system.

id: 1405.5021
title: Quantum interference distinguishes between constitutional isomers
authors: Jens T¨¹xen, Stefan Gerlich, Sandra Eibenberger, Markus Arndt, Marcel Mayor
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chem. Commun. 46, 4145-4147 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5021
abstract: Matter waves, as introduced by de Broglie in 1923, are a fundamental quantum phenomenon, describing the delocalized center of mass motion of massive bodies and we show here their sensitivity to the molecular structure of constitutional isomers.

id: 1405.5026
title: Connection between the N00N State and a superposition of SU(2) Coherent States
authors: Barry C. Sanders, Christopher C. Gerry
comments: Update previous version according to Physical Review A edits
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 045804 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5026
abstract: The N00N state, which was introduced as a resource for quantum-enhanced metrology, is in fact a special case of a superposition of two SU(2) coherent states. We show here explicitly the derivation of the N00N state from the superposition state. This derivation makes clear the connection between these seemingly disparate states as well as shows how the N00N state can be generalized to a superposition of SU(2) coherent states.

id: 1405.5029
title: Towards fully quantum second laws of thermodynamics: limitations on the evolution of quantum coherences
authors: Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Studzi¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: New title, new results, greatly rewritten version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5029
abstract: The second law of thermodynamics places a limitation on what states a system can evolve into. For closed systems, it says that a state can be transformed into another state, only if the course grained entropy increases. For systems in contact with a heat bath, it can be combined with the law of energy conservation, and it says that a system can only evolve into another if the free energy goes down. Here, the free energy is written in terms of the fine-grained entropy. Recently, it's been shown that there are actually many second laws, and that it is only for large macroscopic systems that they all become equivalent to the ordinary one. These additional second laws also hold for quantum systems, and are in fact, often more relevant in this regime. They place a restriction on how the probabilities of energy levels can evolve. Here, we consider additional restrictions on how the coherences between energy levels can evolve. Coherences can only go down, and we provide a set of restrictions which limit the extent to which they can be maintained. We find that coherences over energy levels must decay at rates that are suitably adapted to the transition rates between energy levels. We show that the limitations are matched in the case of single qubit, in which case we obtain the full characterization of state-to-state transformations. For higher dimensions, we conjecture more severe constraints exist. The results are obtained in the paradigm of Thermal Operations, and we introduce a new class of thermodynamical operations which allow for greater manipulation of coherences and study its power with respect to Thermal Operations.

id: 1405.5042
title: Unitary dynamics and finite-time measurements: a case study
authors: Andreas Prinz-Zwick, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Peter Talkner
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5042
abstract: The inhibition of the decay of a quantum system by frequent measurements is known as quantum Zeno effect. Beyond the limit of projective measurements, the interplay between the unitary dynamics of the system and the coupling to a measurement apparatus becomes relevant. We explore this interplay by considering a quantum particle moving on a one-dimensional chain. A local measurement by coupling to an apparatus with a two-dimensional Hilbert space detects the presence of the particle on a specific chain site. The decay of the population is studied analytically for a two-site chain and numerically for a larger system as a function of the measurement time and the time between subsequent measurements. Particular attention is given to the shift of the energy of the measured site due to the coupling to the apparatus. The decay of the initial population can be hindered or accelerated, depending on the chosen system and the coupling parameters.

id: 1405.5045
title: Entropy and Temperature from Entangled Space and Time
authors: Young S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: 27 pages, 11 figures, to be published in the Physical Science International Journal. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0502096, arXiv:quant-ph/0612030, arXiv:0803.2633
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5045
abstract: Two coupled oscillators provide a mathematical instrument for solving many problems in modern physics, including squeezed states of light and Lorentz transformations of quantum bound states. The concept of entanglement can also be studied within this mathematical framework. For the system of two entangled photons, it is of interest to study what happens to the remaining photon if the other photon is not observed. It is pointed out that this problem is an issue of Feynman's rest of the universe. For quantum bound-state problems, it is pointed out the longitudinal and time-like coordinates become entangled when the system becomes boosted. Since time-like oscillations are not observed, the problem is exactly like the two-photon system where one of the photons is not observed. While the hadron is a quantum bound state of quarks, it appears quite differently when it moves rapidly than when it moves slowly. For slow hadrons, Gell-Mann's quark model is applicable, while Feynman's parton model is applicable to hadrons with their speeds close to that of light. While observing the temperature dependence of the speed, it is possible to explain the quark-to-parton transition as a phase transition.

id: 1405.5046
title: Experimental realization of fast ion separation in segmented Paul traps
authors: Thomas Ruster, Claudia Warschburger, Henning Kaufmann, Christian T. Schmiegelow, A. Walther, Max Hettrich, Andreas Pfister, Vidyut Kaushal, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Ulrich G. Poschinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5046
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate fast separation of a two-ion crystal in a microstructured segmented Paul trap. By the use of spectroscopic calibration routines for the electrostatic trap potentials, we achieve the required precise control of the ion trajectories near the \textit{critical point}, where the harmonic confinement by the external potential vanishes. The separation procedure can be controlled by three parameters: A static potential tilt, a voltage offset at the critical point, and the total duration of the process. We show how to optimize the control parameters by measurements of ion distances, trap frequencies and the final motional excitation. At a separation duration of $80 \mu$s, we achieve a minimum mean excitation of $\bar{n} = 4.16(0.16)$ vibrational quanta per ion, which is consistent with the adiabatic limit given by our particular trap. We show that for fast separation times, oscillatory motion is excited, while a predominantly thermal state is obtained for long times. The presented technique does not rely on specific trap geometry parameters and can therefore be adopted for different segmented traps.

id: 1405.5052
title: Aharonov-Bohm effect in the tunnelling of a quantum rotor in a linear Paul trap
authors: Atshushi Noguchi, Yutaka Shikano, Kenji Toyoda, Shinji Urabe
comments: 
journal: A. Noguchi, Y. Shikano, Kenji Toyoda, Shinji Urabe, Nature Communications 5, 3868 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5052
abstract: Quantum tunnelling is a common fundamental quantum-mechanical phenomenon that originates from the wave-like characteristics of quantum particles. Although the quantum-tunnelling effect was first observed 85 years ago, some questions regarding the dynamics of quantum tunnelling remain unresolved. Here, we realise a quantum-tunnelling system using two-dimensional ionic structures in a linear Paul trap. We demonstrate that the charged particles in this quantum-tunnelling system are coupled to the vector potential of a magnetic field throughout the entire process, even during quantum tunnelling, as indicated by the manifestation of the Aharonov-Bohm effect in this system. The tunnelling rate of the structures periodically depends on the strength of the magnetic field, whose period is the same as the magnetic-flux quantum $\phi_0$ through the rotor [($0.99 \pm 0.07)\times \phi_0$].

id: 1405.5062
title: Assessments of macroscopicity for quantum optical states
authors: Amine Laghaout, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5062
abstract: With the slow but constant progress in the coherent control of quantum systems, it is now possible to create large quantum superpositions. There has therefore been an increased interest in quantifying any claims of macroscopicity. We attempt here to motivate three criteria which we believe should enter in the assessment of macroscopic quantumness: The number of quantum fluctuation photons, the purity of the states, and the ease with which the branches making up the state can be distinguished.

id: 1405.5078
title: Transport properties of continuous-time quantum walks on Sierpinski fractals
authors: Zolt¨¢n Dar¨¢zs, Anastasiia Anishchenko, Tam¨¢s Kiss, Alexander Blumen, Oliver M¨¹lken
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 032113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5078
abstract: We model quantum transport, described by continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW), on deterministic Sierpinski fractals, differentiating between Sierpinski gaskets and Sierpinski carpets, along with their dual structures. The transport efficiencies are defined in terms of the exact and the average return probabilities, as well as by the mean survival probability when absorbing traps are present. In the case of gaskets, localization can be identified already for small networks (generations). For carpets, our numerical results indicate a trend towards localization, but only for relatively large structures. The comparison of gaskets and carpets further implies that, distinct from the corresponding classical continuous-time random walk, the spectral dimension does not fully determine the evolution of the CTQW.

id: 1405.5079
title: Dynamics of mode entanglement in a system of cavities coupled with a chiral mirror
authors: Ali ?. C. Hardal
comments: 6 pages and 4 figures, revised version, to be appear in JOSAB
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 2339-2344 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5079
abstract: We investigate the Hermitian and the non-Hermitian dynamics of the mode entanglement in two identical optical cavities coupled by a chiral mirror. By employing the non-Hermitian quantum evolution, we calculate the logarithmic negativity measure of entanglement for initially Fock, coherent and squeezed states, separately. We verify the non-conservation of mean spin for the initially coherent and squeezed states when the coupling is non-reciprocal and report the associated spin noise for each case. We examine the effects of non-conserved symmetries on the mode correlations and determine the degree of non-reciprocal coupling to establish robust quantum entanglement.

id: 1405.5093
title: Entanglement and algebraic independence in fermion systems
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, LaTex. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1403.1144
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf., 2 (2014) 1461002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5093
abstract: In the case of systems composed of identical particles, a typical instance in quantum statistical mechanics, the standard approach to separability and entanglement ought to be reformulated and rephrased in terms of correlations between operators from subalgebras localized in spatially disjoint regions. While this algebraic approach is straightforward for bosons, in the case of fermions it is subtler since one has to distinguish between micro-causality, that is the anti-commutativity of the basic creation and annihilation operators, and algebraic independence that is the commutativity of local observables. We argue that a consistent algebraic formulation of separability and entanglement should be compatible with micro-causality rather than with algebraic independence.

id: 1405.5099
title: Lagrangian form of Schr?dinger equation
authors: D. Arsenovic, N. Buric, D.M. Davidovic, S. Prvanovic
comments: To appear in Foundation of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5099
abstract: Lagrangian formulation of quantum mechanical Schr\"odinger equation is developed in general and illustrated in the eigenbasis of the Hamiltonian and in the coordinate representation. The Lagrangian formulation of physically plausible quantum system results in a well defined second order equation on a real vector space. The Klein-Gordon equation for a real field is shown to be the Lagrangian form of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1405.5135
title: Bound states for a Coulomb-type potential induced by the interaction between a moving electric quadrupole moment and a magnetic field
authors: K. Bakke
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics (NY) 341, 86 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5135
abstract: We discuss the arising of bound states solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation due to the presence of a Coulomb-type potential induced by the interaction between a moving electric quadrupole moment and a magnetic field. Furthermore, we study the influence of the Coulomb-type potential on the harmonic oscillator by showing a quantum effect characterized by the dependence of the angular frequency on the quantum numbers of the system, whose meaning is that not all values of the angular frequency are allowed.

id: 1405.5138
title: Torsion and noninertial effects on a nonrelativistic Dirac particle
authors: K. Bakke
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics (NY) 346, 51 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5138
abstract: We investigate torsion and noninertial effects on a spin-$1/2$ quantum particle in the nonrelativistic limit of the Dirac equation. We consider the cosmic dislocation spacetime as a background and show that a rotating system of reference can be used out to distances which depend on the parameter related to the torsion of the defect. Therefore, we analyse torsion effects on the spectrum of energy of a nonrelativistic Dirac particle confined to a hard-wall potential in a Fermi-Walker reference frame.

id: 1405.5166
title: Quantum histories without contrary inferences
authors: Marcelo Losada, Roberto Laura
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5166
abstract: In the consistent histories formulation of quantum theory it was shown that it is possible to retrodict contrary properties. We show that this problem do not appear in our formalism of generalized contexts for quantum histories.

id: 1405.5185
title: Quantum and Classical in Adiabatic Computation
authors: P. J. D. Crowley, T. Duric, W. Vinci, P. A. Warburton, A. G. Green
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A90, 042317, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5185
abstract: Adiabatic transport provides a powerful way to manipulate quantum states. By preparing a system in a readily initialised state and then slowly changing its Hamiltonian, one may achieve quantum states that would otherwise be inaccessible. Moreover, a judicious choice of final Hamiltonian whose groundstate encodes the solution to a problem allows adiabatic transport to be used for universal quantum computation. However, the dephasing effects of the environment limit the quantum correlations that an open system can support and degrade the power of such adiabatic computation. We quantify this effect by allowing the system to evolve over a restricted set of quantum states, providing a link between physically inspired classical optimisation algorithms and quantum adiabatic optimisation. This new perspective allows us to develop benchmarks to bound the quantum correlations harnessed by an adiabatic computation. We apply these to the D-Wave Vesuvius machine with revealing - though inconclusive - results.

id: 1405.5205
title: Quantum Circuits for the Unitary Permutation Problem
authors: Stefano Facchini, Simon Perdrix
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5205
abstract: We consider the Unitary Permutation problem which consists, given $n$ unitary gates $U_1, \ldots, U_n$ and a permutation $\sigma$ of $\{1,\ldots, n\}$, in applying the unitary gates in the order specified by $\sigma$, i.e. in performing $U_{\sigma(n)}\ldots U_{\sigma(1)}$. This problem has been introduced and investigated by Colnaghi et al. where two models of computations are considered. This first is the (standard) model of query complexity: the complexity measure is the number of calls to any of the unitary gates $U_i$ in a quantum circuit which solves the problem. The second model provides quantum switches and treats unitary transformations as inputs of second order. In that case the complexity measure is the number of quantum switches. In their paper, Colnaghi et al. have shown that the problem can be solved within $n^2$ calls in the query model and $\frac{n(n-1)}2$ quantum switches in the new model. We refine these results by proving that $n\log_2(n) +\Theta(n)$ quantum switches are necessary and sufficient to solve this problem, whereas $n^2-2n+4$ calls are sufficient to solve this problem in the standard quantum circuit model. We prove, with an additional assumption on the family of gates used in the circuits, that $n^2-o(n^{7/4+\epsilon})$ queries are required, for any $\epsilon >0$. The upper and lower bounds for the standard quantum circuit model are established by pointing out connections with the permutation as substring problem introduced by Karp.

id: 1405.5207
title: Quantum Gates with Phase Stability over Space and Time
authors: I. V. Inlek, G. Vittorini, D. Hucul, C. Crocker, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5207
abstract: The performance of a quantum information processor depends on the precise control of phases introduced into the system during quantum gate operations. As the number of operations increases with the complexity of a computation, the phases of gates at different locations and different times must be controlled, which can be challenging for optically-driven operations. We circumvent this issue by demonstrating an entangling gate between two trapped atomic ions that is insensitive to the optical phases of the driving fields, while using a common master reference clock for all coherent qubit operations. Such techniques may be crucial for scaling to large quantum information processors in many physical platforms.

id: 1405.5234
title: Is space-time symmetry a suitable generalization of parity-time symmetry?
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5234
abstract: We discuss space-time symmetric Hamiltonian operators of the form $% H=H_{0}+igH^{\prime}$, where $H_{0}$ is Hermitian and $g$ real. $H_{0}$ is invariant under the unitary operations of a point group $G$ while $H^{\prime}$ is invariant under transformation by elements of a subgroup $G^{\prime}$ of $G$. If $G$ exhibits irreducible representations of dimension greater than unity, then it is possible that $H$ has complex eigenvalues for sufficiently small nonzero values of $g$. In the particular case that $H$ is parity-time symmetric then it appears to exhibit real eigenvalues for all $% 0<g<g_{c}$, where $g_{c}$ is the exceptional point closest to the origin. Point-group symmetry and perturbation theory enable one to predict whether $% H $ may exhibit real or complex eigenvalues for $g>0$. We illustrate the main theoretical results and conclusions of this paper by means of two- and three-dimensional Hamiltonians exhibiting a variety of different point-group symmetries.

id: 1405.5254
title: Quantum source-channel coding and non-commutative graph theory
authors: Dan Stahlke
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5254
abstract: Alice and Bob receive a bipartite state (possibly entangled) from some finite collection or from some subspace. Alice sends a message to Bob through a noisy quantum channel such that Bob may determine the initial state, with zero chance of error. This framework encompasses, for example, teleportation, dense coding, entanglement assisted quantum channel capacity, and one-way communication complexity of function evaluation. With classical sources and channels, this problem can be analyzed using graph homomorphisms. We show this quantum version can be analyzed using homomorphisms on non-commutative graphs (an operator space generalization of graphs). Previously the Lov\'{a}sz $\vartheta$ number has been generalized to non-commutative graphs; we show this to be a homomorphism monotone, thus providing bounds on quantum source-channel coding. We generalize the Schrijver and Szegedy numbers, and show these to be monotones as well. As an application we construct a quantum channel whose entanglement assisted zero-error one-shot capacity can only be unlocked by using a non-maximally entangled state. These homomorphisms allow definition of a chromatic number for non-commutative graphs. Many open questions are presented regarding the possibility of a more fully developed theory.

id: 1405.5256
title: On $1/Z$ expansion, critical charge for two-electron system and Reinhardt conjecture
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner, Juan Carlos Lopez Vieyra
comments: 10 pages, 3 Tables; due to revoking by C. Schwartz the permission to use his unpublished results the text was essentially rewritten and reduced, one Table was removed, number of references was reduced, main conclusions remain unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5256
abstract: The $1/Z$-expansion for the Coulomb system of infinitely massive center of charge Z and two electrons (two electron ion) is discussed. Critical analysis of Baker et al, {\em Phys. Rev. \bf A41}, 1247 (1990) is performed and its numerical deficiency, in particular, leading in the first coefficients of $1/Z$-expansion to unreliable decimal digits beyond 11-12th is indicated. Checking consistency it is shown that weighted sums of $1/Z$-expansion with Baker et al. coefficients reproduce the ground state energies of two-electron ions with $Z \geq 2$ with 12 decimal digits and sometimes up to one portion the 13th decimal. Ground state energies of two-electron ions $Z=11\ (Na^{9+})$ and $Z=12\ (Mg^{10+})$ are found with 12 decimal digits. It is demonstrated that the ground state energy behavior {\it vs.} $Z$ in vicinity of the critical charge $[Z_{cr} \,\div \, 1.25]$ is described accurately by a terminated Puiseux expansion with integer and half-integer degrees being consistent with the critical charge and the linear slope found in Estienne et al. (2014). It suggests the existence of the square-root branch point at $Z_{cr}$ with exponent 3/2. Close consistency of the Puiseux expansion with the higher order coefficients $e_{100,200}$ in $1/Z$-expansion, carried out by Baker et al. is indicated. It favors the Reinhardt conjecture about a connection between the radius of convergence $\lambda_{\star}$ of $1/Z$-expansion and the critical charge, $\lambda_{\star}=\frac{1}{Z_{cr}}$.

id: 1405.5258
title: Coherent properties of single rare-earth spin qubits
authors: P. Siyushev, K. Xia, R. Reuter, M. Jamali, N. Zhao, N. Yang, C. Duan, N. Kukharchyk, A.D. Wieck, R. Kolesov, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 3895 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5258
abstract: Rare-earth-doped crystals are excellent hardware for quantum storage of optical information. Additional functionality of these materials is added by their waveguiding properties allowing for on-chip photonic networks. However, detection and coherent properties of rare-earth single-spin qubits have not been demonstrated so far. Here, we present experimental results on high-fidelity optical initialization, effcient coherent manipulation, and optical readout of a single electron spin of Ce$^{3+}$ ion in a YAG crystal. Under dynamic decoupling, spin coherence lifetime reaches $T_2$=2 ms and is almost limited by the measured spin-lattice relaxation time $T_1$=3.8 ms. Strong hyperfine coupling to aluminium nuclear spins suggests that cerium electron spins can be exploited as an interface between photons and long-lived nuclear spin memory. Combined with high brightness of Ce$^{3+}$ emission and a possibility of creating photonic circuits out of the host material, this makes cerium spins an interesting option for integrated quantum photonics.

id: 1405.5288
title: Spin Squeezing by means of Driven Superradiance
authors: Elie Wolfe, S.F. Yelin
comments: 5+5 pages, 3 color figures. Changed to acknowledge the precedents set by Gonz\'alez-Tudela and Porras. Factor of 1/2 added to driving potential. Comments on how to optimize the resulting entanglement (Fig. 3). New discussion regarding variants of the spin squeezing parameter and a comment on the class of the observed entanglement (Appendix C). Many additional references. Figures redone for print
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5288
abstract: We discuss the possibility of generating spin squeezed states by means of driven superradiance, analytically affirming and broadening the finding in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 080502 (2013)]. In an earlier paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140402 (2014)] the authors determined that spontaneous purely-dissipative Dicke model superradiance failed to generate any entanglement over the course of the system's time evolution. In this article we show that by adding a driving field, however, the Dicke model system can be tuned to evolve toward an entangled steady state. We discuss how to optimize the driving frequency to maximize the entanglement. We show that the resulting entanglement is fairly strong, in that it leads to spin squeezing.

id: 1405.5309
title: Optimizing classical communication in remote preparation of a general pure qubit
authors: Congyi Hua, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5309
abstract: How to uses shared entanglement and forward classical communication to remotely prepare an arbitrary (mixed or pure) state has been fascinating quantum information scientists. A constructive scheme has been given by Berry for remotely preparing a general pure state with a pure entangled state and finite classical communication. Based on this scheme, for high-dimensional systems it is possible to use a coding of the target state to optimize the classical communication cost. Unfortunately, for low-dimensional systems such as a pure qubit the coding method is inapplicable. Because qubit plays a central role in quantum information theory, we propose an optimization procedure which can be used to minimize the classical communication cost in the remote preparation of a general pure qubit. Interestingly, our optimization procedure is linked to the uniform arrangement of $N$ points on the Bloch sphere, which provides a geometric description.

id: 1405.5319
title: Design of a Photonic Lattice Using Shortcuts to Adiabaticity
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023811, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5319
abstract: In this article we use the method of shortcuts to adiabaticity to design a photonic lattice (array of waveguides) which can drive the input light to a controlled location at the output. The output position in the array is determined by functions of the propagation distance along the waveguides, which modulate the lattice characteristics (index of refraction, first and second neighbor couplings). The proposed coupler is expected to posses the robustness properties of the design method, coming from its adiabatic nature, and also to have a smaller footprint than purely adiabatic couplers. The present work provides a very interesting example where methods from quantum control can be exploited to design lattices with desired input-output properties.

id: 1405.5350
title: Quantum state tomography: Mean squared error matters, bias does not
authors: Jiangwei Shang, Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, 10 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5350
abstract: Because of the constraint that the estimators be bona fide physical states, any quantum state tomography scheme - including the widely used maximum likelihood estimation - yields estimators that may have a bias, although they are consistent estimators. Schwemmer et al. (arXiv:1310.8465 [quant-ph]) illustrate this by observing a systematic underestimation of the fidelity and an overestimation of entanglement in estimators obtained from simulated data. Further, these authors argue that the simple method of linear inversion overcomes this (perceived) problem of bias, and there is the suggestion to abandon time-tested estimation procedures in favor of linear inversion. Here, we discuss the pros and cons of using biased and unbiased estimators for quantum state tomography. We conclude that the little occasional benefit from the unbiased linear-inversion estimation does not justify the high price of using unphysical estimators, which are typically the case in that scheme.

id: 1405.5357
title: Role of quantum correlation in metrology beyond standard quantum limit
authors: Manabendra N. Bera
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, text modified, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5357
abstract: Quantum metrology is studied in the presence of quantum correlation. The quantum correlation measure based on quantum Fisher information enables us to gain a deeper insight on how quantum correlations are instrumental in setting metrological precision. Our analysis shows that not only the entanglement but also the quantum correlation plays important roles to enhance precision in quantum metrology. Even in the absence of entanglement, quantum correlation can be exploited as the resource to beat standard quantum limit and reach Heisenberg limit in metrology. Clearly unraveling the role of quantum correlations, the tighter bounds on the metrological precision are derived.

id: 1405.5361
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Computing in Optical Time-Frequency Modes using Quantum Memories
authors: Peter C. Humphreys, W. Steven Kolthammer, Joshua Nunn, Marco Barbieri, Animesh Datta, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, and supplementary information. Updated to be consistent with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 130502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5361
abstract: We develop a scheme for time-frequency encoded continuous-variable cluster-state quantum computing using quantum memories. In particular, we propose a method to produce, manipulate and measure 2D cluster states in a single spatial mode by exploiting the intrinsic time-frequency selectivity of Raman quantum memories. Time-frequency encoding enables the scheme to be extremely compact, requiring a number of memories that is a linear function of only the number of different frequencies in which the computational state is encoded, independent of its temporal duration. We therefore show that quantum memories can be a powerful component for scalable photonic quantum information processing architectures.

id: 1405.5380
title: Time-dependent restricted-active-space self-consistent-field theory for laser-driven many-electron dynamics. II. Extended formulation and numerical analysis
authors: Haruhide Miyagi, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063416 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5380
abstract: The time-dependent restricted-active-space self-consistent-field (TD-RASSCF) method is formulated based on the TD variational principle. In analogy with the configuration-interaction singles (CIS), singles-and-doubles (CISD), singles-doubles-and-triples (CISDT) methods in quantum chemistry, the TD-RASSCF-S, -SD, and -SDT methods are introduced as extensions of the TD-RASSCF dou- bles (-D) method [Phys. Rev. A 87, 062511 (2013)]. Based on an analysis of the numerical cost and test calculations for one-dimensional (1D) models of atomic helium, beryllium, and carbon, it is shown that the TD-RASSCF-S and -D methods are computationally feasible for systems with many electrons and more accurate than the TD Hartree-Fock (TDHF) and TDCIS methods. In addition to the discussion of methodology, an analysis of electron dynamics in the high-order harmonic generation (HHG) process is presented. For the 1D beryllium atom, a state-resolved analysis of the HHG spectrum based on the time-independent HF orbitals shows that while only single-orbital excitations are needed in the region below the cutoff, single- and double-orbital excitations are es- sential beyond, where accordingly the single-active-electron (SAE) approximation and the TDCIS method break down. On the other hand, the TD-RASSCF-S and -D methods accurately describe the multi-orbital excitation processes throughout the entire region of the HHG spectrum. For the 1D carbon atom, our calculations show that multi-orbital excitations are essential in the HHG process even below the cutoff. Hence, in this test system a very accurate treatment of electron correlation is required. The TD-RASSCF-S and -D approaches meet this demand, while the SAE approximation and the TDCIS method are inadequate.

id: 1405.5436
title: Performance of numerical approximation on the calculation of two-center two-electron integrals over non-integer Slater-type orbitals using elliptical coordinates
authors: Ali Ba?c?, Philip E. Hoggan
comments: 33 pages, 7 tables, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5436
abstract: The two-center two-electron Coulomb and hybrid integrals arising in relativistic and nonrelativistic ab-initio calculations of molecules are evaluated over the non-integer Slater-type orbitals via ellipsoidal coordinates. These integrals are expressed through new molecular auxiliary functions and calculated with numerical Global-adaptive method according to parameters of non-integer Slatertype orbitals. The convergence properties of new molecular auxiliary functions are investigated and the results obtained are compared with results found in the literature. The comparison for two-center twoelectron integrals is made with results obtained from one-center expansions by translation of wavefunction to same center with integer principal quantum number and results obtained from the Cuba numerical integration algorithm, respectively. The procedures discussed in this work are capable of yielding highly accurate two-center two-electron integrals for all ranges of orbital parameters.

id: 1405.5444
title: On the Optimal Choice of Spin-Squeezed States for Detecting and Characterizing a Quantum Process
authors: Lee A. Rozema, Dylan H. Mahler, Robin Blume-Kohout, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041025 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5444
abstract: Quantum metrology uses quantum states with no classical counterpart to measure a physical quantity with extraordinary sensitivity or precision. Most metrology schemes measure a single parameter of a dynamical process by probing it with a specially designed quantum state. The success of such a scheme usually relies on the process belonging to a particular one-parameter family. If this assumption is violated, or if the goal is to measure more than one parameter, a different quantum state may perform better. In the most extreme case, we know nothing about the process and wish to learn everything. This requires quantum process tomography, which demands an informationally-complete set of probe states. It is very convenient if this set is group-covariant -- i.e., each element is generated by applying an element of the quantum system's natural symmetry group to a single fixed fiducial state. In this paper, we consider metrology with 2-photon ("biphoton") states, and report experimental studies of different states' sensitivity to small, unknown collective SU(2) rotations ("SU(2) jitter"). Maximally entangled N00N states are the most sensitive detectors of such a rotation, yet they are also among the worst at fully characterizing an a-priori unknown process. We identify (and confirm experimentally) the best SU(2)-covariant set for process tomography; these states are all less entangled than the N00N state, and are characterized by the fact that they form a 2-design.

id: 1405.5529
title: Maximum possible fidelity in $1\rightarrow 2$ qubits cloning is same for state independent and state dependent cloning
authors: D. Gangopadhyay, A. Sinha Roy
comments: 8 pages, Latex, 2 figures, expanded version,title changed, no change in basic results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5529
abstract: We re-analyse the Bu\v{z}ek-Hillery state independent Universal Quantum Cloning machine protocol and show that it allows better values for fidelity and Hilbert-Schmidt norm than hitherto reported. This higher value for the fidelity is identical to the maximum fidelity of phase covariant quantum cloning (i.e. state dependent cloning) of Bru\ss -Cinchetti-D'Ariano-Macchiavello. This value of fidelity has also been obtained by Niu and Griffiths in their work without machine states. This is the maximum possible fidelity obtainable in $1\rightarrow 2$ qubits cloning. We then describe a different and new state dependent cloning protocol with four machine states where all non-exact copies of input states are taken into account in the output and we use the Hessian method of determining extrema of multivariate functions. The fidelity for the best overall quantum cloning in this protocol is $\bar{F}=0.847$ with an associated von-Neumann entropy of $\bar{S}=0.825$.

id: 1405.5560
title: Method for universal detection of two-photon polarization entanglement
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Pawe? Horodecki, Karel Lemr, Adam Miranowicz, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032315 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5560
abstract: Detecting and quantifying quantum entanglement of a given unknown state poses problems that are fundamentally important for quantum information processing. Surprisingly, no direct (i.e., without quantum tomography) universal experimental implementation of a necessary and sufficient test of entanglement has been designed even for a general two-qubit state. Here we propose an experimental method for detecting a collective universal witness, which is a necessary and sufficient test of two-photon polarization entanglement. It allows us to detect entanglement for any two-qubit mixed state and to establish tight upper and lower bounds on its amount. A different element of this method is the sequential character of its main components, which allows us to obtain relatively complicated information about quantum correlations with the help of simple linear-optical elements. As such, this proposal realizes a universal two-qubit entanglement test within the present state of the art of quantum optics. We show the optimality of our setup with respect to the minimal number of measured quantities.

id: 1405.5563
title: Constructor Theory of Information
authors: David Deutsch, Chiara Marletto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5563
abstract: We present a theory of information expressed solely in terms of which transformations of physical systems are possible and which are impossible - i.e. in constructor-theoretic terms. Although it includes conjectured laws of physics that are directly about information, independently of the details of particular physical instantiations, it does not regard information as an a priori mathematical or logical concept, but as something whose nature and properties are determined by the laws of physics alone. It does not suffer from the circularity at the foundations of existing information theory (namely that information and distinguishability are each defined in terms of the other). It explains the relationship between classical and quantum information, and reveals the single, constructor-theoretic property underlying the most distinctive phenomena associated with the latter, including the lack of in-principle distinguishability of some states, the impossibility of cloning, the existence of pairs of variables that cannot simultaneously have sharp values, the fact that measurement processes can be both deterministic and unpredictable, the irreducible perturbation caused by measurement, and entanglement (locally inaccessible information).

id: 1405.5571
title: Two mode coupling in a single ion oscillator via parametric resonance
authors: Dylan J Gorman, Philipp Schindler, Sankaranarayanan Selvarajan, Nikos Daniilidis, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5571
abstract: Atomic ions, confined in radio-frequency Paul ion traps, are a promising candidate to host a future quantum information processor. In this letter, we demonstrate a method to couple two motional modes of a single trapped ion, where the coupling mechanism is based on applying electric fields rather than coupling the ion's motion to a light field. This reduces the design constraints on the experimental apparatus considerably. As an application of this mechanism, we cool a motional mode close to its ground state without accessing it optically. As a next step, we apply this technique to measure the mode's heating rate, a crucial parameter determining the trap quality. In principle, this method can be used to realize a two-mode quantum parametric amplifier.

id: 1405.5592
title: Microwave Down-Conversion with an Impedance-Matched $¦«$ System in Driven Circuit QED
authors: K. Inomata, K. Koshino, Z. R. Lin, W. D. Oliver, J. S. Tsai, Y. Nakamura, T. Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 113, 063604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5592
abstract: By driving a dispersively coupled qubit-resonator system, we realize an "impedance-matched" $\Lambda$ system that has two identical radiative decay rates from the top level and interacts with a semi-infinite waveguide. It has been predicted that a photon input from the waveguide deterministically induces a Raman transition in the system and switches its electronic state. We confirm this through microwave response to a continuous probe field, observing near-perfect ($99.7\%$) extinction of the reflection and highly efficient ($74\%$) frequency down-conversion. These proof-of-principle results lead to deterministic quantum gates between material qubits and microwave photons and open the possibility for scalable quantum networks interconnected with waveguide photons.

id: 1405.5614
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and tunable fano resonances in hybrid optomechanics
authors: Muhammad Javed Akram, Fazal Ghafoor, Farhan Saif
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, New published version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1304.0389 by other authors
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48, 065502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5614
abstract: We explain the phenomena of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) of a weak probe field and tunable Fano resonances in hybrid optomechanics. The system of study consists of a two-level atom coupled to a single-mode field of an optomechanical resonator with a moving mirror. We show that a single EIT window exists in the presence of optomechanical coupling or Jaynes-Cummings coupling, whereas two distinct double EIT windows occur when both the couplings are simultaneously present. Furthermore, based on our analytic and numerical work, we prove the existence of tunable fano resonances in the system. The controlling parameters of the system, which switch from a single EIT window to double EIT windows and are needed to tune the fano resonances, can be realized in present-day laboratory experiments.

id: 1405.5625
title: Tight asymptotic key rate for the BB84 protocol with local randomisation and device imprecisions
authors: Erik Woodhead
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5625
abstract: Local randomisation is a preprocessing procedure in which one of the legitimate parties of a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme adds noise to their version of the key and was found by Kraus et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080501 (2005)] to improve the security of certain QKD protocols. In this article, the improvement yielded by local randomisation is derived for an imperfect implementation of the BB84 QKD protocol, in which the source emits four given but arbitrary pure states and the detector performs arbitrarily-aligned measurements. Specifically, this is achieved by modifying an approach to analysing the security of imperfect variants of the BB84 protocol against collective attacks, introduced in [Phys. Rev. A 88, 012331 (2013)], to include the additional preprocessing step. The previously known improvement to the threshold channel noise, from 11\% to 12.41\%, is recovered in the special case of an ideal BB84 implementation and becomes more pronounced in the case of a nonideal source. Finally, the bound derived for the asymptotic key rate, both with and without local randomisation, is shown to be tight with the particular source characterisation used. This is demonstrated by the explicit construction of a family of source states and optimal attacks for which the key-rate bound is attained with equality.

id: 1405.5656
title: In-situ characterization of quantum devices with error correction
authors: Joshua Combes, Christopher Ferrie, Chris Cesare, Markus Tiersch, G. J. Milburn, Hans J. Briegel, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5656
abstract: Syndrome measurements made in quantum error correction contain more information than is typically used. We show that the statistics of data from syndrome measurements can be used to do the following: (i) estimation of parameters of an error channel, including the ability correct away the invertible part of the error channel, once it is estimated; (ii) hypothesis testing (or model selection) to distinguish error channels, e.g., to determine if the errors are correlated. The unifying theme is to make use of all of the information in the statistics of the data collected from syndrome measurements using machine learning and control algorithms.

id: 1405.5721
title: Three-Slit Interference: A Duality Relation
authors: Mohd Asad Siddiqui, Tabish Qureshi
comments: Thoroughly revised. A detailed discussion on distinguishability added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5721
abstract: The issue of interference and which-way information is addressed in the context of 3-slit interference experiments. A new path distinguishability ${\mathcal D_Q}$ is introduced, based on Unambiguous Quantum State Discrimination (UQSD). An inequality connecting the interference visibility and which-path distinguishability, ${\mathcal V} + {2{\mathcal D_Q}\over 3- {\mathcal D_Q}} \le 1$, is derived which puts a bound on how much fringe visibility and which-way information can be simultaneously obtained. It is argued that this bound is tight.

id: 1405.5748
title: Universal factorization law in quantum information processing
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages (including the supplemental material), 1 figure, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5748
abstract: We identify a universal factorization law in quantum information processing protocols such as the quantum teleportation, remote state preparation, Bell-non-locality violation and particularly dynamics of geometric quantum correlation measures. This factorization law shows that when the system traverses the local quantum channel, various figure of merits for different protocols demonstrate a universal factorization decay behavior for dynamics. We find a family of quantum states and the corresponding quantum channels where the factorization law is satisfied. This factorization law simplifies the assessment of many quantum tasks.

id: 1405.5789
title: On relativistic particle creation in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn, Ivette Fuentes
comments: This work provides further theoretical support to the results in Sci. Rep. 4, 4996 (2014), this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5789
abstract: We show that particle creation of Bogoliubov modes in a Bose-Einstein condensate due to the accelerated motion of the trap is a genuinely relativistic effect. To this end we show that Bogoliubov modes can be described by a time rescaling of the Minkowski metric. A consequence of this is that Rindler transformations are perceived by the phonons as generalised Rindler transformations where the speed of light is replaced by the speed of sound, enhancing particle creation at small velocities. Since the non-relativistic limit of a Rindler transformation is just a Galilean transformation entailing no length contraction or time dilation, we show that the effect vanishes in the non-relativistic limit.

id: 1405.5814
title: Digital Quantum Rabi and Dicke Models in Superconducting Circuits
authors: A. Mezzacapo, U. Las Heras, J. S. Pedernales, L. DiCarlo, E. Solano, L. Lamata
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published in Scientific Reports
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 7482 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5814
abstract: We propose the analog-digital quantum simulation of the quantum Rabi and Dicke models using circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED). We find that all physical regimes, in particular those which are impossible to realize in typical cavity QED setups, can be simulated via unitary decomposition into digital steps. Furthermore, we show the emergence of the Dirac equation dynamics from the quantum Rabi model when the mode frequency vanishes. Finally, we analyze the feasibility of this proposal under realistic superconducting circuit scenarios.

id: 1405.5821
title: A chemical potential for light
authors: M. Hafezi, P. Adhikari, J. M. Taylor
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5821
abstract: Photons are not conserved in interactions with other matter. Consequently, when understanding the equation of state and thermodynamics of photons, while we have a concept of temperature for energy conservation, there is no equivalent chemical potential for particle number conservation. However, the notion of a chemical potential is crucial in understanding a wide variety of single- and many-body effects, from transport in conductors and semi-conductors to phase transitions in electronic and atomic systems. Here we show how a direct modification of the system-bath coupling via parametric oscillation creates an effective chemical potential for photons even in the thermodynamic limit. Specific implementations, using circuit-QED or optomechanics, are feasible using current technologies, and we show a detailed example demonstrating the emergence of Mott Insulator-superfluid transition in a lattice of nonlinear oscillators. Our approach paves the way for quantum simulation, quantum sources and even electron-like circuits with light.

id: 1405.5840
title: Focusing in Arthurs-Kelly-type Joint Measurements with Correlated Probes
authors: Thomas J Bullock, Paul Busch
comments: Edited texts in parts to match published version, included an improved diagram, and included an additional section to the supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5840
abstract: Joint approximate measurement schemes of position and momentum provide us with a means of inferring pieces of complementary information if we allow for the irreducible noise required by quantum theory. One such scheme is given by the Arthurs-Kelly model, where information about a system is extracted via indirect probe measurements. So far, only separable uncorrelated probes have been considered. Here, following Di Lorenzo (PRL 110, 120403 (2013)), we extend this model to both entangled and classically correlated probes, achieving full generality. We find the measured observable of the system under consideration to be covariant under phase space translations, and show that correlated probes can produce more precise joint measurement outcomes of position and momentum than the same probes can achieve if applied alone to realize a position or momentum measurement. Contrary to Di Lorenzo's claim, we find that nevertheless there are no violations of Heisenberg's measurement uncertainty relations in these generalized Arthurs-Kelly models.

id: 1405.5853
title: Is absolute separability determined by the partial transpose?
authors: Srinivasan Arunachalam, Nathaniel Johnston, Vincent Russo
comments: Two of our results were corrected since v2; the primary results of interest remain unchanged
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 15(7 & 8):0694-0720, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5853
abstract: The absolute separability problem asks for a characterization of the quantum states $\rho \in M_m\otimes M_n$ with the property that $U\rho U^\dagger$ is separable for all unitary matrices $U$. We investigate whether or not it is the case that $\rho$ is absolutely separable if and only if $U\rho U^\dagger$ has positive partial transpose for all unitary matrices $U$. In particular, we develop an easy-to-use method for showing that an entanglement witness or positive map is unable to detect entanglement in any such state, and we apply our method to many well-known separability criteria, including the range criterion, the realignment criterion, the Choi map and its generalizations, and the Breuer-Hall map. We also show that these two properties coincide for the family of isotropic states, and several eigenvalue results for entanglement witnesses are proved along the way that are of independent interest.

id: 1405.5897
title: Usefulness of an enhanced Kitaev phase-estimation algorithm in quantum metrology and computation
authors: Tomasz Kaftal, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062313 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5897
abstract: We analyze the performance of a generalized Kitaev's phase estimation algorithm where N phase gates, acting on $M$ qubits prepared in a product state, may be distributed in an arbitrary way. Unlike the standard algorithm, where the mean square error scales as 1/N, the optimal generalizations offer the Heisenberg $1/N^2$ error scaling and we show that they are in fact very close to the fundamental Bayesian estimation bound. We also demonstrate that the optimality of the algorithm breaks down when losses are taken into account, in which case the performance is inferior to the optimal entanglement-based estimation strategies. Finally, we show that when an alternative resource quantification is adopted, which describes the phase estimation in Shor's algorithm more accurately, the standard Kitaev's procedure is indeed optimal and there is no need to consider its generalized version.

id: 1405.5918
title: Quantum Thermometry
authors: Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 44, Issue 5, pp 492-511 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5918
abstract: In this review article we revisit and spell out the details of previous work on how Berry phase can be used to construct a precision quantum thermometer. An important advantage of such a scheme is that there is no need for the thermometer to acquire thermal equilibrium with the sample. This reduces measurement times and avoids precision limitations. We also review how such methods can be used to detect the Unruh effect.

id: 1405.5950
title: Characterization of control noise effects in optimal quantum unitary dynamics
authors: David Hocker, Constantin Brif, Matthew D. Grace, Ashley Donovan, Tak-San Ho, Katharine Moore Tibbetts, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5950
abstract: This work develops measures for quantifying the effects of field noise upon targeted unitary transformations. Robustness to noise is assessed in the framework of the quantum control landscape, which is the mapping from the control to the unitary transformation performance measure (quantum gate fidelity). Within that framework, a new geometric interpretation of stochastic noise effects naturally arises, where more robust optimal controls are associated with regions of small overlap between landscape curvature and the noise correlation function. Numerical simulations of this overlap in the context of quantum information processing reveal distinct noise spectral regimes that better support robust control solutions. This perspective shows the dual importance of both noise statistics and the control form for robustness, thereby opening up new avenues of investigation on how to mitigate noise effects in quantum systems.

id: 1405.5961
title: Decoherent histories for a particle coupled to a von Neumann apparatus
authors: Francesc S. Roig
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5961
abstract: Using the Gell-Mann and Hartle formalism of generalized quantum mechanics of closed systems, we study coarse-grained decoherent histories. The system under consideration is one-dimensional and consists of a particle coupled to a von Neumann apparatus that measures its position. The particle moves in a quadratic potential; in particular we consider a driven harmonic oscillator. The real line is divided into intervals of the same length, and coarse-grained histories are defined by the arithmetic average of the initial and final position of the particle to be within one of these intervals. The position of the pointer correlates with this arithmetic average. In addition a constant term is added to this average, which is a result of the presence of a driving force on the oscillator. We investigate decoherence for such histories via the decoherence functional for the particle-apparatus. An exact expression for this functional has been derived. If the particle or the pointer of the apparatus is in an exact position state initially, then exact decoherence ensues, and the relative probability for such histories is obtained. If the initial state of the particle, which is centered at some arbitrary point in the $x$-axis, is narrow compared to the width of the intervals on the~$x$-axis, then we obtain approximate decoherence. The same result follows if the initial state of the pointer is narrow. In these two situations, we evaluate expressions for the decoherence functional qualitatively and quantitatively. In the latter case we obtain the first two terms in an expansion in powers of the width of the initial state of the particle or the pointer respectively. Approximate relative probabilities can be assigned in this case, and we have obtained an expansion up to second order in powers of the width of the initial state for an expression for an upper bound of these probabilities.

id: 1405.5965
title: Reverse Reconciliation Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution Based on the Uncertainty Principle
authors: Fabian Furrer
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5965
abstract: A big challenge in continuous variable quantum key distribution is to prove security against arbitrary coherent attacks including realistic assumptions such as finite-size effects. Recently, such a proof has been presented in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100502 (2012)] for a two-mode squeezed state protocol based on a novel uncertainty relation with quantum memories. But the transmission distances were fairly limited due to a direct reconciliation protocol. We prove here security against coherent attacks of a reverse reconciliation protocol under similar assumptions but allowing distances of over 16 km for experimentally feasible parameters. We further clarify the limitations when using the uncertainty relation with quantum memories in security proofs of continuous variable quantum key distribution.

id: 1405.5967
title: Transparency and amplification in a hybrid system of mechanical resonator and circuit QED
authors: Hui Wang, Hui-Chen Sun, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Science China Physics, Mechanics and Astronomy, 2012, 55(12): 2264-2272
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5967
abstract: We theoretically study the transparency and amplification of a weak probe field applied to the cavity in hy- brid systems formed by a driven superconducting circuit QED system and a mechanical resonator, or a driven optomechanical system and a superconducting qubit. We find that both the mechanical resonator and the su- perconducting qubit can result in the transparency to a weak probe field in such hybrid systems when a strong driving field is applied to the cavity. We also find that the weak probe field can be amplified in some parameter regimes. We further study the statistical properties of the output field via the degrees of second-order coherence. We find that the nonclassicality of the output field strongly depends on the system parameters. Our studies show that one can control single-photon transmission in the optomechanical system via a tunable artificial atom or in the circuit QED system via a mechanical resonator.

id: 1405.5982
title: A Model of the Measurement Process in Quantum Theory
authors: Hans H. Diel
comments: 19 pages, preversion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5982
abstract: The so-called measurement problem of quantum theory (QT) is still lacking a satisfactory, or at least widely agreed upon, solution. A number of theories, known as interpretations of quantum theory, have been proposed and found di?ering acceptance among physicists. Most of the proposed theories try to explain what happens during a QT measurement using a modi?cation of the declarative equations that de?ne the possible results of a measurement of QT observables or by making assumptions outside the scope of falsi?able physics. This paper proposes a solution to the QT measurement problem in terms of a model of the process for the evolution of two QT systems that interact in a way that represents a measurement. The model assumes that the interactions between the measured QT object and the measurement apparatus are "normal" interactions which adhere to the laws of quantum ?eld theory. This causes certain limitations associated with QT measurements.

id: 1405.5987
title: Exact solution of the Schr?dinger equation with a Lennard-Jones potential
authors: J. Sesma
comments: Dedicated to Prof. Albert Bramon (Universitat Aut\`onoma de Barcelona) on occasion of his 70th anniversary. The final publication is available at this http URL
journal: J. Math. Chem. 51 (2013) 1881--1896
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5987
abstract: The Schr\"odinger equation with a Lennard-Jones potential is solved by using a procedure that treats in a rigorous way the irregular singularities at the origin and at infinity. Global solutions are obtained thanks to the computation of the connection factors between Floquet and Thom\'e solutions. The energies of the bound states result as zeros of a function defined by a convergent series whose successive terms are calculated by means of recurrence relations. The procedure gives also the wave functions expressed either as a linear combination of two Laurent expansions, at moderate distances, or as an asymptotic expansion, near the singular points. A table of the critical intensities of the potential, for which a new bound state (of zero energy) appears, is also given.

id: 1405.6015
title: Multipartite Quantum Correlation and Communication Complexities
authors: Rahul Jain, Zhaohui Wei, Penghui Yao, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 19 pages; some typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6015
abstract: The concepts of quantum correlation complexity and quantum communication complexity were recently proposed to quantify the minimum amount of resources needed in generating bipartite classical or quantum states in the single-shot setting. The former is the minimum size of the initially shared state $\sigma$ on which local operations by the two parties (without communication) can generate the target state $\rho$, and the latter is the minimum amount of communication needed when initially sharing nothing. In this paper, we generalize these two concepts to multipartite cases, for both exact and approximate state generation. Our results are summarized as follows. (1) For multipartite pure states, the correlation complexity can be completely characterized by local ranks of sybsystems. (2) We extend the notion of PSD-rank of matrices to that of tensors, and use it to bound the quantum correlation complexity for generating multipartite classical distributions. (3) For generating multipartite mixed quantum states, communication complexity is not always equal to correlation complexity (as opposed to bipartite case). But they differ by at most a factor of 2. Generating a multipartite mixed quantum state has the same communication complexity as generating its optimal purification. But for correlation complexity of these two tasks can be different (though still related by less than a factor of 2). (4) To generate a bipartite classical distribution $P(x,y)$ approximately, the quantum communication complexity is completely characterized by the approximate PSD-rank of $P$. The quantum correlation complexity of approximately generating multipartite pure states is bounded by approximate local ranks.

id: 1405.6022
title: Scalable Spin Squeezing for Quantum-Enhanced Magnetometry with Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: W. Muessel, H. Strobel, D. Linnemann, D. B. Hume, M. K. Oberthaler
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6022
abstract: A major challenge in quantum metrology is the generation of entangled states with macroscopic atom number. Here, we demonstrate experimentally that atomic squeezing generated via non-linear dynamics in Bose Einstein condensates, combined with suitable trap geometries, allows scaling to large ensemble sizes. We achieve a suppression of fluctuations by 5.3(5) dB for 12300 particles, which implies that similar squeezing can be achieved for more than 10$^7$ atoms. With this resource, we demonstrate quantum-enhanced magnetometry by swapping the squeezed state to magnetically sensitive hyperfine levels that have negligible nonlinearity. We find a quantum-enhanced single-shot sensitivity of 310(47) pT for static magnetic fields in a probe volume as small as 90 $\mu$m$^3$.

id: 1405.6031
title: Quenching small quantum gases: Genesis of the orthogonality catastrophe
authors: Steve Campbell, Miguel ?ngel Garc¨ªa-March, Thom¨¢s Fogarty, Thomas Busch
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013617 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6031
abstract: We study the dynamics of two strongly interacting bosons with an additional impurity atom trapped in a harmonic potential. Using exact numerical diagonalization we are able to fully explore the dynamical evolution when the interaction between the two distinct species is suddenly switched on (quenched). We examine the behavior of the densities, the entanglement, the Loschmidt echo and the spectral function for a large range of inter-species interactions and find that even in such small systems evidence of Anderson's orthogonality catastrophe can be witnessed.

id: 1405.6049
title: Simulation of single-qubit open quantum systems
authors: R. Sweke, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Improved results via substantial revision of recombination method. Additional references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6049
abstract: A quantum algorithm is presented for the simulation of arbitrary Markovian dynamics of a qubit, described by a semigroup of single qubit quantum channels $\{T_t\}$ specified by a generator $\mathcal{L}$. This algorithm requires only single qubit and CNOT gates and approximates the channel $T_t = e^{t\mathcal{L}}$ up to chosen accuracy $\epsilon$, with slightly superlinear cost $\mathcal{O}\big((||\mathcal{L}||_{(1\rightarrow 1)} t)^{1+1/2k}/\epsilon^{1/2k} \big)$ for any integer $k$. Inspired by developments in Hamiltonian simulation, a decomposition and recombination technique is utilised which allows for the exploitation of recently developed methods for the approximation of arbitrary single-qubit channels. In particular, as a result of these methods the algorithm requires only a single ancilla qubit, the minimal possible dilation for a non-unitary single-qubit quantum channel.

id: 1405.6060
title: Soft Decoding of a Qubit Readout Apparatus
authors: B. D'Anjou, W. A. Coish
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures; updated text, figures, supplemental material and references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 230402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6060
abstract: Qubit readout is commonly performed by thresholding a collection of analog detector signals to obtain a sequence of single-shot bit values. The intrinsic irreversibility of the mapping from analog to digital signals discards soft information associated with an \emph{a posteriori} confidence that can be assigned to each bit value when a detector is well characterized. Accounting for soft information, we show significant improvements in enhanced state detection with the quantum repetition code as well as quantum state or parameter estimation. These advantages persist in spite of non-Gaussian features of realistic readout models, experimentally relevant small numbers of qubits, and finite encoding errors. These results show useful and achievable advantages for a wide range of current experiments on quantum state tomography, parameter estimation, and qubit readout.

id: 1405.6071
title: Quantum simulation of superexchange magnetism in linear ion crystals
authors: Peter A. Ivanov, Naoum I. Karchev, Nikolay V. Vitanov, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6071
abstract: We present a system for the simulation of Heisenberg models with spins $s=\frac{1}{2}$ and $s=1$ with a linear crystal of trapped ions. We show that the laser-ion interaction induces a Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard interaction between the atomic V-type level structure and the two phonon species. In the strong-coupling regime the collective atom and phonon excitations become localized at each lattice site and form an effective spin system with varying length. We show that the quantum-mechanical superexchange interaction caused by the second-order phonon hopping processes creates a Heisenberg-type coupling between the individual spins. Trapped ions allow to control the superexchange interactions by adjusting the trapping frequencies, the laser intensity, and the detuning.

id: 1405.6079
title: Time limited optimal dynamics beyond the Quantum Speed Limit
authors: Miroslav Gajdacz, Kunal K. Das, Jan Arlt, Jacob F. Sherson, Tom¨¢? Opatrn?
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6079
abstract: The quantum speed limit sets the minimum time required to transfer a quantum system completely into a given target state. At shorter times the higher operation speed has to be paid with a loss of fidelity. Here we quantify the trade-off between the fidelity and the duration in a system driven by a time-varying control and interpret the result in Hilbert space geometry. Formulating a necessary convergence criterion for Optimal Control (OC) algorithms allows us to implement an algorithm which minimizes the process duration while obtaining a predefined fidelity. The algorithm is demonstrated for a multilevel system with a constrained Hamiltonian, and a classification scheme for the control sequences is proposed based on their optimizability.

id: 1405.6099
title: A functional model of interactions in quantum theory
authors: Hans H. Diel
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, preversion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6099
abstract: In this paper, a functional model of interactions in quantum theory (QT) is proposed. A functional model describes the dynamic evolution of a physical system in terms of process steps and intermediate states. That is, it describes how things function. The proposed functional model of QT interactions was developed in the context of the author's work toward a computer model of QT with the goal of supporting the largest possible scope of QT concepts. In QT, the results of interactions are computed using quantum field theory (QFT). Therefore, the proposed functional model of interactions is based on QFT. There are a number of important QT concepts, such as measurement, entanglement, and decoherence, that are related to interactions. The functional model of interactions also addresses these phenomena.

id: 1405.6117
title: Room-Temperature Quantum Memory for Polarization States
authors: Connor Kupchak, Thomas Mittiga, Bertus Jordaan, Mehdi Namazi, Christian N?lleke, Eden Figueroa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6117
abstract: An optical quantum memory is a stationary device that is capable of storing and recreating photonic qubits with a higher fidelity than any classical device. Thus far, these two requirements have been fulfilled in systems based on cold atoms and cryogenically cooled crystals. Here, we report a room-temperature quantum memory capable of storing arbitrary polarization qubits with a signal-to-background ratio higher than 1 and an average fidelity clearly surpassing the classical limit for weak laser pulses containing 1.6 photons on average. Our results prove that a common vapor cell can reach the low background noise levels necessary for quantum memory operation, and propels atomic-vapor systems to a level of quantum functionality akin to other quantum information processing architectures.

id: 1405.6140
title: Second law for quantum operations
authors: Sai Vinjanampathy, Kavan Modi
comments: 5 pages, RevTex4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6140
abstract: We study thermodynamics of small quantum systems which are interacting with an environment that retains an arbitrary amount of memory. Such environmental memory is captured by initial correlations between the system and environment. For such dynamics, we formulate a second law of thermodynamics. As an application, we discuss how such correlations can be used to cool a quantum system.

id: 1405.6158
title: Direct Schmidt number measurement of high-gain parametric down conversion
authors: I. V. Dyakonov, P. R. Sharapova, T. Sh. Iskhakov, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6158
abstract: In this work we estimate the transverse Schmidt number for the bipartite bright squeezed vacuum state by means of second-order intensity correlation function measurement. Assuming that the number of modes is equal in both beams we determine the Schmidt number considering only one of the subsystems. The obtained results demonstrate that this approach is equally efficient over the whole propagation of the state from the near field to the far field regions of its emitter.

id: 1405.6209
title: Chiral Quantum Walks
authors: DaWei Lu, Jacob D. Biamonte, Jun Li, Hang Li, Tomi H. Johnson, Ville Bergholm, Mauro Faccin, Zolt¨¢n Zimbor¨¢s, Raymond Laflamme, Jonathan Baugh, Seth Lloyd
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX 4.1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6209
abstract: Wigner separated the possible types of symmetries in quantum theory into those symmetries that are unitary and those that are antiunitary. Unitary symmetries have been well studied whereas antiunitary symmetries and the physical implications associated with time-reversal symmetry breaking have had little influence on quantum information science. Here we develop a quantum circuits version of time-reversal symmetry theory, classifying time-symmetric and time-asymmetric Hamiltonians and circuits in terms of their underlying network elements and geometric structures. These results reveal that many of the typical quantum circuit networks found across the field of quantum information science exhibit time-asymmetry. We then experimentally implement the most fundamental time-reversal asymmetric process, applying local gates in an otherwise time-symmetric circuit to induce time-reversal asymmetry and thereby achieve (i) directional biasing in the transition probability between basis states, (ii) the enhancement of and (iii) the suppression of these transport probabilities. Our results imply that the physical effect of time-symmetry breaking plays an essential role in coherent transport and its control represents an omnipresent yet essentially untapped resource in quantum transport science.

id: 1405.6251
title: Complete temporal characterization of a single photon
authors: Zhongzhong Qin, Adarsh S. Prasad, Travis Brannan, Andrew MacRae, A. Lezama, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Accepted by Light: Science & Applications. In press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6251
abstract: Precise information about the temporal mode of optical states is crucial for optimizing their interaction efficiency between themselves and/or with matter in various quantum communication devices. Here we propose and experimentally demonstrate a method of determining both the real and imaginary components of a single photon's temporal density matrix by measuring the autocorrelation function of the photocurrent from a balanced homodyne detector at multiple local oscillator frequencies. We test our method on single photons heralded from biphotons generated via four-wave mixing in an atomic vapor and obtain excellent agreement with theoretical predictions for several settings.

id: 1405.6255
title: Generation of atomic NOON states via adiabatic passage
authors: Qi-Gong Liu, Qi-Cheng Wu, Xin Ji, Shou Zhang
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6255
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating atomic NOON states via adiabatic passage. In the scheme, a double $\Lambda$-type three-level atom is trapped in a bimodal cavity and two sets of $\Lambda$-type three-level atoms are translated into and outside of two single mode cavities respectively. The three cavities connected by optical fibres are always in vacuum states. After a series of operations and suitable interaction time, we can obtain arbitrary large-$n$ NOON states of two sets of $\Lambda$-type three-level atoms in distant cavities by performing a single projective measurement on the double $\Lambda$-type three-level atom. Due to adiabatic elimination of atomic excited states and the application of adiabatic passage, our scheme is robust against the spontaneous emissions of atoms, the decays of fibres and cavities photon leakage. So the scheme has a high fidelity and feasibility under the current available techniques.

id: 1405.6267
title: Instantaneous Quantum Channel Estimation during Quantum Information Processing
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6267
abstract: We present a nonintrusive method for reliably estimating the noise level during quantum computation and quantum communication protected by quantum error-correcting codes. As preprocessing of quantum error correction, our scheme estimates the current noise level through a negligible amount of classical computation using error syndromes and updates the decoder's knowledge on the spot before inferring the locations of errors. This preprocessing requires no additional quantum interaction or modification in the system. The estimate can be of higher quality than the maximum likelihood estimate based on perfect knowledge of channel parameters, thereby eliminating the need of the unrealistic assumption that the decoder accurately knows channel parameters a priori. Simulations demonstrate that not only can the decoder pick up on a change of channel parameters, but even if the channel stays the same, a quantum low-density parity-check code can perform better when the decoder exploits the on-the-spot estimates instead of the true error probabilities of the quantum channel.

id: 1405.6302
title: Spin measurements and control of cold atoms using spin-orbit fields
authors: D. Sokolovski, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043614 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6302
abstract: We show that by switching on a spin-orbit interaction in a cold-atom system, experiencing a Zeeman-like coupling to an external field, e.g., in a Bose-Einstein condensate, one can simulate a quantum measurement on a precessing spin. Depending on the realization, the measurement can access both the ergodic and the Zeno regimes, while {the time dependence} of the spin's decoherence may vary from a Gaussian to an inverse fractional power law. Back action of the measurement forms time- and coordinate-dependent profiles of the atoms' density, resulting in its translation, spin-dependent fragmentation, and appearance of interference patterns.

id: 1405.6329
title: Quantum Model Averaging
authors: Christopher Ferrie
comments: For a summary, see this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093035 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6329
abstract: Standard tomographic analyses ignore model uncertainty. It is assumed that a given model generated the data and the task is to estimate the quantum state, or a subset of parameters within that model. Here we apply a model averaging technique to mitigate the risk of overconfident estimates of model parameters in two examples: (1) selecting the rank of the state in tomography and (2) selecting the model for the fidelity decay curve in randomized benchmarking.

id: 1405.6414
title: On the crossing of the energy levels of a parameter-dependent quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6414
abstract: The non-crossing rule for the energy levels of a parameter-dependent Hamiltonian is revisited and a flaw in a commonly accepted proof is revealed. Some aspects of avoided crossings are illustrated by means of simple models. One of them shows the close relationship between avoided crossings and exceptional points.

id: 1405.6422
title: Perfect state transfer and efficient quantum routing: a discrete-time quantum walk approach
authors: Xiang Zhan, Hao Qin, Zhi-hao Bian, Jian Li, Peng Xue
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6422
abstract: We show a perfect state transfer of an arbitrary unknown two-qubit state can be achieved via a discrete-time quantum walk with various settings of coin flippings, and extend this method to distribution of an arbitrary unknown multi-qubit entangled state between every pair of sites in the multi-dimensional network. Furthermore, we study the routing of quantum information on this network in a quantum walk architecture, which can be used as quantum information processors to communicate between separated qubits.

id: 1405.6439
title: Non-ideal classical measurements and quantum measurements: a comparative study
authors: Lars M. Johansen, Amir Kalev, Pier A. Mello
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6439
abstract: Measurements on classical systems are usually idealized and assumed to have infinite precision. In practice, however, any measurement has a finite resolution. We investigate the theory of non-ideal measurements in classical mechanics using a measurement probe with finite resolution. We use the von Neumann interaction model to represent the interaction between system and probe. We find that in reality classical systems are affected by measurement in a similar manner as quantum systems. In particular, we derive classical equivalents of L\"uders' rule, the "collapse postulate", and the Lindblad equation.

id: 1405.6453
title: Improved Deterministic N-To-One Joint Remote Preparation of an Arbitrary Qubit via EPR Pairs
authors: Wen-Jie Liu, Zheng-Fei Chen, Chao Liu, Yu Zheng
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, two tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6453
abstract: Recently, Bich et al. (Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51: 2272, 2012) proposed two deterministic joint remote state preparation (JRSP) protocols of an arbitrary single-qubit state: one is for two preparers to remotely prepare for a receiver by using two Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (ERP) pairs; the other is its generalized form in the case of arbitrary N>2 preparers via N ERP pairs. In this paper, Through reviewing and analyzing Bich et al.'s second protocols with N>2 preparers, we find that the success probability P_{suc}=1/4 < 1. In order to solve the problem, we firstly constructed two sets of projective measurement bases: the real-coefficient basis and the complex-coefficient one, and further proposed an improved deterministic N-to-one JRSP protocol for an arbitrary single-qubit state with unit success probability (i.e, P_{suc}=1). Morever, our protocol is also flexible and convenient, and it can be used in a practical network.

id: 1405.6455
title: Cryptanalysis and improvement of the quantum private comparison protocol based on Bell entangled states
authors: Wen-Jie Liu, Chao Liu, Yu Zheng, Zheng-Fei Chen
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6455
abstract: Recently, Liu et al. [Commun. Theor. Phys. 57, 583, 2012] proposed a quantum private comparison protocol based on entanglement swapping of Bell states, which aims to securely compare the equality of two participants' information with the help of a semi-honest third party (TP). However, this study points out there is a fatal loophole in this protocol, i.e., TP can obtain all of the two participants secret inputs without being detected through making a speci?c Bell-basis measurement. To ?x the problem, a simple solution, which uses one-time eavesdropper checking with decoy photons instead of twice eavesdropper checking with Bell states, is demonstrated. Compared with the original protocol, it also reduces the Bell states consumption and simplifies the steps in the protocol.

id: 1405.6457
title: Refined Carnot's Theorem; Asymptotics of Thermodynamics with Finite-Size Heat Baths
authors: Hiroyasu Tajima, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6457
abstract: The derivation of the Carnot efficiency as the upper limit of the efficiency of heat engines is known as one of the most exciting points of thermodynamics. The achievability of the Carnot efficiency, however, had never been proven by the methods of statistical mechanics. Here, we show refined Carnot's theorem for finite-size systems. For heat engines attached on finite-size heat baths composed of $n$ particles, we microscopically derive an upper bound of the efficiency. We asymptotically expand the upper bound in terms of $1/n$ and explicitly construct a heat engine which achieves the upper bound up to the second order. The constant first-order term is the Carnot efficiency; therefore our result includes the achievability of the Carnot efficiency as a corollary. Our achievable upper bound is easily computable for any $n$; it gives a quantitative understanding not only in the microscopic and macroscopic limits, but also in mesoscopic scales.

id: 1405.6476
title: Symplectic Dilations, Gaussian States and Gaussian Channels
authors: K. R. Parthasarathy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6476
abstract: By elementary matrix algebra we show that every real $2n \times 2n$ matrix admits a dilation to an element of the real symplectic group $Sp (2(n+m))$ for some nonnegative integer $m.$ Our methods do not yield the minimum value of $m,$ for which such a dilation is possible. After listing some of the main properties of Gaussian states in $L^2 (\mathbb{R}^n),$ we analyse the implications of symplectic dilations in the study of quantum Gaussian channels which lead to some interesting open problems, particularly, in the context of the work of Heinosaari, Holevo and Wolf \cite{3}.

id: 1405.6478
title: Semiclassical Double-Inequality on Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation in 1D
authors: Klaus Bering
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX. v2: Minor corrections. v3: Added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6478
abstract: We prove a double-inequality for the product of uncertainties for position and momentum of bound states for 1D quantum mechanical systems in the semiclassical limit.

id: 1405.6486
title: A source of polarization-entangled photon pairs interfacing quantum memories with telecom photons
authors: Christoph Clausen, Felix Bussieres, Alexey Tiranov, Harald Herrmann, Christine Silberhorn, Wolfgang Sohler, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 093058 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6486
abstract: We present a source of polarization-entangled photon pairs suitable for the implementation of long-distance quantum communication protocols using quantum memories. Photon pairs with wavelengths 883 nm and 1338 nm are produced by coherently pumping two periodically poled nonlinear waveguides embedded in the arms of a polarization interferometer. Subsequent spectral filtering reduces the bandwidth of the photons to 240 MHz. The bandwidth is well-matched to a quantum memory based on an Nd:YSO crystal, to which, in addition, the center frequency of the 883 nm photons is actively stabilized. A theoretical model that includes the effect of the filtering is presented and accurately fits the measured correlation functions of the generated photons. The model can also be used as a way to properly assess the properties of the source. The quality of the entanglement is revealed by a visibility of V = 96.1(9)% in a Bell-type experiment and through the violation of a Bell inequality.

id: 1405.6504
title: Controlling quantum walks with coin eigenstates
authors: Martin Stefanak, Igor Jex
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. We have elaborated on the ideas outlined in this paper further and present them in arXiv:1405.7146
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6504
abstract: The control of quantum walk is made particularly transparent when the initial state is expressed in terms of the eigenstates of the coin operator. We show that the group-velocity density acquires a much simpler form when expressed in this basis. This allows us to obtain a much deeper understanding of the role of the initial coin state on the dynamics of quantum walks and control it. We find that the eigenvectors of the coin result in an extremal regime of a quantum walk. The approach is illustrated on two examples of quantum walks on a line.

id: 1405.6506
title: Optomechanically induced amplification and perfect transparency in double-cavity optomechanics
authors: Xiao-Bo Yan, W. Z. Jia, Yong Li, Jin-Hui Wu
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6506
abstract: We study the optomechanically induced amplification and perfect transparency in a double-cavity optomechanical system. We find if two control lasers with appropriate amplitudes and detunings are applied to drive the system, the phenomenon of optomechanically induced amplification for a probe laser can occur. In addition, perfect optomechanically induced transparency phenomenon, which is robust to mechanical dissipation, can be realized by the same type of drive. These results are very important for signal amplification, light storage, fast light and slow light in the quantum information processes.

id: 1405.6508
title: Toy observer in unitary evolution: Histories, consciousness, and state reduction
authors: Lutz Polley
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6508
abstract: For a toy version of a quantum system with a conscious observer, it is demonstrated that the many-worlds problem is solved by retreating into the conscious subspace of an entire observer history. In every step of a discretised time, the observer tries to "see" records of his past and present in a coherent temporal sequence, by scanning through a temporal fine-graining cascade. The extreme most likely occurs at the end of some branch, thus determining observer's world line. The relevant neurons, each with two dimensions, are power-law distributed in number, so order statistics implies that conscious dimension is located almost entirely in the extremal branch.

id: 1405.6517
title: The effect of a laser dip in the semiclassical dynamics of bosonic Josephson Junctions
authors: Gergely Szirmai, Giovanni Mazzarella, Luca Salasnich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013607 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6517
abstract: We consider the standard double well setup extended with a laser beam in the center to create a "triple well" potential. The beam in the center is much more narrow than the barrier, and it creates a tunable depth well which can support a localized state in the middle. We show that the presence of the localized state in the central well changes the sign of tunneling between the left and right wells and therefore controls the fixed point dynamics of the bosonic Josephson junction.

id: 1405.6552
title: Diagonal quantum circuits: their computational power and applications
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, review paper. ver.2: References were added. Fig 1 was replaced with a new one
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2014) 129: 152
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6552
abstract: Diagonal quantum circuits are quantum circuits comprising only diagonal gates in the computational basis. In spite of a classical feature of diagonal quantum circuits in the sense of commutativity of all gates, their computational power is highly likely to outperform classical one and they are exploited for applications in quantum informational tasks. We review computational power of diagonal quantum circuits and their applications. We focus on the computational power of instantaneous quantum polynomial-time (IQP) circuits, which are a special type of diagonal quantum circuits. We then review an approximate generation of random states as an application of diagonal quantum circuits, where random states are an ensemble of pure states uniformly distributed in a Hilbert space. We also present a thermalizing algorithm of classical Hamiltonians by using diagonal quantum circuits. These applications are feasible to be experimentally implemented by current technology due to a simple and robust structure of diagonal gates.

id: 1405.6593
title: Continuous variable one-sided device independent quantum key distribution
authors: Nathan Walk, Howard M Wiseman, Timothy C Ralph
comments: 5+5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6593
abstract: By applying recently developed entropic uncertainty relations in the continuous variable regime we derive bounds upon the secret key rate of Gaussian modulated continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols in the limit of long key length. For several protocols the bounds obtained in this manner can be shown to be one sided device independent, including a protocol that uses only coherent states. Though the relevant uncertainty relation is not tight, and neither are the subsequent key rates, we find that one-sided device independent schemes are experimentally achievable with existing technology for transmission over realistic channels.

id: 1405.6632
title: Postselected quantum circuits
authors: Michael Devin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6632
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to show the unusual behavior of a number of simple circuits under the effects of post-selection. A useful duality exists between post-selected ensembles and a consistent picture of acausal physics embodying the application of Novikov's consistency postulate to the wave-function of a time machine. A competing view applies this postulate to density matrices instead, but that lies outside the scope of this paper. To find out the result of a measurement on a particular circuit, we consider a weighted distribution of histories between some initial and final time, such that each individually obeys ordinary quantum mechanics. The weight of a particular history is given by a joint distribution over the values of a part of the system dubbed the time machine, at two chosen times. In the dual post-selection picture the weight is simply the probability for the 'periodic bit' to satisfy the constraint, plus a small noise part, often assumed constant, representing the error rate of the time machine's channel. The emerging bit is one of a Bell pair, its partner kept in reserve to test that the bit entering the time machine later matches the one which emerged. This is done by interfering the incoming bit with the reserve member of the pair and keeping the experimental runs that interfere constructively. Noise can be effectively simulated by keeping a small proportion of runs that interfere destructively, or by perturbing the reserve bit to decohere it by a similar amount. Paradoxes remain but are tractable.

id: 1405.6683
title: Time-reversal symmetric resolution of unity without background integrals in open quantum systems
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Gonzalo Ordonez
comments: 62 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55 (2014) 122106 (40 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6683
abstract: We present a new complete set of states for a class of open quantum systems, to be used in expansion of the Green's function and the time-evolution operator. A remarkable feature of the complete set is that it observes time-reversal symmetry in the sense that it contains decaying states (resonant states) and growing states (anti-resonant states) parallelly. We can thereby pinpoint the occurrence of the breaking of time-reversal symmetry at the choice of whether we solve Schroedinger equation as an initial-condition problem or a terminal-condition problem. Another feature of the complete set is that in the subspace of the central scattering area of the system, it consists of contributions of all states with point spectra but does not contain any background integrals. In computing the time evolution, we can clearly see contribution of which point spectrum produces which time dependence. In the whole infinite state space, the complete set does contain an integral but it is over unperturbed eigenstates of the environmental area of the system and hence can be calculated analytically. We demonstrate the usefulness of the complete set by computing explicitly the survival probability and the escaping probability as well as the dynamics of wave packets. The origin of each term of matrix elements is clear in our formulation, particularly the exponential decays due to the resonance poles.

id: 1405.6694
title: Quantum trajectories and open many-body quantum systems
authors: Andrew J. Daley
comments: 66 pages, 29 figures, review article submitted to Advances in Physics - comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Adv. Phys. 63, 77 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6694
abstract: The study of open quantum systems has become increasingly important in the past years, as the ability to control quantum coherence on a single particle level has been developed in a wide variety of physical systems. In quantum optics, the study of open systems goes well beyond understanding the breakdown of quantum coherence. There, the coupling to the environment is sufficiently well understood that it can be manipulated to drive the system into desired quantum states, or to project the system onto known states via feedback in quantum measurements. Many mathematical frameworks have been developed to describe such systems, which for atomic, molecular, and optical (AMO) systems generally provide a very accurate description of the open quantum system on a microscopic level. In recent years, AMO systems including cold atomic and molecular gases and trapped ions have been applied heavily to the study of many-body physics, and it has become important to extend previous understanding of open system dynamics in single- and few-body systems to this many-body context. A key formalism that has already proven very useful in this context is the quantum trajectories technique. This was developed as a numerical tool for studying dynamics in open quantum systems, and falls within a broader framework of continuous measurement theory as a way to understand the dynamics of large classes of open quantum systems. We review the progress that has been made in studying open many-body systems in the AMO context, focussing on the application of ideas from quantum optics, and on the implementation and applications of quantum trajectories methods. Control over dissipative processes promises many further tools to prepare interesting and important states in strongly interacting systems, including the realisation of parameter regimes in quantum simulators that are inaccessible via current techniques.

id: 1405.6754
title: A Synopsis of the Minimal Modal Interpretation of Quantum Theory
authors: Jacob A. Barandes, David Kagan
comments: 7 pages + references, 2 figures; cosmetic changes, added figure, updated references, generalized conditional probabilities with attendant changes to the section on Lorentz invariance; this letter summarizes the more comprehensive companion paper at arXiv:1405.6755
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6754
abstract: We summarize a new realist interpretation of quantum theory that builds on the existing physical structure of the theory and allows experiments to have definite outcomes, but leaves the theory's basic dynamical content essentially intact. Much as classical systems have specific states that evolve along definite trajectories through configuration spaces, the traditional formulation of quantum theory asserts that closed quantum systems have specific states that evolve unitarily along definite trajectories through Hilbert spaces, and our interpretation extends this intuitive picture of states and Hilbert-space trajectories to the case of open quantum systems as well. Our interpretation---which we claim is ultimately compatible with Lorentz invariance---reformulates wave-function collapse in terms of an underlying interpolating dynamics, makes it possible to derive the Born rule from deeper principles, and resolves several open questions regarding ontological stability and dynamics.

id: 1405.6755
title: The Minimal Modal Interpretation of Quantum Theory
authors: Jacob A. Barandes, David Kagan
comments: 73 pages + references, 9 figures; cosmetic changes, added figure, updated references, generalized conditional probabilities with attendant changes to the sections on the EPR-Bohm thought experiment and Lorentz invariance; for a concise summary, see the companion letter at arXiv:1405.6754
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6755
abstract: We introduce a realist, unextravagant interpretation of quantum theory that builds on the existing physical structure of the theory and allows experiments to have definite outcomes, but leaves the theory's basic dynamical content essentially intact. Much as classical systems have specific states that evolve along definite trajectories through configuration spaces, the traditional formulation of quantum theory asserts that closed quantum systems have specific states that evolve unitarily along definite trajectories through Hilbert spaces, and our interpretation extends this intuitive picture of states and Hilbert-space trajectories to the case of open quantum systems as well. We provide independent justification for the partial-trace operation for density matrices, reformulate wave-function collapse in terms of an underlying interpolating dynamics, derive the Born rule from deeper principles, resolve several open questions regarding ontological stability and dynamics, address a number of familiar no-go theorems, and argue that our interpretation is ultimately compatible with Lorentz invariance. Along the way, we also investigate a number of unexplored features of quantum theory, including an interesting geometrical structure---which we call subsystem space---that we believe merits further study. We include an appendix that briefly reviews the traditional Copenhagen interpretation and the measurement problem of quantum theory, as well as the instrumentalist approach and a collection of foundational theorems not otherwise discussed in the main text.

id: 1405.6765
title: Comment on "Fault-Tolerate Quantum Private Comparison Based on GHZ States and ECC"
authors: Sai Ji, Fang Wang, Wen-Jie Liu, Chao Liu, Hai-Bin Wang
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6765
abstract: A two-party quantum private comparison scheme using GHZ states and error-correcting code (ECC) was introduced in Li et al.'s paper [Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52: 2818-2815, 2013], which holds the capability of fault-tolerate and could be performed in a none-ideal scenario. However, this study points out there exists a fatal loophole under a special attack, namely the twice-Hadamard-CNOT attack. A malicious party may intercept the other's particles, ?rstly executes the Hadamard operations on these intercepted particles and his (her) own ones respectively, and then sequentially performs twice CNOT operations on them and the auxiliary particles prepared in advance. As a result, the secret input will be revealed without being detected through measuring the auxiliary particles. For resisting this special attack, an improvement is proposed by applying a permutation operator before TP sends the particle sequences to all the participants.

id: 1405.6776
title: Microtoroid cavity QED with fiber overcoupling and strong atom-field coupling: a single-atom quantum switch for coherent light fields
authors: Scott Parkins, Takao Aoki
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053822 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6776
abstract: We propose a scheme for single-atom, quantum control of the direction of propagation of a coherent field incident, via a tapered fiber, upon a microtoroidal whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) resonator. The scheme involves overcoupling of the fiber-taper to the resonator and strong coupling of an atom to the evanescent field of the WGM, i.e., an atom-field coupling that exceeds the total WGM linewidth. In contrast to previous, related schemes that operate in the bad-cavity regime, the proposed scheme can operate effectively with much stronger incident fields, while also preserving their coherent nature. It can also serve to prepare an entangled state of the atom and coherent optical pulses propagating in opposite directions along the fiber. We evaluate the fidelity of preparation of such a state taking into account absorption and atomic spontaneous emission and demonstrate that high fidelities should be possible with realistic parameters.

id: 1405.6779
title: Decoherence of a Driven Qubit
authors: Jun Jing, Peihao Huang, Xuedong Hu
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys Rev A. 90, 022118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6779
abstract: We study decoherence of a field-driven qubit in the presence of environmental noises. For a general qubit, we find that driving, whether on-resonance or off-resonance, alters the qubit decoherence rates (including dissipation and pure dephasing), allowing both blue and red sideband contributions from the reservoir. Depending on the noise spectral density, driving field detuning and driving field phase shift, the qubit decoherence rates could be either accelerated or reduced. We apply our general theory to the system of an electron spin qubit that is confined in a quantum dot and driven by an in-plane electric field. We analyze how spin relaxation induced by the electrical noise due to electron-phonon interaction varies as a function of driving frequency, driving magnitude, driving field phase shift and spin-orbit coupling strengths.

id: 1405.6811
title: Ultracold Chemistry and its Reaction Kinetics
authors: Florian Richter, Daniel Becker, C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Torben A. Schulze, Silke Ospelkaus, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 055005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6811
abstract: We study the reaction kinetics of chemical processes occurring in the ultracold regime and systematically investigate their dynamics. Quantum entanglement is found to play a key role in driving an ultracold reaction towards a dynamical equilibrium. In case of multiple concurrent reactions Hamiltonian chaos dominates the phase space dynamics in the mean field approximation.

id: 1405.6840
title: Classical simulatability of the one clean qubit model
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Takeshi Koshiba
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, new result about FPRAS added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6840
abstract: Deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit (DQC1), or the one clean qubit model, [E. Knill and R. Laflamme, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf81}, 5672 (1998)] is a model of quantum computing where the input is the tensor product of a single pure qubit and many completely-mixed states, and only the single qubit is measured at the end of the computation. In spite of its naive appearance, the DQC1 model can efficiently solve some problems for which no classical efficient algorithms are known, and therefore it has been conjectured that the DQC1 model is more powerful than classical computing (under the assumption of $\mbox{BPP}\subsetneq\mbox{BQP}$). Here we show that the output probability distribution of the DQC1 model cannot be classically efficiently approximated (exactly within a polynomial bit length or in the fully polynomial randomized approximation scheme (FPRAS) with at most a constant error) unless $\mbox{BQP}\subseteq\mbox{BPP}$.

id: 1405.6859
title: No-activation theorem for Gaussian nonclassical correlations by Gaussian operations
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta Jr, Daniel McNulty, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 022328 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6859
abstract: We study general quantum correlations of continuous variable Gaussian states and their interplay with entanglement. Specifically, we investigate the existence of a quantum protocol activating all nonclassical correlations between the subsystems of an input bipartite continuous variable system, into output entanglement between the system and a set of ancillae. For input Gaussian states, we prove that such an activation protocol cannot be accomplished with Gaussian operations, as the latter are unable to create any output entanglement from an initial separable yet nonclassical state in a worst-case scenario. We then construct a faithful non-Gaussian activation protocol, encompassing infinite-dimensional generalizations of controlled-NOT gates to generate entanglement between system and ancillae, in direct analogy with the finite-dimensional case. We finally calculate the negativity of quantumness, an operational measure of nonclassical correlations defined in terms of the performance of the activation protocol, for relevant classes of two-mode Gaussian states.

id: 1405.6867
title: A quantum interface to charged particles in a vacuum
authors: Hiroshi Okamoto
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, a much extended version of v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6867
abstract: A superconducting qubit device suitable for interacting with a flying electron has recently been proposed [H. Okamoto and Y. Nagatani, Appl. Phys. Lett. \textbf{104}, 062604 (2014)]. Either a clockwise or counter clockwise directed loop of half magnetic flux quantum encodes a qubit, which naturally interacts with any single charged particle with arbitrary kinetic energy. Here, the device's properties, sources of errors and possible applications are studied in detail. In particular, applications include detection of a charged particle without applying a force to it. Furthermore, quantum states can be transferred between an array of the proposed devices and the charged particle.

id: 1405.6882
title: Pulsed and continuous measurements of exponentially decaying systems
authors: Francesco Giacosa, Giuseppe Pagliara
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6882
abstract: We study the influence of a detector on the decay law of a quantum state whose "undisturbed" survival probability is purely exponential. In particular, we consider a detector with a finite energy band of detection, i.e. it interacts only with decay products having an energy within a certain range of values. In one case, we assume that the detector performs many repeated measurements at short time intervals in all of which a collapse of the wave function occurs (bang-bang or pulsed-type measurements). In the second case, we assume a continuous measurement which preserves unitarity. We confirm the slowing down of the decay in presence of a measuring apparatus, the Quantum Zeno effect, but the outcomes of the detector are in general qualitatively and quantitatively different in the two cases. In turn, this implies that the so-called Schulman relation (the equivalence of pulsed and continuous measurements) does not hold in general and that it is in principle possible to experimentally access how a certain detector performs a measurement.

id: 1405.6918
title: Optimal preparation of quantum states on an atom chip device
authors: Cosimo Lovecchio, Florian Sch?fer, Shahid Cherukattil, Ali Khan Murtaza, Ivan Herrera, Francesco Saverio Cataliotti, Tommaso Calarco, Simone Montangero, Filippo Caruso
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6918
abstract: Atom chips provide compact and robust platforms towards practical quantum technologies. A quick and faithful preparation of arbitrary input states for these systems is crucial but represents a very challenging experimental task. This is especially difficult when the dynamical evolution is noisy and unavoidable setup imperfections have to be considered. Here, we experimentally prepare with very high small errors different internal states of a Rubidium Bose-Einstein condensate realized on an atom chip. As a possible application of our scheme, we apply it to improve the sensitivity of an atomic interferometer.

id: 1405.6948
title: Multidimensional Manifold Extraction for Multicarrier Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 39 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6948
abstract: We introduce the multidimensional manifold extraction for multicarrier continuous-variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD). The manifold extraction utilizes the resources that are injected into the transmission by the additional degrees of freedom of the multicarrier modulation. We demonstrate the results through the AMQD (adaptive multicarrier quadrature division) scheme, which granulates the information into Gaussian subcarrier CVs and divides the physical link into several Gaussian sub-channels for the transmission. We prove that the exploitable extra degree of freedom in a multicarrier CVQKD scenario significantly extends the possibilities of single-carrier CVQKD. The manifold extraction allows for the parties to reach decreased error probabilities by utilizing those extra resources of a multicarrier transmission that are not available in a single-carrier CVQKD setting. We define the multidimensional manifold space of multicarrier CVQKD and the optimal tradeoff between the available degrees of freedom of the multicarrier transmission. We also extend the manifold extraction for the multiple-access AMQD-MQA (multiuser quadrature allocation) multicarrier protocol. The additional resources of multicarrier CVQKD allow the achievement of significant performance improvements that are particularly crucial in an experimental scenario.

id: 1405.6956
title: Error and unsharpness in approximate joint measurements of position and momentum
authors: Paul Busch, David B Pearson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6956
abstract: In recent years, novel quantifications of measurement error in quantum mechanics have for the first time enabled precise formulations of Heisenberg's famous but often challenged measurement uncertainty relation. These relations take the form of a trade-off for the necessary errors in joint approximate measurements of position and momentum and other incompatible pairs of observables. Here we review some of these error measures, examine their properties and suitability, and compare their relative strengths as criteria for "good" approximations.

id: 1405.6979
title: Interaction induced Landau-Zener transitions
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL 107, 30007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6979
abstract: By considering a quantum critical Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model we analyze a new type of Landau-Zener transitions where the population transfer is mediated by interaction rather than from a direct diabatic coupling. For this scenario, at a mean-field level the dynamics is greatly influenced by quantum interferences. In particular, regardless of how slow the Landau-Zener sweep is, for certain parameters almost no population transfer occurs, which is in stark contrast to the regular Landau-Zener model. For moderate system sizes, this counterintuitive mean-field behaviour is not duplicated in the quantum case. This can be attributed quantum fluctuations and the fact that multi-level Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interferences have a `dephasing' effect on the above mentioned phenomenon. We also find a discrepancy between the quantum and mean-field models in terms of how the transfer probabilities scale with the sweep velocity.

id: 1405.6983
title: Device-Independent Quantum Cryptography for Continuous Variables
authors: Kevin Marshall, Christian Weedbrook
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6983
abstract: We present the first device-independent quantum cryptography protocol for continuous variables. Our scheme is based on the Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill encoding scheme whereby a qubit is embedded in the infinite-dimensional space of a quantum harmonic oscillator. The novel application of discrete-variable device-independent quantum key distribution to this encoding enables a continuous-variable analogue. Since the security of this protocol is based on discrete-variables we inherit by default security against collective attacks and, under certain memoryless assumptions, coherent attacks. We find that our protocol is valid over the same distances as its discrete-variable counterpart, except that we are able to take advantage of high efficiency commercially available detectors where, for the most part, only homodyne detection is required. This offers the potential of removing the difficulty in closing the loopholes associated with Bell inequalities.

id: 1405.6995
title: Lattice mapping for many-body open quantum systems and its application to atoms in photonic cystals
authors: Ines de Vega
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043806 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6995
abstract: We present a derivation that maps the original problem of a many body open quantum system (OQS) coupled to a harmonic oscillator reservoir into that of a many body OQS coupled to a lattice of harmonic oscillators. The present method is particularly suitable to analyse the dynamics of atoms arranged in a periodic structure and coupled the EM field within a photonic crystal. It allows to solve the dynamics of a many body OQS with methods alternative to the commonly used master, stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger and Heisenberg equations, and thus to reach regimes well beyond the weak coupling and Born-Markov approximations.

id: 1405.7009
title: Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions effects on the entanglement dynamics of a two qubit xxz spin system in non-Markovian environment
authors: Georges Collince Fouokeng, Martin Tchoffo, Edwine Tendong, Lukong Cornelius Fai
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:cond-mat/0612049 by other authors; and with arXiv:1304.5569 by other authors without attribution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7009
abstract: We investigate the exact entanglement dynamics of a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ chain with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interactions, interacting with an anisotropic spin bath in thermal equi- librium at a temperature T, driven by an external magnetic field B along the z-axis. We establish that, for an initially entangled qubit pair, the DM interactions generate entanglement and enhance the entanglement in the revival region. The effects of the DM interaction are also seen to be very important at high temperatures and for weak coupling between the two qubits where it is seen to preserve entanglement. These effects are weakened when the magnetic field B and the Heisenberg coupling are switched on. If the two-qubits are prepared in an initially separable state, the DM in- teraction instead has a negative effect on their entanglement. On a whole entanglement can better be preserve in the spin chain even at high temperatures by increases the external magnetic field B and the Heisenberg couplings, and by tuning the strength of the DM interaction.

id: 1405.7021
title: Equivalence of the effective Hamiltonian approach and the Siegert boundary condition for resonant states
authors: Naomichi Hatano
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, Conference proceedings "Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators" in Max-Planck-Institut f\"ur Physik komplexer Systeme in Dresden, 2011
journal: Fortschritte der Physik 61, No. 2-3, 238-249 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7021
abstract: Two theoretical methods of finding resonant states in open quantum systems, namely the approach of the Siegert boundary condition and the Feshbach formalism, are reviewed and shown to be algebraically equivalent to each other for a simple model of the T-type quantum dot. It is stressed that the seemingly Hermitian Hamiltonian of an open quantum system is implicitly non-Hermitian outside the Hilbert space. The two theoretical approaches extract an explicitly non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian in a contracted space out of the seemingly Hermitian (but implicitly non-Hermitian) full Hamiltonian in the infinite-dimensional state space of an open quantum system.

id: 1405.7062
title: Strongly coupled magnons and cavity microwave photons
authors: Xufeng Zhang, Chang-Ling Zou, Liang Jiang, Hong X. Tang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 156401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7062
abstract: We realize a cavity magnon-microwave photon system in which magnetic dipole interaction mediates strong coupling between collective motion of large number of spins in a ferrimagnet and the microwave field in a three-dimensional cavity. By scaling down the cavity size and increasing number of spins, an ultrastrong coupling regime is achieved with a cooperativity reaching 12600. Interesting dynamic features including classical Rabi oscillation, magnetically induced transparency, and Purcell effect are demonstrated in this highly versatile platform, highlighting its great potential for coherent information processing.

id: 1405.7074
title: Absorption and Injection Models for Open Time-Dependent Quantum Systems
authors: Fabio L. Traversa, Zhen Zhan, Xavier Oriols
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E, vol. 90, is. 2, pg. 023304 (10pp), year 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7074
abstract: In the time-dependent simulation of pure states dealing with transport in open quantum systems, the initial state is located outside of the active region of interest. Using the superposition principle and the analytical knowledge of the free time-evolution of such state outside the active region, together with absorbing layers and remapping, a model for a very significant reduction of the computational burden associated to the numerical simulation of open time-dependent quantum systems is presented. The model is specially suited to study (many-particle and high-frequency effects) quantum transport, but it can also be applied to any other research field where the initial time-dependent pure state is located outside of the active region. From numerical simulations of open quantum systems described by the (effective mass) Schr\"{o}dinger and (atomistic) tight-binding equations, a reduction of the computational burden of about two orders of magnitude for each spatial dimension of the domain with a negligible error is presented.

id: 1405.7146
title: Limit distributions of three-state quantum walks: the role of coin eigenstates
authors: Martin Stefanak, Iva Bezdekova, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012342 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7146
abstract: We analyze two families of three-state quantum walks which show the localization effect. We focus on the role of the initial coin state and its coherence in controlling the properties of the quantum walk. In particular, we show that the description of the walk simplifies considerably when the initial coin state is decomposed in the basis formed by the eigenvectors of the coin operator. This allows us to express the limit distributions in a much more convenient form. Consequently, striking features which are hidden in the standard basis description are easily identified. Moreover, the dependence of moments of the position distribution on the initial coin state can be analyzed in full detail. In particular, we find that in the eigenvector basis the even moments and the localization probability at the origin depend only on incoherent combination of probabilities. In contrast, odd moments and localization outside the origin are affected by the coherence of the initial coin state.

id: 1405.7165
title: Comparison and unification of non-Hermitian and Lindblad approaches with applications to open quantum optical systems
authors: Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev, Alessandro Sergi
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures. The article is based on the talks given at the conferences "12th International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics" (02-06 July, 2013, Koc University, Istanbul, Turkey) and "Quantum Information Processing, Communication and Control 2" (25-29 November, 2013, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa)
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 61, 1298-1308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7165
abstract: We compare two approaches to open quantum systems, namely, the non-Hermitian dynamics and the Lindblad master equation. In order to deal with more general dissipative phenomena, we propose the unified master equation that combines the characteristics of both of these approaches. This allows us to assess the differences between them as well as to clarify which observed features come from the Lindblad or the non-Hermitian part, when it comes to experiment. Using a generic two-mode single-atom laser system as a practical example, we analytically solve the dynamics of the normalized density matrix operator. We study the two-level model in a number of cases (depending on parameters and types of dynamics), compute different observables and study their physical properties. It turns out that one is able not only to describe the different types of damping in dissipative quantum optical systems but also to mimic the undamped anharmonic oscillatory phenomena which happen in quantum systems with more than two levels (while staying within the framework of the analytically simple two-mode approximation).

id: 1405.7169
title: Experimental implementation of quantum gates through actuator qubits
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Daniel Burgarth, Raymond Laflamme, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7169
abstract: Universal quantum computation requires the implementation of arbitrary control operations on the quantum register. In most cases, this is achieved by external control fields acting selectively on each qubit to drive single-qubit operations. In combination with a drift Hamiltonian containing interactions between the qubits, this allows the implementation of any required gate operation. Here, we demonstrate an alternative scheme that does not require local control for all qubits: we implement one- and two-qubit gate operations on a set of target qubits indirectly, through a combination of gates on directly controlled actuator qubits with a drift Hamiltonian that couples actuator and target qubits. Experiments are performed on nuclear spins, using radio-frequency pulses as gate operations and magnetic-dipole couplings for the drift Hamiltonian.

id: 1405.7171
title: The Aharonov-Bohm effect in scattering of nonrelativistic electrons by a penetrable magnetic vortex
authors: Yurii A. Sitenko
comments: 14 pages, journal version
journal: Quantum Stud.: Math. Found. 1, 213-222 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7171
abstract: Quantum-mechanical theory for scattering of nonrelativistic charged particles with spin by a penetrable magnetic vortex is elaborated. The scattering differential cross section is shown to consist of two terms, one describing diffraction on the vortex in the forward direction and another one describing penetration through the vortex. The Aharonov-Bohm effect is manifested as a fringe shift in the diffraction pattern. The penetration effect is analyzed for the case of the uniform distribution of the magnetic field strength inside the vortex. We find that the penetrability of the magnetic vortex does not affect the diffraction pattern, and, hence, the Aharonov-Bohm effect is the same for a penetrable vortex as for an impenetrable one.

id: 1405.7195
title: Dynamics of a particle confined in a two-dimensional dilating and deforming domain
authors: F. Anz¨¤, S. Di Martino, A. Messina, B. Militello
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7195
abstract: Some recent results concerning a particle confined in a one-dimensional box with moving walls are briefly reviewed. By exploiting the same techniques used for the 1D problem, we investigate the behavior of a quantum particle confined in a two-dimensional box (a 2D billiard) whose walls are moving, by recasting the relevant mathematical problem with moving boundaries in the form of a problem with fixed boundaries and time-dependent Hamiltonian. Changes of the shape of the box are shown to be important, as it clearly emerges from the comparison between the \lq\lq pantographic\rq\rq\, case (same shape of the box through all the process) and the case with deformation.

id: 1405.7198
title: Multi-mode Entanglement is Detrimental to Lossy Optical Quantum Metrology
authors: P.A. Knott, T.J. Proctor, Kae Nemoto, J.A. Dunningham, W.J. Munro
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033846 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7198
abstract: In optical interferometry multi-mode entanglement is often assumed to be the driving force behind quantum enhanced measurements. Recent work has shown this assumption to be false: single mode quantum states perform just as well as their multi-mode entangled counterparts. We go beyond this to show that when photon losses occur - an inevitability in any realistic system - multi-mode entanglement is actually detrimental to obtaining quantum enhanced measurements. We specifically apply this idea to a superposition of coherent states, demonstrating that these states show a robustness to loss that allows them to significantly outperform their competitors in realistic systems. A practically viable measurement scheme is then presented that allows measurements close to the theoretical bound, even with loss. These results promote a new way of approaching optical quantum metrology using single-mode states that we expect to have great implications for the future.

id: 1405.7204
title: Luminescence-induced noise in single photon sources based on BBO crystals
authors: Radek Machulka, Karel Lemr, Ond?ej Haderka, Marco Lamperti, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 215501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7204
abstract: Single-photon sources based on the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion play a key role in various applied disciplines of quantum optics. We characterize intrinsic luminescence of BBO crystals as a source of non-removable noise in quantum-optics experiments. By analysing its spectral and temporal properties together with its intensity, we evaluate the impact of luminescence on single-photon state preparation using spontaneous parametric down-conversion.

id: 1405.7224
title: Measurement and self-adjoint operators
authors: Glenn Eric Johnson
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7224
abstract: The approximations of classical mechanics resulting from quantum mechanics are richer than a correspondence of classical dynamical variables with self-adjoint Hilbert space operators. Assertion that classical dynamic variables correspond to self-adjoint Hilbert space operators is disputable and sets unnatural limits on quantum mechanics. Well known examples of classical dynamical variables not associated with self-adjoint Hilbert space operators are discussed as a motivation for the realizations of quantum field theory that lack Hermitian field operators but exhibit interaction.

id: 1405.7262
title: Optimal signal processing for continuous qubit readout
authors: Shilin Ng, Mankei Tsang
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures; v2: improved the introduction; v3: updated and accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022325 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7262
abstract: The measurement of a quantum two-level system, or a qubit in modern terminology, often involves an electromagnetic field that interacts with the qubit, before the field is measured continuously and the qubit state is inferred from the noisy field measurement. During the measurement, the qubit may undergo spontaneous transitions, further obscuring the initial qubit state from the observer. Taking advantage of some well known techniques in stochastic detection theory, here we propose a novel signal processing protocol that can infer the initial qubit state optimally from the measurement in the presence of noise and qubit dynamics. Assuming continuous quantum-nondemolition measurements with Gaussian or Poissonian noise and a classical Markov model for the qubit, we derive analytic solutions to the protocol in some special cases of interest using It\={o} calculus. Our method is applicable to multi-hypothesis testing for robust qubit readout and relevant to experiments on qubits in superconducting microwave circuits, trapped ions, nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond, semiconductor quantum dots, or phosphorus donors in silicon.

id: 1405.7284
title: Ad hoc physical Hilbert spaces in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia, Iveta Semor¨¢dov¨¢, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7284
abstract: The overall principles of what is now widely known as PT-symmetric quantum mechanics are listed, explained and illustrated via a few examples. In particular, models based on an elementary local interaction V(x) are discussed as motivated by the naturally emergent possibility of an efficient regularization of an otherwise unacceptable presence of a strongly singular repulsive core in the origin. The emphasis is put on the constructive aspects of the models. Besides the overall outline of the formalism we show how the low-lying energies of bound states may be found in closed form in certain dynamical regimes. Finally, once these energies are found real we explain that in spite of a manifest non-Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian the time-evolution of the system becomes unitary in a properly amended physical Hilbert space.

id: 1405.7307
title: Deterministic and Robust Entanglement of Nitrogen Vacancy Centers using Low-Q Photonic Crystal Cavities
authors: Janik Wolters, Julia Kabuss, Andreas Knorr, Oliver Benson
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 060303(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7307
abstract: We propose an experiment to generate deterministic entanglement between separate nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers mediated by the mode of a photonic crystal cavity. Using numerical simulations the applicability and robustness of the entanglement operation to parameter regimes achievable with present technology is investigated. We find that even with moderate cavity Q-factors of $10^{4}$ a concurrence of $c>0.6$ can be achieved within a time of $t_{max}\approx150$~ns, while Q-factors of $10^{5}$ promise $c>0.8$. Most importantly, the investigated scheme is relative insensitive to spectral diffusion and differences between the optical transitions frequencies of the used NV centers.

id: 1405.7314
title: Entanglement Dynamics in the Presence of Controlled Unital Noise
authors: A. Shaham, A. Halevy, L. Dovrat, E. Megidish, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7314
abstract: Quantum entanglement is notorious for being a very fragile resource. Significant efforts have been put into the study of entanglement degradation in the presence of a realistic noisy environment. Here, we present a theoretical and an experimental study of the decoherence properties of entangled pairs of qubits. The entanglement dynamics of maximally entangled qubit pairs is shown to be related in a simple way to the noise representation in the Bloch sphere picture. We derive the entanglement level in the case when both qubits are transmitted through any arbitrary unital Pauli channel, and compared it to the case when the channel is applied only to one of the qubits. The dynamics of both cases was verified experimentally using an all-optical setup. We further investigated the evolution of partially entangled initial states. Different dynamics was observed for initial mixed and pure states of the same entanglement level.

id: 1405.7321
title: Local hidden--variable models for entangled quantum states
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Maciej Demianowicz, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 40 pages, 4 figures, review article submitted to the special issue of J. Phys. A "50 years of Bell's theorem"
journal: Journal of Physics A 42, 424002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7321
abstract: While entanglement and violation of Bell inequalities were initially thought to be equivalent quantum phenomena, we now have different examples of entangled states whose correlations can be described by local hidden--variable models and, therefore, do not violate any Bell inequality. We provide an up to date overview of the existing local hidden--variable models for entangled quantum states, both in the bipartite and multipartite case, and discuss some of the most relevant open questions in this context. Our review covers twenty five years of this line of research since the seminal work by Werner [R. F. Werner, Phys. Rev. A 40, 8 (1989)] providing the first example of an entangled state with a local model, which in turn appeared twenty five years after the seminal work by Bell [J. S. Bell, Physics 1, 195 (1964)], about the impossibility of recovering the predictions of quantum mechanics using a local hidden--variables theory.

id: 1405.7325
title: Coherent transfer by adiabatic passage in two-dimensional lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 348, 161 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7325
abstract: Coherent tunneling by adiabatic passage (CTAP) is a well-established technique for robust spatial transport of quantum particles in linear chains. Here we introduce two exactly-solvable models where the CTAP protocol can be extended to two-dimensional lattice geometries. Such bi-dimensional lattice models are synthesized from time-dependent second-quantization Hamiltonians, in which the bosonic field operators evolve adiabatically like in an ordinary three-level CTAP scheme thus ensuring adiabatic passage in Fock space.

id: 1405.7345
title: Quantum state revivals in quantum walks on cycles
authors: Phillip R. Dukes
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Results in Physics Vol. 4, 2014, pgs. 189-197
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7345
abstract: Recurrence in the classical random walk is well known and described by the P\'olya number. For quantum walks, recurrence is similarly understood in terms of the probability of a localized quantum walker to return to its origin. Under certain circumstances the quantum walker may also return to an arbitrary initial quantum state in a finite number of steps. Quantum state revivals in quantum walks on circles using coin operators which are constant in time and uniform across the path have been described before but only incompletely. In this paper we find the general conditions for which full-quantum state revival will occur.

id: 1405.7375
title: Tensor Network Contractions for #SAT
authors: Jacob D. Biamonte, Jason Morton, Jacob W. Turner
comments: 16 pages, 8 diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7375
abstract: The computational cost of counting the number of solutions satisfying a Boolean formula, which is a problem instance of #SAT, has proven subtle to quantify. Even when finding individual satisfying solutions is computationally easy (e.g. 2-SAT, which is in P), determining the number of solutions is #P-hard. Recently, computational methods simulating quantum systems experienced advancements due to the development of tensor network algorithms and associated quantum physics-inspired techniques. By these methods, we give an algorithm using an axiomatic tensor contraction language for n-variable #SAT instances with complexity $O((g+cd)^{O(1)} 2^c)$ where $c$ is the number of COPY-tensors, $g$ is the number of gates, and $d$ is the maximal degree of any COPY-tensor. Thus, counting problems can be solved efficiently when their tensor network expression has at most $O(\log c)$ COPY-tensors and polynomial fan-out. This framework also admits an intuitive proof of a variant of the Tovey conjecture (the r,1-SAT instance of the Dubois-Tovey theorem). This study increases the theory, expressiveness and application of tensor based algorithmic tools and provides an alternative insight on these problems which have a long history in statistical physics and computer science.

id: 1405.7420
title: Conditional control of donor nuclear spins in silicon using Stark shifts
authors: Gary Wolfowicz, Matias Urdampilleta, Mike L. W. Thewalt, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7420
abstract: Electric fields can be used to tune donor spins in silicon using the Stark shift, whereby the donor electron wave function is displaced by an electric field, modifying the hyperfine coupling between the electron spin and the donor nuclear spin. We present a technique based on dynamic decoupling of the electron spin to accurately determine the Stark shift, and illustrate this using antimony donors in isotopically purified silicon-28. We then demonstrate two different methods to use a DC electric field combined with an applied resonant radio-frequency (RF) field to conditionally control donor nuclear spins. The first method combines an electric-field induced conditional phase gate with standard RF pulses, and the second one simply detunes the spins off-resonance. Finally, we consider different strategies to reduce the effect of electric field inhomogeneities and obtain above 90% process fidelities.

id: 1405.7429
title: Entanglement of $¦Ð$-LME states and the SAT problem
authors: Adi Makmal, Markus Tiersch, Vedran Dunjko, Shengjun Wu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7429
abstract: In this paper we investigate the entanglement properties of the class of $\pi$-locally maximally entanglable ($\pi$-LME) states, which are also known as the "real equally weighted states" or the "hypergraph states". The $\pi$-LME states comprise well-studied classes of quantum states (e.g. graph states) and exhibit a large degree of symmetry. Motivated by the structure of LME states, we show that the capacity to (efficiently) determine if a $\pi$-LME state is entangled would imply an efficient solution to the boolean satisfiability (SAT) problem. More concretely, we show that this particular problem of entanglement detection, phrased as a decision problem, is $\mathsf{NP}$-complete. The restricted setting we consider yields a technically uninvolved proof, and illustrates that entanglement detection, even when quantum states under consideration are highly restricted, still remains difficult.

id: 1405.7458
title: Spin-Photon Interaction in a Cavity with Time-Reversal Symmetry Breaking
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Warrick G. Farr, Daniel L. Creedon, Michael E. Tobar
comments: Phys. Rev. B, 2014
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 224407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7458
abstract: Employing a sapphire whispering gallery mode resonator, we demonstrate features of the spin-photon interaction in cavities with broken time-reflection symmetry. The broken symmetry leads to a lifting of the degeneracy between left-handed and right-handed polarised cavity photons, which results in an observable gyrotropic effect. In the high-$Q$ cavity limit, such a situation requires a modification of the Tavis-Cummings Hamiltonian to take into account conservation of spin angular momentum and the corresponding selection rules. As a result, the system is represented by a system of two linearly coupled bosonic modes, with each one coupled to its own sub-ensemble of two-level systems with different energy splittings. In the experimental example, these sub-ensembles originate from Fe$^{3+}$ impurity ions effectively seen as a two level systems at the interaction frequency. The temperature dependence of the population of each sub-ensemble (in terms of effective susceptibility of the medium) is determined experimentally in accordance with the theoretical predictions revealing various paramagnetic impurity types in the solid. The regimes of backscatterer and spin ensemble domination are discussed and compared.

id: 1405.7479
title: A quantum algorithm for Viterbi decoding of classical convolutional codes
authors: Jon R. Grice, David A. Meyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7479
abstract: We present a quantum Viterbi algorithm with better than classical performance under certain conditions (for decoding convolutional codes, for instance; large constraint length $Q$ and short decode frames $N$). The algorithm exploits the fact that the decoding trellis is similar to the butterfly diagram of the fast Fourier transform, with its corresponding fast quantum algorithm.

id: 1405.7490
title: Finite temperature reservoir engineering and entanglement dynamics
authors: S. Fedortchenko, A. Keller, T. Coudreau, P. Milman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7490
abstract: We propose experimental methods to engineer reservoirs at arbitrary temperature which are feasible with current technology. Our results generalize to mixed states the possibility of quantum state engineering through controlled decoherence. Finite temperature engineered reservoirs can lead to the experimental observation of thermal entanglement --the appearance and increase of entanglement with temperature-- to the study of the dependence of finite time disentanglement and revival with temperature, quantum thermodynamical effects, among many other applications, enlarging the comprehension of temperature dependent entanglement properties.

id: 1405.7503
title: Non-Hermitian shortcut to stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7503
abstract: We propose a non-Hermitian generalization of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), which allows one to increase speed and fidelity of the adiabatic passage. This is done by adding balanced imaginary (gain/loss) terms in the diagonal (bare energy) terms of the Hamiltonian and choosing them such that they cancel exactly the nonadiabatic couplings, providing in this way an effective shortcut to adiabaticity. Remarkably, for a STIRAP using delayed Gaussian-shaped pulses in the counter-intuitive scheme the imaginary terms of the Hamiltonian turn out to be time independent. A possible physical realization of non-Hermitian STIRAP, based on light transfer in three evanescently-coupled optical waveguides, is proposed.

id: 1405.7552
title: Adiabatic optimization without local minima
authors: Michael Jarret, Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Journal version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 15 No. 3/4 pg. 181-199 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7552
abstract: Several previous works have investigated the circumstances under which quantum adiabatic optimization algorithms can tunnel out of local energy minima that trap simulated annealing or other classical local search algorithms. Here we investigate the even more basic question of whether adiabatic optimization algorithms always succeed in polynomial time for trivial optimization problems in which there are no local energy minima other than the global minimum. Surprisingly, we find a counterexample in which the potential is a single basin on a graph, but the eigenvalue gap is exponentially small as a function of the number of vertices. In this counterexample, the ground state wavefunction consists of two "lobes" separated by a region of exponentially small amplitude. Conversely, we prove if the ground state wavefunction is single-peaked then the eigenvalue gap scales at worst as one over the square of the number of vertices.

id: 1405.7577
title: Self-Locating Uncertainty and the Origin of Probability in Everettian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Charles T. Sebens, Sean M. Carroll
comments: 41 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7577
abstract: A longstanding issue in attempts to understand the Everett (Many-Worlds) approach to quantum mechanics is the origin of the Born rule: why is the probability given by the square of the amplitude? Following Vaidman, we note that observers are in a position of self-locating uncertainty during the period between the branches of the wave function splitting via decoherence and the observer registering the outcome of the measurement. In this period it is tempting to regard each branch as equiprobable, but we argue that the temptation should be resisted. Applying lessons from this analysis, we demonstrate (using methods similar to those of Zurek's envariance-based derivation) that the Born rule is the uniquely rational way of apportioning credence in Everettian quantum mechanics. In doing so, we rely on a single key principle: changes purely to the environment do not affect the probabilities one ought to assign to measurement outcomes in a local subsystem. We arrive at a method for assigning probabilities in cases that involve both classical and quantum self-locating uncertainty. This method provides unique answers to quantum Sleeping Beauty problems, as well as a well-defined procedure for calculating probabilities in quantum cosmological multiverses with multiple similar observers.

id: 1405.7644
title: Distinguishing decoherence from alternative quantum theories by dynamical decoupling
authors: Christian Arenz, Robin Hillier, Martin Fraas, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7644
abstract: A longstanding challenge in the foundations of quantum mechanics is the veri?cation of alternative collapse theories despite their mathematical similarity to decoherence. To this end, we suggest a novel method based on dynamical decoupling. Experimental observation of nonzero saturation of the decoupling error in the limit of fast decoupling operations can provide evidence for alternative quantum theories. As part of the analysis we prove that unbounded Hamiltonians can always be decoupled, and provide novel dilations of Lindbladians.

id: 1405.7666
title: A continuous-time diffusion limit theorem for dynamical decoupling and intrinsic decoherence
authors: Robin Hillier, Christian Arenz, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 24 pages. Final published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 155301 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7666
abstract: We discuss a few mathematical aspects of random dynamical decoupling, a key tool procedure in quantum information theory. In particular, we place it in the context of discrete stochastic processes, limit theorems and CPT semigroups on matrix algebras. We obtain precise analytical expressions for expectation and variance of the density matrix and fidelity over time in the continuum-time limit depending on the system Lindbladian, which then lead to rough short-time estimates depending only on certain coupling strengths. We prove that dynamical decoupling does not work in the case of intrinsic (i.e., not environment-induced) decoherence, and together with the above-mentioned estimates this yields a novel method of partially identifying intrinsic decoherence.

id: 1405.7673
title: Self-Stabilizing Measurements for Noisy Metrology
authors: Sai Vinjanampathy
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7673
abstract: We present a protocol to perform self-stabilizing measurements on noisy qubits. We employ rapid purification in a rotating frame whose frequency is estimated and periodically updated via a Bayesian estimation scheme. The Bayesian estimation protocol employs the continuous measurement record to improve the estimate, which in turn purifies the qubit more. This procedure stabilizes the qubit. Such an adaptive measurement scheme serves the purpose of purifying the state, while minimally interfering with the phase estimation.

id: 1405.7674
title: The Theory of Three-level Photon Echo Using of Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: Tara Ahmadi, Sergei.A Pulkin, Vladimir.A Sheftsov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7674
abstract: The three level photon echo has been described in different works by using rotating wave approximation but none of them did not get results which show the effects of field's frequencies on frequency of ground level of system. In this work, we studied a Lambda type system theoretically and numerically. By considering the Doppler effect in environment, we get different equation for polarization of echo signal and its intensity.

id: 1405.7693
title: Formulation of quantum mechanics in terms of gauge transformations
authors: S. R. Vatsya
comments: 22 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7693
abstract: Formulations of quantum mechanics incorporating the Weyl gauge transformations are studied in this article and developed further. In the process, impact of the method of observation on its outcome is interpreted in terms of the assigned gauges by incorporating properties of the corresponding experimental arrangement in defining them. Further, the assigned gauge is explicitly incorporated in the Feynman path integral formulation of quantum mechanics. The resulting wavefunction, which is not uniquely defined, represents a gauge equivalence class. The representative wavefunction is still obtained by the original path integral method. Methods to obtain the pertinent information about the assigned gauges supplementing the representative wavefunction are discussed. The probability density is shown to be a uniquely defined gauge invariant quantity but at the expense of some information describing the observable effects contained in gauge factors. In the standard quantum mechanics, a wavefunction is assumed to be defined within a phase factor while the probability density is phase-independent, paralleling these results. Also, the path integral method is used to deduce the Klein-Gordon equation for the representative wavefunction in the Riemannian spaces in a more streamlined manner than the previous derivations.

id: 1405.7703
title: Quantum limits in optical interferometry
authors: R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, M. Jarzyna, J. Kolodynski
comments: 40 pages, review paper to appear in Progress In Optics, Edited by Emil Wolf, new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7703
abstract: Non-classical states of light find applications in enhancing the performance of optical interferometric experiments, with notable example of gravitational wave-detectors. Still, the presence of decoherence hinders significantly the performance of quantum-enhanced protocols. In this review, we summarize the developments of quantum metrology with particular focus on optical interferometry and derive fundamental bounds on achievable quantum-enhanced precision in optical interferometry taking into account the most relevant decoherence processes including: phase diffusion, losses and imperfect interferometric visibility. We introduce all the necessary tools of quantum optics as well as quantum estimation theory required to derive the bounds. We also discuss the practical attainability of the bounds derived and stress in particular that the techniques of quantum-enhanced interferometry which are being implemented in modern gravitational wave detectors are close to the optimal ones.

id: 1405.7726
title: Quantum mutual information of an entangled state propagating through a fast-light medium
authors: Jeremy B. Clark, Ryan T. Glasser, Quentin Glorieux, Ulrich Vogl, Tian Li, Kevin M. Jones, Paul D. Lett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7726
abstract: Although it is widely accepted that classical information cannot travel faster than the speed of light in vacuum, the behavior of quantum correlations and quantum information propagating through actively-pumped fast-light media has not been studied in detail. To investigate this behavior, we send one half of an entangled state of light through a gain-assisted fast-light medium and detect the remaining quantum correlations. We show that the quantum correlations can be advanced by a small fraction of the correlation time while the entanglement is preserved even in the presence of noise added by phase-insensitive gain. Additionally, although we observe an advance of the peak of the quantum mutual information between the modes, we find that the degradation of the mutual information due to the added noise appears to prevent an advancement of the leading edge. In contrast, we show that both the leading and trailing edges of the mutual information in a slow-light system can be significantly delayed.

id: 1405.7778
title: Universal Quantum Computation with Metaplectic Anyons
authors: Shawn X. Cui, Zhenghan Wang
comments: To appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7778
abstract: We show that braidings of the metaplectic anyons $X_\epsilon$ in $SO(3)_2=SU(2)_4$ with their total charge equal to the metaplectic mode $Y$ supplemented with measurements of the total charge of two metaplectic anyons are universal for quantum computation. We conjecture that similar universal computing models can be constructed for all metaplectic anyon systems $SO(p)_2$ for any odd prime $p\geq 5$. In order to prove universality, we find new conceptually appealing universal gate sets for qutrits and qupits.

id: 1405.7779
title: Shortcuts to adiabatic passage for multiparticle in distant cavities: Applications to fast and noise-resistant quantum population transer, entangled states' preparation and transition
authors: Ye-Hong Chen, Yan Xia, Qing-Qin Chen, Jie Song
comments: 31 pages(one column), 8 figures, Accepted by Laser Physics Letters as a Regular Article
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 11, 115201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7779
abstract: In this paper, we study the fast and noise-resistant population transfer, quantum entangled states preparation, and quantum entangled states' transition by constructing the shortcuts to adiabatic passage (STAP) for multiparticle based on the approach of "Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants" in distant cavity quantum electronic dynamics (QED) system. Numerical simulation demonstrates that all of the schemes are fast and robust against the decoherence caused by atomic spontaneous emission and photon leakage. Moreover, not only the total operation time but also the robustness in each scheme against decoherence is irrelevant to the number of qubits. This might lead to a useful step toward realizing the fast and noise-resistant quantum information processing in current technology.

id: 1405.7795
title: Belavkin Filtering with Squeezed Light Sources
authors: Anita Dabrowska, John Gough
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures (Dedicated to Slava Belavkin)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7795
abstract: We derive the filtering equation for Markovian systems undergoing homodyne measurement in the situation where the output processes being monitored are squeezed. The filtering theory applies to case where the system is driven by Fock noise (that, quantum input processes in a coherent state) and where the output is mixed with a squeezed signal. It also applies to the case of a system driven by squeezed noise, but here there is a physical restriction to emission/absorption coupling only. For the special case of a cavity mode where the dynamics is linear, we are able to derive explicitly the filtered estimate $\pi_t (a)$ for the mode annihilator $a$ based on the homodyne quadrature observations up to time $t$.

id: 1405.7804
title: Coherent dipole-dipole coupling between two single atoms at a F?rster resonance
authors: Sylvain Ravets, Henning Labuhn, Daniel Barredo, Lucas B¨¦guin, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 10, 914 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7804
abstract: Resonant energy transfers, i.e. the non-radiative redistribution of an electronic excitation between two particles coupled by the dipole-dipole interaction, lie at the heart of a variety of chemical and biological phenomena, most notably photosynthesis. In 1948, F\"orster established the theoretical basis of fluorescence resonant energy transfer (FRET), paving the ground towards the widespread use of FRET as a "spectroscopic ruler" for the determination of nanometer-scale distances in biomolecules. The underlying mechanism is a coherent dipole-dipole coupling between particles, as already recognized in the early days of quantum mechanics, but this coherence was not directly observed so far. Here, we study, both spectroscopically and in the time domain, the coherent, dipolar-induced exchange of electronic excitations between two single Rydberg atoms separated by a controlled distance as large as 15 microns, and brought into resonance by applying a small electric field. The coherent oscillation of the system between two degenerate pair states occurs at a frequency that scales as the inverse third power of the distance, the hallmark of dipole-dipole interactions. Our results not only demonstrate, at the most fundamental level of two atoms, the basic mechanism underlying FRET, but also open exciting prospects for active tuning of strong, coherent interactions in quantum many-body systems.

id: 1405.7830
title: Solitons and entanglement in the double sine-Gordon model
authors: A. Alonso Izquierdo, J. Mateos Guilarte, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 11 pages, 28 figures. This version improves the previous one
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7830
abstract: The bipartite ground state entanglement in a finite linear harmonic chain of particles is numerically investigated. The particles are subjected to an external on-site periodic potential belonging to a family parametrized by the unit interval encompassing the sine-Gordon potential at both ends of the interval. Strong correspondences between the soliton entanglement entropy and the kink energy distribution profile as functions of the sub-chain length are found.

id: 1405.7873
title: Uncertainty in the context of multislit interferometry
authors: Johannes Biniok, Paul Busch, Jukka Kiukas
comments: Version 2 contains minor corrections and improvements as well as added mathematical detail in the appendix
journal: Physical Review A 90, 022115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7873
abstract: A pair of uncertainty relations relevant for quantum states of multislit interferometry is derived, based on the mutually commuting "modular" position and momentum operators and their complementary counterparts, originally introduced by Aharonov and co-workers. We provide a precise argument as to why these relations are superior to the standard Heisenberg uncertainty relation at expressing the complementarity between spatial localisation and the appearance of fringes. We further support the argument with explicit computations involving wavefunctions specifically tailored to the interference setup. Conceptually developing the idea of Aharonov and co-workers, we show how the modular momentum should reflect the given experimental setup, yielding a refined observable that accurately captures the fine structure of the interference pattern.

id: 1405.7914
title: Classical noise assists the flow of quantum energy by `momentum rejuvenation'
authors: Ying Li, Filippo Caruso, Erik Gauger, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013057 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7914
abstract: An important challenge in quantum science is to fully understand the efficiency of energy flow in networks. Here we present a simple and intuitive explanation for the intriguing observation that optimally efficient networks are not purely quantum, but are assisted by some interaction with a `noisy' classical environment. By considering the system's dynamics in both the site-basis and the momentum-basis, we show that the effect of classical noise is to sustain a broad momentum distribution, countering the depletion of high mobility terms which occurs as energy exits from the network. This picture predicts that the optimal level of classical noise is reciprocally related to the linear dimension of the lattice; our numerical simulations verify this prediction to high accuracy for regular 1D and 2D networks over a range of sizes up to thousands of sites. This insight leads to the discovery that dramatic further improvements in performance occur when a driving field targets noise at the low mobility components.

id: 1405.7955
title: Parametric Competition in non-autonomous Hamiltonian Systems
authors: L. A. M. Souza, J. G. P. Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7955
abstract: In this work we use the formalism of chord functions (\emph{i.e.} characteristic functions) to analytically solve quadratic non-autonomous Hamiltonians coupled to a reservoir composed by an infinity set of oscillators, with Gaussian initial state. We analytically obtain a solution for the characteristic function under dissipation, and therefore for the determinant of the covariance matrix and the von Neumann entropy, where the latter is the physical quantity of interest. We study in details two examples that are known to show dynamical squeezing and instability effects: the inverted harmonic oscillator and an oscillator with time dependent frequency. We show that it will appear in both cases a clear competition between instability and dissipation. If the dissipation is small when compared to the instability, the squeezing generation is dominant and one can see an increasing in the von Neumann entropy. When the dissipation is large enough, the dynamical squeezing generation in one of the quadratures is retained, thence the growth in the von Neumann entropy is contained.

id: 1405.0007
title: Principle of Maximum Fisher Information from Hardy's Axioms Applied to Statistical Systems
authors: B.R. Frieden, R.A. Gatenby
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 042144, 1-6 (2013)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0007
abstract: Consider a finite-sized, multidimensional system in parameter state a. The system is either at statistical equilibrium or general non-equilibrium, and may obey either classical or quantum physics. L. Hardy's mathematical axioms provide a basis for the physics obeyed by any such system. One axiom is that the number N of distinguishable states a in the system obeys N=max. This assumes that N is known as deterministic prior knowledge. However, most observed systems suffer statistical fluctuations, for which N is therefore only known approximately. Then what happens if the scope of the axiom N=max is extended to include such observed systems? It is found that the state a of the system must obey a principle of maximum Fisher information, I=I_{max}. This is important because many physical laws have been derived, assuming as a working hypothesis that I=I_{max}. These derivations include uses of the principle of Extreme physical information (EPI). Examples of such derivations were of the De Broglie wave hypothesis, quantum wave equations, Maxwell's equations, new laws of biology (e.g. of Coulomb force-directed cell development, and of in situ cancer growth), and new laws of economic fluctuation and investment. That the principle I=I_{max} itself derives, from suitably extended Hardy axioms, thereby eliminates its need to be assumed in these derivations. Thus, uses of I=I_{max} and EPI express physics at its most fundamental level -- its axiomatic basis in math.

id: 1405.0012
title: Spin Controlled Coexistence of 0 and ¦Ð States in SFSFS Josephson Junctions
authors: Mohammad Alidoust, Klaus Halterman
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. To Appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195111 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0012
abstract: Using the Keldysh-Usadel formalism, we theoretically study the $0$-$\pi$ transition profiles and current-phase relations of magnetic $SFSFS$ and $SFSFFS$ Josephson nanojunctions in the diffusive regime. By allowing the magnetizations of the ferromagnetic layers to take arbitrary orientations, the strength and direction of the charge supercurrent flowing through the ferromagnetic regions can be controlled via the magnetization rotation in one of the ferromagnetic layers. Depending on the junction parameters, we find opposite current flow in the ferromagnetic layers, revealing that remarkably such configurations possess well-controlled $0$- and $\pi$-states simultaneously, creating a three-terminal $0$-$\pi$ spin switch. We demonstrate that the spin-controlled $0$-$\pi$ profiles trace back to the proximity induced odd-frequency superconducting correlations generated by the ferromagnetic layers. It is also shown that the spin-switching effect can be more pronounced in $SFSFFS$ structures. The current-phase relations reveal the important role of the middle $S$ electrode, where the spin controlled supercurrent depends crucially on its thickness and phase differences with the outer $S$ terminals.

id: 1405.0055
title: Quantum, Stochastic, and Pseudo Stochastic Languages with Few States
authors: Arseny M. Shur, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: A new version with new results. Previous version: Arseny M. Shur, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz: Quantum, Stochastic, and Pseudo Stochastic Languages with Few States. UCNC 2014: 327-339
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0055
abstract: Stochastic languages are the languages recognized by probabilistic finite automata (PFAs) with cutpoint over the field of real numbers. More general computational models over the same field such as generalized finite automata (GFAs) and quantum finite automata (QFAs) define the same class. In 1963, Rabin proved the set of stochastic languages to be uncountable presenting a single 2-state PFA over the binary alphabet recognizing uncountably many languages depending on the cutpoint. In this paper, we show the same result for unary stochastic languages. Namely, we exhibit a 2-state unary GFA, a 2-state unary QFA, and a family of 3-state unary PFAs recognizing uncountably many languages; all these numbers of states are optimal. After this, we completely characterize the class of languages recognized by 1-state GFAs, which is the only nontrivial class of languages recognized by 1-state automata. Finally, we consider the variations of PFAs, QFAs, and GFAs based on the notion of inclusive/exclusive cutpoint, and present some results on their expressive power.

id: 1405.0149
title: Coding Theoretic Construction of Quantum Ramp Secret Sharing
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: svjour3.cls, 12 pages, no figure. Version 5 added citations to relevant prior papers that were missing in previous versions. Contents unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0149
abstract: We show a construction of a quantum ramp secret sharing scheme from a nested pair of linear codes. Necessary and sufficient conditions for qualified sets and forbidden sets are given in terms of combinatorial properties of nested linear codes. An algebraic geometric construction for quantum secret sharing is also given.

id: 1405.0230
title: Theory of Bosons in two-leg ladders with large magnetic fields
authors: Ran Wei, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063617 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0230
abstract: We calculate the ground state of a Bose gas trapped on a two-leg ladder where Raman-induced hopping mimics the effect of a large magnetic field. In the mean-field limit, where there are large numbers of particles per site, this maps onto a uniformly frustrated two-leg ladder classical spin model. The net particle current always vanishes in the ground state, but generically there is a finite "chiral current", corresponding to equal and opposite flow on the two legs. We vary the strength of the hopping across the rungs of the ladder and the interaction between the bosons. We find three phases: (1) A "saturated chiral current phase" (SCCP), where the density is uniform and the chiral current is simply related to the strength of the magnetic field. In this state the only broken symmetry is the $U(1)$ condensate phase. (2) A "biased ladder phase" (BLP), where the density is higher on one leg than the other. The fluid velocity is higher on the lower density leg, so the net current is zero. In addition to the $U(1)$ condensate phase, this has a broken $Z_2$ reflection symmetry. (3) A "modulated density phase" (MDP), where the atomic density is modulated along the ladder. In addition to the $U(1)$ condensate phase, this has a second broken $U(1)$ symmetry corresponding to translations of the density wave. We further study the fluctuations of the condensate in the BLP, finding a roton-maxon like excitation spectrum. Decreasing the hopping along the rungs softens the spectrum. As the energy of the "roton" reaches to zero, the BLP becomes unstable. We describe the experimental signatures of these phases, including the response to changing the frequency of the Raman transition.

id: 1405.0256
title: Trapping a single vortex and reducing quasiparticles in a superconducting resonator
authors: I. Nsanzineza, B.L.T. Plourde
comments: Combined with supplemental material: 10 pages, 9 figures; published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 113, 117002 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0256
abstract: Vortices trapped in thin-film superconducting microwave resonators can have a significant influence on the resonator performance. Using a variable-linewidth geometry for a weakly coupled resonator we are able to observe the effects of a single vortex trapped in the resonator through field cooling. For resonant modes where the vortex is near a current antinode, the presence of even a single vortex leads to a measurable decrease in the quality factor and a dispersive shift of the resonant frequency. For modes with the vortex located at a current node, the presence of the vortex results in no detectable excess loss and, in fact, produces an increase in the quality factor. We attribute this enhancement to a reduction in the density of nonequilibrium quasiparticles in the resonator due to the suppressed gap from the vortex.

id: 1405.0263
title: Hidden Quasicrystal in Hofstadter Butterfly
authors: Indubala I Satija
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0263
abstract: Topological description of hierarchical sets of spectral gaps of Hofstadter butterfly is found to be encoded in a quasicrystal where magnetic flux plays the role of a phase factor that shifts the origin of the quasiperiodic order. Revealing an intrinsic frustration at smallest energy scale, described by $\zeta=2-\sqrt{3}$, this irrational number characterizes the universal butterfly and is related to two quantum numbers that includes the Chern number of quantum Hall states. With a periodic drive that induces phase transitions in the system, the fine structure of the butterfly is shown to be amplified making states with large topological invariants accessible experimentally .

id: 1405.0298
title: De Sitter Space Without Quantum Fluctuations
authors: Kimberly K. Boddy, Sean M. Carroll, Jason Pollack
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0298
abstract: We argue that, under certain plausible assumptions, de Sitter space settles into a quiescent vacuum in which there are no quantum fluctuations. Quantum fluctuations require time-dependent histories of out-of-equilibrium recording devices, which are absent in stationary states. For a massive scalar field in a fixed de Sitter background, the cosmic no-hair theorem implies that the state of the patch approaches the vacuum, where there are no fluctuations. We argue that an analogous conclusion holds whenever a patch of de Sitter is embedded in a larger theory with an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space, including semiclassical quantum gravity with false vacua or complementarity in theories with at least one Minkowski vacuum. This reasoning provides an escape from the Boltzmann brain problem in such theories. It also implies that vacuum states do not uptunnel to higher-energy vacua and that perturbations do not decohere while slow-roll inflation occurs, suggesting that eternal inflation is much less common than often supposed. On the other hand, if a de Sitter patch is a closed system with a finite-dimensional Hilbert space, there will be Poincare recurrences and Boltzmann fluctuations into lower-entropy states. Our analysis does not alter the conventional understanding of the origin of density fluctuations from primordial inflation, since reheating naturally generates a high-entropy environment and leads to decoherence.

id: 1405.0302
title: Super-Adiabatic Particle Number in Schwinger and de Sitter Particle Production
authors: Robert Dabrowski, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 25 pages; 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 025021 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0302
abstract: We consider the time evolution of the adiabatic particle number in both time-dependent electric fields and in de Sitter spaces, and define a super-adiabatic particle number in which the (divergent) adiabatic expansion is truncated at optimal order. In this super-adiabatic basis, the particle number evolves smoothly in time, according to Berry's universal adiabatic smoothing of the Stokes phenomenon. This super-adiabatic basis also illustrates clearly the quantum interference effects associated with particle production, in particular for sequences of time-dependent electric field pulses, and in eternal de Sitter space where there is constructive interference in even dimensions, and destructive interference in odd dimensions.

id: 1405.0332
title: Nontrivial Quantization of $¦Õ^4_n$, $n\ge2$
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 10 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1112.0803, updated text, added dedication
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0332
abstract: Conventional quantization of covariant scalar field models $\phi^4_n$, for spacetime dimensions $n\ge5$ are trivial, and this may also be true for $n=4$ as well. However, an alternative ${\cal O}(\hbar)$ counterterm leads to nontrivial results for all $n\ge4$, and provides a different quantization for $n=2,3$ as well. In this article we determine the counterterm that provides these desirable properties as simply and directly as possible. The same counterterm also resolves models such as $\phi^p_n$ for all even $p$, including those where $p>2n/(n-2)$, which are traditionally regarded as nonrenormalizable.

id: 1405.0373
title: Fabrication and measurements of hybrid Nb/Al Josephson junctions and flux qubits with pi-shifters
authors: A. V. Shcherbakova, K. G. Fedorov, K. V. Shulga, V. V. Ryazanov, V. V. Bolginov, V. A Oboznov, S. V. Egorov, V. O. Shkolnikov, M. J. Wolf, D. Beckmann, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0373
abstract: We describe fabrication and testing of composite flux qubits combining Nb- and Al-based superconducting circuit technology. This hybrid approach to making qubits allows for employing pi-phase shifters fabricated using well-established Nb-based technology of superconductor-ferromagnet-superconductor Josephson junctions. The important feature here is to obtain high interface transparency between Nb and Al layers without degrading sub-micron shadow mask. We achieve this by in-situ Ar etching using e-beam gun. Shadow-evaporated Al/AlOx/Al Josephson junctions with Nb bias pads show the expected current-voltage characteristics with reproducible critical currents. Using this technique, we fabricated composite Nb/Al flux qubits with Nb/CuNi/Nb pi-shifters and measured their magnetic field response. The observed offset between the field responses of the qubits with and without pi-junction is attributed to the pi phase shift. The reported approach can be used for implementing a variety of hybrid Nb/Al superconducting quantum circuits.

id: 1405.0407
title: Dynamics of gas phase Ne$^*$ + NH$_3$ and Ne$^*$ + ND$_3$ Penning ionization at low temperatures
authors: Justin Jankunas, Benjamin Bertsche, Krzysztof Jachymski, Michal Hapka, Andreas Osterwalder
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 244302 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0407
abstract: Two isotopic chemical reactions, $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + NH$_3$, and $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + ND$_3$, have been studied at low collision energies by means of a merged beams technique. Partial cross sections have been recorded for the two reactive channels, namely $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + NH$_3$ $\rightarrow$ Ne + NH$_3^+$ + $e^-$, and $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + NH$_3$ $\rightarrow$ Ne + NH$_2^+$ + H + $e^-$, by detecting the NH$_3^+$ and NH$_2^+$ product ions, respectively. The cross sections for both reactions were found to increase with decreasing collision energy, $E_{coll}$, in the range 8 $\mu$eV$<E_{coll}<$ 20 meV. The measured rate constant exhibits a curvature in a log(k)-log($E_{coll}$) plot from which it is concluded that the Langevin capture model does not properly describe the $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + NH$_3$ reaction in the entire range of collision energies covered here. Calculations based on multichannel quantum defect theory were performed to reproduce and interpret the experimental results. Good agreement was obtained by including long range van der Waals interactions combined with a 6-12 Lennard-Jones potential. The branching ratio between the two reactive channels, $\Gamma = \frac{[NH_2^+]}{[NH_2^+]+[NH_3^+]}$, is relatively constant, $\Gamma\approx 0.3$, in the entire collision energy range studied here. Possible reasons for this observation are discussed and rationalised in terms of relative time scales of the reactant approach and the molecular rotation. Isotopic differences between the $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + NH$_3$ and $\mathrm{Ne}^*$ + ND$_3$ reactions are small, as suggested by nearly equal branching ratios and cross sections for the two reactions.

id: 1405.0447
title: Symmetries and boundary theories for chiral Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Thorsten B. Wahl, Stefan T. Ha?ler, Hong-Hao Tu, J. Ignacio Cirac, Norbert Schuch
comments: 29 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115133 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0447
abstract: We investigate the topological character of lattice chiral Gaussian fermionic states in two dimensions possessing the simplest descriptions in terms of projected entangled-pair states (PEPS). They are ground states of two different kinds of Hamiltonians. The first one, $\mathcal H_\mathrm{ff}$, is local, frustration-free, and gapless. It can be interpreted as describing a quantum phase transition between different topological phases. The second one, $\mathcal H_\mathrm{fb}$ is gapped, and has hopping terms scaling as $1/r^3$ with the distance $r$. The gap is robust against local perturbations, which allows us to define a Chern number for the PEPS. As for (non-chiral) topological PEPS, the non-trivial topological properties can be traced down to the existence of a symmetry in the virtual modes that are used to build the state. Based on that symmetry, we construct string-like operators acting on the virtual modes that can be continuously deformed without changing the state. On the torus, the symmetry implies that the ground state space of the local parent Hamiltonian is two-fold degenerate. By adding a string wrapping around the torus one can change one of the ground states into the other. We use the special properties of PEPS to build the boundary theory and show how the symmetry results in the appearance of chiral modes, and a universal correction to the area law for the zero R\'{e}nyi entropy.

id: 1405.0450
title: Mitigating information leakage in a crowded spectrum of weakly anharmonic qubits
authors: V. Vesterinen, O.-P. Saira, A. Bruno, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; supplemental material with 5 figures; improved figure quality
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0450
abstract: A challenge for scaling up quantum processors using frequency-crowded, weakly anharmonic qubits is to drive individual qubits without causing leakage into non-computational levels of the others, while also minimizing the number of control lines. To address this, we implement single-qubit Wah-Wah control in a circuit QED processor with a single feedline for all transmon qubits, operating at the maximum gate speed achievable given the frequency crowding. Randomized benchmarking and quantum process tomography confirm alternating qubit control with $\leq$1% average error per computational step and decoherence-limited idling of one qubit while driving another with a Wah-Wah pulse train.

id: 1405.0485
title: Suppressing qubit dephasing using real-time Hamiltonian estimation
authors: Michael D. Shulman, Shannon P. Harvey, John M. Nichol, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty, Vladimir Umansky, Amir Yacoby
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5156 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0485
abstract: Unwanted interaction between a quantum system and its fluctuating environment leads to decoherence and is the primary obstacle to establishing a scalable quantum information processing architecture. Strategies such as environmental and materials engineering, quantum error correction and dynamical decoupling can mitigate decoherence, but generally increase experimental complexity. Here we improve coherence in a qubit using real-time Hamiltonian parameter estimation. Using a rapidly converging Bayesian approach, we precisely measure the splitting in a singlet-triplet spin qubit faster than the surrounding nuclear bath fluctuates. We continuously adjust qubit control parameters based on this information, thereby improving the inhomogenously broadened coherence time ($T_{2}^{*}$) from tens of nanoseconds to above 2 $\mu$s and demonstrating the effectiveness of Hamiltonian estimation in reducing the effects of correlated noise in quantum systems. Because the technique demonstrated here is compatible with arbitrary qubit operations, it is a natural complement to quantum error correction and can be used to improve the performance of a wide variety of qubits in both metrological and quantum-information-processing applications.

id: 1405.0543
title: Effective orbital ordering in multiwell optical lattices with fermionic atoms
authors: A.M. Belemuk, N.M. Chtchelkatchev, A.V. Mikheyenkov
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023625 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0543
abstract: We consider the behavior of Fermi atoms on optical superlattices with two-well structure of each node. Fermions on such lattices serve as an analog simulator of Fermi type Hamiltonian. We derive a mapping between fermion quantum ordering in the optical superlattices and the spin-orbital physics developed for degenerate $d$-electron compounds. The appropriate effective spin-orbital model appears to be the modification of the Kugel-Khomskii Hamiltonian. We show how different ground states of this Hamiltonian correspond to particular spin-pseudospin arrangement patterns of fermions on the lattice. The dependence of fermion arrangement on phases of complex hopping amplitudes is illustrated.

id: 1405.0574
title: Invariant Poisson Realizations and the Averaging of Dirac Structures
authors: Jos¨¦ A. Vallejo, Yurii Vorobiev
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 096, 20 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0574
abstract: We describe an averaging procedure on a Dirac manifold, with respect to a class of compatible actions of a compact Lie group. Some averaging theorems on the existence of invariant realizations of Poisson structures around (singular) symplectic leaves are derived. We show that the construction of coupling Dirac structures (invariant with respect to locally Hamiltonian group actions) on a Poisson foliation is related with a special class of exact gauge transformations.

id: 1405.0611
title: An Approach by Representation of Algebras for Decoherence-Free Subspaces
authors: Marco A. S. Trindade, E. Pinto, J. D. M. Vianna
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0611
abstract: The aim of this paper is to present a general algebraic formulation for the Decoherence-Free Subspaces (DFSs). For this purpose, we initially generalize some results of Pauli and Artin about semisimple algebras. Then we derive orthogonality theorems for algebras analogous to finite groups. In order to build the DFSs we consider the tensor product of Clifford algebras and left minimal ideals. Furthermore, we show that standard applications of group theory in quantum chemistry can be obtained in our formalism. Advantages and some perspectives are also discussed.

id: 1405.0636
title: Critical behavior of the energy gap and its relation with the Berry phase close to the excited state quantum phase transition in the Lipkin model
authors: Zi-Gang Yuan, Ping Zhang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0636
abstract: In our previous work [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{85}, 044102 (2012)], we have studied the Berry phase of the ground state and exited states in the Lipkin model. In this paper, using Hellmann-Feynman theorem, we derive the relation between the energy gap and the Berry phase close to the excited state quantum phase transition (ESQPT) in the Lipkin model. We find that the energy gap is linearly dependent upon the Berry phase close to the ESQPT. As a result, the critical behavior of the energy gap is similar to that of the Berry phase. In addition, we also perform a semiclassical qualitative analysis about the critical behavior of the energy gap.

id: 1405.0694
title: Spectrum of a dilated honeycomb network
authors: Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: 21 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0694
abstract: We analyze spectrum of Laplacian supported by a periodic honeycomb lattice with generally unequal edge lengths and a $\delta$ type coupling in the vertices. Such a quantum graph has nonempty point spectrum with compactly supported eigenfunctions provided all the edge lengths are commensurate. We derive conditions determining the continuous spectral component and show that existence of gaps may depend on number-theoretic properties of edge lengths ratios. The case when two of the three lengths coincide is discussed in detail.

id: 1405.0719
title: Separated spin-up and spin-down quantum hydrodynamics of degenerated electrons: spin-electron acoustic wave appearance
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 033111 (2015)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0719
abstract: Quantum hydrodynamic (QHD) model of charged spin-1/2 particles contains physical quantities defined for all particles of a species including particles with spin-up and with spin-down. Different population of states with different spin direction is included in the spin density (magnetization). In this paper we derive a QHD model, which separately describes spin-up electrons and spin-down electrons. Hence we consider electrons with different projection of spin on the preferable direction as two different species of particles. We show that numbers of particles with different spin direction do not conserve. Hence the continuity equations contain sources of particles. These sources are caused by the interactions of spins with magnetic field. Terms of similar nature arise in the Euler equation. We have that z-projection of the spin density is no longer an independent variable. It is proportional to difference between concentrations of electrons with spin-up and electrons with spin-down. In terms of new model we consider propagation of waves in magnetized plasmas of degenerate electrons and motionless ions. We show that new form of QHD equations gives all solutions obtained from traditional form of QHD equations with no distinguish of spin-up and spin-down states. But it also reveals a sound-like solution we call the spin-electron acoustic wave. Coincidence of most solutions is expected since we started derivation with the same basic equation.

id: 1405.0741
title: A multi-band semiclassical model for surface hopping quantum dynamics
authors: Lihui Chai, Shi Jin, Qin Li, Omar Morandi
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0741
abstract: In the paper we derive a semiclassical model for surface hopping allowing quantum dynamical non-adiabatic transition between different potential energy surfaces in which cases the classical Born-Oppenheimer approximation breaks down. The model is derived using the Wigner transform and Weyl quantization, and the central idea is to evolve the entire Wigner matrix rather than just the diagonal entries as was done previously in the adiabatic case. The off-diagonal entries of the Wigner matrix suitably describe the non-adiabatic transition, such as the Berry connection, for avoided crossings. We study the numerical approximation issues of the model, and then conduct numerical experiments to validate the model.

id: 1405.0820
title: Quantum mechanics probes superspace
authors: S. Nicolis
comments: 45 pages, 2 EPS figures, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0820
abstract: We study quantum mechanics in one space dimension in the stochastic formalism. We show that the partition function of the theory is, in fact, equivalent to that of a model, whose action is explicitly invariant (up to surface terms) under supersymmetry transformations--but whose invariance under the stochastic identities is not obvious, due to an apparent mismatch between fermions and bosons. The resolution of the riddle is that one "fermion" is a gauge artifact and, upon fixing the local, fermionic symmetry, called $\kappa-$symmetry, we recover the stochastic partition function. The "fermions" do not propagate in the bulk, since their kinetic term is a total derivative. Their contribution to the action is through an ultra--local bilinear term, that may be exactly integrated out, as long as the superpotential has a unique minimum and we obtain a local action for the scalar. When the superpotential does not have a unique minimum, we use a Hubbard-Stratonovich transformation of the kinetic term to obtain an action in terms of the Fourier transform of the velocity, a kind of duality transformation. The classical particle thus moves in a medium of dipoles, that parametrize the quantum fluctuations and the classical trajectory $\phi(\tau)$, becomes a chiral superfield, $(\phi(\tau),\psi_\alpha(\tau),F(\tau))$, when quantum effects are taken into account. The observable superpartner of the scalar, however, is the fermion bilinear and thus, while supersymmetry may be realized, the observable partner excitations are not degenerate in mass. We compute the stochastic identities of the auxiliary field, using a lattice regularization of the equivalent "bosonic" action, for the case of a superpotential with a single minimum. We show that the lattice action can be expressed as an ultra--local functional of the auxiliary field, up to terms that vanish with the lattice spacing.

id: 1405.0972
title: History Dependent Quantum Random Walks as Quantum Lattice Gas Automata
authors: Asif Shakeel, David A. Meyer, Peter J. Love
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0972
abstract: Quantum Random Walks (QRW) were first defined as one-particle sectors of Quantum Lattice Gas Automata (QLGA). Recently, they have been generalized to include history dependence, either on previous coin (internal, i.e., spin or velocity) states or on previous position states. These models have the goal of studying the transition to classicality, or more generally, changes in the performance of quantum walks in algorithmic applications. We show that several history dependent QRW can be identified as one-particle sectors of QLGA. This provides a unifying conceptual framework for these models in which the extra degrees of freedom required to store the history information arise naturally as geometrical degrees of freedom on the lattice.

id: 1405.1074
title: Universal behavior of the Shannon and R¨¦nyi mutual information of quantum critical chains
authors: F. C. Alcaraz, M. A. Rajabpour
comments: 11 Pages, 12 figures, v2: a new figure added and some other minor additions
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 075132 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1074
abstract: We study the Shannon and R\'enyi mutual information (MI) in the ground state (GS) of different critical quantum spin chains. Despite the apparent basis dependence of these quantities we show the existence of some particular basis (we will call them conformal basis) whose finite-size scaling function is related to the central charge $c$ of the underlying conformal field theory of the model. In particular, we verified that for large index $n$, the MI of a subsystem of size $\ell$ in a periodic chain with $L$ sites behaves as $\frac{c}{4}\frac{n}{n-1}\ln\Big{(}\frac{L}{\pi}\sin(\frac{\pi \ell}{L})\Big{)}$, when the ground-state wavefunction is expressed in these special conformal basis. This is in agreement with recent predictions. For generic local basis we will show that, although in some cases $b_n\ln\Big{(}\frac{L}{\pi}\sin(\frac{\pi \ell}{L})\Big{)}$ is a good fit to our numerical data, in general there is no direct relation between $b_n$ and the central charge of the system. We will support our findings with detailed numerical calculations for the transverse field Ising model, $Q=3,4$ quantum Potts chain, quantum Ashkin-Teller chain and the XXZ quantum chain. We will also present some additional results of the Shannon mutual information ($n=1$), for the parafermionic $Z_Q$ quantum chains with $Q=5,6,7$ and $8$.

id: 1405.1098
title: Clocks And Dynamics In Quantum Mechanics
authors: Michael York
comments: Clarified issues concerning differing Hilbert spaces and detection sensitivity and added a section on computation of state availability. Corrected discussion of a "free" particle and other minor corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1098
abstract: We argue that (1) our perception of time through change and (2) the gap between reality and our observation of it are at the heart of both quantum mechanics and the dynamical mechanism of physical systems. We suggest that the origin of quantum uncertainty lies with the absence of infinities or infinitesimals in observational data and that our concept of time derives from observing changing data (events). We argue that the fundamentally important content of the Superposition Principle is not the "probability amplitude" of posterior state observation but future state availability conditional only on prior information. Since event detection also implies posterior conditions (e.g. a specific type of detectable event occurred) as well as prior conditions, the probabilities of detected outcomes are also conditional on properties of the posterior properties of the observation. Such posterior conditions cannot affect the prior state availabilities and this implies violation of counter-factual definiteness. A component of a quantum system may be chosen to represent a clock and changes in other components can then be expected to be correlated with clocks with which they are entangled. Instead of traditional time-dependent equations of motion we provide a specific mechanism whereby evolution of data is instead quasi-causally related to the relative \availability\ of states and equations of motion are expressed in terms of quantized clock variables. We also suggest that time-reversal symmetry-breaking in weak interactions is an artifice of a conventional choice of co-ordinate time-function. Analysis of a "free" particle suggests that conventional co-ordinate space-time emerges from how we measure the separation of objects and events.

id: 1405.1184
title: Semiclassical Vlasov and fluid models for an electron gas with spin effects
authors: Jerome Hurst, Omar Morandi, Giovanni Manfredi, Paul-Antoine Hervieux
comments: To appear in the European Physical Journal D, Topical Issue "Theory and Applications of the Vlasov Equation"
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1184
abstract: We derive a four-component Vlasov equation for a system composed of spin-1/2 fermions (typically electrons). The orbital part of the motion is classical, whereas the spin degrees of freedom are treated in a completely quantum-mechanical way. The corresponding hydrodynamic equations are derived by taking velocity moments of the phase-space distribution function. This hydrodynamic model is closed using a maximum entropy principle in the case of three or four constraints on the fluid moments, both for Maxwell-Boltzmann and Fermi-Dirac statistics.

id: 1405.1236
title: Singular enhancement of emission of entangled photons for surface plasmon polaritons
authors: Vladimir Hizhnyakov
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1311.6824
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1236
abstract: Emission of photon pairs by metal-dielectric interface in case of a superluminally propagating laser-induced nonlinear polarization is considered. Using oblique incidence of the laser wave it is possible to tune frequencies of generated photons due to the Doppler effect. For every frequency smaller than frequency of induced polarization there exist an excitation angle when singular enhancement of the emission takes place. Emitted photon pairs are in the polarization entangled state. The yield of emission is estimated.

id: 1405.1269
title: Quantum model for psychological measurements: from the projection postulate to interference of mental observables represented as positive operator valued measures
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Irina Basieva
comments: 
journal: NeuroQuantology. 12. 324-336, 2014
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1269
abstract: Recently foundational issues of applicability of the formalism of quantum mechanics (QM) to cognitive psychology, decision making, and psychophysics attracted a lot of interest. In particular, in \cite{DKBB} the possibility to use of the projection postulate and representation of "mental observables" by Hermitian operators was discussed in very detail. The main conclusion of the recent discussions on the foundations of "quantum(-like) cognitive psychology" is that one has to be careful in determination of conditions of applicability of the projection postulate as a mathematical tool for description of measurements of observables represented by Hermitian operators. To represent some statistical experimental data (both physical and mental) in the quantum(-like) way, one has to use generalized quantum observables given by positive operator-valued measures (POVMs). This paper contains a brief review on POVMs which can be useful for newcomers to the field of quantum(-like) studies. Especially interesting for cognitive psychology is a variant of the formula of total probability (FTP) with the interference term derived for incompatible observables given by POVMs. We present an interpretation of the interference term from the psychological viewpoint. As was shown before, the appearance of such a term (perturbing classical FTP) plays the important role in cognitive psychology, e.g., recognition of ambiguous figures and the disjunction effect. The interference term for observables given by POVMs has much more complicated structure than the corresponding term for observables given by Hermitian operators. We elaborate cognitive interpretations of different components of the POVMs-interference term and apply our analysis to a quantum(-like) model of decision making.

id: 1405.1330
title: A Two-Photon E1-M1 Optical Clock
authors: E. A. Alden, K. R. Moore, A. E. Leanhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1330
abstract: An allowed E1-M1 excitation scheme creates optical access to the ${^1S_0} \rightarrow {^3P_0}$ clock transition in group II type atoms. This method does not require the hyperfine mixing or application of an external magnetic field of other optical clock systems. The advantages of this technique include a Doppler-free excitation scheme and increased portability with the use of vapor cells. We will discuss technical mechanisms of a monochromatic excitation scheme for a hot E1-M1 clock and briefly discuss a bichromatic scheme to eliminate light shifts. We determine the optimal experimental parameters for Hg, Yb, Ra, Sr, Ba, Ca, Mg, and Be and calculate that neutral Hg has ideal properties for a hot, portable frequency standard.

id: 1405.1344
title: Revealing single-trap condensate fragmentation by measuring density-density correlations after time of flight
authors: Myung-Kyun Kang, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 5+6 pages of RevTex4-1, 2+2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1344
abstract: We consider ultracold bosonic atoms in a single trap in the Thomas-Fermi regime, forming many-body states corresponding to stable macroscopically fragmented two-mode condensates. It is demonstrated that upon free expansion of the gas, the spatial dependence of the density-density correlations at late times provides a unique signature of fragmentation. This hallmark of fragmented condensate many-body states in a single trap is due to the fact that time of flight modifies the correlation signal such that two opposite %with respect to points in the expanding cloud become uncorrelated, in distinction to a nonfragmented Bose-Einstein condensate, where they remain correlated.

id: 1405.1353
title: Composite system in noncommutative space and the equivalence principle
authors: Kh. P. Gnatenko
comments: 12 pages
journal: Kh.P. Gnatenko Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 3061-3066
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1353
abstract: The motion of a composite system made of N particles is examined in a space with a canonical noncommutative algebra of coordinates. It is found that the coordinates of the center-of-mass position satisfy noncommutative algebra with effective parameter. Therefore, the upper bound of the parameter of noncommutativity is re-examined. We conclude that the weak equivalence principle is violated in the case of a non-uniform gravitational field and propose the condition for the recovery of this principle in noncommutative space. Furthermore, the same condition is derived from the independence of kinetic energy on the composition.

id: 1405.1375
title: Annular Vortex Chain in a Resonantly Pumped Polariton Superfluid
authors: T. Boulier, H. Ter?as, D. D. Solnyshkov, Q. Glorieux, E. Giacobino, G. Malpuech, A. Bramati
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1375
abstract: We report the formation of a ring-shaped array of vortices after injection of angular momentum in a polariton superfluid. The angular momentum is injected by a $\ell= 8$ Laguerre-Gauss beam, whereas the global rotation of the fluid is hindered by a narrow Gaussian beam placed at its center. In the linear regime a spiral interference pattern containing phase defects is visible. In the nonlinear (superfluid) regime, the interference disappears and the vortices nucleate as a consequence of the angular momentum quantization. The radial position of the vortices evolves freely in the region between the two pumps as a function of the density. Hydrodynamic instabilities resulting in the spontaneous nucleation of vortex-antivortex pairs when the system size is sufficiently large confirm that the vortices are not constrained by interference when nonlinearities dominate the system.

id: 1405.1398
title: Stability of a Floquet Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Sayan Choudhury, Erich J Mueller
comments: 6 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013621 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1398
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental observations (C.V. Parker {\it et al.}, Nature Physics, {\bf 9}, 769 (2013)), we analyze the stability of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a one-dimensional lattice subjected to periodic shaking. In such a system there is no thermodynamic ground state, but there may be a long-lived steady-state, described as an eigenstate of a "Floquet Hamiltonian". We calculate how scattering processes lead to a decay of the Floquet state. We map out the phase diagram of the system and find regions where the BEC is stable and regions where the BEC is unstable against atomic collisions. We show that Parker et al. perform their experiment in the stable region, which accounts for the long life-time of the condensate ($\sim$ 1 second). We also estimate the scattering rate of the bosons in the region where the BEC is unstable.

id: 1405.1401
title: Locally tunable disorder and entanglement in the one-dimensional plaquette orbital model
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review B 90, 024433 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1401
abstract: We introduce a one-dimensional plaquette orbital model with a topology of a ladder and alternating interactions between $x$ and $z$ pseudospin components along both the ladder legs and on the rungs. We show that it is equivalent to an effective spin model in a magnetic field, with spin dimers that replace plaquettes and are coupled along the chain by three-spin interactions. Using perturbative treatment and mean field approaches with dimer correlations we study the ground state spin configuration and its defects in the lowest excited states. By the exact diagonalization approach we find that the quantum effects in the model are purely short-range and we get estimated values of the ground state energy and the gap in the thermodynamic limit from the system sizes up to $L=12$ dimers. Finally, we study a class of excited states with classical-like defects accumulated in the central region of the chain to find that in this region the quantum entanglement measured by the mutual information of neighboring dimers is locally increased and coincides with disorder and frustration. Such islands of entanglement in otherwise rather classical system may be of interest in the context of quantum computing devices.

id: 1405.1405
title: Locating possible sources of physical indeterminism
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, completely rewritten, prepared for SATURN: Scientific and Theological Understandings of Randomness in Nature
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1405
abstract: Some possible (re)sources of indeterminism and randomness encountered in physics are enumerated. These gaps in the physical laws, if they exist, could possibly be exploited for dualistic interfaces. We also speculate that physical laws and order could possibly emerge from primordial chaos by means resembling statistics and Ramsey theory.

id: 1405.1471
title: Certain General Constraints on the Many-Body Localization Transition
authors: Tarun Grover
comments: 5 pages + Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1471
abstract: Isolated quantum systems at strong disorder can display many-body localization (MBL), a remarkable phenomena characterized by an absence of conduction even at finite temperatures. As the ratio of interactions to disorder is increased, one expects that an MBL phase will eventually undergo a dynamical phase transition to a delocalized phase. Here we constrain the nature of such a transition by exploiting the strong subadditivity of entanglement entropy, as applied to the many-body eigenstates close to the transition in general dimensions. In particular, we show that at a putative continuous transition between an MBL and an ergodic delocalized phase, the critical eigenstates are necessarily thermal, and therefore, the critical entanglement entropy equals the thermal entropy. We also explore a qualitatively different continuous localization-delocalization transition, where the delocalized phase is non-ergodic whose volume law entanglement entropy tends to zero as the transition is approached.

id: 1405.1487
title: Trapping and spreading properties of quantum walk in homological structure
authors: Takuya Machida, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1487
abstract: We attempt to extract a homological structure of two kinds of graphs by the Grover walk. The first one consists of a cycle and two semi-infinite lines and the second one is assembled by a periodic embedding of the cycles in $\mathbb{Z}$. We show that both of them have essentially the same eigenvalues induced by the existence of cycles in the infinite graphs. The eigenspace of the homological structure appears as so called {\it localization} in the Grover walks, in that the walk is partially trapped by the homological structure. On the other hand, the difference of the absolutely continuous part of spectrum between them provides different behaviors. We characterize the behaviors by the density functions in the weak convergence theorem: the first one is the delta measure at the bottom while the second one is expressed by two kinds of continuous functions which have different finite supports $(-1/\sqrt{10},1/\sqrt{10})$ and $(-2/7,2/7)$, respectively.

id: 1405.1552
title: Control of quantum thermodynamic behaviour of a charged magneto oscillator with momentum dissipation
authors: Asam Rajesh, Malay Bandyopadhyay
comments: 9 Pages, 3 Figures, Accepted in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1552
abstract: In this work, we expose the role of environment, confinement and external magnetic field ($B$) in determining the low temperature thermodynamic behaviour in the context of cyclotron motion of a charged oscillator with anomalous dissipative coupling involving the momentum instead of the much studied coordinate coupling. Explicit expressions for different quantum thermodynamic functions (QTF) are obtained at low temperatures for different quantum heat bath characterized by spectral density function, $\mu(\omega)$. The power law fall of different QTF are in conformity with third law of thermodynamics. But, the sensitiveness of decay i.e. the power of the power law decay explicitly depends on $\mu(\omega)$. We also separately discuss the influence of confinement and magnetic field on the low temperature behavior of different QTF. In this process we demonstrate how to control low temperature behaviour of anomalous dissipative quantum systems by varying confining length $a$, $B$ and the temperature $T$. Momentum dissipation reduces effective mass of the system and we also discuss its effect on different QTF at low temperatures.

id: 1405.1642
title: Evaporative cooling of cold atoms at surfaces
authors: J. M?rkle, A.J. Allen, P. Federsel, B. Jetter, A. G¨¹nther, J. Fort¨¢gh, N.P. Proukakis, T.E. Judd
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023614 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1642
abstract: We theoretically investigate the evaporative cooling of cold rubidium atoms that are brought close to a solid surface. The dynamics of the atom cloud are described by coupling a dissipative Gross-Pitaevskii equation for the condensate with a quantum Boltzmann description of the thermal cloud (the Zaremba-Nikuni-Griffin method). We have also performed experiments to allow for a detailed comparison with this model and find that it can capture the key physics of this system provided the full collisional dynamics of the thermal cloud are included. In addition, we suggest how to optimize surface cooling to obtain the purest and largest condensates.

id: 1405.1647
title: Functional differentiability in time-dependent quantum mechanics
authors: Markus Penz, Michael Ruggenthaler
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 142, 124113 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1647
abstract: In this work we investigate the functional differentiability of the time-dependent many-body wave function and of derived quantities with respect to time-dependent potentials. For properly chosen Banach spaces of potentials and wave functions Fr\'echet differentiability is proven. From this follows an estimate for the difference of two solutions to the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation that evolve under the influence of different potentials. Such results can be applied directly to the one-particle density and to bounded operators, and present a rigorous formulation of non-equilibrium linear-response theory where the usual Lehmann representation of the linear-response kernel is not valid. Further, the Fr\'echet differentiability of the wave function provides a new route towards proving basic properties of time-dependent density-functional theory.

id: 1405.1655
title: Debates with small transparent quantum verifiers
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say, H. Gokalp Demirci
comments: 12 pages. Accepted t0 DLT 2014
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1655
abstract: We study a model where two opposing provers debate over the membership status of a given string in a language, trying to convince a weak verifier whose coins are visible to all. We show that the incorporation of just two qubits to an otherwise classical constant-space verifier raises the class of debatable languages from at most $\mathsf{NP}$ to the collection of all Turing-decidable languages (recursive languages). When the verifier is further constrained to make the correct decision with probability 1, the corresponding class goes up from the regular languages up to at least $\mathsf{E}$.

id: 1405.1661
title: Strong coupling between surface plasmon polaritons and emitters
authors: P. T?rm?, W.L. Barnes
comments: Invited review article submitted to Rep. Prog. Phys
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 78, 013901 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1661
abstract: In this review we look at the concepts and state-of-the-art concerning the strong coupling of surface plasmon-polariton modes to states associated with quantum emitters such as excitons in J-aggregates, dye molecules and quantum dots. We explore the phenomenon of strong coupling with reference to a number of examples involving electromagnetic fields and matter. We then provide a concise description of the relevant background physics of surface plasmon polaritons. An extensive overview of the historical background and a detailed discussion of more recent relevant experimental advances concerning strong coupling between surface plasmon polaritons and quantum emitters is then presented. Three conceptual frameworks are then discussed and compared in depth: classical, semi-classical and fully quantum mechanical; these theoretical frameworks will have relevance to strong coupling beyond that involving surface plasmon polaritons. We conclude our review with a perspective on the future of this rapidly emerging field, one we are sure will grow to encompass more intriguing physics and will develop in scope to be of relevance to other areas of science.

id: 1405.1745
title: Asymmetric frequency conversion in nonlinear systems driven by a biharmonic pump
authors: Archana Kamal, Ananda Roy, John Clarke, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 5+ pages, 4 pages supplement. Expanded and modified discussion, additional references and a new appendix in supplemental material detailing the calculation of Josephson harmonics in the RSJ
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 247003 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1745
abstract: A novel mechanism of asymmetric frequency conversion is investigated in nonlinear dispersive devices driven parametrically with a biharmonic pump. When the relative phase between the first and second harmonics combined in a two-tone pump is appropriately tuned, nonreciprocal frequency conversion, either upward or downward, can occur. Full directionality and efficiency of the conversion process is possible, provided that the distribution of pump power over the harmonics is set correctly. While this asymmetric conversion effect is generic, we describe its practical realization in a model system consisting of a current-biased, resistively-shunted Josephson junction (RSJ). Here, the multiharmonic Josephson oscillations, generated internally from the static current bias, provide the pump drive.

id: 1405.1817
title: Excited-state entanglement and thermal mutual information in random spin chains
authors: Yichen Huang, Joel E. Moore
comments: 4+pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1817
abstract: Entanglement properties of excited eigenstates (or of thermal mixed states) are difficult to study with conventional analytical methods. We approach this problem for random spin chains using a recently developed real-space renormalization group technique for excited states ("RSRG-X"). For the random $XX$ and quantum Ising chains, which have logarithmic divergences in the entanglement entropy of their (infinite-randomness) critical ground states, we show that the entanglement entropy of excited eigenstates retains a logarithmic divergence while the mutual information of thermal mixed states does not. However, in the $XX$ case the coefficient of the logarithmic divergence extends from the universal ground-state value to a universal interval due to the degeneracy of excited eigenstates. These models are noninteracting in the sense of having free-fermion representations, allowing strong numerical checks of our analytical predictions.

id: 1405.1882
title: An optical fan for light beams for high-precision optical measurements and optical switching
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yan Li, Dong-Sheng Ding, Yun-Kun Jiang, Wei Zhang, Shuai Shi, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: comments are welcomed
journal: Optics Letters, 39, 5098(2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1882
abstract: The polarization and orbital angular momentum properties of light are of great importance in optical science and technology in the fields of high precision optical measurements and high capacity and high speed optical communications. Here we show, a totally new method, based on a combination of these two properties and using the thermal dispersion and electro-optical effect of birefringent crystals, the construction of a simple and robust scheme to rotate a light beam like a fan. Using a computer-based digital image processing technique, we determine the temperature and the thermal dispersion difference of the crystal with high resolution. We also use the rotation phenomenon to realize thermo-optic and electro-optic switches. The basic operating principles for measurement and switching processes are presented in detail. The methods developed here will have wide practical applicability in various fields, including remote sensing, materials science and optical communication networks.

id: 1405.1884
title: Generation of light with controllable spatial patterns via the sum frequency in quasi-phase matching crystals
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yan Li, Dong-Sheng Ding, Yun-Kun Jiang, Wei Zhang, Shuai Shi, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: comments are welcome
journal: Scientific Reports, 4, 5650 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1884
abstract: Light beams with extraordinary spatial structures, such as the Airy beam (AB), the Bessel-Gaussian beam (BGB) and the Laguerre-Gaussian beam (LGB), are widely studied and applied in many optical scenarios. We report on preparation of light beams with controllable spatial structures through sum frequency generation (SFG) using two Gaussian pump beams in a quasi-phase matching (QPM) crystal. The spatial structures, including multi-ring-like BGB, donut-like LGB, and super-Gaussian-like beams, can be controlled periodically via crystal phase mismatching by tuning the pump frequency or crystal temperature. This phenomenon has not been reported or discussed previously. Additionally, we present numerical simulations of the phenomenon, which agree very well with the experimental observations. Our findings give further insight into the SFG process in QPM crystals, provide a new way to generate light with unusual spatial structures, and may find applications in the fields of laser optics, all-optical switching, and optical manipulation and trapping.

id: 1405.1969
title: Tunable and Switchable Coupling Between Two Superconducting Resonators
authors: A. Baust, E. Hoffmann, M. Haeberlein, M. J. Schwarz, P. Eder, E. P. Menzel, K. Fedorov, J. Goetz, F. Wulschner, E. Xie, L. Zhong, F. Quijandria, B. Peropadre, D. Zueco, J.-J. Garcia Ripoll, E. Solano, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 014515 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1969
abstract: We realize a device allowing for tunable and switchable coupling between two superconducting resonators mediated by an artificial atom. For the latter, we utilize a persistent current flux qubit. We characterize the tunable and switchable coupling in frequency and time domain and find that the coupling between the relevant modes can be varied in a controlled way. Specifically, the coupling can be tuned by adjusting the flux through the qubit loop or by saturating the qubit. Our time domain measurements allow us to find parameter regimes for optimal switch performance with respect to qubit drive power and the dynamic range of the resonator input power.

id: 1405.1995
title: Aspects of the Papadodimas-Raju Proposal for the Black Hole Interior
authors: Daniel Harlow
comments: 44 Pages. v2: Fixed an inconsistency in the treatment of bulk gauge fixing, and added an appendix explaining this in some detail. Main conclusions unaltered
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.1995
abstract: In this note I elaborate on some features of a recent proposal of Papadodimas and Raju for a CFT description of the interior of a one-sided AdS black hole in a pure state. I clarify the treatment of 1/N corrections, and explain how the proposal is able to avoid some of the pitfalls that have disrupted other recent ideas. I argue however that the proposal has the uncomfortable property that states in the CFT Hilbert space do not have definite physical interpretations, unlike in ordinary quantum mechanics. I also contrast the "state-dependence" of the proposal with more familiar phenomena, arguing that, unlike in quantum mechanics, the measurement process (including the apparatus) in something like the PR proposal or its earlier manifestations cannot be described by unitary evolution. These issues render the proposal somewhat ambiguous, and it seems new ideas would be needed to make some version of it work. I close with some brief speculation on to what extent quantum mechanics should hold for the experience of an infalling observer.

id: 1405.2099
title: Poincar¨¦ Sphere and a Unified Picture of Wigner's Little Groups
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: Latex 9 pages, 2 figures, based on a plenary talk delivered at the Wigner Research Symposium entitled "Wigner 111 - Colourful and Deep" (Budapest, Hungary, November 2013), to be published in the Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2099
abstract: It is noted that the Poincar\'e sphere for polarization optics contains the symmetries of the Lorentz group. The sphere is thus capable of describing the internal space-time symmetries dictated by Wigner's little groups. For massive particles, the little group is like the three-dimensional rotation group, while it is like the two-dimensional Euclidean group for massless particles. It is shown that the Poincar\'e sphere, in addition, has a symmetry parameter corresponding to reducing the particle mass from a positive value to zero. The Poincar\'e sphere thus the gives one unified picture of Wigner's little groups for massive and massless particles.

id: 1405.2150
title: Entanglement Thermodynamics
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. Invited contribution to JSTAT Special Issue: Quantum Entanglement in Condensed Matter Physics, version as published
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P09011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2150
abstract: We investigate further the relationship between the entanglement spectrum of a composite many-body system and the energy spectrum of a subsystem making use of concepts of canonical thermodynamics. In many important cases the entanglement Hamiltonian is, in the limit of strong coupling between subsystems, proportional to the energy Hamiltonian of the subsystem. The proportionality factor is an appropriately defined coupling parameter, suggesting to interpret the latter as a inverse temperature. We identify a condition on the entanglement Hamiltonian which rigorously guarantees this interpretation to hold and removes any ambiguity in the definition of the entanglement Hamiltonian regarding contributions proportional to the unit operator. Illustrations of our findings are provided by spin ladders of arbitrary spin length, and by bilayer quantum Hall systems at total filling factor nu=2. Within mean-field description, the latter system realizes an entanglement spectrum of free fermions with just two levels of equal modulus where the analogies to canonical thermodynamics are particularly close.

id: 1405.2169
title: Explicit constructions of unitary transformations between equivalent irreducible representations
authors: Marek Mozrzymas, Micha? Studzi¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 505203
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2169
abstract: Irreducible representations (irreps) of a finite group $G$ are equivalent if there exists a similarity transformation between them. In this paper, we describe an explicit algorithm for constructing this transformation between a pair of equivalent irreps, assuming we are given an algorithm to compute the matrix elements of these irreps. Along the way, we derive a generalization of the classical orthogonality relations for matrix elements of irreps of finite groups. We give an explicit form of such unitary matrices for the important case of conjugated Young-Yamanouchi representations, when our group $G$ is symmetric group $S(N)$.

id: 1405.2205
title: Chiral bound states in the continuum
authors: Jordi Mur-Petit, Rafael A. Molina
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. v2: includes results specific to honeycomb lattice; matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 035434 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2205
abstract: We present a distinct mechanism for the formation of bound states in the continuum (BICs). In chiral quantum systems there appear zero-energy states in which the wave function has finite amplitude only in one of the subsystems defined by the chiral symmetry. When the system is coupled to leads with a continuum energy band, part of these states remain bound. We derive some algebraic rules for the number of these states depending on the dimensionality and rank of the total Hamiltonian. We examine the transport properties of such systems including the appearance of Fano resonances in some limiting cases. Finally, we discuss experimental setups based on microwave dielectric resonators and atoms in optical lattices where these predictions can be tested.

id: 1405.2285
title: Quantum strain sensor with a topological insulator HgTe quantum dot
authors: Marek Korkusinski, Pawel Hawrylak
comments: 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4903 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2285
abstract: We present a theory of electronic properties of HgTe quantum dot and propose a strain sensor based on a strain-driven transition from a HgTe quantum dot with inverted bandstructure and robust topologically protected quantum edge states to a normal state without edge states in the energy gap. The presence or absence of edge states leads to large on/off ratio of conductivity across the quantum dot, tunable by adjusting the number of conduction channels in the source-drain voltage window. The electronic properties of a HgTe quantum dot as a function of size and applied strain are described using eight-band kp Luttinger and Bir-Pikus Hamiltonians, with surface states identified with chirality of Luttinger spinors and obtained through extensive numerical diagonalization of the Hamiltonian.

id: 1405.2315
title: Relaxation dynamics of the toric code in contact with a thermal reservoir: Finite-size scaling in a low temperature regime
authors: C. Daniel Freeman, C. M. Herdman, Dylan J Gorman, K. B. Whaley
comments: 14 Pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 134302 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2315
abstract: We present an analysis of the relaxation dynamics of finite-size topological qubits in contact with a thermal bath. Using a continuous-time Monte Carlo method, we explicitly compute the low-temperature nonequilibrium dynamics of the toric code on finite lattices. In contrast to the size-independent bound predicted for the toric code in the thermodynamic limit, we identify a low-temperature regime on finite lattices below a size-dependent crossover temperature with nontrivial finite-size and temperature scaling of the relaxation time. We demonstrate how this nontrivial finite-size scaling is governed by the scaling of topologically nontrivial two-dimensional classical random walks. The transition out of this low-temperature regime defines a dynamical finite-size crossover temperature that scales inversely with the log of the system size, in agreement with a crossover temperature defined from equilibrium properties. We find that both the finite-size and finite-temperature scaling are stronger in the low-temperature regime than above the crossover temperature. Since this finite-temperature scaling competes with the scaling of the robustness to unitary perturbations, this analysis may elucidate the scaling of memory lifetimes of possible physical realizations of topological qubits.

id: 1405.2371
title: $N$-boson spectrum from a Discrete Scale Invariance
authors: A. Kievsky, N. K. Timofeyuk, M. Gattobigio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2371
abstract: We present the analysis of the $N$-boson spectrum computed using a soft two-body potential the strength of which has been varied in order to cover an extended range of positive and negative values of the two-body scattering length $a$ close to the unitary limit. The spectrum shows a tree structure of two states, one shallow and one deep, attached to the ground-state of the system with one less particle. It is governed by an unique universal function, $\Delta(\xi)$, already known in the case of three bosons. In the three-particle system the angle $\xi$, determined by the ratio of the two- and three-body binding energies $E_3/E_2=\tan^2\xi$, characterizes the Discrete Scale Invariance of the system. Extending the definition of the angle to the $N$-body system as $E_N/E_2=\tan^2\xi$, we study the $N$-boson spectrum in terms of this variable. The analysis of the results, obtained for up to $N=16$ bosons, allows us to extract a general formula for the energy levels of the system close to the unitary limit. Interestingly, a linear dependence of the universal function as a function of $N$ is observed at fixed values of $a$. We show that the finite-range nature of the calculations results in the range corrections that generate a shift of the linear relation between the scattering length $a$ and a particular form of the universal function. We also comment on the limits of applicability of the universal relations.

id: 1405.2381
title: Phase Random Walk Trace in High-order Coherence of Two First-order Incoherent Sources
authors: Peilong Hong, Guoquan Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2381
abstract: High-order coherence effects between two first-order incoherent sources with fully independent phases have been well studied in the literature, which shows interference fringes with respect to the position separations among different space points. Here we show that this is not the whole story, and find that the high-order coherence effects depend on the mode of the phase random walk of the first-order incoherent sources, which can be controlled artificially and represented geometrically by vectorial polygons. Interestingly, by scanning the detectors along the same direction with the position separations between them kept constant, a set of high-order coherence fringes, which fingerprint the phase random walk of the first-order incoherent sources, can be observed. Our results show that it is possible to control the high-order coherence of two first-order incoherent sources, which could have important practical applications such as superhigh resolution optical lithography.

id: 1405.2383
title: Quantum coherence and population transfer in a driven cascade three-level artificial atom
authors: Sung Un Cho, Han Seb Moon, Young-Tak Chough, Myung-Ho Bae, Nam Kim
comments: accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2383
abstract: We present an experimental investigation on the spectral characteristics of an artificial atom "transmon qubit" constituting a three-level cascade system ({\Xi}-system) in the presence of a pair of external driving fields. We observe two different types of Autler-Townes (AT) splitting: type I, where the phenomenon of two-photon resonance tends to diminish as the coupling field strength increases, and type II, where this phenomenon mostly stays constant. We find that the types are determined by the cooperative effect of the decay rates and the field strengths. Theoretically analyzing the density-matrix elements in the weak-field limit where the AT effect is suppressed, we single out events of pure two-photon coherence occurring owing to constructive quantum interference.

id: 1405.2410
title: Tunable double optomechanically induced transparency in an optomechanical system
authors: Peng-Cheng Ma, Jian-Qi Zhang, Yin Xiao, Mang Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 7Pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 043825 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2410
abstract: We study the dynamics of a driven optomechanical cavity coupled to a charged nanomechanical resonator via Coulomb interaction, in which the tunable double optomechanically induced transparency (OMIT) can be observed from the output field at the probe frequency by controlling the strength of the Coulomb interaction. We calculate the splitting of the two transparency windows, which varies near linearly with the Coulomb coupling strength in a robust way against the cavity decay. Our double-OMIT is much different from previously mentioned double-EIT and can be applied to measure Coulomb coupling strength.

id: 1405.2508
title: Coherence oscillations between weakly coupled Bose-Hubbard dimers
authors: Christine Khripkov, Amichay Vardi
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2508
abstract: We study theoretically the dynamics of two weakly-coupled Bose-Josephson junctions, prepared with the same particle number $N$ and Josephson excitation number $\nu$ but with different reduced one-particle purity $\gamma$. A novel entropy oscillation mode is predicted, in which one-particle coherence is transferred between the Bose-Hubbard dimers with no particle or energy transfer. We explain this purity oscillation using a semiclassical picture.

id: 1405.2535
title: Qualitative analysis of trapped Dirac fermions in graphene
authors: Vit Jakubsky, David Krejcirik
comments: 17 pages, analysis of the systems with the non-vanishing mass corrected
journal: Annals of Physics 349, 268 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2535
abstract: We study the confinement of Dirac fermions in graphene and in carbon nanotubes by an external magnetic field, mechanical deformations or inhomogeneities in the substrate. By applying variational principles to the square of the Dirac operator, we obtain sufficient and necessary conditions for confinement of the quasi-particles. The rigorous theoretical results are illustrated on the realistic examples of the three classes of traps.

id: 1405.2610
title: High efficiency SHG of orbital angular momentum light in an external cavity
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yan Li, Dong-Sheng Ding, Yun-Kun Jiang, Wei Zhang, Shuai Shi, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2610
abstract: Traditional methods for generating orbital angular momentum (OAM) light include holographic diffraction gratings, vortex phase plate and spatial light modulator. In this article, we report a new method for high efficient OAM light generation. By pumping an external cavity contains a quasi phase matching nonlinear crystal with a fundamental OAM carrying light and properly aligning the cavity, mode matching between the pump light and the cavitys higher order Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) mode is achieved, conversion efficiency up to 10.3 percentage have been obtained. We have demonstrated that the cavity can stably operate at its higher order LG mode just as Gaussian mode for the first time. The SHG light possesses a doubled OAM value with respect to the pump light. The parameters that affect the beam quality and conversion efficiency are discussed in detail. Our work opens a brand new field in laser optics, and makes the first step toward high efficiency OAM light processing.

id: 1405.2682
title: Calculating vibrational spectra with sum of product basis functions without storing full-dimensional vectors or matrices
authors: Arnaud Leclerc, Tucker Carrington
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 140, 174111 (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2682
abstract: We propose an iterative method for computing vibrational spectra that significantly reduces the memory cost of calculations. It uses a direct product primitive basis, but does not require storing vectors with as many components as there are product basis functions. Wavefunctions are represented in a basis each of whose functions is a sum of products (SOP) and the factorizable structure of the Hamiltonian is exploited. If the factors of the SOP basis functions are properly chosen, wavefunctions are linear combinations of a small number of SOP basis functions. The SOP basis functions are generated using a shifted block power method. The factors are refined with a rank reduction algorithm to cap the number of terms in a SOP basis function. The ideas are tested on a 20-D model Hamiltonian and a realistic CH$_3$CN (12 dimensional) potential. For the 20-D problem, to use a standard direct product iterative approach one would need to store vectors with about $10^{20}$ components and would hence require about $8 \times 10^{11}$ GB. With the approach of this paper only 1 GB of memory is necessary. Results for CH$_3$CN agree well with those of a previous calculation on the same potential.

id: 1405.2770
title: Bloch oscillations in atom interferometry
authors: Pierre Clad¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2770
abstract: In Paris, we are using an atom interferometer to precisely measure the recoil velocity of an atom that absorbs a photon. In order to reach a high sensitivity, many recoils are transferred to atoms using the Bloch oscillations technique. In this lecture, I will present in details this technique and its application to high precision measurement. I will especially describe in details how this method allows us to perform an atom recoil measurement at the level of $1.3 \times 10^{-9}$. This measurement is used in the most precise determination of the fine structure constant that is independent of quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1405.2783
title: Design of a speed meter interferometer proof-of-principle experiment
authors: C. Gr?f, B. W. Barr, A. S. Bell, F. Campbell, A. V. Cumming, S. L. Danilishin, N. A. Gordon, G. D. Hammond, J. Hennig, E. A. Houston, S. H. Huttner, R. A. Jones, S. S. Leavey, H. L¨¹ck, J. Macarthur, M. Marwick, S. Rigby, R. Schilling, B. Sorazu, A. Spencer, S. Steinlechner, K. A. Strain, S. Hild
comments: Revised version: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2783
abstract: The second generation of large scale interferometric gravitational wave detectors will be limited by quantum noise over a wide frequency range in their detection band. Further sensitivity improvements for future upgrades or new detectors beyond the second generation motivate the development of measurement schemes to mitigate the impact of quantum noise in these instruments. Two strands of development are being pursued to reach this goal, focusing both on modifications of the well-established Michelson detector configuration and development of different detector topologies. In this paper, we present the design of the world's first Sagnac speed meter interferometer which is currently being constructed at the University of Glasgow. With this proof-of-principle experiment we aim to demonstrate the theoretically predicted lower quantum noise in a Sagnac interferometer compared to an equivalent Michelson interferometer, to qualify Sagnac speed meters for further research towards an implementation in a future generation large scale gravitational wave detector, such as the planned Einstein Telescope observatory.

id: 1405.2874
title: A Study of Entanglement in a Categorical Framework of Natural Language
authors: Dimitri Kartsaklis, Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 249-261
subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2874
abstract: In both quantum mechanics and corpus linguistics based on vector spaces, the notion of entanglement provides a means for the various subsystems to communicate with each other. In this paper we examine a number of implementations of the categorical framework of Coecke, Sadrzadeh and Clark (2010) for natural language, from an entanglement perspective. Specifically, our goal is to better understand in what way the level of entanglement of the relational tensors (or the lack of it) affects the compositional structures in practical situations. Our findings reveal that a number of proposals for verb construction lead to almost separable tensors, a fact that considerably simplifies the interactions between the words. We examine the ramifications of this fact, and we show that the use of Frobenius algebras mitigates the potential problems to a great extent. Finally, we briefly examine a machine learning method that creates verb tensors exhibiting a sufficient level of entanglement.

id: 1405.2892
title: The minimum amount of useful space: New results and new directions
authors: Klaus Reinhardt, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 15 pages. Accepted to DLT2014
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2892
abstract: We consider minimal space requirements when using memory with restricted access policy (pushdown - hence giving pushdown automata (PDAs), and counter - hence giving counter automata (CAs)) in connection with two-way and realtime head motion. The main results are that: (i) $ \log \log n $ is a tight space lower bound for accepting general nonregular languages on weak realtime PDAs, (ii) there exist unary nonregular languages accepted by realtime alternating CAs within weak $ \log n $ space, (iii) there exist nonregular languages accepted by two-way DPADs within strong $ \log \log n $ space, and, (iv) there exist unary nonregular languages accepted by two-way CAs with quantum and classical states within middle $ \log n $ space and bounded error.

id: 1405.2901
title: Quantum phase transition in one-dimensional commensurate Frenkel-Kontorova model
authors: Yongjun Ma, Jiaxiang Wang, Xinye Xu, Qi Wei, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2901
abstract: In this paper, we have studied the one-dimensional commensurate quantum Frenkel-Kontorova model by a density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) algorithm. The focus has been on its properties of the entanglement, the coordinate correlation, the ground state energy and the energy gap between the ground state and the first excited one. It is demonstrated that a quantum phase transition (QPT) between the pinned and the sliding phases takes place as the quantum fluctuation, measured by an effective Planck constant $\tilde\hbar$, increases to a threshold value $\tilde \hbar_c$.

id: 1405.2902
title: A density-matrix renormalization group Study of one-dimensional incommensurate quantum Frenkel-Kontorova model
authors: Yongjun Ma, Jiaxiang Wang, Xinye Xu, Qi Wei, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2902
abstract: In this paper, the one-dimensional incommensurate quantum Frenkel-Kontorova model is investigate by a density-matrix renormalization group algorithm. Special attention is given to the entanglement and the ground state energy. The energy gap between the ground state and the first excited is also calculated. From all the numerical results, we have observed an obvious property changes from the pinned state to the sliding one as the quantum fluctuation is increased. But no expected quantum critical point can be justified by the present data.

id: 1405.2950
title: Quantum spin models for the SU(n)_1 Wess-Zumino-Witten model
authors: Hong-Hao Tu, Anne E. B. Nielsen, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Nucl. Phys. B 886, 328 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2950
abstract: We propose 1D and 2D lattice wave functions constructed from the SU(n)_1 Wess-Zumino-Witten (WZW) model and derive their parent Hamiltonians. When all spins in the lattice transform under SU(n) fundamental representations, we obtain a two-body Hamiltonian in 1D, including the SU(n) Haldane-Shastry model as a special case. In 2D, we show that the wave function converges to a class of Halperin's multilayer fractional quantum Hall states and belongs to chiral spin liquids. Our result reveals a hidden SU(n) symmetry for this class of Halperin states. When the spins sit on bipartite lattices with alternating fundamental and conjugate representations, we provide numerical evidence that the state in 1D exhibits quantum criticality deviating from the expected behaviors of the SU(n)_1 WZW model, while in 2D they are chiral spin liquids being consistent with the prediction of the SU(n)_1 WZW model.

id: 1405.2979
title: Dynamics of localized waves in 1D random potentials: statistical theory of the coherent forward scattering peak
authors: Kean Loon Lee, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Christian Miniatura
comments: See the published article for the updated version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043605 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.2979
abstract: As recently discovered [PRL ${\bf 109}$ 190601(2012)], Anderson localization in a bulk disordered system triggers the emergence of a coherent forward scattering (CFS) peak in momentum space, which twins the well-known coherent backscattering (CBS) peak observed in weak localization experiments. Going beyond the perturbative regime, we address here the long-time dynamics of the CFS peak in a 1D random system and we relate this novel interference effect to the statistical properties of the eigenfunctions and eigenspectrum of the corresponding random Hamiltonian. Our numerical results show that the dynamics of the CFS peak is governed by the logarithmic level repulsion between localized states, with a time scale that is, with good accuracy, twice the Heisenberg time. This is in perfect agreement with recent findings based on the nonlinear $\sigma$-model. In the stationary regime, the width of the CFS peak in momentum space is inversely proportional to the localization length, reflecting the exponential decay of the eigenfunctions in real space, while its height is exactly twice the background, reflecting the Poisson statistical properties of the eigenfunctions. Our results should be easily extended to higher dimensional systems and other symmetry classes.

id: 1405.3089
title: Supersymmetry in the Majorana Cooper-Pair Box
authors: Jascha Ulrich, Inanc Adagideli, Dirk Schuricht, Fabian Hassler
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 075408 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3089
abstract: Over the years, supersymmetric quantum mechanics has evolved from a toy model of high energy physics to a field of its own. Although various examples of supersymmetric quantum mechanics have been found, systems that have a natural realization are scarce. Here, we show that the extension of the conventional Cooper-pair box by a 4pi-periodic Majorana-Josephson coupling realizes supersymmetry for certain values of the ratio between the conventional Josephson and the Majorana- Josephson coupling strength. The supersymmetry we find is a "hidden" minimally bosonized supersymmetry that provides a non-trivial generalization of the supersymmetry of the free particle and relies crucially on the presence of an anomalous Josephson junction in the system. We show that the resulting degeneracy of the energy levels can be probed directly in a tunneling experiment and discuss the various transport signatures. An observation of the predicted level degeneracy would provide clear evidence for the presence of the anomalous Josephson coupling.

id: 1405.3129
title: Generating the Schrodinger cat state in a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a charge qubit
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Wei Xiong, Shuo Zhang, Yong Li, Mang Feng
comments: 6 pages 3 figures
journal: Annalen der Physik Vol.527, Issue 1-2/2015, pages 180-186
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3129
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating the Schr\"{o}dinger cat state based on geometric operations by a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a superconducting charge qubit. The charge qubit, driven by two strong classical fields, interacts with a high-frequency phonon mode of the nanomechanical resonator. During the operation, the charge qubit undergoes no real transitions, while the phonon mode of the nanomechanical resonator is displaced along different paths in the phase space, dependent on the states of the charge qubit, which yields the Schr\"{o}dinger cat state. The robustness of the scheme is justified by considering noise from environment, and the feasibility of the scheme is discussed.

id: 1405.3147
title: On the Richardson Extrapolation in Time of Finite Element Method with Discrete TBCs for the Cauchy Problem for the 1D Schr?dinger Equation
authors: A. Zlotnik, I. Zlotnik
comments: 21 pages, 18 figures, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3147
abstract: We consider the Cauchy problem for the 1D generalized Schr\"odinger equation on the whole axis. To solve it, any order finite element in space and the Crank-Nicolson in time method with the discrete transparent boundary conditions (TBCs) has recently been constructed. Now we engage the Richardson extrapolation to improve significantly the accuracy in time step. To study its properties, we give results of numerical experiments and enlarged practical error analysis for three typical examples. The resulting method is able to provide high precision results in the uniform norm for reasonable computational costs that is unreachable by more common 2nd order methods in either space or time step. Comparing our results to the previous ones, we obtain much more accurate results using much less amount of both elements and time steps.

id: 1405.3148
title: The Feasibility of a Fully Miniaturized Magneto-Optical Trap for Portable Ultracold Quantum Technology
authors: Joseph Rushton, Matthew Aldous, Matt Himsworth
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3148
abstract: Experiments using laser cooled atoms and ions show real promise for practical applications in quantum- enhanced metrology, timing, navigation, and sensing as well as exotic roles in quantum computing, networking and simulation. The heart of many of these experiments has been translated to microfabricated platforms known as atom chips whose construction readily lend themselves to integration with larger systems and future mass production. To truly make the jump from laboratory demonstrations to practical, rugged devices, the complex surrounding infrastructure (including vacuum systems, optics, and lasers) also needs to be miniatur- ized and integrated. In this paper we explore the feasibility of applying this approach to the Magneto-Optical Trap; incorporating the vacuum system, atom source and optical geometry into a permanently sealed micro- litre system capable of maintaining $10^{-10}$ mbar for more than 1000 days of operation with passive pumping alone. We demonstrate such an engineering challenge is achievable using recent advances in semiconductor microfabrication techniques and materials

id: 1405.3174
title: Approach of the Generating Functions to the Coherent States for Some Quantum Solvable Models
authors: B. Mojaveri, A. Dehghani
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3174
abstract: We introduce to this paper new kinds of coherent states for some quantum solvable models: a free particle on a sphere, one-dimensional Calogero-Sutherland model, the motion of spinless electrons subjected to a perpendicular magnetic field B, respectively, in two dimensional flat surface and an infinite flat band. We explain how these states come directly from the generating functions of the certain families of classical orthogonal polynomials without the complexity of the algebraic approaches. We have shown that some examples become consistent with the Klauder- Perelomove and the Barut-Girardello coherent states. It can be extended to the non-classical, q-orthogonal and the exceptional orthogonal polynomials, too. Especially for physical systems that they don't have a specific algebraic structure or involved with the shape invariance symmetries, too.

id: 1405.3217
title: Effects of mathematical locality and number scaling on coordinate chart use
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures To appear in SPIE conference proceedings, Quantum Information and computation XII, May 8,9, 2014
journal: Quantum information and computation XII, proceedings of SPIE conference, 8-9 May, 2014, Vol. 9123, 91230Q-1
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3217
abstract: A stronger foundation for earlier work on the effects of number scaling, and local mathematics is described. Emphasis is placed on the effects of scaling on coordinate systems. Effects of scaling are represented by a scalar field, $\theta,$ that appears in gauge theories as a spin zero boson. Gauge theory considerations led to the concept of local mathematics, as expressed through the use of universes, as collections of local mathematical systems at each point, x, of a space time manifold, M. Both local and global coordinate charts are described. These map M into either local or global coordinate systems within a universe or between universes, respectively. The lifting of global expressions of nonlocal physical quantities, expressed by space and or time integrals or derivatives on M, to integrals or derivatives on coordinate systems, is described. The assumption of local mathematics and universes makes integrals and derivatives, on M or on global charts, meaningless. They acquire meaning only when mapped into a local universe. The effect of scaling, by including the effect of $\theta$ into the local maps, is described. The lack of experimental evidence for $\theta$ so far shows that the coupling constant of $\theta$ to matter fields must be very small compared to the fine structure constant. Also the gradient of $\theta$ must be very small in the local region of cosmological space and time occupied by us as observers. So far, there are no known restrictions on $\theta$ or its gradient in regions of space and/or time that are far away from our local region.

id: 1405.3257
title: Non-Inertial Frames in Minkowski Space-Time, Accelerated either Mathematical or Dynamical Observers and Comments on Non-Inertial Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Horace W. Crater, Luca Lusanna
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3257
abstract: After a review of the existing theory of non-inertial frames and mathematical observers in Minkowski space-time we give the explicit expression of a family of such frames obtained from the inertial ones by means of point-dependent Lorentz transformations as suggested by the locality principle. These non-inertial frames have non-Euclidean 3-spaces and contain the differentially rotating ones in Euclidean 3-spaces as a subcase. Then we discuss how to replace mathematical accelerated observers with dynamical ones (their world-lines belong to interacting particles in an isolated system) and of how to define Unruh-DeWitt detectors without using mathematical Rindler uniformly accelerated observers. Also some comments are done on the transition from relativistic classical mechanics to relativistic quantum mechanics in non-inertial frames.

id: 1405.3399
title: Emergence of order from turbulence in an isolated planar superfluid
authors: Tapio Simula, Matthew J. Davis, Kristian Helmerson
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 165302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3399
abstract: We study the relaxation dynamics of an isolated zero temperature quasi-two-dimensional superfluid Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) that is imprinted with a spatially random distribution of quantum vortices. Following a period of vortex annihilation, we find that the remaining vortices self-organise into two macroscopic coherent `Onsager vortex' clusters that are stable indefinitely. We demonstrate that this occurs due to a novel physical mechanism --- the evaporative heating of the vortices --- that results in a negative temperature phase transition in the vortex degrees of freedom. At the end of our simulations the system is trapped in a non-thermal state. Our computational results provide a pathway to observing Onsager vortex states in a superfluid Bose gas.

id: 1405.3467
title: Intermittency in an Optomechanical Cavity Near a Subcritical Hopf Bifurcation
authors: Oren Suchoi, Lior Ella, Oleg Shtempluk, Eyal Buks
comments: 6 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033818 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3467
abstract: We experimentally study an optomechanical cavity consisting of an oscillating mechanical resonator embedded in a superconducting microwave transmission line cavity. Tunable optomechanical coupling between the mechanical resonator and the microwave cavity is introduced by positioning a niobium-coated single mode optical fiber above the mechanical resonator. The capacitance between the mechanical resonator and the coated fiber gives rise to optomechanical coupling, which can be controlled by varying the fiber-resonator distance. We study radiation pressure induced self-excited oscillations as a function of microwave driving parameters (frequency and power). Intermittency between limit cycle and steady state behaviors is observed with blue-detuned driving frequency. The experimental results are accounted for by a model that takes into account the Duffing-like nonlinearity of the microwave cavity. A stability analysis reveals a subcritical Hopf bifurcation near the region where intermittency is observed.

id: 1405.3514
title: Excited-state quantum phase transitions and periodic dynamics
authors: G. Engelhardt, V. M. Bastidas, W. Kopylov, T. Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013631 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3514
abstract: We investigate signatures of the excited-state quantum phase transition in the periodic dynamics of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and the Tavis-Cummings model. In the thermodynamic limit, expectation values of observables in eigenstates of the system can be calculated using classical trajectories. Motivated by this, we suggest a method based on the time evolution of the finite-size system, to find singularities in observables, which arise due to the excited-state quantum phase transition.

id: 1405.3517
title: Random transverse-field Ising chain with long-range interactions
authors: R¨®bert Juh¨¢sz, Istv¨¢n A. Kov¨¢cs, Ferenc Igl¨®i
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 107 (2014) 47008
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3517
abstract: We study the low-energy properties of the long-range random transverse-field Ising chain with ferromagnetic interactions decaying as a power alpha of the distance. Using variants of the strong-disorder renormalization group method, the critical behavior is found to be controlled by a strong-disorder fixed point with a finite dynamical exponent z_c=alpha. Approaching the critical point, the correlation length diverges exponentially. In the critical point, the magnetization shows an alpha-independent logarithmic finite-size scaling and the entanglement entropy satisfies the area law. These observations are argued to hold for other systems with long-range interactions, even in higher dimensions.

id: 1405.3526
title: Superconducting inductive displacement detection of a microcantilever
authors: Andrea Vinante
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3526
abstract: We demonstrate a superconducting inductive technique to measure the displacement of a micromechanical resonator. In our scheme, a type I superconducting microsphere is attached to the free end of a microcantilever and approached to the loop of a dc Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) microsusceptometer. A local magnetic field as low as 100 $\mu$T, generated by a field coil concentric to the SQUID, enables detection of the cantilever thermomechanical noise at $4.2$ K. The magnetomechanical coupling and the magnetic spring are in good agreement with image method calculations assuming pure Meissner effect. These measurements are relevant to recent proposals of quantum magnetomechanics experiments based on levitating superconducting microparticles.

id: 1405.3616
title: Explicit Hamiltonians Inducing Volume Law for Entanglement Entropy in Fermionic Lattices
authors: Giacomo Gori, Simone Paganelli, Auditya Sharma, Pasquale Sodano, Andrea Trombettoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3616
abstract: We show how the area law for the entanglement entropy may be violated by free fermions on a lattice and look for conditions leading to the emergence of a volume law. We give an explicit construction of the states with maximal entanglement entropy based on the fact that, once a bipartition of the lattice in two complementary sets $A$ and $\bar{A}$ is given, the states with maximal entanglement entropy (volume law) may be factored into Bell-pairs (BP) formed by two states with support on $A$ and $\bar{A}$. We then exhibit, for translational invariant fermionic systems on a lattice, an Hamiltonian whose ground state is such to yield an exact volume law. As expected, the corresponding Fermi surface has a fractal topology. We also provide some examples of fermionic models for which the ground state may have an entanglement entropy $S_A$ between the area and the volume law, building an explicit example of a one-dimensional free fermion model where $S_A (L) \propto L^\beta$ with $\beta$ being intermediate between $\beta = 0$ (area law) and $\beta = 1$ (BP-state inducing volume law). For this model, the dispersion relation has a "zig-zag" structure leading to a fractal Fermi surface whose counting box dimension equals, for large lattices, $\beta$. Our analysis clearly relates the violation of the area law for the entanglement entropy of the ground state to the emergence of a non-trivial topology of the Fermi surface.

id: 1405.3634
title: Does Symmetry Imply PPT Property?
authors: Daniel Cariello
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3634
abstract: Recently, in [1], the author proved that many results that are true for PPT matrices also hold for another class of matrices with a certain symmetry in their Hermitian Schmidt decompositions. These matrices were called SPC in [1] (definition 1.1). Before that, in [9], T\'oth and G\"uhne proved that if a state is symmetric then it is PPT if and only if it is SPC. A natural question appeared: What is the connection between SPC matrices and PPT matrices? Is every SPC matrix PPT? Here we show that every SPC matrix is PPT in $M_2\otimes M_2$ (theorem 4.3). This theorem is a consequence of the fact that every density matrix in $M_2\otimes M_m$, with tensor rank smaller or equal to 3, is separable (theorem 3.2). This theorem is a generalization of the same result found in [1] for tensor rank 2 matrices in $M_k\otimes M_m$. Although, in $M_3\otimes M_3$, there exists a SPC matrix with tensor rank 3 that is not PPT (proposition 5.2). We shall also provide a non trivial example of a family of matrices in $M_k\otimes M_k$, in which both, the SPC and PPT properties, are equivalent (proposition 6.2). Within this family, there exists a non trivial subfamily in which the SPC property is equivalent to separability (proposition 6.4).

id: 1405.3650
title: Relevant Perturbation of Entanglement Entropy and Stationarity
authors: Tatsuma Nishioka
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures: v2: minor changes, a reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 045006 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3650
abstract: A relevant perturbation of the entanglement entropy of a sphere is examined holographically near the UV fixed point. Varying the conformal dimension of the relevant operator, we obtain three different sectors: 1) the entanglement entropy is stationary and the perturbative expansion is well-defined with respect to the relevant coupling, 2) the entropy is stationary, but the perturbation fails, 3) the entropy is neither stationary nor perturbative. We compare our holographic results with the numerical calculation for a free massive scalar field in three-dimensions, and find a qualitative agreement between them. We speculate that these statements hold for any relevant perturbation in any quantum field theory invariant under the Poincare symmetry.

id: 1405.3671
title: Compressive Wavefront Sensing with Weak Values
authors: Gregory A. Howland, Daniel J. Lum, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3671
abstract: We demonstrate a wavefront sensor based on the compressive sensing, single-pixel camera. Using a high-resolution spatial light modulator (SLM) as a variable waveplate, we weakly couple an optical field's transverse-position and polarization degrees of freedom. By placing random, binary patterns on the SLM, polarization serves as a meter for directly measuring random projections of the real and imaginary components of the wavefront. Compressive sensing techniques can then recover the wavefront. We acquire high quality, 256x256 pixel images of the wavefront from only 10,000 projections. Photon-counting detectors give sub-picowatt sensitivity.

id: 1405.3672
title: Factorization of Dirac Equation and Graphene Quantum Dot
authors: Youness Zahidi, Ahmed Jellal, Hocine Bahlouli, Mohammed El Bouziani
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1107.0113 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3672
abstract: We consider a quantum dot described by a cylindrically symmetric 2D Dirac equation. The potentials representing the quantum dot are taken to be of different types of potential configuration, scalar, vector and pseudo-scalar to enable us to enrich our study. Using various potential configurations, we found that in the presence of a mass term an electrostatically confined quantum dot can accommodate true bound states, which is in agreement with previous work. The differential cross section associated with one specific potential configuration has been computed and discussed as function of the various potential parameters.

id: 1405.3737
title: New x-ray measurements in Helium-like Atoms increase discrepancy between experiment and theoretical QED
authors: Christopher T. Chantler, Andrew T. Payne, John D. Gillaspy, Lawrence T. Hudson, Lucas F. Smale, Albert Henins, Justin A. Kimpton, Endre Takacs
comments: 6 pages. 2 tables
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 123037
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3737
abstract: A recent 15 parts-per-million (ppm) experiment on muonic hydrogen found a major discrepancy with QED and independent nuclear size determinations. Here we find a significant discrepancy in a different type of exotic atom, a medium-Z nucleus with two electrons. Investigation of the data collected is able to discriminate between available QED formulations and reveals a pattern of discrepancy of almost 6 standard errors of experimental results from the most recent theoretical predictions with a functional dependence proportional to Z^n where n=4. In both the muonic and highly charged systems, the sign of the discrepancy is the same, with the measured transition energy higher than predicted. Some consequences are possible or probable, and some are more speculative. This may give insight into effective nuclear radii, the Rydberg, the fine-structure constant or unexpectedly large QED terms.

id: 1405.3743
title: Nonlinear constraints on gravity from entanglement
authors: Shamik Banerjee, Apratim Kaviraj, Aninda Sinha
comments: 31 pages, 4 figures, to appear in CQG
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 32 (2015) 065006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3743
abstract: Using the positivity of relative entropy arising from the Ryu-Takayanagi formula for spherical entangling surfaces, we obtain constraints at the nonlinear level for the gravitational dual. We calculate the Green's function necessary to compute the first order correction to the entangling surface and use this to find the relative entropy for non-constant stress tensors in a derivative expansion. We show that the Einstein value satisfies the positivity condition while the multi-dimensional parameter space away from it gets constrained.

id: 1405.3755
title: Thermal Pure Quantum States of Many-Particle Systems
authors: Masahiko Hyuga, Sho Sugiura, Kazumitsu Sakai, Akira Shimizu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Revised to clarify main claims
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 121110(R) (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3755
abstract: We generalize the thermal pure quantum (TPQ) formulation of statistical mechanics, in such a way that it is applicable to systems whose Hilbert space is infinite dimensional. Assuming particle systems, we construct the grand-canonical TPQ (gTPQ) state, which is the counterpart of the grand-canonical Gibbs state of the ensemble formulation. A single realization of the gTPQ state gives all quantities of statistical-mechanical interest, with exponentially small probability of error. This formulation not only sheds new light on quantum statistical mechanics but also is useful for practical computations. As an illustration, we apply it to the Hubbard model, on a one-dimensional (1d) chain and on a two-dimensional (2d) triangular lattice. For the 1d chain, our results agree well with the exact solutions over wide ranges of temperature, chemical potential and the on-site interaction. For the 2d triangular lattice, for which exact results are unknown, we obtain reliable results over a wide range of temperature. We also find that finite-size effects are much smaller in the gTPQ state than in the canonical TPQ (cTPQ) state. This also shows that in the ensemble formulation the grand-canonical Gibbs state of a finite-size system simulates an infinite system much better than the canonical Gibbs state.

id: 1405.3829
title: Coherent injecting, extracting, and velocity filtering of neutral atoms in a ring trap via spatial adiabatic passage
authors: Yurii Loiko, Veronica Ahufinger, Ricard Menchon-Enrich, Gerhard Birkl, Jordi Mompart
comments: To be published in European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3829
abstract: We introduce here a coherent technique to inject, extract, and velocity filter neutral atoms in a ring trap coupled via tunneling to two additional waveguides. By adiabatically following the transverse spatial dark state, the proposed technique allows for an efficient and robust velocity dependent atomic population transfer between the ring and the input/output waveguides. We have derived explicit conditions for the spatial adiabatic passage that depend on the atomic velocity along the input waveguide as well as on the initial population distribution among the transverse vibrational states. The validity of our proposal has been checked by numerical integration of the corresponding two dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with state-of-the-art parameter values for $^{87}$Rb atoms and an optical dipole ring trap.

id: 1405.3845
title: Single-electron approach for time-dependent electron transport
authors: Shmuel Gurvitz
comments: Additional references added, Physica Scripta, the special volume devoted to the FQMT 13 conference, in press
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3845
abstract: We develop a new approach to electron transport in mesoscopic systems by using a particular single-particle basis. Although this basis generates redundant many-particle amplitudes, it greatly simplifies the treatment. By using our method for transport of non-interacting electrons, we generalize the Landauer formula for transient currents and for time-dependent potentials. The result has a very simple form and clear physical interpretation. As an example, we apply it to resonant tunneling through a quantum dot where the tunneling barriers are oscillating in time. We obtain analytical expression for the time-dependent (ac) resonant current. However, in the adiabatic limit this expression displays the dc current for zero bias (electron pumping).

id: 1405.3889
title: Quench dynamics of a disordered array of dissipative coupled cavities
authors: C. Creatore, R. Fazio, J. Keeling, H. E. T¨¹reci
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, new reference added
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3889
abstract: We investigate the mean-field dynamics of a system of interacting photons in an array of coupled cavities in presence of dissipation and disorder. We follow the evolution of on an initially prepared Fock state, and show how the interplay between dissipation and disorder affects the coherence properties of the cavity emission and that these properties can be used as signatures of the many-body phase of the whole array.

id: 1405.3915
title: How the quantum emerges from gravity
authors: Anushrut Sharma, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 6 pages. Honorable mention in the Gravity Research Foundation 2014 Essay Contest. Based on the more detailed paper arXiv:1403.2231
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. 23, 1442007 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3915
abstract: The dynamics of a massive, relativistic spinning particle could be described either by the Dirac equation or by the Kerr solution of Einstein equations. However, one does not know a priori as to which of the two systems of equations should be used in a given situation, and the choice is dictated by experiments. It is expected that the Dirac equation holds for microscopic masses, and the Kerr solution for macroscopic masses. This suggests that Einstein gravity and the Dirac theory are limiting cases of a common underlying theoretical framework. Here we propose that such a framework is provided by a geometric theory of gravity on a Riemann-Cartan spacetime, which includes torsion. The Dirac equation emerges as the torsion dominated, gravity-free limit of this framework.

id: 1405.3949
title: Quantum Gravity, Dynamical Phase Space and String Theory
authors: Laurent Freidel, Robert G. Leigh, Djordje Minic
comments: 9 pages. Essay written for the Gravity Research Foundation 2014 Awards for Essays on Gravitation - honorable mention
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3949
abstract: In a natural extension of the relativity principle we argue that a quantum theory of gravity involves two fundamental scales associated with both dynamical space-time as well as dynamical momentum space. This view of quantum gravity is explicitly realized in a new formulation of string theory which involves dynamical phase space and in which space-time is a derived concept. This formulation naturally unifies symplectic geometry of Hamiltonian dynamics, complex geometry of quantum theory and real geometry of general relativity. The space-time and momentum space dynamics, and thus dynamical phase space, is governed by a new version of the Renormalization Group.

id: 1405.3966
title: The fate of dynamical many-body localization in the presence of disorder
authors: Analabha Roy, Arnab Das
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review B Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 121106(R), 2015
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3966
abstract: Dynamical localization is one of the most startling manifestations of quantum interference, where the evolution of a simple system is frozen out under a suitably tuned coherent periodic drive. Here, we show that, although any randomness in the interactions of a many body system kills dynamical localization eventually, spectacular remnants survive even when the disorder is strong. We consider a disordered quantum Ising chain where the transverse magnetization relaxes exponentially with time with a decay time-scale $\tau$ due to random longitudinal interactions between the spins. We show that, under external periodic drive, this relaxation slows down ($\tau$ shoots up) by orders of magnitude as the ratio of the drive frequency $\omega$ and amplitude $h_{0}$ tends to certain specific values (the freezing condition). If $\omega$ is increased while maintaining the ratio $h_0/\omega$ at a fixed freezing value, then $\tau$ diverges exponentially with $\omega.$ The results can be easily extended for a larger family of disordered fermionic and bosonic systems.

id: 1405.3975
title: Chiral Topological Orders in an Optical Raman Lattice
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Zheng-Xin Liu, K. T. Law, W. Vincent Liu, T. K. Ng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, plus supplementary material. The model realization is updated
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3975
abstract: We find an optical Raman lattice without spin-orbit coupling showing chiral topological orders for cold atoms. Two incident plane-wave lasers are applied to generate simultaneously a double-well square lattice and periodic Raman couplings, the latter of which drive the nearest-neighbor hopping and create a staggered flux pattern across the lattice. Such a minimal setup is can yield the quantum anomalous Hall effect in the single particle regime, while in the interacting regime it achieves the $J_1$-$J_2$-$K$ model with all parameters controllable, which supports a chiral spin liquid phase. We further show that heating in the present optical Raman lattice is reduced by more than one order of magnitude compared with the conventional laser-assisted tunneling schemes. This suggests that the predicted topological states be well reachable with the current experimental capability.

id: 1405.4131
title: Robust signatures of quantum radiation reaction in focused ultrashort laser pulses
authors: Jian-Xing Li, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 044801 (2014)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4131
abstract: Radiation reaction effects in the interaction of an electron bunch with a superstrong focused ultrashort laser pulse are investigated in the quantum radiation dominated regime. The angle-resolved Compton scattering spectra are calculated in laser pulses of variable duration using a semi-classical description for the radiation dominated dynamics and a full quantum treatment for the emitted radiation. In dependence of the laser pulse duration we find signatures of quantum radiation reaction in the radiation spectra, which are characteristic for the focused laser beam and visible in the qualitative behaviour of both the angular spread and the spectral bandwidth of the radiation spectra. The signatures are robust with respect to the variation of the electron and laser beam parameters in a large range. They fully differ qualitatively from those in the classical radiation reaction regime and are measurable with presently available laser technology.

id: 1405.4135
title: Construction of spin models displaying quantum criticality from quantum field theory
authors: Ivan Glasser, J. Ignacio Cirac, Germ¨¢n Sierra, Anne E. B. Nielsen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nuclear Physics B 886, 63-74 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4135
abstract: We provide a method for constructing finite temperature states of one-dimensional spin chains displaying quantum criticality. These models are constructed using correlators of products of quantum fields and have an analytical purification. Their properties can be investigated by Monte-Carlo simulations, which enable us to study the low-temperature phase diagram and to show that it displays a region of quantum criticality. The mixed states obtained are shown to be close to the thermal state of a simple nearest neighbour Hamiltonian.

id: 1405.4142
title: Spoof polariton enhanced modal density of states in planar nanostructured metallic cavities
authors: P. S. Davids, F. Intravaia, D. A. R. Dalvit
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Express 22, 12424 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4142
abstract: Spoof surface modes on nanostructured metallic surfaces are known to have tailorable dispersion dependent on the geometric characteristics of the periodic pattern. Here we examine the spoof plasmon dispersion on an isolated grating and a grating-planar mirror cavity configuration. The spoof polariton dispersion in the cavity is obtained using the scattering matrix approach, and the related differential modal density of states is introduced to obtain the mode dispersion and classify the cavity polariton modes. The grating-mirror cavity geometry is an example of periodically nanostructured metals above a planar ground plane. The properties discussed here are relevant for applications ranging from thin electromagnetic perfect absorbers to near-field radiative heat transfer.

id: 1405.4151
title: Accurate energy spectrum for the quantum Yang-Mills mechanics with nonlinear color oscillations
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to appear in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 54 (2015) 14
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4151
abstract: Yang-Mills theory as the foundation for quantum chromodynamics is a non-Abelian gauge theory with self-interactions between vector particles. Here, we study the Yang-Mills Hamiltonian with nonlinear color oscillations in the absence of external sources corresponding to the group $SU(2)$. In the quantum domain, we diagonalize the Hamiltonian using the optimized trigonometric basis expansion method and find accurate energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for one and two degrees of freedom. We also compare our results with the semiclassical solutions.

id: 1405.4156
title: Excitation energy transfer rates: comparison of approximate methods to the exact solution
authors: Simon Jesenko, Marko ?nidari?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4156
abstract: We have evaluated excitation energy transfer rates in photosyntetic complexes using the exact HEOM method and various approximate methods frequently used in the literature, namely, the F\"orster method, the Redfield method, the modified Redfield method and the variational master equation. The rates are evaluated for the case of a simple dimer and a trimer photosynthetic complex, with vibrational environment characterized by the Drude-Lorentz spectral density. Comparing approximate rates to the exact ones, we have confirmed the validity of approximate methods within appropriate limits, however these limits are often well outside parameter ranges that are relevant for the dynamics in real photosynthetic complexes.

id: 1405.4246
title: Phase-induced transport in atomic gases: from superfluid to Mott insulator
authors: Sebastiano Peotta, Chih-Chun Chien, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053615 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4246
abstract: Recent experimental realizations of artificial gauge fields for cold atoms are promising for generating steady states carrying a mass current in strongly correlated systems, such as the Bose-Hubbard model. Moreover, a homogeneous condensate confined by hard-wall potentials from laser sheets has been demonstrated, which provides opportunities for probing the intrinsic transport properties of isolated quantum systems. Using the time-dependent Density Matrix Renormalization Group (TDMRG), we analyze the effect of the lattice and interaction strength on the current generated by a quench in the artificial vector potential when the density varies from low values (continuum limit) up to integer filling in the Mott-insulator regime. There is no observable mass current deep in the Mott-insulator state as one may expect. Other observable quantities used to characterize the quasi-steady state in the bulk of the system are the Drude weight and entanglement entropy production rate. The latter in particular provides a striking signature of the superfluid-Mott insulator transition. Furthermore, an interesting property of the superfluid state is the formation of shock and rarefaction waves at the boundaries due to the hard-wall confining potentials. We provide results for the height and the speed of the shock front that propagates from the boundary toward the center of the lattice. Our results should be verifiable with current experimental capabilities.

id: 1405.4271
title: Highly-charged ions for atomic clocks, quantum information, and search for $¦Á$-variation
authors: M. S. Safronova, V. A. Dzuba, V. V. Flambaum, U. I. Safronova, S. G. Porsev, M. G. Kozlov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4271
abstract: We propose 10 highly-charged ions as candidates for the development of next generation atomic clocks, quantum information, and search for $\alpha$-variation. They have long-lived metastable states with transition frequencies to the ground state between 170-3000 nm, relatively simple electronic structure, stable isotopes and high sensitivity to $\alpha$-variation (e.g., Sm$^{14+}$, Pr$^{10+}$, Sm$^{13+}$, Nd$^{10+}$). We predict their properties crucial for the experimental exploration and highlight particularly attractive systems for these applications.

id: 1405.4279
title: Anomalous Fano Profiles in Strong Fields
authors: Alejandro Zielinski, Vinay Pramod Majety, Stefan Nagele, Renate Pazourek, Joachim Burgd?rfer, Armin Scrinzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4279
abstract: In presence of an infrared control field, a Fano resonance line acquires a complex $q$-parameter, reflecting the non-stationary nature of the control process. We derive a simple expression for $q$ and compare to numerical solutions of the TDSE of Helium in three dimensions. Control {\em during} excitation is dominated by a modification of the continuum states. For a control pulse {\em after} excitation, bound state distortions by infrared two-photon transitions dominate and lead to characteristic interference fringes.

id: 1405.4352
title: Vortex gyroscope imaging of planar superfluids
authors: A. T. Powis, S. J. Sammut, T. P. Simula
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 165303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4352
abstract: We propose a robust imaging technique that makes it possible to distinguish vortices from antivortices in quasi-two-dimensional Bose--Einstein condensates from a single image of the density of the atoms. Tilting the planar condensate prior to standard absorption imaging excites a generalized gyroscopic mode of the condensate revealing the sign and location of each vortex. This technique is anticipated to enable experimental measurement of the incompressible kinetic energy spectrum of the condensate and the observation of a negative temperature phase transition of the vortex gas, driven by two-dimensional superfluid turbulence.

id: 1405.4391
title: Non-equilibrium current via geometric scatterers
authors: Pavel Exner, Hagen Neidhardt, Milos Tater, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4391
abstract: We investigate non-equilibrium particle transport in the system consisting of a geometric scatterer and two leads coupled to heat baths with different chemical potentials. We derive expression for the corresponding current the carriers of which are fermions and analyze numerically its dependence of the model parameters in examples, where the scatterer has a rectangular or triangular shape.

id: 1405.4486
title: Perturbation theory for quasienergy (Floquet) solutions in the low-frequency regime of the oscillating electric field
authors: Hanna Martiskainen, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023416 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4486
abstract: For a simple illustrative model Hamiltonian for Xenon in low frequency linearly polarized laser field we obtain a remarkable agreement between the zero-order energy as well as amplitude and phase of the zero-order Floquet states and the exact eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Floquet operator. Here we use as a zero-order Hamiltonian the adiabatic Hamiltonian where time is used as an instantaneous parameter. Moreover, for a variety of low laser frequencies, $\omega$, the deviation of the zero-order solutions from the exact quasi-energy (QE) Floquet solutions approaches zero at the time the oscillating laser field is maximal. This remarkable result gives a further justification to the validity of the first step in the simple man model. It should be stressed that the numerical calculations of the exact QE (Floquet) solutions become extremely difficult when $\omega$ approaches zero and many Floquet channels are nested together and are coupled by the laser field. This is the main motivation for the development of perturbation theory for QE (Floquet) solutions when the laser frequency is small, to avoid the need to represent the Floquet operator by a matrix when the Fourier functions are used as a basis set. A way to calculate the radius of convergence of the perturbational expansion of the Floquet solutions in $\omega$ is given.

id: 1405.4516
title: A perturbative formalism for electronic transitions through conical intersections in a fully quadratic vibronic model
authors: Julia S. Endicott, Loic Joubert-Doriol, Artur F. Izmaylov
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 034104 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4516
abstract: We consider a fully quadratic vibronic model Hamiltonian for studying photoinduced electronic transitions through conical intersections. Using a second order perturbative approximation for diabatic couplings we derive an analytical expression for the time evolution of electronic populations at a given temperature. This formalism extends upon a previously developed perturbative technique for a linear vibronic coupling Hamiltonian. The advantage of the quadratic model Hamiltonian is that it allows one to use separate quadratic representations for potential energy surfaces of different electronic states and a more flexible representation of interstate couplings. We explore features introduced by the quadratic Hamiltonian in a series of 2D models, and then apply our formalism to the 2,6-bis(methylene) adamantyl cation, and its dimethyl derivative. The Hamiltonian parameters for the molecular systems have been obtained from electronic structure calculations followed by a diabatization procedure. The evolution of electronic populations in the molecular systems using the perturbative formalism shows a good agreement with that from variational quantum dynamics.

id: 1405.4539
title: Silicon Carbide Photonic Crystal Cavities with Integrated Color Centers
authors: Greg Calusine, Alberto Politi, David D. Awschalom
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4539
abstract: The recent discovery of color centers with optically addressable spin states in 3C silicon carbide (SiC) similar to the negatively charged nitrogen vacancy center in diamond has the potential to enable the integration of defect qubits into established wafer scale device architectures for quantum information and sensing applications. Here we demonstrate the design, fabrication, and characterization of photonic crystal cavities in 3C SiC films with incorporated ensembles of color centers and quality factor (Q) to mode volume ratios similar to those achieved in diamond. Simulations show that optimized H1 and L3 structures exhibit Q as high as 45,000 and mode volumes of approximately $(\lambda/n)^{3}$. We utilize the internal color centers as a source of broadband excitation to characterize fabricated structures with resonances tuned to the color center zero phonon line and observe Q in the range of 900-1,500 with narrowband photoluminescence collection enhanced by up to a factor of 10. By comparing the Q factors observed for different geometries with finite-difference time-domain simulations, we find evidence that nonvertical sidewalls are likely the dominant source of discrepancies between our simulated and measured Q factors. These results indicate that defect qubits in 3C SiC thin films show clear promise as a simple, scalable platform for interfacing defect qubits with photonic, optoelectronic, and optomechanical devices.

id: 1405.4569
title: Topologically Protected States in One-Dimensional Systems
authors: Charles L. Fefferman, James P. Lee-Thorp, Michael I. Weinstein
comments: To appear in Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society -- 100+ pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4569
abstract: We study a class of periodic Schr\"odinger operators, which in distinguished cases can be proved to have linear band-crossings or "Dirac points". We then show that the introduction of an "edge", via adiabatic modulation of these periodic potentials by a domain wall, results in the bifurcation of spatially localized "edge states". These bound states are associated with the topologically protected zero-energy mode of an asymptotic one-dimensional Dirac operator. Our model captures many aspects of the phenomenon of topologically protected edge states for two-dimensional bulk structures such as the honeycomb structure of graphene. The states we construct can be realized as highly robust TM- electromagnetic modes for a class of photonic waveguides with a phase-defect.

id: 1405.4614
title: Oscillator Model of Spin
authors: Yitian Ding, Miaomiao Xu
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4614
abstract: The Schwinger's representation of angular momentum(AM) relates two important fundamental models, that of AM and that of harmonic oscillator(HO). However, the representation offers only the relations of operators but not states. Here, by developing a graphic method to calculate the states, we show that the Schwinger's model is valid only with certain spin. With the relation of states, we also demonstrate how the superposition states in AM map to entangled states in HO. This study has promising applications in quantum computation, and may cast light on the relation between superposition and entanglement.

id: 1405.4749
title: Feedback control of coherent spin states using weak nondestructive measurements
authors: Thomas Vanderbruggen, Ralf Kohlhaas, Andrea Bertoldi, Etienne Cantin, Arnaud Landragin, Philippe Bouyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4749
abstract: We consider the decoherence of a pseudo-spin ensemble under collective random rotations, and study, both theoretically and experimentally, how a nondestructive measurement combined with real-time feedback correction can protect the state against such a decoherence process. We theoretically characterize the feedback efficiency with different parameters --- coherence, entropy, fidelity --- and show that a maximum efficiency is reached in the weak measurement regime, when the projection of the state induced by the measurement is negligible. This article presents in detail the experimental results published in [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{110}, 210503 (2013)], where the feedback scheme stabilizes coherent spin states of trapped ultra-cold atoms, and nondestructively probed with a dispersive optical detection. In addition, we study the influence of several parameters, such as atom number and rotation angle, on the performance of the method. We analyze the various decoherence sources limiting the feedback efficiency and propose how to mitigate their effect. The results demonstrate the potential of the method for the real-time coherent control of atom interferometers.

id: 1405.4771
title: F?rster resonance energy transfer, absorption and emission spectra in multichromophoric systems: I. Cumulant expansions
authors: Jian Ma, Jianshu Cao
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4771
abstract: We study the F\"orster resonant energy transfer (FRET) rate in multichromophoric systems. The multichromophoric FRET rate is determined by the overlap integral of the donor's emission and acceptor's absorption spectra, which are obtained via 2nd-order cumulant expansion techniques developed in this work. We calculate the spectra and multichromophoric FRET rate for both localized and delocalized systems. (i) The role of the initial entanglement between the donor and its bath is found to be crucial in both the emission spectrum and the multichromophoric FRET rate. (ii) The absorption spectra obtained by the cumulant expansion method are quite close to the exact one for both localized and delocalized systems, even when the system-bath coupling is far from the perturbative regime. (iii) For the emission spectra, the cumulant expansion can give very good results for the localized system, but fail to obtain reliable spectra of the high excitations of a delocalized system, when the system-bath coupling is large and the thermal energy is small. (iv) Even though, the multichromophoric FRET rate is good enough since it is determined by the overlap integral of the spectra.

id: 1405.4811
title: Tensor Networks for Lattice Gauge Theories with continuous groups
authors: Luca Tagliacozzo, Alessio Celi, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 27 pages, 25 figures, 2nd version the same as the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041024 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4811
abstract: We discuss how to formulate lattice gauge theories in the Tensor Network language. In this way we obtain both a consistent truncation scheme of the Kogut-Susskind lattice gauge theories and a Tensor Network variational ansatz for gauge invariant states that can be used in actual numerical computation. Our construction is also applied to the simplest realization of the quantum link models/gauge magnets and provides a clear way to understand their microscopic relation with Kogut-Susskind lattice gauge theories. We also introduce a new set of gauge invariant operators that modify continuously Rokshar-Kivelson wave functions and can be used to extend the phase diagram of known models. As an example we characterize the transition between the deconfined phase of the $Z_2$ lattice gauge theory and the Rokshar-Kivelson point of the U(1) gauge magnet in 2D in terms of entanglement entropy. The topological entropy serves as an order parameter for the transition but not the Schmidt gap.

id: 1405.4825
title: Heating from Continuous Number Density Measurements in Optical Lattices
authors: Yariv Yanay, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023611 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4825
abstract: We explore the effects of continuous number density measurement on atoms in an optical lattice. By integrating a master equation for quantum observables, we calculate how single particle correlations decay. We consider weakly- and strongly- interacting bosons and noninteracting fermions. Even in the Mott regime, such measurements destroy correlations and increase the average energy, as long as some hopping is allowed. We explore the role of spatial resolution, and find that the heating rate is proportional to the amount of information gained from such measurements.

id: 1405.4866
title: Constructing a Weyl semimetal by stacking one dimensional topological phases
authors: Sriram Ganeshan, S. Das Sarma
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, Published version with revised title, introduction and improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 125438 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4866
abstract: Topological semimetals in three-dimensions (e.g. Weyl semimetal) can be built by stacking two dimensional topological phases. The interesting aspect of such a construction is that even though the topological building blocks in the low dimension may be gapped, the higher dimensional semimetallic phase emerges as a gapless critical point of a topological phase transition between two distinct insulating phases. In this work, we extend this idea by constructing three-dimensional topological semimetallic phases akin to Weyl systems by stacking one-dimensional Aubry-Andre-Harper (AAH) lattice tight binding models with non-trivial topology. The generalized AAH model is a family of one dimensional tight binding models with cosine modulations in both hopping and onsite energy terms. In this paper, we present a two-parameter generalization of the AAH model that can access topological phases in three dimensions within a unified framework. We show that the $\pi$-flux state of this two-parameter AAH model manifests three dimensional topological semimetallic phases where the topological features are embedded in one dimension. The topological nature of the band touching points of the semimetallic phase in 3D is explicitly established both analytically and numerically from the 1D perspective. This dimensional reduction provides a simple protocol to experimentally construct the three dimensional Brillouin zone of the topological semimetallic phases using `legos' of simple 1D double well optical lattices. We also propose Zak phase imaging of optical lattices as a tool to capture the topological nature of the band touching points. Our work provides a theoretical connection between the commensurate AAH model in 1D and Weyl semimetals in 3D, and points toward practical methods for the laboratory realization of such three dimensional topological systems in atomic optical lattices.

id: 1405.4906
title: An optically trapped mirror for reaching the standard quantum limit
authors: Nobuyuki Matsumoto, Yuta Michimura, Yoichi Aso, Kimio Tsubono
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1312.5031
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4906
abstract: The preparation of a mechanical oscillator driven by quantum back-action is a fundamental requirement to reach the standard quantum limit (SQL) for force measurement, in optomechanical systems. However, thermal fluctuating force generally dominates a disturbance on the oscillator. In the macroscopic scale, an optical linear cavity including a suspended mirror has been used for the weak force measurement, such as gravitational-wave detectors. This configuration has the advantages of reducing the dissipation of the pendulum (i.e., suspension thermal noise) due to a gravitational dilution by using a thin wire, and of increasing the circulating laser power. However, the use of the thin wire is weak for an optical torsional anti-spring effect in the cavity, due to the low mechanical restoring force of the wire. Thus, there is the trade-off between the stability of the system and the sensitivity. Here, we describe using a triangular optical cavity to overcome this limitation for reaching the SQL. The triangular cavity can provide a sensitive and stable system, because it can optically trap the mirror's motion of the yaw, through an optical positive torsional spring effect. To show this, we demonstrate a measurement of the torsional spring effect caused by radiation pressure forces.

id: 1405.4940
title: Double Gated Single Molecular Transistor for Charge Detection
authors: S. J. Ray, R. Chowdhury
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.4940
abstract: The electrostatic behaviour of an 1,3-Cyclobutadiene (C$_{4}$H$_{4}$) based Single Molecular Transistor (SMT) has been investigated using the first principle calculation based on Density functional Theory and non-equilibrium Green's function approach. While the molecule is placed on top of a dielectric layer (backed by a metallic gate) and weakly coupled between the Source/Drain electrodes, the charge stability diagram revealed the presence of individual charge states in the Coulomb Blockade regime. This gets affected significantly on addition of an another gate electrode placed on the top of the molecule. This modified double-gated geometry allows additional control of the total energy of the system that is sensitive to the individual charge states of the molecule which can be used as a charge sensing technique operational at room temperature.

id: 1405.5019
title: Advanced Concepts in Josephson Junction Reflection Amplifiers
authors: Pasi L?hteenm?ki, Visa Vesterinen, Juha Hassel, G. S. Paraoanu, Heikki Sepp?, Pertti Hakonen
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. (2014) 175: 868-876
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5019
abstract: Low-noise amplification atmicrowave frequencies has become increasingly important for the research related to superconducting qubits and nanoelectromechanical systems. The fundamental limit of added noise by a phase-preserving amplifier is the standard quantum limit, often expressed as noise temperature $T_{q} = \hbar {\omega}/2k_{B}$. Towards the goal of the quantum limit, we have developed an amplifier based on intrinsic negative resistance of a selectively damped Josephson junction. Here we present measurement results on previously proposed wide-band microwave amplification and discuss the challenges for improvements on the existing designs. We have also studied flux-pumped metamaterial-based parametric amplifiers, whose operating frequency can be widely tuned by external DC-flux, and demonstrate operation at $2\omega$ pumping, in contrast to the typical metamaterial amplifiers pumped via signal lines at $\omega$.

id: 1405.5080
title: Coherent control in a semiconductor optical amplifier operating at room temperature
authors: Amir Capua, Ouri Karni, Gadi Eisenstein, Vitalii Sichkovskyi, Vitalii Ivanov, Johann Peter Reithmaier
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, Article number: 5025 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5080
abstract: We demonstrate the Ramsey analogous experiment known as coherent control, taking place along an electrically-driven semiconductor optical amplifier operating at room temperature.

id: 1405.5270
title: Two-mode squeezing in an electromechanical resonator
authors: I. Mahboob, H. Okamoto, K. Onomitsu, H. Yamaguchi
comments: 6 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 167203 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5270
abstract: The widespread availability of quantum entanglement with photons, in the guise of two-mode squeezed states, can be attributed to the phenomenon of parametric down-conversion. A reinterpretation of this effect with macroscopic mechanical objects can offer a route towards a purely mechanical entanglement and the unique possibility of probing the quantum mechanical nature of our everyday classical world. In spite of this prospect, mechanical two-mode squeezed states have remained elusive due to the inability to recreate the nonlinear interaction at the heart of this phenomenon in the mechanical domain. To address this we have developed a parametric down-converter, in a mechanical resonator integrated with electrical functionality, which enables mechanical nonlinearities to be dynamically engineered to emulate the parametric down-conversion interaction. In this configuration, phonons are simultaneously generated in pairs in two macroscopic vibration modes which results in the amplification of their motion. In parallel, mechanical two-mode squeezed states are also created which exhibit fluctuations far below the thermal level of their constituent modes as well as harbouring correlations between the modes that become almost perfect as their amplification is increased. This remarkable observation of correlations between two massive phonon ensembles paves the way towards an entangled macroscopic mechanical system at the single phonon level.

id: 1405.5274
title: Exchange-based two-qubit gate for singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Matthew P. Wardrop, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 12 pages + 7 pages supplementary info, 5 figures. Comments welcome. This version incorporates the changes made during the review process for PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045418 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5274
abstract: We analyse a simple exchange-based two-qubit gate for singlet-triplet qubits in gate-defined semiconductor quantum dots that can be implemented in a single exchange pulse. Excitations from the logical subspace are suppressed by a magnetic field gradient that causes spin-flip transitions to be non-energy-conserving. We show that the use of adiabatic pulses greatly reduces leakage processes compared to square pulses. We also characterise the effect of charge noise on the entanglement fidelity of the gate both analytically and in simulations; demonstrating high entanglement fidelities for physically realistic experimental parameters. Specifically we find that it is possible to achieve fidelities and gate times that are comparable to single-qubit states using realistic magnetic field gradients.

id: 1405.5321
title: Bipartite entanglement dynamics of two-level systems in sub-Ohmic reservoirs
authors: Denis Kast, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to PRB as rapid communication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 100301(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5321
abstract: The quantum dynamics of pairs of two level systems immersed in dissipative reservoirs with sub-Ohmic spectral distributions is studied by means of numerically exact path integral Monte Carlo methods. It is shown that this class of reservoirs, relevant for generic properties of strongly non-Markovian environments with possible realizations in solid state structures at cryogenic temperatures, supports bipartite entanglement in broad ranges of parameter space and even for broken symmetries and in presence of thermal noise. The sensitivity of creation of entanglement in non-equilibrium on initial preparations of the reservoir is investigated in detail.

id: 1405.5322
title: Hole propagation in the orbital compass models
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki. Maria Daghofer, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1311.4796
journal: Acta Phys. Polon. A. 127, 263 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5322
abstract: We explore the propagation of a single hole in the generalized quantum compass model which interpolates between fully isotropic antiferromagnetic (AF) phase in the Ising model and nematic order of decoupled AF chains for frustrated compass interactions. We observe coherent hole motion due to either interorbital hopping or due to the three-site effective hopping, while quantum spin fluctuations in the ordered background do not play any role.

id: 1405.5370
title: Time-dependent restricted-active-space self-consistent-field singles method for many-electron dynamics
authors: Haruhide Miyagi, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: The Journal of OF Chemical Physics 140, 164309 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5370
abstract: The time-dependent restricted-active-space self-consistent-field singles (TD-RASSCF-S) method is presented for investigating TD many-electron dynamics in atoms and molecules. Adopting the SCF notion from the muticonfigurational TD Hartree-Fock (MCTDHF) method and the RAS scheme (single-orbital excitation concept) from the TD configuration-interaction singles (TDCIS) method, the TD-RASSCF-S method can be regarded as a hybrid of them. We prove that, for closed-shell $N_{\rm e}$-electron systems, the TD-RASSCF-S wave function can be fully converged using only $N_{\rm e}/2+1\le M\le N_{\rm e}$ spatial orbitals. Importantly, based on the TD variational principle, the converged TD-RASSCF-S wave function with $M= N_{\rm e}$ is more accurate than the TDCIS wave function. The accuracy of the TD-RASSCF-S approach over the TDCIS is illustrated by the calculation of high-order harmonic generation spectra for one-dimensional models of atomic helium, beryllium, and carbon in an intense laser pulse. The electronic dynamics during the process is investigated by analyzing the behavior of electron density and orbitals. The TD-RASSCF-S method is accurate, numerically tractable, and applicable for large systems beyond the capability of the MCTDHF method.

id: 1405.5389
title: A Note on Quantum States and Observables in Psychological Measurements
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov
comments: 3 pages; slight editing; the second author of the previous version asked to be excluded; the present version acknowledges his contribution
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5389
abstract: The problem considered is how to map the concepts of Quantum Theory (QT) to elements of a psychological experiment. The QT concepts are "measurement," "state," and "observable". The elements of a psychological experiment are trial, stimulus, instructions, questions, and responses.

id: 1405.5440
title: Kitaev chains with long-range pairing
authors: Davide Vodola, Luca Lepori, Elisa Ercolessi, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Guido Pupillo
comments: 5+3 pages, 4+2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 156402 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5440
abstract: We propose and analyze a generalization of the Kitaev chain for fermions with long-range $p$-wave pairing, which decays with distance as a power-law with exponent $\alpha$. Using the integrability of the model, we demonstrate the existence of two types of gapped regimes, where correlation functions decay exponentially at short range and algebraically at long range ($\alpha > 1$) or purely algebraically ($\alpha < 1$). Most interestingly, along the critical lines, long-range pairing is found to break conformal symmetry for sufficiently small $\alpha$. This is accompanied by a violation of the area law for the entanglement entropy in large parts of the phase diagram in the presence of a gap, and can be detected via the dynamics of entanglement following a quench. Some of these features may be relevant for current experiments with cold atomic ions.

id: 1405.5536
title: On the Existence of Low-Mass Dark Matter and its Direct Detection
authors: James Bateman, Ian McHardy, Alexander Merle, Tim R. Morris, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5536
abstract: Dark Matter (DM) is an elusive form of matter which has been postulated to explain astronomical observations through its gravitational effects on stars and galaxies, gravitational lensing of light around these, and through its imprint on the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB). This indirect evidence implies that DM accounts for as much as 84.5% of all matter in our Universe, yet it has so far evaded all attempts at direct detection, leaving such confirmation and the consequent discovery of its nature as one of the biggest challenges in modern physics. Here we present a novel form of low-mass DM $\chi$ that would have been missed by all experiments so far. While its large interaction strength might at first seem unlikely, neither constraints from particle physics nor cosmological/astronomical observations are sufficient to rule out this type of DM, and it motivates our proposal for direct detection by optomechanics technology which should soon be within reach, namely, through the precise position measurement of a levitated mesoscopic particle which will be perturbed by elastic collisions with $\chi$ particles. We show that a recently proposed nanoparticle matter-wave interferometer, originally conceived for tests of the quantum superposition principle, is sensitive to these collisions, too.

id: 1405.5541
title: Anomalous nonequilibrium current fluctuations in the Heisenberg model
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 5 pages, 5 figs; v2.: some additional explanation and one new fig
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115156 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5541
abstract: We study fluctuation properties of a one-dimensional anisotropic Heisenberg model out of equilibrium, focusing in particular on the gapped regime. Within the open-system setting we study large-deviation properties of the spin current. Numerically evaluating the first four current cumulants in a nonequilibrium stationary state at high energies, we find that the first two cumulants scale with the system size in a diffusive way, while the 3rd and the 4th cumulants do not. This means that the model is not an ordinary diffusive spin conductor.

id: 1405.5555
title: A quantum-information-theoretic complement to a general-relativistic implementation of a beyond-Turing computer
authors: Christian Wuthrich
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures. Forthcoming in Synthese. Matches published version
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5555
abstract: There exists a growing literature on the so-called physical Church-Turing thesis in a relativistic spacetime setting. The physical Church-Turing thesis is the conjecture that no computing device that is physically realizable (even in principle) can exceed the computational barriers of a Turing machine. By suggesting a concrete implementation of a beyond-Turing computer in a spacetime setting, Istv\'an N\'emeti and Gyula D\'avid (2006) have shown how an appreciation of the physical Church-Turing thesis necessitates the confluence of mathematical, computational, physical, and indeed cosmological ideas. In this essay, I will honour Istv\'an's seventieth birthday, as well as his longstanding interest in, and his seminal contributions to, this field going back to as early as 1987 by modestly proposing how the concrete implementation in N\'emeti and D\'avid (2006) might be complemented by a quantum-information-theoretic communication protocol between the computing device and the logician who sets the beyond-Turing computer a task such as determining the consistency of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory. This suggests that even the foundations of quantum theory and, ultimately, quantum gravity may play an important role in determining the validity of the physical Church-Turing thesis.

id: 1405.5591
title: PT-Symmetry in Non-Hermitian Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model with complex boundary potentials
authors: Baogang Zhu, Rong Lu, Shu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Phys. Rev. A in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062102 (2014)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5591
abstract: We study the parity- and time-reversal PT symmetric non-Hermitian Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH) model with two conjugated imaginary potentials $\pm i\gamma $ at two end sites. The SSH model is known as one of the simplest two-band topological models which has topologically trivial and nontrivial phases. We find that the non-Hermitian terms can lead to different effects on the properties of the eigenvalues spectrum in topologically trivial and nontrivial phases. In the topologically trivial phase, the system undergos an abrupt transition from unbroken PT-symmetry region to spontaneously broken $\mathcal{PT} $-symmetry region at a certain $\gamma_{c}$, and a second transition occurs at another transition point $\gamma_{c^{'}}$ when further increasing the strength of the imaginary potential $\gamma$. But in the topologically nontrivial phase, the zero-mode edge states become unstable for arbitrary nonzero $\gamma$ and the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry of the system is spontaneously broken, which is characterized by the emergence of a pair of conjugated imaginary modes.

id: 1405.5612
title: Nonlinear Atom-Photon Interaction Induced Population Inversion and Inverted Quantum Phase Transition of Bose-Einstein Condensate in an Optical Cavity
authors: Xiuqin Zhao, Ni Liu, J-Q Liang
comments: 7 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5612
abstract: In this paper we explore the rich structure of macroscopic many-particle quantum states for Bose- Einstein condensate in an optical cavity with the tunable nonlinear atom-photon interaction [Nature (London) 464, 1301 (2010)]. Population inversion, bistable normal phases and the coexistence of normal{superradiant phases are revealed by adjusting of the experimentally realizable interaction strength and pump-laser frequency. For the negative (effective) cavity-frequency we observe remark- ably an inverted quantum phase transition (QPT) from the superradiant to normal phases with the increase of atom-field coupling, which is just opposite to the QPT in the normal Dicke model. The bistable macroscopic states are derived analytically in terms of the spin-coherent-state variational method by taking into account of both normal and inverted pseudospin states.

id: 1405.5710
title: Observing angular deviations in light beam reflection via weak measurements
authors: G.Jayaswal, G.Mistura, M.Merano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5710
abstract: An optical analog of the quantum weak measurement scheme proved to be very useful for the observation of optical beam shifts. Here we adapt the weak value amplification method for the observation of the angular Goos-Hanchen shift. We observe this effect in the case of external air-dielectric reflection, the more fundamental case in which it occurs.We show that weak measurements allow for a faithful amplification of the effect at any angle of incidence, even at the Brewster angle of incidence.

id: 1405.5875
title: Notes on Quantum Entanglement of Local Operators
authors: Masahiro Nozaki
comments: 44 pages, 14 figures, v2 references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5875
abstract: This is an expanded version of the short report arXiv:1401.0539, where we stud- ied the (Renyi) entanglement entropies for the excited state defined by acting a given local operator on the ground state. We introduced the (Renyi) entanglement entropies of given local operators which measure the degrees of freedom of local operators and characterize them in conformal field theories from the viewpoint of quantum entanglement. In present paper, we explain how to compute them in free massless scalar field theories and we also investigate their time evolution. The results are interpreted in terms of relativistic propagation of an entangled pair. The main new results which we acquire in the present paper are as follows. Firstly, we provide an explanation which shows that the (Renyi) entanglement entropies of a specific operator are given by (Renyi) entanglement entropies of binomial distribution by the replica method. That operator is constructed of only scalar field. Secondly, we found the sum rule which (Renyi) entanglement entropies of those local operators obey. Those local operators are located separately. Moreover we argue that (Renyi) entanglement entropies of specific operators in conformal field theories are given by (Renyi) entanglement entropies of binomial distribution. These specific operators are constructed of single-species operator. We also argue that general operators obey the sum rule which we mentioned above.

id: 1405.5946
title: Entanglement of Local Operators in large N CFTs
authors: Pawel Caputa, Masahiro Nozaki, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 1+44 pages, 5 figures, v2 references added, table of contents added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.5946
abstract: We study Renyi and von-Neumann entanglement entropy of excited states created by local operators in large N (or large central charge) CFTs. First we point that a naive large N expansion can break down for the von-Neumann entanglement entropy, while it does not for the Renyi entanglement entropy. This happens even for the excited states in free Yang-Mills theories. Next, we analyze strongly coupled large N CFTs from both field theoretic and holographic viewpoints. We find that the Renyi entanglement entropy of the excited state produced by a local operator, grows logarithmically under its time evolution and its coefficient is proportional to the conformal dimension of the local operator.

id: 1405.6016
title: Theory of single-shot phase contrast imaging in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Ebubechukwu O. Ilo-Okeke, Tim Byrnes
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 233602 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6016
abstract: We introduce a theoretical framework for single-shot phase contrast imaging (PCI) measurements of spinor Bose-Einstein condensates. Our model allows for the simple calculation of the quantum backaction resulting from the measurement, and the amount of information that is read out. We find that there is an optimum time $ G\tau \sim 1/N $ for the light-matter interaction ($G $ is the ac Stark shift frequency, $ N $ is the number of particles in the BEC), where the maximum amount of information can be read out from the BEC. A universal information-disturbance tradeoff law $ \epsilon_F \epsilon_G \propto 1/N^2 $ is found where $ \epsilon_F $ is the amount of backaction and $ \epsilon_G $ is the estimation error. The PCI measurement can also be found to be a direct probe of the quantum fluctuations of the BEC, via the noise of the PCI signal.

id: 1405.6035
title: Quench-induced delocalization
authors: Elmer V. H. Doggen, Jami J. Kinnunen
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 113051
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6035
abstract: We consider the evolution of an initially localized wave packet after a sudden change in the Hamiltonian, i.e.\ a quench. When both bound and scattering eigenstates exist in the post-quench Hamiltonian, one might expect partial delocalization of the wave packet to ensue. Here we show that if the quench consists of a sudden switching-off of short-range inter-particle interactions, then Tan's universal relations guarantee delocalization through the high-momentum tail of the momentum distribution. Furthermore, we consider the influence of the range of the interaction and show how a finite range alters the coupling to highly excited states. We illustrate our results using numerical simulations of externally trapped particles in one dimension. If the external potential is both disordered and correlated, then the interaction quench leads to transport via delocalized states, showing that localization in disordered systems is sensitive to non-adiabatic changes in the interactions between particles.

id: 1405.6037
title: Ultracold dense samples of dipolar RbCs molecules in the rovibrational and hyperfine ground state
authors: Tetsu Takekoshi, Lukas Reichs?llner, Andreas Schindewolf, Jeremy M. Hutson, C. Ruth Le Sueur, Olivier Dulieu, Francesca Ferlaino, Rudolf Grimm, Hanns-Christoph N?gerl
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; improved ground-state decay measurement, two-body decay model added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 205301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6037
abstract: We produce ultracold dense trapped samples of 87Rb133Cs molecules in their rovibrational ground state, with full nuclear hyperfine state control, by stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) with efficiencies of 90%. We observe the onset of hyperfine-changing collisions when the magnetic field is ramped so that the molecules are no longer in the hyperfine ground state. A strong quadratic shift of the transition frequencies as a function of applied electric field shows the strongly dipolar character of the RbCs ground-state molecule. Our results open up the prospect of realizing stable bosonic dipolar quantum gases with ultracold molecules.

id: 1405.6054
title: Two-Dimensional Density-Matrix Topological Fermionic Phases: Topological Uhlmann Numbers
authors: O.Viyuela, A. Rivas, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 076408 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6054
abstract: We construct a topological invariant that classifies density matrices of symmetry-protected topological orders in two-dimensional fermionic systems. As it is constructed out of the previously introduced Uhlmann phase, we refer to it as the topological Uhlmann number ${\rm n}_{\rm U}$. With it, we study thermal topological phases in several two-dimensional models of topological insulators and superconductors, computing phase diagrams where the temperature $T$ is on an equal footing with the coupling constants in the Hamiltonian. Moreover, we find novel thermal-topological transitions between two non-trivial phases in a model with high Chern numbers. At small temperature we recover the standard topological phases as the Uhlmann number approaches to the Chern number.

id: 1405.6156
title: Raman cooling imaging: Detecting single atoms near their ground state of motion
authors: Brian J. Lester, Adam M. Kaufman, Cindy A. Regal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 011804(R) (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6156
abstract: We demonstrate imaging of neutral atoms via the light scattered during continuous Raman sideband cooling. We detect single atoms trapped in optical tweezers while maintaining a significant motional ground-state fraction. The techniques presented provide a framework for single-atom resolved imaging of a broad class of atomic species.

id: 1405.6308
title: Hyperfine structure of S-states in muonic deuterium
authors: R.N. Faustov, A.P. Martynenko, G.A. Martynenko, V.V. Sorokin
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012520 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6308
abstract: On the basis of quasipotential method in quantum electrodynamics we calculate corrections of order $\alpha^5$ and $\alpha^6$ to hyperfine structure of S-wave energy levels of muonic deuterium. Relativistic corrections, effects of vacuum polarization in first, second and third orders of perturbation theory, nuclear structure and recoil corrections are taken into account. The obtained numerical values of hyperfine splitting $\Delta E^{hfs}(1S)=50.2814$ meV (1S state) and $\Delta E^{hfs}(2S)=6.2804$ meV (2S state) represent reliable estimate for a comparison with forthcoming experimental data of CREMA collaboration. The hyperfine structure interval $\Delta_{12}=8\Delta E^{hfs}(2S)-\Delta E^{hfs}(1S)=-0.0379$ meV can be used for precision check of quantum electrodynamics predictions for muonic deterium.

id: 1405.6321
title: Poisson to GOE transition in the distribution of the ratio of consecutive level spacings
authors: N. D. Chavda, H. N. Deota, V. K. B. Kota
comments: 9 Pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6321
abstract: Probability distribution for the ratio ($r$) of consecutive level spacings of the eigenvalues of a Poisson (generating regular spectra) spectrum and that of a GOE random matrix ensemble are given recently. Going beyond these, for the ensemble generated by the Hamiltonian $H_\lambda = (H_0+\lambda V)/\sqrt{1+\lambda^2}$ interpolating Poisson ($\lambda=0$) and GOE ($\lambda \rightarrow \infty$) we have analyzed the transition curves for $\langle r\rangle$ and $\langle \tilde{r}\rangle$ as $\lambda$ changes from $0$ to $\infty$; $\tilde{r} = min(r,1/r)$. Here, $V$ is a GOE ensemble of real symmetric $d \times d$ matrices and $H_0$ is a diagonal matrix with a Gaussian distribution (with mean equal to zero) for the diagonal matrix elements; spectral variance generated by $H_0$ is assumed to be same as the one generated by $V$. Varying $d$ from 300 to 1000, it is shown that the transition parameter is $\Lambda \sim \lambda^2\,d$, i.e. the $\langle r\rangle$ vs $\lambda$ (similarly for $\langle \tilde{r}\rangle$ vs $\lambda$) curves for different $d$'s merge to a single curve when this is considered as a function of $\Lambda$. Numerically, it is also found that this transition curve generates a mapping to a $3 \times 3$ Poisson to GOE random matrix ensemble. Example for Poisson to GOE transition from a one dimensional interacting spin-1/2 chain is presented.

id: 1405.6391
title: Ab initio study of radium monofluoride, RaF, as a candidate to search for P- and T,P- violation effects
authors: A. D. Kudashov, A. N. Petrov, L. V. Skripnikov, N. S. Mosyagin, T. A. Isaev, R. Berger, A. V. Titov
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052513 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6391
abstract: Relativistic ab initio calculations have been performed to assess the suitability of RaF for experimental search of P- and T,P-violating interactions. The parameters of P- and T,P-odd terms of the spin-rotational Hamiltonian have been calculated for the ${^2}\Sigma$ electronic ground state of RaF molecule. They include the parameter $W_a$, which is critical in experimental search for nuclear anapole moment and the parameters $W_d$ and $W_{\rm SP}$ required to obtain restrictions on the electric dipole moment of the electron and T,P-odd scalar-pseudoscalar interactions, respectively. The parameter $X$ corresponding to the "volume effect" in the T,P$-$odd interaction of the $^{223}$Ra nuclear Schiff moment with electronic shells of RaF has also been computed. Spectroscopic and hyperfine structure constants for $^{223}$RaF and $^{223}$Ra$^+$ have been computed as well, demonstrating the accuracy of the methods employed.

id: 1405.6427
title: Applying Quantum Principles to Psychology
authors: Jerome R Busemeyer, Zheng Wang, Andrei Khrennikov, Irina Basieva
comments: one of the aims of this review paper is to attract attention of experts in quantum information and probability (as well as in quantum foundations) to a new rapidly growing field of applications of quantum theory. The paper establishes the correspondence between concepts of quantum theory and concepts of cognitive science and psychology. Submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014007
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6427
abstract: This article starts out with a detailed example illustrating the utility of applying quantum probability to psychology. Then it describes several alternative mathematical methods for mapping fundamental quantum concepts (such as state preparation, measurement, state evolution) to fundamental psychological concepts (such as stimulus, response, information processing). For state preparation, we consider both pure states and densities with mixtures. For measurement, we consider projective measurements and positive operator valued measurements. The advantages and disadvantages of each method with respect to applications in psychology are discussed.

id: 1405.6480
title: Single particle microscopy with nanometer resolution
authors: Georg Jacob, Karin Groot-Berning, Sebastian Wolf, Stefan Ulm, Luc Couturier, Ulrich G. Poschinger, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6480
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate nanoscopic transmission microscopy relying on a deterministic single particle source. This increases the signal-to-noise ratio with respect to conventional microscopy methods, which employ Poissonian particle sources. We use laser-cooled ions extracted from a Paul trap, and demonstrate remote imaging of transmissive objects with a resolution of 8.6 $\pm$ 2.0nm and a minimum two-sample deviation of the beam position of 1.5nm. Detector dark counts can be suppressed by 6 orders of magnitudes through gating by the extraction event. The deterministic nature of our source enables an information-gain driven approach to imaging. We demonstrate this by performing efficient beam characterization based on a Bayes experiment design method.

id: 1405.6600
title: On the oscillator realization of conformal U(2,2) quantum particles and their particle-hole coherent states
authors: M. Calixto, E. Perez-Romero
comments: 25 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1312.3148
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55 (2014) 081706
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6600
abstract: We revise the unireps. of $U(2,2)$ describing conformal particles with continuous mass spectrum from a many-body perspective, which shows massive conformal particles as compounds of two correlated massless particles. The statistics of the compound (boson/fermion) depends on the helicity $h$ of the massless components (integer/half-integer). Coherent states (CS) of particle-hole pairs ("excitons") are also explicitly constructed as the exponential action of exciton (non-canonical) creation operators on the ground state of unpaired particles. These CS are labeled by points $Z$ ($2\times 2$ complex matrices) on the Cartan-Bergman domain $\mathbb D_4=U(2,2)/U(2)^2$, and constitute a generalized (matrix) version of Perelomov $U(1,1)$ coherent states labeled by points $z$ on the unit disk $\mathbb D_1=U(1,1)/U(1)^2$. Firstly we follow a geometric approach to the construction of CS, orthonormal basis, $U(2,2)$ generators and their matrix elements and symbols in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space $\mathcal H_\lambda(\mathbb D_4)$ of analytic square-integrable holomorphic functions on $\mathbb D_4$, which carries a unitary irreducible representation of $U(2,2)$ with index $\lambda\in\mathbb N$ (the conformal or scale dimension). Then we introduce a many-body representation of the previous construction through an oscillator realization of the $U(2,2)$ Lie algebra generators in terms of eight boson operators with constraints. This particle picture allows us for a physical interpretation of our abstract mathematical construction in the many-body jargon. In particular, the index $\lambda$ is related to the number $2(\lambda-2)$ of unpaired quanta and to the helicity $h=(\lambda-2)/2$ of each massless particle forming the massive compound.

id: 1405.6614
title: Thermalization measurements on an ultracold mixture of metastable $^4$He and $^{87}$Rb atoms in a quadrupole magnetic trap
authors: H. P. Mishra, A. S. Flores, W. Vassen, S. Knoop
comments: This paper has been merged with arXiv:1404.4826 and the combined paper will be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6614
abstract: Recently we have reported (Knoop et al. [arXiv:1404.4826]) on an experimental determination of metastable triplet $^4$He+$^{87}$Rb scattering length by performing thermalization measurements for an ultracold mixture in a quadrupole magnetic trap. Here we present our experimental apparatus and elaborate on these thermalization measurements. In particular we give a theoretical description of interspecies thermalization rate for a quadrupole magnetic trap, i. e. in the presence of Majorana heating, and a general procedure to extract the scattering length from the elastic cross section at finite temperature based on knowledge of the $C_6$ coefficient alone. In addition, from our thermalization data we obtain an upper limit of the total interspecies two-body loss rate coefficient of $1.5\times 10^{-12}$ cm$^3$s$^{-1}$.

id: 1405.6641
title: Search for localized Wannier functions of topological band structures via compressed sensing
authors: J. C. Budich, J. Eisert, E. J. Bergholtz, S. Diehl, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115110 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6641
abstract: We investigate the interplay of band structure topology and localization properties of Wannier functions. To this end, we extend a recently proposed compressed sensing based paradigm for the search for maximally localized Wannier functions [Ozolins et al., PNAS 110, 18368 (2013)]. We develop a practical toolbox that enables the search for maximally localized Wannier functions which exactly obey the underlying physical symmetries of a translationally invariant quantum lattice system under investigation. Most saliently, this allows us to systematically identify the most localized representative of a topological equivalence class of band structures, i.e., the most localized set of Wannier functions that is adiabatically connected to a generic initial representative. We also elaborate on the compressed sensing scheme and find a particularly simple and efficient implementation in which each step of the iteration is an $O(N \log N)$ algorithm in the number of lattice sites $N$. We present benchmark results on one-dimensional topological superconductors demonstrating the power of these tools. Furthermore, we employ our method to address the open question whether compact Wannier functions can exist for symmetry protected topological states like topological insulators in two dimensions. The existence of such functions would imply exact flat band models with strictly finite range hopping. Here, we find numerical evidence for the absence of such functions. We briefly discuss applications in dissipative state preparation and in devising variational sets of states for tensor network methods.

id: 1405.6717
title: Mobile magnetic impurities in a Fermi superfluid: a route to designer molecules
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Colin V. Parker, Eugene Demler
comments: 5pp., 4 figures, plus appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 045301 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6717
abstract: A magnetic impurity in a fermionic superfluid hosts bound quasiparticle states known as Yu-Shiba-Rusinov (YSR) states. We argue here that, if the impurity is mobile (i.e., has a finite mass), the impurity and its bound YSR quasiparticle move together as a midgap molecule, which has an unusual "Mexican-hat" dispersion that is tunable via the fermion density. We map out the impurity dispersion, which consists of an "atomic" branch (in which the impurity is dressed by quasiparticle pairs) and a "molecular" branch (in which the impurity binds a quasiparticle). We discuss the experimental realization and detection of midgap Shiba molecules, focusing on lithium-cesium mixtures, and comment on the prospects they offer for realizing exotic many-body states.

id: 1405.6741
title: Decomposition of Diagonal Hermitian Quantum Gates Using Multiple-Controlled Pauli Z Gates
authors: Mahboobeh Houshmand, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi, Mona Arabzadeh
comments: To Appear in ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6741
abstract: Quantum logic decomposition refers to decomposing a given quantum gate to a set of physically implementable gates. An approach has been presented to decompose arbitrary diagonal quantum gates to a set of multiplexed-rotation gates around z axis. In this paper, a special class of diagonal quantum gates, namely diagonal Hermitian quantum gates, is considered and a new perspective to the decomposition problem with respect to decomposing these gates is presented. It is first shown that these gates can be decomposed to a set that solely consists of multiple-controlled Z gates. Then a binary representation for the diagonal Hermitian gates is introduced. It is shown that the binary representations of multiple-controlled Z gates form a basis for the vector space that is produced by the binary representations of all diagonal Hermitian quantum gates. Moreover, the problem of decomposing a given diagonal Hermitian gate is mapped to the problem of writing its binary representation in the specific basis mentioned above. Moreover, CZ gate is suggested to be the two-qubit gate in the decomposition library, instead of previously used CNOT gate. Experimental results show that the proposed approach can lead to circuits with lower costs in comparison with the previous ones.

id: 1405.6762
title: Fierz bilinear formulation of the Maxwell-Dirac equations and symmetry reductions
authors: Shaun Inglis, Peter Jarvis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6762
abstract: We study the Maxwell-Dirac equations in a manifestly gauge invariant presentation using only the spinor bilinear scalar and pseudoscalar densities, and the vector and pseudovector currents, together with their quadratic Fierz relations. The internally produced vector potential is expressed via algebraic manipulation of the Dirac equation, as a rational function of the Fierz bilinears and first derivatives (valid on the support of the scalar density), which allows a gauge invariant vector potential to be defined. This leads to a Fierz bilinear formulation of the Maxwell tensor and of the Maxwell-Dirac equations, without any reference to gauge dependent quantities. We show how demanding invariance of tensor fields under the action of a fixed (but arbitrary) Lie subgroup of the Poincar\'e group leads to symmetry reduced equations. The procedure is illustrated, and the reduced equations worked out explicitly for standard spherical and cylindrical cases, which are coupled third order nonlinear PDEs. Spherical symmetry necessitates the existence of magnetic monopoles, which do not affect the coupled Maxwell-Dirac system due to magnetic terms canceling. In this paper we do not take up numerical computations. As a demonstration of the power of our approach, we also work out the symmetry reduced equations for two distinct classes of dimension 4 one-parameter families of Poincar\'e subgroups, one splitting and one non-splitting. The splitting class yields no solutions, whereas for the non-splitting class we find a family of formal exact solutions in closed form.

id: 1405.6881
title: Categories in Control
authors: John C. Baez, Jason Erbele
comments: 42 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6881
abstract: Control theory uses "signal-flow diagrams" to describe processes where real-valued functions of time are added, multiplied by scalars, differentiated and integrated, duplicated and deleted. These diagrams can be seen as string diagrams for the symmetric monoidal category FinVect_k of finite-dimensional vector spaces over the field of rational functions k = R(s), where the variable s acts as differentiation and the monoidal structure is direct sum rather than the usual tensor product of vector spaces. For any field k we give a presentation of FinVect_k in terms of the generators used in signal flow diagrams. A broader class of signal-flow diagrams also includes "caps" and "cups" to model feedback. We show these diagrams can be seen as string diagrams for the symmetric monoidal category FinRel_k, where objects are still finite-dimensional vector spaces but the morphisms are linear relations. We also give a presentation for FinRel_k. The relations say, among other things, that the 1-dimensional vector space k has two special commutative dagger-Frobenius structures, such that the multiplication and unit of either one and the comultiplication and counit of the other fit together to form a bimonoid. This sort of structure, but with tensor product replacing direct sum, is familiar from the "ZX-calculus" obeyed by a finite-dimensional Hilbert space with two mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1405.6890
title: Overlapping Resonances in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Marco Merkli, Haifeng Song
comments: Annales Henri Poincare 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6890
abstract: An $N$-level quantum system is coupled to a bosonic heat reservoir at positive temperature. We analyze the system-reservoir dynamics in the following regime: The strength $\lambda$ of the system-reservoir coupling is fixed and small, but larger than the spacing $\sigma$ of system energy levels. For vanishing $\sigma$ there is a manifold of invariant system-reservoir states and for $\sigma>0$ the only invariant state is the joint equilibrium. The manifold is invariant for $\sigma=0$ but becomes quasi-invariant for $\sigma>0$. Namely, on a first time-scale of the order $1/\lambda^2$, initial states approach the manifold. Then they converge to the joint equilibrium state on a much larger time-scale of the order $\lambda^2/\sigma^2$. We give a detailed expansion of the system-reservoir evolution showing the above scenario.

id: 1405.6961
title: On zero energy states in graphene
authors: C.-L. Ho, P. Roy
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Presentation improved, two figures added, references updated
journal: EPL 108 (2014) 20004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6961
abstract: We obtain zero energy states in graphene for a number of potentials and discuss the relation of the decoupled Schr\"odinger-like equations for the the spinor components with non relativistic $\cal{PT}$ symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: 1405.7000
title: Anisotropy of the molecular magnet V$_{15}$ spin Hamiltonian detected by high-field electron spin resonance
authors: M. Martens, J. van Tol, N.S. Dalal, S. Bertaina, B. Barbara, B. Tsukerblat, A. M¨¹ller, S. Garai, S. Miyashita, I. Chiorescu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 195439, 2014
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7000
abstract: The molecular compound K$_6$[V$^{IV}_{15}$As$^{III}_6$O$_{42}$(H$_2$O)] $\cdot$ 8H$_2$O, in short V$_{15}$, has shown important quantum effects such as coherent spin oscillations. The details of the spin quantum dynamics depend on the exact form of the spin Hamiltonian. In this study, we present a precise analysis of the intramolecular interactions in V$_{15}$. To that purpose, we performed high-field electron spin resonance measurements at 120 GHz and extracted the resonance fields as a function of crystal orientation and temperature. The data are compared against simulations using exact diagonalization to obtain the parameters of the molecular spin Hamiltonian.

id: 1405.7026
title: Numerical methods for a Kohn-Sham density functional model based on optimal transport
authors: Huajie Chen, Gero Friesecke, Christian B. Mendl
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput. 10, 4360-4368 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7026
abstract: In this paper, we study numerical discretizations to solve density functional models in the "strictly correlated electrons" (SCE) framework. Unlike previous studies our work is not restricted to radially symmetric densities. In the SCE framework, the exchange-correlation functional encodes the effects of the strong correlation regime by minimizing the pairwise Coulomb repulsion, resulting in an optimal transport problem. We give a mathematical derivation of the self-consistent Kohn-Sham-SCE equations, construct an efficient numerical discretization for this type of problem for N = 2 electrons, and apply it to the H2 molecule in its dissociating limit. Moreover, we prove that the SCE density functional model is correct for the H2 molecule in its dissociating limit.

id: 1405.7182
title: Cavity resonances dominating the photon statistics in the non-equilibrium steady state
authors: Felix R¨¹ting, Christoph Weiss
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7182
abstract: The non-equilibrium-steady state (NEST) for photons in a cavity is investigated theoretically. The NEST is caused by different parts of the cavity being at distinct temperatures or by temperature gradients. By using a rate equation based on the Lindblad equation, we derive an analytic expression for the steady-state distribution of the photon spectrum. We predict differences between the non-equilibrium steady state and a fit to the black-body spectrum calculated via Planck's law with an effective temperature. For two bodies of similar size at two temperatures which differ by a factor of two, the difference would be more than 10%. We also show that cavity resonances have a particularly large influence on the resulting non-equilibrium steady state of the photons. The investigation of thermal spectra in the presence of more than one temperature can be important for high-precision atomic clocks.

id: 1405.7352
title: Three-dimensional localization of spins in diamond using 12C implantation
authors: Kenichi Ohno, F. Joseph Heremans, Charles F. de las Casas, Bryan. A. Myers, Benjam¨ªn J. Aleman, Ania C. Bleszynski Jayich, David D. Awschalom
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7352
abstract: We demonstrate three-dimensional localization of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond by combining nitrogen doping during growth with a post-growth 12C implantation technique that facilitates vacancy formation in the crystal. We show that the NV density can be controlled by the implantation dose without necessitating increase of the nitrogen incorporation. By implanting a large 12C dose through nanoscale apertures, we can localize an individual NV center within a volume of (~180 nm)**3 at a deterministic position while reproducibly preserving a coherence time (T2) > 300 {\mu}s. Our approach enables integration of NV centers into diamond nanostructures to realize scalable spin-sensing devices as well as coherent spin coupling mediated by photons and phonons.

id: 1405.7381
title: On computation with 'probabilities' modulo k
authors: Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 53 pages, 3 figures. Simplified to focus on cyclic rings. New content includes a treatment of "affine" state spaces and bounded-error computation, and an argument (Appendix C) to allow certain infinite gate-sets in the study of quantum algorithms. Many minor technical errors also corrected. Keywords: counting complexity, destructive interference, indeterminism, modal quantum theory
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7381
abstract: We propose a framework to study models of computation of indeterministic data, represented by abstract "distributions". In these distributions, probabilities are replaced by "amplitudes" drawn from a fixed semi-ring $S$, of which the non-negative reals, the complex numbers, finite fields $\mathbb F_{p^r}$, and cyclic rings $\mathbb Z_k$ are examples. Varying $S$ yields different models of computation, which we may investigate to better understand the (likely) difference in power between randomised and quantum computation. The "modal quantum states" of Schumacher and Westmoreland [arXiv:1010.2929] are examples of such distributions, for $S$ a finite field. For $S = \mathbb F_2$, Willcock and Sabry [arXiv:1102.3587] show that UNIQUE-SAT is solvable by polynomial-time uniform circuit families consisting of invertible gates. We characterize the decision problems solvable by polynomial uniform circuit families, using either invertible or "unitary" transformations over cyclic rings $S = \mathbb Z_k$, or (in the case that $k$ is a prime power) finite fields $S = \mathbb F_k$. In particular, for $k$ a prime power, these are precisely the problems in the class $\mathsf{Mod}_k\mathsf P$.

id: 1405.7568
title: Fast electron thermometry towards ultra-sensitive calorimetric detection
authors: S. Gasparinetti, K. L. Viisanen, O.-P. Saira, T. Faivre, M. Arzeo, M. Meschke, J. P. Pekola
comments: 6+4 pages, 4+4 figures
journal: Physical Review Applied 3, 014007 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7568
abstract: We demonstrate radiofrequency thermometry on a micrometer-sized metallic island below 100 mK. Our device is based on a normal metal-insulator-superconductor tunnel junction coupled to a resonator with transmission readout. In the first generation of the device, we achieve 90 {\mu}K/Hz^1/2 noise-equivalent temperature with 10 MHz bandwidth. We measure the thermal relaxation time of the electron gas in the island, which we find to be of the order of 100 {\mu}s. Such a calorimetric detector, upon optimization, can be seamlessly integrated into superconducting circuits, with immediate applications in quantum-thermodynamics experiments down to single quanta of energy.

id: 1405.7572
title: What is Quantum? Unifying Its Micro-Physical and Structural Appearance
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7572
abstract: We can recognize two modes in which 'quantum appears' in macro domains: (i) a 'micro-physical appearance', where quantum laws are assumed to be universal and they are transferred from the micro to the macro level if suitable 'quantum coherence' conditions (e.g., very low temperatures) are realized, (ii) a 'structural appearance', where no hypothesis is made on the validity of quantum laws at a micro level, while genuine quantum aspects are detected at a structural-modeling level. In this paper, we inquire into the connections between the two appearances. We put forward the explanatory hypothesis that, 'the appearance of quantum in both cases' is due to 'the existence of a specific form of organisation, which has the capacity to cope with random perturbations that would destroy this organisation when not coped with'. We analyse how 'organisation of matter', 'organisation of life', and 'organisation of culture', play this role each in their specific domain of application, point out the importance of evolution in this respect, and put forward how our analysis sheds new light on 'what quantum is'.

id: 1405.7594
title: From quantum-mechanical to classical dynamics in the central-spin model
authors: Daniel Stanek, Carsten Raas, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review B 90, 064301 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7594
abstract: We discuss the semiclassical and classical character of the dynamics of a single spin 1/2 coupled to a bath of noninteracting spins 1/2. On the semiclassical level, we extend our previous approach presented in D. Stanek, C. Raas, and G. S. Uhrig, Phys. Rev. B 88, 155305 (2013) by the explicit consideration of the conservation of the total spin. On the classical level, we compare the results of the classical equations of motions in absence and presence of an external field to the full quantum result obtained by density-matrix renormalization (DMRG). We show that for large bath sizes and not too low magnetic field the classical dynamics, averaged over Gaussian distributed initial spin vectors, agrees quantitatively with the quantum-mechanical one. This observation paves the way for an efficient approach for certain parameter regimes.

id: 1405.7612
title: Many worlds interpretation for double slit experiment
authors: Zinkoo Yun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7612
abstract: As is well known, the double slit experiment contains every key concepts of quantum mechanics such as phase effect, probability wave, quantum interference, quantum superposition. In this article, I will clarify the meaning of quantum superposition in terms of phase effect between states. After applying standard quantum theory, it leads to serious questions about the unitary process of an isolated system. It implies that non collapsing interpretations including many worlds may not be justified. This also could explain that there is no such boundary between classical and quantum domains.

id: 1405.7642
title: Nonequilibrium Steady State in Open Quantum Systems: Influence Action, Stochastic Equation and Power Balance
authors: J.-T. Hsiang, B. L. Hu
comments: 75 pages. Missing references in v1 fixed. Apologies
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7642
abstract: The existence and uniqueness of a steady state for nonequilibrium systems (NESS) is a fundamental subject and a main theme of research in statistical mechanics for decades. For Gaussian systems, such as a chain of harmonic oscillators connected at each end to a heat bath, and for anharmonic oscillators under specified conditions, definitive answers exist in the form of proven theorems. Answering this question for quantum many-body systems poses a challenge for the present. In this work we address this issue by deriving the stochastic equations for the reduced system with self-consistent backaction from the two baths, calculating the energy flow from one bath to the chain to the other bath, and exhibiting a power balance relation in the total (chain + baths) system which testifies to the existence of a NESS in this system at late times. Its insensitivity to the initial conditions of the chain corroborates to its uniqueness. The functional method we adopt here entails the use of the influence functional, the coarse-grained and stochastic effective actions, from which one can derive the stochastic equations and calculate the average values of physical variables in open quantum systems. This involves both taking the expectation values of quantum operators of the system and the distributional averages of stochastic variables stemming from the coarse-grained environment. This method though formal in appearance is compact and complete. It can also easily accommodate perturbative techniques and diagrammatic methods from field theory. Taken all together it provides a solid platform for carrying out systematic investigations into the nonequilibrium dynamics of open quantum systems and quantum thermodynamics.

id: 1405.7798
title: Lacunas in the optical force induced by quantum fluctuations of quasicontinuum of multipole plasmons
authors: E.S. Andrianov, N.M. Chtchelkatchev, A.A. Pukhov
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters Vol. 40, Issue 9, pp. 2056-2059 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7798
abstract: We investigate the force between plasmonic nanoparticle and highly excited two-level system (molecule). Usually van der Waals force between nanoscale electrically neutral systems is monotonic and attractive at moderate and larger distances and repulsive at small distances. In our system, the van der Waals force acting on molecule has optical nature. At moderate distances it is attractive as usual but its strength highly increases in a narrow distance ranges ("lacunas"). We show that quantum fluctuations of (quasi)continuum of multipole plasmons of high, nearly infinite degree altogether form effective environment and determine the interaction force while their spectral peculiarities stand behind the large and narrow lacunas in force. We solve exactly the Hamiltonian problem and discuss the role of the dissipation.

id: 1405.7816
title: Fluctuations and Entanglement spectrum in quantum Hall states
authors: Alexandru Petrescu, H. Francis Song, Stephan Rachel, Zoran Ristivojevic, Christian Flindt, Nicolas Laflorencie, Israel Klich, Nicolas Regnault, Karyn Le Hur
comments: Final Version. Invited Article, for Special Issue of JSTAT on "Quantum Entanglement in Condensed Matter Physics"
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P10005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7816
abstract: The measurement of quantum entanglement in many-body systems remains challenging. One experimentally relevant fact about quantum entanglement is that in systems whose degrees of freedom map to free fermions with conserved total particle number, exact relations hold relating the Full Counting Statistics associated with the bipartite charge fluctuations and the sequence of R\' enyi entropies. We draw a correspondence between the bipartite charge fluctuations and the entanglement spectrum, mediated by the R\' enyi entropies. In the case of the integer quantum Hall effect, we show that it is possible to reproduce the generic features of the entanglement spectrum from a measurement of the second charge cumulant only. Additionally, asking whether it is possible to extend the free fermion result to the $\nu=1/3$ fractional quantum Hall case, we provide numerical evidence that the answer is negative in general. We further address the problem of quantum Hall edge states described by a Luttinger liquid, and derive expressions for the spectral functions of the real space entanglement spectrum at a quantum point contact realized in a quantum Hall sample.

id: 1405.7882
title: Real-Time Simulation of Large Open Quantum Spin Systems driven by Measurements
authors: D. Banerjee, F.-J. Jiang, M. Kon, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 241104 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7882
abstract: We consider a large quantum system with spins $\frac{1}{2}$ whose dynamics is driven entirely by measurements of the total spin of spin pairs. This gives rise to a dissipative coupling to the environment. When one averages over the measurement results, the corresponding real-time path integral does not suffer from a sign problem. Using an efficient cluster algorithm, we study the real-time evolution of a 2-d Heisenberg antiferromagnet, which is driven to a disordered phase, either by sporadic measurements or by continuous monitoring described by Lindblad evolution.

id: 1405.7885
title: On the joint convexity of the Bregman divergence of matrices
authors: J¨®zsef Pitrik, D¨¢niel Virosztek
comments: v2: some new results about the relation of joint convexity and monotonicity under stochastic maps has been added and the proof of the main theorem has been changed essentially v3: some typos corrected v4: essentially the published version
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 105(5) (2015), 675-692
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7885
abstract: We characterize the functions for which the corresponding Bregman divergence is jointly convex on matrices. As an application of this characterization, we derive a sharp inequality for the quantum Tsallis entropy of a tripartite state, which can be considered as a generalization of the strong subadditivity of the von Neumann entropy. (In general, the strong subadditivity of the Tsallis entropy fails for quantum states, but it holds for classical states.) Furthermore, we show that the joint convexity of the Bregman divergence does not imply the monotonicity under stochastic maps, but every monotone Bregman divergence is jointly convex.

id: 1405.7907
title: Many Worlds, the Born Rule, and Self-Locating Uncertainty
authors: Sean M. Carroll, Charles T. Sebens
comments: 15 pages. A version of this paper appears as a chapter in Quantum Theory: A Two-Time Success Story, Yakir Aharonov Festschrift (2013), D.C. Struppa, J.M. Tollaksen, eds. (Springer-Verlag), p. 157. This work is a summary of a more comprehensive paper at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.7907
abstract: We provide a derivation of the Born Rule in the context of the Everett (Many-Worlds) approach to quantum mechanics. Our argument is based on the idea of self-locating uncertainty: in the period between the wave function branching via decoherence and an observer registering the outcome of the measurement, that observer can know the state of the universe precisely without knowing which branch they are on. We show that there is a uniquely rational way to apportion credence in such cases, which leads directly to the Born Rule. Our analysis generalizes straightforwardly to cases of combined classical and quantum self-locating uncertainty, as in the cosmological multiverse.

