id: 1406.0347
title: Local subgraph structure can cause localization in continuous-time quantum walk
authors: Yusuke Ide
comments: 8 pages, Accepted for publication in Yokohama Mathematical Journal
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal 60, 113-123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.0347
abstract: In this paper, we consider continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on finite graphs determined by the Laplacian matrices. By introducing fully interconnected graph decomposition of given graphs, we show a decomposition method for the Laplacian matrices. Using the decomposition method, we show several conditions for graph structure which return probability of CTQW tends to 1 while the number of vertices tends to infinity.

id: 1406.1021
title: Path-integral solution of the one-dimensional Dirac quantum cellular automaton
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Nicola Mosco, Paolo Perinotti, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.1021
abstract: Quantum cellular automata have been recently considered as a fundamental approach to quantum field theory, resorting to a precise automaton, linear in the field, for the Dirac equation in one dimension. In such linear case a quantum automaton is isomorphic to a quantum walk, and a convenient formulation can be given in terms of transition matrices, leading to a new kind of discrete path integral that we solve analytically in terms of Jacobi polynomials versus the arbitrary mass parameter.

id: 1406.3255
title: Towards High-Fidelity Quantum Computation and Simulation on a Programmable Photonic Integrated Circuit
authors: Jacob Mower, Nicholas C. Harris, Gregory R. Steinbrecher, Yoav Lahini, Dirk Englund
comments: First three authors had equal contribution; seven pages, four figures, three pages of supplemental information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.3255
abstract: We propose and analyze the design of a programmable photonic integrated circuit for high-fidelity quantum computation and simulation. We demonstrate that the reconfigurability of our design allows us to overcome two major impediments to quantum optics on a chip: it removes the need for a full fabrication cycle for each experiment and allows for compensation of fabrication errors using numerical optimization techniques. Under a pessimistic fabrication model for the silicon-on-insulator process, we demonstrate a dramatic fidelity improvement for the linear optics CNOT and CPHASE gates and, showing the scalability of this approach, the iterative phase estimation algorithm built from individually optimized gates. We also propose and simulate a novel experiment that the programmability of our system would enable: a statistically robust study of the evolution of entangled photons in disordered quantum walks. Overall, our results suggest that existing fabrication processes are sufficient to build a quantum photonic processor capable of high fidelity operation.

id: 1406.4510
title: Momentum switches
authors: Andrew M. Childs, David Gosset, Daniel Nagaj, Mouktik Raha, Zak Webb
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 15, 601-621 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.4510
abstract: Certain continuous-time quantum walks can be viewed as scattering processes. These processes can perform quantum computations, but it is challenging to design graphs with desired scattering behavior. In this paper, we study and construct momentum switches, graphs that route particles depending on their momenta. We also give an example where there is no exact momentum switch, although we construct an arbitrarily good approximation.

id: 1406.2858
title: Quantum POMDPs
authors: Jennifer Barry, Daniel T. Barry, Scott Aaronson
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, revised version (fixes several errors, discusses related work)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032311, 2014
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.2858
abstract: We present quantum observable Markov decision processes (QOMDPs), the quantum analogues of partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs). In a QOMDP, an agent's state is represented as a quantum state and the agent can choose a superoperator to apply. This is similar to the POMDP belief state, which is a probability distribution over world states and evolves via a stochastic matrix. We show that the existence of a policy of at least a certain value has the same complexity for QOMDPs and POMDPs in the polynomial and infinite horizon cases. However, we also prove that the existence of a policy that can reach a goal state is decidable for goal POMDPs and undecidable for goal QOMDPs.

