id: 1407.0689
title: Qubit state transfer via one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk
authors: ?. Yal??nkaya, Z. Gedik
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0689
abstract: We propose a scheme for perfect transfer of an arbitrary qubit state via discrete-time quantum walk on a line or a circle. For this purpose, we take the advantage of one more coin operator which is applied at the end of the walk. This additional coin operator does not depend on the state to be transferred. We show that perfect state transfer over arbitrary distances can be achieved only for identity and flip coin operators. Perfect state transfer can also be realized by using an unbiased coin operator but only for a finite number of distances.

id: 1407.1184
title: Generalized open quantum walks on Apollonian networks
authors: ?. Pawela, P. Gawron, J.A. Miszczak, P. Sadowski
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1184
abstract: We introduce the model of generalized open quantum walks on networks using the Transition Operation Matrices formalism. We focus our analysis on the mean first passage time and the average return time in Apollonian networks. These results differ significantly from a classical walk on these networks. We show a comparison of the classical and quantum behaviour of walks on these networks.

id: 1407.2470
title: Environment-induced mixing processes in quantum walks
authors: Lauri Lehman
comments: 11 pages. Same as the published version
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 12 (4), 1450021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2470
abstract: The mixing process of discrete-time quantum walks on one-dimensional lattices is revisited in a setting where the walker is coupled to an environment, and the time evolution of the walker and the environment is unitary. The mixing process is found to be incomplete, in the sense that the walker does not approach the maximally mixed state indefinitely, but the distance to the maximally mixed state saturates to some finite value depending on the size of the environment. The quantum speedup of mixing time is investigated numerically as the size of the environment decreases from infinity to a finite value. The mixing process in this unitary setting can be explained by interpreting it as an equilibration process in a closed quantum system, where subsystems can exhibit equilibration even when the entropy of the total system remains zero.

id: 1407.2830
title: Quantum-enhanced deliberation of learning agents using trapped ions
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Nicolai Friis, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 023006 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2830
abstract: A scheme that successfully employs quantum mechanics in the design of autonomous learning agents has recently been reported in the context of the projective simulation (PS) model for artificial intelligence. In that approach, the key feature of a PS agent, a specific type of memory which is explored via random walks, was shown to be amenable to quantization. In particular, classical random walks were substituted by Szegedy-type quantum walks, allowing for a speed-up. In this work we propose how such classical and quantum agents can be implemented in systems of trapped ions. We employ a generic construction by which the classical agents are `upgraded' to their quantum counterparts by nested coherent controlization, and we outline how this construction can be realized in ion traps. Our results provide a flexible modular architecture for the design of PS agents. Furthermore, we present numerical simulations of simple PS agents which analyze the robustness of our proposal under certain noise models.

id: 1407.5424
title: Quantum walks and wavepacket dynamics on a lattice with twisted photons
authors: Filippo Cardano, Francesco Massa, Hammam Qassim, Ebrahim Karimi, Sergei Slussarenko, Domenico Paparo, Corrado de Lisio, Fabio Sciarrino, Enrico Santamato, Robert W. Boyd, Lorenzo Marrucci
comments: This revised version has a new title; few errors have been corrected and some images have been modified in order to present the data clearly. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1403.4857
journal: Science Advances 1, e1500087 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5424
abstract: The "quantum walk" has emerged recently as a paradigmatic process for the dynamic simulation of complex quantum systems, entanglement production and quantum computation. Hitherto, photonic implementations of quantum walks have mainly been based on multi-path interferometric schemes in real space. Here, we report the experimental realization of a discrete quantum walk taking place in the orbital angular momentum space of light, both for a single photon and for two simultaneous photons. In contrast to previous implementations, the whole process develops in a single light beam, with no need of interferometers; it requires optical resources scaling linearly with the number of steps; and it allows flexible control of input and output superposition states. Exploiting the latter property, we explored the system band structure in momentum space and the associated spin-orbit topological features by simulating the quantum dynamics of Gaussian wavepackets. Our demonstration introduces a novel versatile photonic platform for quantum simulations.

id: 1407.5954
title: Schr?dinger equation derived from complex Gaussian propagator with no prior physical assumptions
authors: P. M. Grinwald
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5954
abstract: Feynman based his path integral approach on a Lagrangian formula for the physical action, transposed into the complex number system by a rule that is arbitrary; Gaussian integrals then lead to the Schr\"odinger equation. Here we dispense with the action formula, and work directly with the complex-valued Gaussian as an object of interest in its own right. We show that there is no need to postulate any physics to start with, because the Gaussian, with all its terms made fully complex, and acting as a propagator, describes the relevant physics anyway, provided only that the system is normalized in the standard way. Thus we derive the non relativistic Schr\"odinger equation including scalar and vector potentials, using no prior physical assumptions, but rather as a process of irregular motion that has the essential characteristics of the random walk in R except that it is executed under the rules of C. Thus Schr\"odinger's equation is an expression of the laws of large numbers via the Gaussian, and does not have to be viewed as an irreducible postulate of empirical physics.

id: 1407.7806
title: Monte Carlo sampling from the quantum state space. II
authors: Yi-Lin Seah, Jiangwei Shang, Hui Khoon Ng, David John Nott, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 12 references
journal: Yi-Lin Seah et al 2015 New J. Phys. 17 043018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7806
abstract: High-quality random samples of quantum states are needed for a variety of tasks in quantum information and quantum computation. Searching the high-dimensional quantum state space for a global maximum of an objective function with many local maxima or evaluating an integral over a region in the quantum state space are but two exemplary applications of many. These tasks can only be performed reliably and efficiently with Monte Carlo methods, which involve good samplings of the parameter space in accordance with the relevant target distribution. We show how the Markov-chain Monte Carlo method known as Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, or hybrid Monte Carlo, can be adapted to this context. It is applicable when an efficient parameterization of the state space is available. The resulting random walk is entirely inside the physical parameter space, and the Hamiltonian dynamics enable us to take big steps, thereby avoiding strong correlations between successive sample points while enjoying a high acceptance rate. We use examples of single and double qubit measurements for illustration.

id: 1407.8148
title: Realization of a quantum walk in phase space using resonator-assisted double quantum dots
authors: Zhihao Bian, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Rong Zhang, Peng Xue
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8148
abstract: We implement a quantum walk in phase space with a new mechanism based on the superconducting resonator-assisted double quantum dots. By analyzing the hybrid system, we obtain the necessary factors of realization of a quantum walk in phase space: the walker, coin, coin flipping and conditional phase shift. In order to implement the coin flipping operator, we add a driving field to the resonator. The interaction between the quantum dots and resonator field is used to implement conditional phase shift. Furthermore, we show with different driving fields the quantum walk in phase space exhibits a ballistic behavior over 25 steps and numerically analyze the factors which influence the spreading of the walker in phase space.

