id: 1407.0028
title: Energy-pressure relation for low-dimensional gases
authors: Francesco Mancarella, Giuseppe Mussardo, Andrea Trombettoni
comments: 40 pages, 6 figures, typos corrected, references added, published version
journal: Nuclear Physics B 887 (2014) 216-245
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0028
abstract: A particularly simple relation of proportionality between internal energy and pressure holds for scale invariant thermodynamic systems, including classical and quantum Bose and Fermi ideal gases. One can quantify the deviation from such a relation by introducing the internal energy shift as the difference between the internal energy of the system and the corresponding value for scale invariant gases. We discuss general thermodynamic properties associated to the scale invariance, provide criteria for which the internal energy shift density is a bounded function of temperature. We then study the internal energy shift and deviations from the energy-pressure proportionality in low dimensional models of gases interpolating between the ideal Bose and the ideal Fermi gases, focusing on the Lieb-Liniger model in 1d and on the anyonic gas in 2d. In 1d the internal energy shift is determined from the thermodynamic Bethe ansatz integral equations and an explicit relation for it is given at high temperature. Our results show that the internal energy shift is positive, it vanishes in the two limits of zero and infinite coupling (respectively the ideal Bose and the Tonks Girardeau gas) and it has a maximum at a finite, temperature depending, value of the coupling. Remarkably, at fixed coupling the energy shift density saturates to a finite value for infinite temperature. In 2d we consider systems of Abelian anyons and non Abelian Chern-Simons particles: as it can be seen also directly from a study of the virial coefficients, in the usually considered hard-core limit the internal energy shift vanishes and the energy is just proportional to the pressure, with the proportionality constant being simply the area of the system. Soft-core boundary conditions at coincident points for the two-body wavefunction introduce a length scale, and induce a non-vanishing internal energy shift.

id: 1407.0056
title: Probing qubit by qubit: properties of the POVM and the information/disturbance tradeoff
authors: Carlo Sparaciari, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 12, 1461012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0056
abstract: We address the class of positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) for qubit systems that are obtained by coupling the signal qubit with a probe qubit and then performing a projective measurement on the sole probe system. These POVMs, which represent the simplest class of qubit POVMs, depends on 3+3+2=8 free parameters describing the initial preparation of the probe qubit, the Cartan representative of the unitary coupling, and the projective measurement at the output, respectively. We analyze in some details the properties of the POVM matrix elements, and investigate their values for given ranges of the free parameters. We also analyze in details the tradeoff between information and disturbance for different ranges of the free parameters, showing, among other things, that i) typical values of the tradeoff are close to optimality and ii) even using a maximally mixed probe one may achieve optimal tradeoff.

id: 1407.0071
title: Quantum Seismology
authors: Eric G. Brown, William Donnelly, Achim Kempf, Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. RevTeX 4.1
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 105020 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0071
abstract: We propose a quantum mechanical method of detecting weak vibrational disturbances inspired by the protocol of entanglement farming. We consider a setup where pairs of atoms in their ground state are successively sent through an optical cavity. It is known that in this way it is possible to drive that cavity toward a stable fixed-point state. Here we study how that fixed-point state depends on the time interval between pairs of atoms and on the distance between the cavity's mirrors. Taking advantage of an extremely precise resonance effect, we find that there are special values of these parameters where the fixed-point state is highly sensitive to perturbations, even harmonic vibrations with frequencies several orders of magnitude below the cavity's natural frequency. We propose that this sensitivity may be useful for high precision metrology.

id: 1407.0083
title: Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation for Three Canonical Observables
authors: Spiros Kechrimparis, Stefan Weigert
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Material rearranged to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0083
abstract: Uncertainty relations provide fundamental limits on what can be said about the properties of quantum systems. For a quantum particle, the commutation relation of position and momentum observables entails Heisenberg's uncertainty relation. A third observable is presented which satisfies canonical commutation relations with both position and momentum. The resulting triple of pairwise canonical observables gives rise to a Heisenberg-type uncertainty relation for the product of three standard deviations. We derive the smallest possible value of this bound and determine the specific squeezed state which saturates the triple uncertainty relation. Quantum optical experiments are proposed to verify our findings.

id: 1407.0085
title: Improved Quantum Algorithm for Triangle Finding via Combinatorial Arguments
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall
comments: 17 pages, to appear in FOCS'14; v2: minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0085
abstract: In this paper we present a quantum algorithm solving the triangle finding problem in unweighted graphs with query complexity $\tilde O(n^{5/4})$, where $n$ denotes the number of vertices in the graph. This improves the previous upper bound $O(n^{9/7})=O(n^{1.285...})$ recently obtained by Lee, Magniez and Santha. Our result shows, for the first time, that in the quantum query complexity setting unweighted triangle finding is easier than its edge-weighted version, since for finding an edge-weighted triangle Belovs and Rosmanis proved that any quantum algorithm requires $\Omega(n^{9/7}/\sqrt{\log n})$ queries. Our result also illustrates some limitations of the non-adaptive learning graph approach used to obtain the previous $O(n^{9/7})$ upper bound since, even over unweighted graphs, any quantum algorithm for triangle finding obtained using this approach requires $\Omega(n^{9/7}/\sqrt{\log n})$ queries as well. To bypass the obstacles characterized by these lower bounds, our quantum algorithm uses combinatorial ideas exploiting the graph-theoretic properties of triangle finding, which cannot be used when considering edge-weighted graphs or the non-adaptive learning graph approach.

id: 1407.0093
title: Hofstadter's Cocoon
authors: Katherine Jones-Smith, Connor Wallace
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.53:1-8, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0093
abstract: Hofstadter showed that the energy levels of electrons on a lattice plotted as a function of magnetic field form an beautiful structure now referred to as "Hofstadter's butterfly". We study a non-Hermitian continuation of Hofstadter's model; as the non-Hermiticity parameter $g$ increases past a sequence of critical values the eigenvalues successively go complex in a sequence of "double-pitchfork bifurcations" wherein pairs of real eigenvalues degenerate and then become complex conjugate pairs. The associated wavefunctions undergo a spontaneous symmetry breaking transition that we elucidate. Beyond the transition a plot of the real parts of the eigenvalues against magnetic field resembles the Hofstadter butterfly; a plot of the imaginary parts plotted against magnetic fields forms an intricate structure that we call the Hofstadter cocoon. The symmetries of the cocoon are described. Hatano and Nelson have studied a non-Hermitian continuation of the Anderson model of localization that has close parallels to the model studied here. The relationship of our work to that of Hatano and Nelson and to PT transitions studied in PT quantum mechanics is discussed.

id: 1407.0126
title: Characterizations and Quantifications of Macroscopic Quantumness and Its Implementations using Optical Fields
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Minsu Kang, Hyukjoon Kwon
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, references added, review article to be published in the Special Issue of Optics Communications on Macroscopic Quantumness: Theory and Applications in Optical Sciences
journal: Optics Communications 337, 12 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0126
abstract: We present a review and discussions on characterizations and quantifications of macroscopic quantum states as well as their implementations and applications in optical systems. We compare and criticize different measures proposed to define and quantify macroscopic quantum superpositions and extend such comparisons to several types of optical quantum states actively considered for experimental implementations within recent research topics.

id: 1407.0129
title: Quasi-equilibrium relaxation of two identical quantum oscillators with arbitrary coupling strength
authors: Illarion Dorofeyev
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0129
abstract: The paper deals with the problem of open systems out of equilibrium. An analytical expression for time-dependent density matrix of two arbitrary coupled identical quantum oscillators interacting with separate reservoirs is derived using path integral methods. The temporal behavior of spatial variances and of covariance from given initial values up to stationary values is investigated. It was shown that at comparatively low coupling strengths the asymptotic variances in the long-time limit achieve steady states despite on initial conditions. Stationary values of variances differ from the case of total equilibrium due to their coupling simultaneously with thermal reservoirs of different temperatures. The larger the difference in temperatures of thermal baths, the larger is the difference of the stationary values of variances of coupled oscillators comparing with values given by the fluctuation dissipation theorem. At strong couplings the variances have divergent character. Otherwise, in the weak coupling limit the asymptotic stationary variances are always in accordance with the fluctuation dissipation theorem despite of the difference in temperatures within the whole system.

id: 1407.0144
title: Generation of tunable entanglement and violation of a Bell-like inequality between different degrees of freedom of a single photon
authors: Adam Valles, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Martin Hendrych, Michal Micuda, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino, Juan P. Torres
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Updated to be consistent with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0144
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme to generate noncoherent and coherent correlations, i.e., a tunable degree of entanglement, between degrees of freedom of a single photon. Its nature is analogous to the tuning of the purity (first-order coherence) of a single photon forming part of a two-photon state by tailoring the correlations between the paired photons. Therefore, well-known tools such as the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell-like inequality can also be used to characterize entanglement between degrees of freedom. More specifically, CHSH inequality tests are performed, making use of the polarization and the spatial shape of a single photon. The four modes required are two polarization modes and two spatial modes with different orbital angular momentum.

id: 1407.0161
title: Dirac equation with complex potentials
authors: C.-L. Ho, P. Roy
comments: 8 pages, no figures, New Sect. 5 added, references updated and rearranged according to MPLA format (to appear)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0161
abstract: We study $(2+1)$ dimensional Dirac equation with complex scalar and Lorentz scalar potentials. It is shown that the Dirac equation admits exact analytical solutions with real eigenvalues for certain complex potentials while for another class of potentials zero energy solutions can be obtained analytically. For the scalar potential cases, it has also been shown that the {\it effective} Schr\"odinger-like equations resulting from decoupling the spinor components can be interpreted as exactly solvable energy dependent Schr\"odinger equations.

id: 1407.0183
title: Quantum state engineering of light with continuous-wave optical parametric oscillators
authors: Olivier Morin, Jianli Liu, Kun Huang, Felippe A. S. Barbosa, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: Written in JoVE style. Video available on chistera-qscale.eu/jove.html
journal: J. Vis. Exp. 87, e51224 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0183
abstract: The ability to engineer the quantum state of traveling optical fields is a central requirement for quantum information science and technology, including quantum communication, computing and metrology. In this video article, we describe the reliable generation of non-Gaussian states, including single-photon states and coherent state superpositions, using a conditional preparation method operated on the non-classical light emitted by optical parametric oscillators. Type-I and type-II phase-matched OPOs operated below threshold, i.e. single-mode or two-mode squeezed vacuum sources, are considered and common procedures, such as the required frequency filtering or the high-efficiency quantum state characterization by homodyning, are detailed. The reported method enables a high fidelity with the targeted state and the generation of the state in a well-controlled spatiotemporal mode, a crucial feature for their use in subsequent protocols.

id: 1407.0239
title: Multiphoton resonances for all-optical quantum logic with multiple cavities
authors: Mark S. Everitt, Barry M. Garraway
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0239
abstract: We develop a theory for the interaction of multi-level atoms with multi-mode cavities yielding cavity-enhanced multi-photon resonances. The locations of the resonances are predicted from the use of effective two- and three-level Hamiltonians. As an application we show that quantum gates can be realised when photonic qubits are encoded on the cavity modes in arrangements where ancilla atoms transit the cavity. The fidelity of operations is increased by conditional measurements on the atom and by the use of a selected, dual-rail, Hilbert space. A universal set of gates is proposed, including the Fredkin gate and iSWAP operation; the system seems promising for scalability.

id: 1407.0252
title: Macroscopic quantum oscillator based on a flux qubit
authors: Mandip Singh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0252
abstract: In this paper a macroscopic quantum oscillator is introduced that consists of a flux qubit in the form of a cantilever. The magnetic flux linked to the flux qubit and the mechanical degrees of freedom of the cantilever are naturally coupled. The coupling is controlled through an external magnetic field. The ground state of the introduced flux-qubit-cantilever corresponds to a quantum entanglement between magnetic flux and the cantilever displacement.

id: 1407.0314
title: Entanglement detection using mutually unbiased measurements
authors: Bin Chen, Teng Ma, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 064302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0314
abstract: We study the entanglement detection by using mutually unbiased measurements and provide a quantum separability criterion that can be experimentally implemented for arbitrary $d$-dimensional bipartite systems. We show that this criterion is more effective than the criterion based on mutually unbiased bases. For isotropic states our criterion becomes both necessary and sufficient.

id: 1407.0338
title: Stronger uncertainty relations for the sum of variances
authors: Lorenzo Maccone, Arun K. Pati
comments: Version accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0338
abstract: Heisenberg-Robertson's uncertainty relation expresses a limitation in the possible preparations of the system by giving a lower bound to the product of the variances of two observables in terms of their commutator. Notably, it does not capture the concept of incompatible observables because it can be trivial, i.e., the lower bound can be null even for two non-compatible observables. Here we give two stronger uncertainty relations, relating to the sum of variances, whose lower bound is guaranteed to be nontrivial whenever the two observables are incompatible on the state of the system.

id: 1407.0362
title: Decoherence due to thermal effects in two quintessential quantum systems
authors: S. Nussinov, T. Madziwa-Nussinov, Z. Nussinov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0362
abstract: Decoherence effects at finite temperature (T) are examined for two manifestly quantum systems: (i) Casimir forces between parallel plates that conduct along different directions, and (ii) a topological Aharonov-Bohm (AB) type force between fluxons in a superconductor. As we illustrate, standard path integral calculations suggest that thermal effects may remove the angular dependence of the Casimir force in case (i) with a decoherence time set by h/(k_{B} T) where h is Plank's constant and k_{B} is the Boltzmann constant. This prediction may be tested. The effect in case (ii) is due a phase shift picked by unpaired electrons upon encircling an odd number of fluxons. In principle, this effect may lead to small modifications in Abrikosov lattices. While the AB forces exist at extremely low temperatures, we find that thermal decoherence may strongly suppress the topological force at experimentally pertinent finite temperatures. It is suggested that both cases (i) and (ii) (as well as other examples briefly sketched) are related to a quantum version of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.

id: 1407.0363
title: Loopholes in Bell Inequality Tests of Local Realism
authors: Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 42 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 47 424003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0363
abstract: Bell inequalities are intended to show that local realist theories cannot describe the world. A local realist theory is one where physical properties are defined prior to and independent of measurement, and no physical influence can propagate faster than the speed of light. Quantum-mechanical predictions for certain experiments violate the Bell inequality while a local realist theory cannot, and this shows that a local realist theory cannot give those quantum-mechanical predictions. However, because of unexpected circumstances or "loopholes" in available experiment tests, local realist theories can reproduce the data from these experiments. This paper reviews such loopholes, what effect they have on Bell inequality tests, and how to avoid them in experiment. Avoiding all these simultaneously in one experiment, usually called a "loophole-free" or "definitive" Bell test, remains an open task, but is very important for technological tasks such as device-independent security of quantum cryptography, and ultimately for our understanding of the world.

id: 1407.0411
title: Superradiance as a Source of Collective Decoherence in Quantum Computers
authors: Deniz D. Yavuz
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0411
abstract: We argue that superradiance (collective emission) due to radiative coupling of qubit states results in non-local noise, and thus introduces an error source that cannot be corrected using current models of fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1407.0451
title: Quantum Cryptography II: How to re-use a one-time pad safely even if P=NP
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Gilles Brassard, Seth Breidbart
comments: Original 1982 submission to ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing with spelling and typographical corrections, and comments by the authors 32 years later. Submitted to Natural Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0451
abstract: When elementary quantum systems, such as polarized photons, are used to transmit digital information, the uncertainty principle gives rise to novel cryptographic phenomena unachievable with traditional transmission media, e.g. a communications channel on which it is impossible in principle to eavesdrop without a high probability of being detected. With such a channel, a one-time pad can safely be reused many times as long as no eavesdrop is detected, and, planning ahead, part of the capacity of these uncompromised transmissions can be used to send fresh random bits with which to replace the one-time pad when an eavesdrop finally is detected. Unlike other schemes for stretching a one-time pad, this scheme does not depend on complexity-theoretic assumptions such as the difficulty of factoring.

id: 1407.0520
title: Detailed balance and entanglement
authors: Rocco Duvenhage, Machiel Snyman
comments: v1: 29 pages. v2: Extensively rewritten, including a new section on thermofield dynamics, 21 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 155303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0520
abstract: We study a connection between quantum detailed balance, which is a concept of importance in statistical mechanics, and entanglement. We also explore how this connection fits into thermofield dynamics.

id: 1407.0596
title: Fault-tolerant breathing pattern in optical lattices as a dynamical quantum memory
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Lian-Ao Wu, Michele Modugno, Mark S. Byrd, Ting Yu, J. Q. You
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 89, 042326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0596
abstract: Proposals for quantum information processing often require the development of new quantum tech- nologies. However, here we build quantum memory by ultracold atoms in one-dimensional optical lattices with existing state-of-the-art technology. Under a parabolic external field, we demonstrate that an arbitrary initial state at an end of the optical lattices can time-evolve and revive, with very high fidelity, at predictable discrete time intervals. Physically, the parabolic field, can catalyze a breathing pattern. The initial state is memorized by the pattern and can be retrieved at any of the revival time moments. In comparison with usual time-independent memory, we call this a dynamical memory. Furthermore, we show that the high fidelity of the quantum state at revival time moments is fault-tolerant against the fabrication defects and even time-dependent noise.

id: 1407.0604
title: Implications of computer science principles for quantum physics
authors: Ariel Bendersky, Gonzalo de la Torre, Gabriel Senno, Santiago Figueira, Antonio Acin
comments: 4 pages+8 pages appendix, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0604
abstract: The Church-Turing thesis is one of the pillars of computer science; it postulates that every classical system has equivalent computability power to the so-called Turing machine. While this thesis is crucial for our understanding of computing devices, its implications in other scientific fields have hardly been explored. Here we start this research programme in the context of quantum physics and show that computer science laws have profound implications for some of the most fundamental results of the theory. We first show how they question our knowledge on what a mixed quantum state is, as we identify situations in which ensembles of quantum states defining the same mixed state, indistinguishable according to the quantum postulates, do become distinguishable when prepared by a computer. We also show a new loophole for Bell-like experiments: if some of the parties in a Bell-like experiment use a computer to decide which measurements to make, then the computational resources of an eavesdropper have to be limited in order to have a proper observation of non-locality. Our work opens a new direction in the search for a framework unifying computer science and quantum physics.

id: 1407.0633
title: Quantum correlations in bulk properties of solids obtained from neutron scattering
authors: Ben-Qiong Liu, Lian-Ao Wu, Guo-Mo Zeng, Jian-Ming Song, Wei Luo, Yang Lei, Guang-Ai Sun, Bo Chen, Shu-Ming Peng
comments: 6 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0633
abstract: We demonstrate that inelastic neutron scattering technique can be used to indirectly detect and measure the macroscopic quantum correlations quantified by both entanglement and discord in a quantum magnetic material, VODPO4 . 1D2O. The amount of quantum correlations is obtained 2 by analyzing the neutron scattering data of magnetic excitations in isolated V4+ spin dimers. Our quantitative analysis shows that the critical temperature of this material can reach as high as Tc = 82.5 K, where quantum entanglement drops to zero. Significantly, quantum discord can even survive at Tc = 300 K and may be used in room temperature quantum devices. Taking into account the spin-orbit (SO) coupling, we also predict theoretically that entanglement can be significantly enhanced and the critical temperature Tc increases with the strength of spin-orbit coupling.

id: 1407.0646
title: Symmetry restoration and quantumness reestablishment
authors: Guo-Mo Zeng, Lian-Ao Wu, Hai-Jun Xing
comments: 17 pages and 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 06377 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0646
abstract: A realistic quantum many-body system, characterized by a generic microscopic Hamiltonian, is accessible only through approximation methods. The mean field theories, as the simplest practices of approximation methods, commonly serve as a powerful tool, but unfortunately often violate the symmetry of the Hamiltonian. The conventional BCS theory, as an excellent mean field approach, violates the particle number conservation and completely erases quantumness characterized by concurrence and quantum discord between different modes. We restore the symmetry by using the projected BCS theory and the exact numerical solution and find that the lost quantumness is synchronously reestablished. We show that while entanglement remains unchanged with the particle numbers, quantum discord behaves as an extensive quantity with respect to the system size. Surprisingly, discord is hardly dependent on the interaction strengths. The new feature of discord offers promising applications in modern quantum technologies.

id: 1407.0653
title: Suppressing correlated noise in signals transmitted over the Gaussian memory channels using $2N$-port splitter and phase flips
authors: Ke-Xia Jiang, Shi-Quan Zhang, San-Min Ke, Heng Fan
comments: 10 pages, 23 figures. Accepted version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052320 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0653
abstract: A scheme for suppressing the correlated noise in signals transmitted over the bosonic Gaussian memory channels is proposed. This is a compromise solution rather than removing the noise completely. The scheme is based on linear optical elements, two $N$-port splitters and $N$ number of phase flips. The proposed scheme has the advantages that the correlated noise of the memory channels are greatly suppressed, and the input signal states can be protected excellently when transmitting over the noise channels. We examine the suppressing efficiency of the scheme for the correlated noise, both from quantum information of the states directly transmitted through the noise channel and also from the entanglement teleportation. The phase flips are very important aspects for the suppressions of the correlated noise, which transform the roles of the memory factor from completely negative to positive in quantum information communications. Increasing the number of beam splitters also can improve the suppressing efficiency of the scheme in communications.

id: 1407.0654
title: Cavity QED Photons for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Moteb M. Alqahtani, Mark S. Everitt, Barry M. Garraway
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0654
abstract: Based on a multimode multilevel Jaynes-Cummings model and multiphoton resonance theory, a set of universal two- and three-qubit gates, namely the iSWAP and the Fredkin gates, has been realized where dual-rail qubits are encoded in cavities. In this way the information has been stored in cavities and the off-resonant atomic levels have been eliminated by the semi-classical theory of an effective two-level Hamiltonian. A further semi-classical model, namely the spin-$J$ model, has been introduced so that a complete population inversion for levels of interest has been achieved and periodic multilevel multiphoton models have been performed. The combination of the two semi-classical models has been employed to address two-level, three-level, four-level, and even five-level configurations. The impact of decoherence processes on the fidelity of the iSWAP and the Fredkin gates has been studied.

id: 1407.0689
title: Qubit state transfer via one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk
authors: ?. Yal??nkaya, Z. Gedik
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0689
abstract: We propose a scheme for perfect transfer of an arbitrary qubit state via discrete-time quantum walk on a line or a circle. For this purpose, we take the advantage of one more coin operator which is applied at the end of the walk. This additional coin operator does not depend on the state to be transferred. We show that perfect state transfer over arbitrary distances can be achieved only for identity and flip coin operators. Perfect state transfer can also be realized by using an unbiased coin operator but only for a finite number of distances.

id: 1407.0751
title: Preparation and purification of four-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Ying-Qiu He, Dong Ding, Feng-Li Yan, Ting Gao
comments: 13pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 055501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0751
abstract: We present an efficient scheme for preparing and purifying of four-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state based on linear optics and postselection. First, we describe how to create a four-photon GHZ state in both polarization and spatial degrees of freedom from two pairs. Moreover, in the presence of depolarization noise our scheme is capable of purifying the desired state. In the regime of weak nonlinearity we design an indirect photon number-resolving detection to distinguish two states of the two pairs. At last, a fourfold coincidence detector click indicates creating of a polarization-entangled four-photon GHZ state.

id: 1407.0761
title: Compressed sensing quantum process tomography for superconducting quantum gates
authors: Andrey V. Rodionov, Andrzej Veitia, R. Barends, J. Kelly, Daniel Sank, J. Wenner, John M. Martinis, Robert L. Kosut, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0761
abstract: We apply the method of compressed sensing (CS) quantum process tomography (QPT) to characterize quantum gates based on superconducting Xmon and phase qubits. Using experimental data for a two-qubit controlled-Z gate, we obtain an estimate for the process matrix $\chi$ with reasonably high fidelity compared to full QPT, but using a significantly reduced set of initial states and measurement configurations. We show that the CS method still works when the amount of used data is so small that the standard QPT would have an underdetermined system of equations. We also apply the CS method to the analysis of the three-qubit Toffoli gate with numerically added noise, and similarly show that the method works well for a substantially reduced set of data. For the CS calculations we use two different bases in which the process matrix $\chi$ is approximately sparse, and show that the resulting estimates of the process matrices match each ther with reasonably high fidelity. For both two-qubit and three-qubit gates, we characterize the quantum process by not only its process matrix and fidelity, but also by the corresponding standard deviation, defined via variation of the state fidelity for different initial states.

id: 1407.0856
title: More randomness from noisy sources
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Valerio Scarani
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Proceedings of TQC 2014; published version
journal: LIPIcs, 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2014), volume 27, page 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0856
abstract: Bell experiments can be used to generate private random numbers. An ideal Bell experiment would involve measuring a state of two maximally entangled qubits, but in practice any state produced is subject to noise. Here we consider how the techniques presented in arXiv:1309.3894 and arXiv:1309.3930, i.e. using an optimized Bell inequality, and taking advantage of the fact that the device provider is not our adversary, can be used to improve the rate of randomness generation in Bell-like tests performed on singlet states subject to either white or dephasing noise.

id: 1407.0870
title: Characterization and properties of weakly optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Hai-Ru Xu, Steve Campbell, Simone Severini
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to add the reference of recent review of entanglement witnesses
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0870
abstract: We present an analysis of the properties and characteristics of weakly optimal entanglement witnesses, that is witnesses whose expectation value vanishes on at least one product vector. Weakly optimal entanglement witness are of the form $W^{wopt}=\sigma-c_{\sigma}^{max} I$, where $c_{\sigma}$ is a non-negative number and $I$ is the identity matrix, we show the relation between the weakly optimal witness $W^{wopt}$ and the eigenvalues of separable states $\sigma$. According to the result of [P. Badzi\c{a}g {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 88}, 010301(R) (2013)], we give the classification of weakly optimal witnesses and the method to construct entanglement witnesses in a larger Hilbert space by any witness or any quantum state. Additionally we examine their geometric properties.

id: 1407.0884
title: Asymmetric quantum hypothesis testing with Gaussian states
authors: Gaetana Spedalieri, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 8 pages. 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0884
abstract: We consider the asymmetric formulation of quantum hypothesis testing, where two quantum hypotheses have different associated costs. In this problem, the aim is to minimize the probability of false negatives and the optimal performance is provided by the quantum Hoeffding bound. After a brief review of these notions, we show how this bound can be simplified for pure states. We then provide a general recipe for its computation in the case of multimode Gaussian states, also showing its connection with other easier-to-compute lower bounds. In particular, we provide analytical formulae and numerical results for important classes of one- and two-mode Gaussian states.

id: 1407.0930
title: Random Control over Quantum Open Systems
authors: Jun Jing, C. Allen Bishop, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 7 pages, 6 firgures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6229 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0930
abstract: Parametric fluctuations or stochastic signals are introduced into the control pulse sequence to investigate the feasibility of random control over quantum open systems. In a large parameter error region, the out-of-order control pulses work as well as the regular pulses for dynamical decoupling and dissipation suppression. Calculations and analysis are based on a non-perturbative control approach allowed by an exact quantum-state-diffusion equation. When the average frequency and duration of the pulse sequence take proper values, the random control sequence is robust, fault- tolerant, and insensitive to pulse strength deviations and interpulse temporal separation in the quasi-periodic sequence. This relaxes the operational requirements placed on quantum control experiments to a great deal.

id: 1407.0933
title: Robust random number generation using steady-state emission of gain-switched laser diodes
authors: Z. L. Yuan, M. Lucamarini, J. F. Dynes, B. Frohlich, A. Plews, A. J. Shields
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and 1 table
journal: Applied Physics Letters 104, 261112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0933
abstract: We demonstrate robust, high-speed random number generation using interference of the steady-state emission of guaranteed random phases, obtained through gain-switching a semiconductor laser diode. Steady-state emission tolerates large temporal pulse misalignments and therefore significantly improves the interference quality. Using an 8-bit digitizer followed by a finite-impulse response unbiasing algorithm, we achieve random number generation rates of 8 and 20 Gb/s, for laser repetition rates of 1 and 2.5 GHz, respectively, with a +/-20% tolerance in the interferometer differential delay. We also report a generation rate of 80 Gb/s using partially phase-correlated short pulses. In relation to the field of quantum key distribution, our results confirm the gain-switched laser diode as a suitable light source, capable of providing phase-randomized coherent pulses at a clock rate of up to 2.5 GHz.

id: 1407.0944
title: Entanglement on macroscopic scales in a resonantly laser-excited atomic ensemble
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91 032312 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0944
abstract: We show that two groups of slow two-level atoms in a weak resonant laser field, are entangled. The considered groups can be separated by a macroscopic distance, and be parts of a larger atomic ensemble. In a dilute regime, for two very distant groups of atoms, in a plane wave laser beam, we determine the maximum attainable entanglement negativity, and a laser intensity below which they are certainly entangled. They both decrease with increasing distance between the two groups, but increase with enlarging groups sizes. As a consequence, for given laser intensity, far separated groups of atoms are necessarily entangled if they are big enough.

id: 1407.0959
title: Efficient algorithm for optimizing data pattern tomography
authors: L. Motka, B. Stoklasa, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, V. Karasek, D. Mogilevtsev, G. Harder, C. Silberhorn, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 5 pages, 5 eps-color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 054102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0959
abstract: We give a detailed account of an efficient search algorithm for the data pattern tomography proposed by J. Rehacek, D. Mogilevtsev, and Z. Hradil [Phys. Rev. Lett.~\textbf{105}, 010402 (2010)], where the quantum state of a system is reconstructed without a priori knowledge about the measuring setup. The method is especially suited for experiments involving complex detectors, which are difficult to calibrate and characterize. We illustrate the approach with the case study of the homodyne detection of a nonclassical photon state.

id: 1407.1025
title: Gauging quantum states: from global to local symmetries in many-body systems
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Karel Van Acoleyen, Norbert Schuch, J. Ignacio Cirac, Frank Verstraete
comments: restructured to better reflect the general and PEPS-specific part, added supplementary material on injectivity in PEPS
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 011024 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1025
abstract: We present an operational procedure to transform global symmetries into local symmetries at the level of individual quantum states, as opposed to typical gauging prescriptions for Hamiltonians or Lagrangians. We then construct a compatible gauging map for operators, which preserves locality and reproduces the minimal coupling scheme for simple operators. By combining this construction with the formalism of projected entangled-pair states (PEPS), we can show that an injective PEPS for the matter fields is gauged into a G-injective PEPS for the combined gauge-matter system, which potentially has topological order. We derive the corresponding parent Hamiltonian, which is a frustration free gauge theory Hamiltonian closely related to the Kogut-Susskind Hamiltonian at zero coupling constant. We can then introduce gauge dynamics at finite values of the coupling constant by applying a local filtering operation. This scheme results in a low-parameter family of gauge invariant states of which we can accurately probe the phase diagram, as we illustrate by studying a Z2 gauge theory with Higgs matter.

id: 1407.1030
title: Axiomatic approach for the functional bound of generic Bell's inequality
authors: Gwangil Bae, Wonmin Son
comments: 18pages, 1figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1030
abstract: We propose a formalism to derive the maximal bound of generalized Bell type inequalities and shows that the formalism can be applied to various form of Bell functions. The generic Bell function is defined to generate the combinations of all the possible correlations whose local realistic bound can be obtained from the series of the constraint equations. The application of the constraints converts the optimization problem into the counting problems whose complexity is dramatically reduced. It is also shown that generic Bell function can be used to generate many other known Bell type functions such as Mermin, Ardehali, Svetlichny functions for multipartite two-dimensional class.

id: 1407.1067
title: Convexity properties of the quantum R¨¦nyi divergences, with applications to the quantum Stein's lemma
authors: Mil¨¢n Mosonyi
comments: TQC 2014 conference paper based on arXiv:1310.7525. The main result, Theorem 9, is new
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1067
abstract: We show finite-size bounds on the deviation of the optimal type II error from its asymptotic value in the quantum hypothesis testing problem of Stein's lemma with composite null-hypothesis. The proof is based on some simple properties of a new notion of quantum R\'enyi divergence, recently introduced in [M\"uller-Lennert, Dupuis, Szehr, Fehr and Tomamichel, J. Math. Phys. 54, 122203, (2013)], and [Wilde, Winter, Yang, arXiv:1306.1586].

id: 1407.1071
title: Two-dimensional spectroscopy for the study of ion Coulomb crystals
authors: A. Lemmer, C. Cormick, C. T. Schmiegelow, F. Schmidt-Kaler, M. B. Plenio
comments: 5 + 11 pages, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 073001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1071
abstract: Ion Coulomb crystals are currently establishing themselves as a highly controllable test-bed for mesoscopic systems of statistical mechanics. The detailed experimental interrogation of the dynamics of these crystals however remains an experimental challenge. In this work, we show how to extend the concepts of multi-dimensional nonlinear spectroscopy to the study of the dynamics of ion Coulomb crystals. The scheme we present can be realized with state-of-the-art technology and gives direct access to the dynamics, revealing nonlinear couplings even in the presence of thermal excitations. We illustrate the advantages of our proposal showing how two-dimensional spectroscopy can be used to detect signatures of a structural phase transition of the ion crystal, as well as resonant energy exchange between modes. Furthermore, we demonstrate in these examples how different decoherence mechanisms can be identified.

id: 1407.1073
title: Hybrid optomechanical cooling by atomic $¦«$ systems
authors: F. Bariani, S. Singh, L.F. Buchmann, M. Vengalattore, P. Meystre
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1073
abstract: We investigate a hybrid quantum system consisting of a cavity optomechanical device optically coupled to an ultracold quantum gas. We show that the dispersive properties of the ultracold gas can be used to dramatically modify the optomechanical response of the mechanical resonator. We examine hybrid schemes wherein the mechanical resonator is coupled either to the motional or the spin degrees of freedom of the ultracold gas. In either case, we find an enhancement of more than two orders of magnitude in optomechanical cooling due to this hybrid interaction. Significantly, based on demonstrated parameters for the cavity optomechanical device, we identify regimes that enable the ground state cooling of the resonator from room temperature. In addition, the hybrid system considered here represents a powerful interface for the use of an ultracold quantum gas for state preparation, sensing and quantum manipulation of a mesoscopic mechanical resonator.

id: 1407.1087
title: Which-Way Information in Double-Slit and COW Experiments with Unstable Particles
authors: D.E. Krause, E. Fischbach, Z.J. Rohrbach
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Made a few minor changes and improved the discussion in the Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1087
abstract: One might expect that a quantum undecayed unstable particle (QUUP) should behave in the same manner as an identical, albeit stable, particle, but it turns out that this is not always true. We show explicitly that using QUUPs in the double-slit and Colella-Overhauser-Werner (COW) experiments leads to a priori which-way information that creates a loss of interference contrast when compared to the same experiments performed using stable particles. In both of these cases, a priori path predictability ${\cal P}$ is related to the interference visibility ${\cal V}$ by the duality relation ${\cal P}^{2} + {\cal V}^{2} = 1$.

id: 1407.1134
title: Effect of vacuum polarization of charged massive fermions in an Aharonov--Bohm field
authors: V.R. Khalilov
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1134
abstract: The effect of vacuum polarization of charged massive fermions in an Aharonov-Bohm (AB) potential in 2+1 dimensions is investigated. The causal Green's function of the Dirac equation with the AB potential is represented via the regular and irregular solutions of the two-dimensional radial Dirac equation. It is shown that the vacuum current density contains the contribution from free filled states of the negative energy continuum as well as that from a bound unfilled state, which can emerge in the above background due to the interaction of the fermion spin magnetic moment with the AB magnetic field while the induced charge density contains only the contribution from the bound state. The expressions for the vacuum charge and induced current densities are obtained (recovered for massless fermions) for the graphene in the field of infinitesimally thin solenoid perpendicular to the plane of a sample. We also find the bound state energy as a function of magnetic flux, fermion spin and the radius of solenoid as well as discuss the role of the so-called self-adjoint extension parameter and determine it in terms of the physics of the problem.

id: 1407.1169
title: Diagonal unitary entangling gates and contradiagonal quantum states
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1169
abstract: Nonlocal properties of an ensemble of diagonal random unitary matrices of order $N^2$ are investigated. The average Schmidt strength of such a bipartite diagonal quantum gate is shown to scale as $\log N$, in contrast to the $\log N^2$ behavior characteristic to random unitary gates. Entangling power of a diagonal gate $U$ is related to the von Neumann entropy of an auxiliary quantum state $\rho=AA^{\dagger}/N^2$, where the square matrix $A$ is obtained by reshaping the vector of diagonal elements of $U$ of length $N^2$ into a square matrix of order $N$. This fact provides a motivation to study the ensemble of non-hermitian unimodular matrices $A$, with all entries of the same modulus and random phases and the ensemble of quantum states $\rho$, such that all their diagonal entries are equal to $1/N$. Such a state is contradiagonal with respect to the computational basis, in sense that among all unitary equivalent states it maximizes the entropy copied to the environment due to the coarse graining process. The first four moments of the squared singular values of the unimodular ensemble are derived, based on which we conjecture a connection to a recently studied combinatorial object called the "Borel triangle". This allows us to find exactly the mean von Neumann entropy for random phase density matrices and the average entanglement for the corresponding ensemble of bipartite pure states.

id: 1407.1184
title: Generalized open quantum walks on Apollonian networks
authors: ?. Pawela, P. Gawron, J.A. Miszczak, P. Sadowski
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1184
abstract: We introduce the model of generalized open quantum walks on networks using the Transition Operation Matrices formalism. We focus our analysis on the mean first passage time and the average return time in Apollonian networks. These results differ significantly from a classical walk on these networks. We show a comparison of the classical and quantum behaviour of walks on these networks.

id: 1407.1228
title: Deterministic entanglement of Rydberg ensembles by engineered dissipation
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1228
abstract: We propose a scheme that employs dissipation to deterministically generate entanglement in an ensemble of strongly interacting Rydberg atoms. With a combination of microwave driving between different Rydberg levels and a resonant laser coupling to a short lived atomic state, the ensemble can be driven towards a dark steady state that entangles all atoms. The long-range resonant dipole-dipole interaction between different Rydberg states extends the entanglement beyond the van der Walls interaction range with perspectives for entangling large and distant ensembles.

id: 1407.1250
title: Converting one photon into two via four-wave mixing in optical fibers
authors: Audrey Dot, Evan Meyer-Scott, Raja Ahmad, Martin Rochette, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043808 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1250
abstract: Observing nonlinear optical quantum effects or implementing quantum information protocols using nonlinear optics requires moving to ever-smaller input light intensities. However, low light intensities generally mean weak optical nonlinearities, inadequate for many applications. Here we calculate the performance of four-wave mixing in various optical fibers for the case where one of the input beams is a single photon. We show that in tapered chalcogenide glass fibers (microwires) a single photon plus strong pump beam can produce a pair of photons with probability 0.1%, much higher than in previous work on bulk and waveguided crystal sources. Such a photon converter could be useful for creating large entangled photon states, for performing a loophole-free test of Bell's inequalities, and for quantum communication.

id: 1407.1271
title: Multi-stability and condensation of exciton-polaritons below threshold
authors: Jiun-Yi Lien, Yueh-Nan Chen, Natsuko Ishida, Hong-Bin Chen, Chi-Chuan Hwang, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91(2), 024511 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1271
abstract: Exciton-polaritons can condense to a macroscopic quantum state through a non-equilibrium process of pumping and decay. In recent experiments, polariton condensates are used to observe, for a short time, nonlinear Josephson phenomena by coupling two condensates. However, it is still not clear how these phenomena are affected by the pumping and decay at long times and how the coupling alters the polariton condensation. Here, we consider a polariton Josephson junction pumped on one side and study its dynamics within a mean-field theory. The Josephson current is found to give rise to multi-stability of the stationary states, which are sensitive to the initial conditions and incoherent noises. These states can be attributed to either the self-trapping effect or the parity-time (PT) symmetry of the system. These results can be used to explain the emission spectra and the $\pi$-phase locking observed in recent experiments. We further predict that the multi-stability can reduce to the self-trapped state if the PT symmetry is broken. Moreover, the polaritons can condense even below the threshold, exhibiting hysteresis.

id: 1407.1298
title: Quantum search with modular variables
authors: A. Ketterer, T. Douce, A. Keller, T. Coudreau, P. Milman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1298
abstract: We give a dimension independent formulation of the quantum search algorithm introduced in [L. K. Grover, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 79}, 325 (1997)]. This algorithm provides a quadratic gain when compared to its classical counterpart by manipulating quantum two--level systems, qubits. We show that this gain, already known to be optimal, is preserved, irrespectively of the dimension of the system used to encode quantum information. This is shown by adapting the protocol to Hilbert spaces of any dimension using the same sequence of operations/logical gates as its original qubit formulation. Our results are detailed and illustrated for a system described by continuous variables, where qubits can be encoded in infinitely many distinct states using the modular variable formalism.

id: 1407.1326
title: Communication and Measurement
authors: James P. Gordon
comments: with preface by Mark Shtaif
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1326
abstract: I discuss the process of measurement in the context of a communication system. The setting is a transmitter which encodes some physical object and sends it off, a receiver which measures some property of the transmitted physical object (TPO) in order to get some information, and some path between the transmitter and the receiver over which the TPO is sent. The object of the game here is to characterize the TPO, either as an end in itself (research), or to examine its potential for information transmittal (communication). If the TPO is a 'small' object then quantum mechanics is needed to play this game. In the course of this work, I hope to broaden the concept of measurement in quantum mechanics to include noisy measurements and incomplete measurements. I suggest that quantum density operators are logically associated with the transmitter and some portion of the path, and that quantum measurement operators are logically associated with the rest of the path and the receiver. Communication involves the overlap of a density operator and a measurement operator. That is, the fundamental conditional probability of the communication process is given by the trace of the product of a density operator and a measurement operator.

id: 1407.1327
title: Long distance entanglement in disordered spin chains
authors: Jian Cui, Florian Mintert
comments: 2 figures, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1327
abstract: We derive temporally shaped control pulses for the creation of long-distance entanglement in disordered spin chains. Our approach is based on a time-dependent target functional and a time-local control strategy that permits to ensure that the description of the chain in terms of matrix product states is always valid. With this approach, we demonstrate that long-distance entanglement can be created even for substantially disordered interaction landscapes.

id: 1407.1361
title: Classical simulation of Yang-Baxter gates
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Aniruddha Bapat, Stephen Jordan
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 9th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2014), p. 161-175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1361
abstract: A unitary operator that satisfies the constant Yang-Baxter equation immediately yields a unitary representation of the braid group B n for every $n \ge 2$. If we view such an operator as a quantum-computational gate, then topological braiding corresponds to a quantum circuit. A basic question is when such a representation affords universal quantum computation. In this work, we show how to classically simulate these circuits when the gate in question belongs to certain families of solutions to the Yang-Baxter equation. These include all of the qubit (i.e., $d = 2$) solutions, and some simple families that include solutions for arbitrary $d \ge 2$. Our main tool is a probabilistic classical algorithm for efficient simulation of a more general class of quantum circuits. This algorithm may be of use outside the present setting.

id: 1407.1380
title: Quantum messages with signatures forgeable in arbitrated quantum signature schemes
authors: Taewan Kim, Jeong Woon Choi, Nam-Su Jho, Soojoon Lee
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, Close to published version
journal: Phys. Scr. 90, 025101 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1380
abstract: Even though a method to perfectly sign quantum messages has not been known, the arbitrated quantum signature scheme has been considered as one of good candidates. However, its forgery problem has been an obstacle to the scheme being a successful method. In this paper, we consider one situation, which is slightly different from the forgery problem, that we check whether at least one quantum message with signature can be forged in a given scheme, although all the messages cannot be forged. If there exist only a finite number of forgeable quantum messages in the scheme then the scheme can be secure against the forgery attack by not sending the forgeable quantum messages, and so our situation does not directly imply that we check whether the scheme is secure against the attack. But, if users run a given scheme without any consideration of forgeable quantum messages then a sender might transmit such forgeable messages to a receiver, and an attacker can forge the messages if the attacker knows them in such a case. Thus it is important and necessary to look into forgeable quantum messages. We here show that there always exists such a forgeable quantum message-signature pair for every known scheme with quantum encryption and rotation, and numerically show that any forgeable quantum message-signature pairs do not exist in an arbitrated quantum signature scheme.

id: 1407.1451
title: Demonstrating quantum contextuality of indistinguishable particles by a single family of noncontextuality inequalities
authors: Hong-Yi Su, Jing-Ling Chen, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 9 pages, no figure; Major changes; More changes. Accepted in Scientific Reports
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1451
abstract: Quantum theory has the intriguing feature that is inconsistent with noncontextual hidden variable models, for which the outcome of a measurement does not depend on which other compatible measurements are being performed concurrently. While various proofs of such contextual behavior of quantum systems have been established, relatively little is known concerning the possibility to demonstrate this intriguing feature for indistinguishable particles. Here, we show in a simple and systematic manner that with projective measurements alone, it is possible to demonstrate quantum contextuality for such systems of arbitrary Hilbert space dimensions, including those corresponding to a qubit. Our demonstration is applicable to a single fermion as well as multiple fermions, and thus also a composite boson formed from an even number of fermions. In addition, our approach gives a clear demonstration of the intimate connection between complementarity and contextuality, two seemingly unrelated aspects of quantum theory.

id: 1407.1452
title: Scanning localized magnetic fields in a microfluidic device with a single nitrogen vacancy center
authors: Kangmook Lim, Chad Ropp, Benjamin Shapiro, Jacob M. Taylor, Edo Waks
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1452
abstract: Nitrogen vacancy (NV) color centers in diamond have emerged as highly versatile optical emitters that exhibit room temperature spin properties. These characteristics make NV centers ideal for magnetometry, which plays an important role in chemical and biological sensing applications. The integration of NV magnetometers with microfluidic systems could enable the study of isolated chemical and biological samples in a fluid environment with high spatial resolution. Here we demonstrate a method to perform localized magnetometry with nanometer spatial precision using a single NV center in a microfluidic device. We manipulate a magnetic particle within a liquid environment using a combination of planar microfluidic flow control and vertical magnetic actuation to achieve 3-dimensional manipulation. A diamond nanocrystal containing a single NV center is deposited in the microfluidic channels and acts as a local magnetic field probe. We map out the magnetic field distribution of the magnetic particle by varying its position relative to the diamond nanocrystal and performing optically resolved electron spin resonance (ESR) measurements. We control the magnetic particle position with a 48 nm precision and attain a magnetic field sensitivity of 17.5 microTesla/Hz^1/2. These results open up the possibility for studying local magnetic properties of biological and chemical systems with high sensitivity in an integrated microfluidic platform.

id: 1407.1463
title: Quantum limits to estimation of photon deformation
authors: Giovanni De Cillis, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 12, 1461009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1463
abstract: We address potential deviations of radiation field from the bosonic behaviour and employ local quantum estimation theory to evaluate the ultimate bounds to precision in the estimation of these deviations using quantum-limited measurements on optical signals. We consider different classes of boson deformation and found that intensity measurement on coherent or thermal states would be suitable for their detection making, at least in principle, tests of boson deformation feasible with current quantum optical technology. On the other hand, we found that the quantum signal-to-noise ratio (QSNR) is vanishing with the deformation itself for all the considered classes of deformations and probe signals, thus making any estimation procedure of photon deformation inherently inefficient. A partial way out is provided by the polynomial dependence of the QSNR on the average number of photon, which suggests that, in principle, it would be possible to detect deformation by intensity measurements on high-energy thermal states.

id: 1407.1485
title: Error suppression in Hamiltonian based quantum computation using energy penalties
authors: Adam D. Bookatz, Edward Farhi, Leo Zhou
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1485
abstract: We consider the use of quantum error detecting codes, together with energy penalties against leaving the codespace, as a method for suppressing environmentally induced errors in Hamiltonian based quantum computation. This method was introduced in [1] in the context of quantum adiabatic computation, but we consider it more generally. Specifically, we consider a computational Hamiltonian, which has been encoded using the logical qubits of a single-qubit error detecting code, coupled to an environment of qubits by interaction terms that act one-locally on the system. Energy penalty terms are added that penalize states outside of the codespace. We prove that in the limit of infinitely large penalties, one-local errors are completely suppressed, and we derive some bounds for the finite penalty case. Our proof technique involves exact integration of the Schrodinger equation, making no use of master equations or their assumptions. We perform long time numerical simulations on a small (one logical qubit) computational system coupled to an environment and the results suggest that the energy penalty method achieves even greater protection than our bounds indicate.

id: 1407.1535
title: Adaptive quantum computation in changing environments using projective simulation
authors: M. Tiersch, E. J. Ganahl, H. J. Briegel
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1535
abstract: In a setting of measurement-based quantum computation, we explore how an intelligent agent with a projective simulator can adapt measurement directions to an external stray field of unknown magnitude in a fixed direction. We assess the agent's learning behavior in static and time-varying fields and explore composition strategies in the projective simulator to improve the agent's performance. We demonstrate the applicability by correcting for stray fields in a measurement-based algorithm for Grover's search.

id: 1407.1568
title: Long-distance quantum communication through any number of entanglement swapping operations
authors: Aeysha Khalique, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 032304 (3 September 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1568
abstract: We develop a theory and accompanying mathematical model for quantum communication via any number of intermediate entanglement swapping operations and solve numerically for up to three intermediate entanglement swapping operations. Our model yields two-photon interference visibilities post-selected on photon counts at the intermediate entanglement-swapping stations. Realistic experimental conditions are accommodated through parametric down-conversion rate, photon-counter efficiencies and dark-count rates, and instrument and transmission losses. We calculate achievable quantum communication distances such that two-photon interference visibility exceeds the Bell-inequality threshold.

id: 1407.1585
title: Observation of topological transitions in interacting quantum circuits
authors: P. Roushan, C. Neill, Yu Chen, M. Kolodrubetz, C. Quintana, N. Leung, M. Fang, R. Barends, B. Campbell, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, A. Dunsworth, E. Jeffrey, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, J. Mutus, P. O'Malley, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. White, A. Polkovnikov, A. N. Cleland, J. M. Martinis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1585
abstract: The discovery of topological phases in condensed matter systems has changed the modern conception of phases of matter. The global nature of topological ordering makes these phases robust and hence promising for applications. However, the non-locality of this ordering makes direct experimental studies an outstanding challenge, even in the simplest model topological systems, and interactions among the constituent particles adds to this challenge. Here we demonstrate a novel dynamical method to explore topological phases in both interacting and non-interacting systems, by employing the exquisite control afforded by state-of-the-art superconducting quantum circuits. We utilize this method to experimentally explore the well-known Haldane model of topological phase transitions by directly measuring the topological invariants of the system. We construct the topological phase diagram of this model and visualize the microscopic evolution of states across the phase transition, tasks whose experimental realizations have remained elusive. Furthermore, we developed a new qubit architecture that allows simultaneous control over every term in a two-qubit Hamiltonian, with which we extend our studies to an interacting Hamiltonian and discover the emergence of an interaction-induced topological phase. Our implementation, involving the measurement of both global and local textures of quantum systems, is close to the original idea of quantum simulation as envisioned by R. Feynman, where a controllable quantum system is used to investigate otherwise inaccessible quantum phenomena. This approach demonstrates the potential of superconducting qubits for quantum simulation and establishes a powerful platform for the study of topological phases in quantum systems.

id: 1407.1588
title: Evaluation of the phase randomness of the light source in quantum key distribution systems with an attenuated laser
authors: Toshiya Kobayashi, Akihisa Tomita, Atsushi Okamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1588
abstract: The phase randomized light is one of the key assumptions in the security proof of Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol implemented with an attenuated laser. Though the assumption has been believed to be satisfied for conventional systems, it should be reexamined for current high speed QKD systems. The phase correlation may be induced by the overlap of the optical pulses, the interval of which decreases as the clock frequency. The phase randomness was investigated experimentally by measuring the visibility of interference. An asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometer was used to observe the interference between adjacent pulses from a gain-switched distributed feedback laser diode driven at 10 GHz. Low visibility was observed when the minimum drive current was set far below the threshold, while the interference emerged when the minimum drive current was close to the threshold. Theoretical evaluation on the impact of the imperfect phase randomization provides target values for the visibility to guarantee the phase randomness. The experimental and theoretical results show that secure implementation of decoy BB84 protocol is achievable even for the 10-GHz clock frequency, by using the laser diode under proper operating conditions.

id: 1407.1589
title: High and uniform coherence creation in Doppler broadened double lambda-like atomic system by a train of femtosecond optical pulses
authors: Amarendra K. Sarma, Pawan Kumar
comments: 8 pages;8 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1401.3417
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1589
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of coherence creation in a four level double lambda-like atomic system using a train of ultra-short few-cycle Gaussian pulses. The effect of the Doppler broadening has been analyzed. It is possible to create high coherence across all the velocity groups in the atomic ensemble using pulses with low repetition frequency. The accumulation of coherence at different radial locations within the atomic beam cross-section as a function of the number of pulses in the train is also reported. We find that pulse train with lower repetition frequencies are able to generate high and nearly uniform coherence in a substantial part of the atomic system.

id: 1407.1634
title: Zero-Quantum filtered Perfect NOESY: Enhanced sensitivity for NOE cross peaks perturbed by Zero Quantum artefacts
authors: Bikash Baishyaa
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1634
abstract: Evolution of homonuclear J-coupling during t1 period creates Zero Quantum artefacts which seriously degrade the performance of 2D NOESY. In our previous work [28], it is demonstrated that creation of such artefacts can be prevented by incorporation of a perfect echo based broadband homo-nuclear decoupling technique during t1 period that also allows chemical shift encoding. However, such experiments have limited F1 resolution as the perfect echo based decoupling remains efficient for interpulse delay 2{\tau} (=t1) short compared to 1/J. A solution to this problem is provided in the present work where we show that even a partial decoupling effect of a perfect echo block for extended t1 period close to 1/2J greatly suppress the build up of antiphase content and thereby enhances the sensitivity of corresponding NOE cross peaks. The partial decoupling do lead to generation of partial ZQ coherence which is further eliminated by application of a ZQ filter.

id: 1407.1636
title: Impossibility of secure cloud quantum computing for classical client
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Takeshi Koshiba
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1636
abstract: The first generation quantum computer will be implemented in the cloud style, since only few groups will be able to access such an expensive and high-maintenance machine. How the privacy of the client can be protected in such a cloud quantum computing? It was theoretically shown [A. Broadbent, J. F. Fitzsimons, and E. Kashefi, Proceedings of the 50th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundation of Computer Science, 517 (2009)], and experimentally demonstrated [S. Barz, E. Kashefi, A. Broadbent, J. F. Fitzsimons, A. Zeilinger, and P. Walther, Science {\bf335}, 303 (2012)] that a client who can generate randomly-rotated single qubit states can delegate her quantum computing to a remote quantum server without leaking any privacy. The generation of a single qubit state is not too much burden for the client, and therefore we can say that "almost classical client" can enjoy the secure cloud quantum computing. However, isn't is possible to realize a secure cloud quantum computing for a client who is completely free from any quantum technology? Here we show that perfectly-secure cloud quantum computing is impossible for a completely classical client unless classical computing can simulate quantum computing, or a breakthrough is brought in classical cryptography.

id: 1407.1738
title: Multiqubit symmetric states with maximally mixed one-qubit reductions
authors: Dorian Baguette, Thierry Bastin, John Martin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032314 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1738
abstract: We present a comprehensive study of maximally entangled symmetric states of arbitrary numbers of qubits in the sense of the maximal mixedness of the one-qubit reduced density operator. A general criterion is provided to easily identify whether given symmetric states are maximally entangled in that respect or not. We show that these maximally entangled symmetric (MES) states are the only symmetric states for which the expectation value of the associated collective spin of the system vanishes, as well as in corollary the dipole moment of the Husimi function. We establish the link between this kind of maximal entanglement, the anticoherence properties of spin states, and the degree of polarization of light fields. We analyze the relationship between the MES states and the classes of states equivalent through stochastic local operations with classical communication (SLOCC). We provide a nonexistence criterion of MES states within SLOCC classes of qubit states and show in particular that the symmetric Dicke state SLOCC classes never contain such MES states, with the only exception of the balanced Dicke state class for even numbers of qubits. The 4-qubit system is analyzed exhaustively and all MES states of this system are identified and characterized. Finally the entanglement content of MES states is analyzed with respect to the geometric and barycentric measures of entanglement, as well as to the generalized N-tangle. We show that the geometric entanglement of MES states is ensured to be larger than or equal to 1/2, but also that MES states are not in general the symmetric states that maximize the investigated entanglement measures.

id: 1407.1739
title: Criticism of "Asking Photons Where They Have Been"
authors: MMarcin Wie?niak
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1739
abstract: I stress that [PRL 111,240402(2013)] contains no result that need to be explained by so-called Two State Vector Formalism, and closely inspected data are in disagreement with claims of Danan, Farfurnik, Bar-Ad, and Vaidman

id: 1407.1758
title: Comment on "Non-monotonic projection probabilities as a function of distinguishability"
authors: Young-Sik Ra, Malte C. Tichy, Hyang-Tag Lim, Osung Kwon, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16 118003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1758
abstract: A recent work (2014 New J. Phys. 16 013006) claims that nonmonotonic structures found in the many-particle quantum-to-classical transition (2013 Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 110 1227-1231; 2011 Phys. Rev. A 83 062111) are not exclusive to the many-body domain, but they also appear for single-photon as well as for semi-classical systems. We show that these situations, however, do not incorporate any quantum-to-classical transition, which makes the claims unsustainable.

id: 1407.1760
title: Unidirectionally Invisible Potentials as Local Building Blocks of all Scattering Potentials
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Expanded version including a postpublication addendum which improves the results considerably, 7 pages, 3 figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023833 (2014); Addendum: Phys. Rev. A 90, 055803 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1760
abstract: We give a complete solution of the problem of constructing a scattering potential v(x) that possesses scattering properties of one's choice at an arbitrary prescribed wavenumber. Our solution involves expressing v(x) as the sum of at most six unidirectionally invisible finite-range potentials for which we give explicit formulas. Our results can be employed for designing optical potentials. We discuss its application in modeling threshold lasers, coherent perfect absorbers, and bidirectionally and unidirectionally reflectionless absorbers, amplifiers, and phase shifters.

id: 1407.1780
title: Higher-order nonclassical properties of atom-molecule Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Sandip Kumar Giri, Kishore Thapliyal, Biswajit Sen, Anirban Pathak
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1780
abstract: The transient quantum statistical properties of the atoms and molecules in an atom-molecule BEC system are investigated by obtaining a third-order perturbative solution of the Heisenberg's equations of motion corresponding to the Hamiltonian of an atom-molecule BEC system where two atoms can collide to form a molecule. Time dependent quantities like two boson correlation, entanglement, squeezing, antibunching, etc., are computed and their properties are compared. It is established that atom-molecule BEC system is highly nonclassical as lower-order and higher-order squeezing and antibunching in pure (atomic and molecular) modes, squeezing and antibunching in compound mode and lower-order and higher-order entanglement in compound mode can be observed in the atom-molecule BEC system. Exact numerical results are also reported and analytic results obtained using the perturbative technique are shown to coincide with the exact numerical results.

id: 1407.1858
title: Trapped Ion Quantum Error Correcting Protocols Using Only Global Operations
authors: Joseph F. Goodwin, Benjamin J. Brown, Graham Stutter, Howard Dale, Richard C. Thompson, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5+1 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1858
abstract: Quantum error-correcting codes are many-body entangled states that are prepared and measured using complex sequences of entangling operations. Each element of such an entangling sequence introduces noise to delicate quantum information during the encoding or reading out of the code. It is important therefore to find efficient entangling protocols to avoid the loss of information. Here we propose an experiment that uses only global entangling operations to encode an arbitrary logical qubit to either the five-qubit repetition code or the five-qubit code, with a six-ion Coulomb crystal architecture in a Penning trap. We show that the use of global operations enables us to prepare and read out these codes using only six and ten global entangling pulses, respectively. The proposed experiment also allows the acquisition of syndrome information during readout. We provide a noise analysis for the presented protocols, estimating that we can achieve a six-fold improvement in coherence time with noise as high as $\sim 1\%$ on each entangling operation.

id: 1407.1904
title: Adiabatic Quantum Optimization for Associative Memory Recall
authors: Hadayat Seddiqi, Travis S. Humble
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures. Updated for clarity and figures, to appear in Frontiers of Physics
journal: Front. Phys. 2:79. (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1904
abstract: Hopfield networks are a variant of associative memory that recall information stored in the couplings of an Ising model. Stored memories are fixed points for the network dynamics that correspond to energetic minima of the spin state. We formulate the recall of memories stored in a Hopfield network using energy minimization by adiabatic quantum optimization (AQO). Numerical simulations of the quantum dynamics allow us to quantify the AQO recall accuracy with respect to the number of stored memories and the noise in the input key. We also investigate AQO performance with respect to how memories are stored in the Ising model using different learning rules. Our results indicate that AQO performance varies strongly with learning rule due to the changes in the energy landscape. Consequently, learning rules offer indirect methods for investigating change to the computational complexity of the recall task and the computational efficiency of AQO.

id: 1407.1921
title: Phase Noise in the Delta Kicked Rotor: From Quantum to Classical
authors: D. H. White, S. K. Ruddell, M. D. Hoogerland
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: D H White et al 2014 New J. Phys. 16 113039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1921
abstract: We experimentally investigate the effects of phase noise on the resonant and non-resonant dynamics of the atom-optics kicked rotor. Employing sinusoidal phase modulation at various frequencies, resonances are found corresponding to periodic phase shifts, resulting in the effective transformation of quantum anti-resonances into resonances and vice-versa. The stability of the resonance is analysed, with the aid of experiments, epsilon-classical theory and numerical simulations, and is found to be surprisingly robust against phase noise. Finally we look into the effects of phase noise on dynamical localization and discuss the destruction of the localization in terms of decoherence.

id: 1407.1924
title: Mismatched-basis statistics enable quantum key distribution with uncharacterized qubit sources
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Xiongfeng Ma, Chun-Mei Zhang, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Part of this article contains a significant improvement over arXiv:1309.3819
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1924
abstract: In the postprocessing of quantum key distribution, the raw key bits from the mismatched-basis measurements, where two parties use different bases, are normally discarded. Here, we propose a postprocessing method that exploits measurement statistics from mismatched-basis cases, and prove that incorporating these statistics enables uncharacterized qubit sources to be used in the measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution protocol and the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol, a case which is otherwise impossible.

id: 1407.1970
title: Dipole-Induced Electromagnetic Transparency
authors: Raiju Puthumpally-Joseph, Maxim Sukharev, Osman Atabek, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 043835 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1970
abstract: We determine the optical response of a thin and dense layer of interacting quantum emitters. We show that in such a dense system, the Lorentz redshift and the associated interaction broadening can be used to control the transmission and reflection spectra. In the presence of overlapping resonances, a Dipole-Induced Electromagnetic Transparency (DIET) regime, similar to Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT), may be achieved. DIET relies on destructive interference between the electromagnetic waves emitted by quantum emitters. Carefully tuning material parameters allows to achieve narrow transmission windows in otherwise completely opaque media. We analyze in details this coherent and collective effect using a generalized Lorentz model and show how it can be controlled. Several potential applications of the phenomenon, such as slow light, are proposed.

id: 1407.2035
title: Physical Decomposition of Photon Angular Momentum
authors: Wei-Min Sun
comments: 4 pages, LaTex2e, some minor changes and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2035
abstract: We address the problem of angular momentum decomposition of a free photon. We propose a natural and physical scheme for separating the total angular momentum operator for a free photon into an orbital part and a spin part with the hope that it solves this long-standing problem and it could provide a natural basis for further study of the problem of angular momentum decomposition of a gauge field system.

id: 1407.2051
title: Completely positive maps within the framework of direct-sum decomposition of state space
authors: Longjiang Liu, D. M. Tong
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2051
abstract: We investigate completely positive maps for an open system interacting with its environment. The families of the initial states for which the reduced dynamics can be described by a completely positive map are identified within the framework of direct-sum decomposition of state space. They includes not only separable states with vanishing or nonvanishing quantum discord but also entangled states. A general expression of the families as well as the Kraus operators for the completely positive maps are explicitly given. It significantly extends the previous results.

id: 1407.2075
title: An ansatz to the quantum phase transition in a dissipative two-qubit system
authors: Hang Zheng, Zhiguo L¨¹, Yang Zhao
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2075
abstract: By means of a unitary transformation, we propose an ansatz to study quantum phase transitions in the ground state of a two-qubit system interacting with a dissipative reservoir. First, the ground state phase diagram is analyzed in the presence of the Ohmic and sub-Ohmic bath using an analytic ground state wave function which takes into account the competition between intrasite tunneling and intersite correlation. The quantum critical point is determined as the transition point from non-degenerate to degenerate ground state and our calculated critical coupling strength $\alpha_c$ agrees with that from the numerical renormalization group method. Moreover, by computing the entanglement entropy between the qubits and the bath as well as the qubit-qubit correlation function in the ground state, we explore the nature of the quantum phase transition between the delocalized and localized states.

id: 1407.2146
title: Device independent Schmidt rank witness by using Hardy paradox
authors: Amit Mukherjee, Arup Roy, Some Sankar Bhattacharya, Subhadipa Das, Md. Rajjak Gazi, Manik Banik
comments: 5 pages (1 figure); comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2146
abstract: Schmidt rank of bipartite pure state serves as a testimony of entanglement. It is a monotone under local operation + classical communications (LOCC) and puts restrictions in LOCC convertibility of quantum states. Identifying the Schmidt rank of an unknown quantum state therefore seek importance from information theoretic perspective. In this work it is shown that a modified version of Hardy's argument, which reveals the contradiction of quantum theory with local realism, turns out to be useful for inspecting the minimal Schmidt rank of the unknown state and hence also the minimal dimension of the system. Use of Hardy's test in such task provides a practical advantage: the Schmidt rank can be determined without knowing the detailed functioning of the experimental devices i.e., Hardy's test suffices to be a device independent Schmidt rank witness.

id: 1407.2160
title: Quantumness of discrete Hamiltonian cellular automata
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 4 pages; invited talk at the symposium "Wigner 111 - Colourful and Deep" (Budapest, November 2013), to appear in EPJ Web of Conferences
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences 78, 02005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2160
abstract: We summarize a recent study of discrete (integer-valued) Hamiltonian cellular automata (CA) showing that their dynamics can only be consistently defined, if it is linear in the same sense as unitary evolution described by the Schr\"odinger equation. This allows to construct an invertible map between such CA and continuous quantum mechanical models, which incorporate a fundamental scale. Presently, we emphasize general aspects of these findings, the construction of admissible CA observables, and the existence of solutions of the modified dispersion relation for stationary states.

id: 1407.2182
title: Waveguide-QED-based measurement of a reservoir spectral density
authors: Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Minor revision. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2182
abstract: The spectral density (SD) function has a central role in the study of open quantum systems (OQSs). We discover a method allowing for a "static" measurement of the SD - i.e., it requires neither the OQS to be initially excited nor its time evolution tracked in time - which is not limited to the weak-coupling regime. This is achieved through one-dimensional photon scattering for a zero-temperature reservoir coupled to the OQS via the rotating wave approximation. We find that the SD profile is a universal simple function of the photon's reflectance and transmittance. As such, it can be straightforwardly inferred from photon's reflection and transmission spectra.

id: 1407.2224
title: Joint measurability of generalized measurements implies classicality
authors: Roope Uola, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2224
abstract: The fact that not all measurements can be carried out simultaneously is a peculiar feature of quantum mechanics and responsible for many key phenomena in the theory, such as complementarity or uncertainty relations. For the special case of projective measurements quantum behavior can be characterized by the commutator but for generalized measurements it is not easy to decide whether two measurements can still be understood in classical terms or whether they show already quantum features. We prove that generalized measurements which do not fulfill the notion of joint measurability are nonclassical, as they can be used for the task of quantum steering. This shows that the notion of joint measurability is, among several definitions, the proper one to characterize quantum behavior. Moreover, the equivalence allows to derive novel steering inequalities from known results on joint measurability and new criteria for joint measurability from known results on the steerability of states.

id: 1407.2320
title: A unified view on Hardy's paradox and the CHSH inequality
authors: Laura Man?inska, Stephanie Wehner
comments: To appear in J Phys A: Math. Theor. Special Issue in the honor of the 50 year anniversary of Bell's theorem
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 424027, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2320
abstract: Bell's inequality fundamentally changed our understanding of quantum mechanics. Bell's insight that non-local correlations between quantum systems cannot be explained classically can be verified experimentally, and has numerous applications in modern quantum information. Today, the CHSH inequality is probably the most well-known Bell inequality and it has given us a wealth of understanding in what differentiates the classical from the quantum world. Yet, there are certainly other means of quantifying "Bell non-locality without inequalities" such as the famous Hardy's paradox. As such, one may wonder whether these are entirely different approaches to non-locality. For this anniversary issue, we unify the perspective of the CHSH inequality and Hardy Paradox into one family of non-local games which include both as special cases.

id: 1407.2324
title: An opto-magneto-mechanical quantum interface between distant superconducting qubits
authors: Keyu Xia, Michael R. Vanner, Jason Twamley
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Rep. 4:5571 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2324
abstract: A quantum internet, where widely separated quantum devices are coherently connected, is a fundamental vision for local and global quantum information networks and processing. Superconducting quantum devices can now perform sophisticated quantum engineering locally on chip and a detailed method to achieve coherent optical quantum interconnection between distant superconducting devices is a vital, but highly challenging, goal. We describe a concrete opto-magneto-mechanical system that can interconvert microwave-to-optical quantum information with high fidelity. In one such node we utilise the magnetic fields generated by the supercurrent of a flux qubit to coherently modulate a mechanical oscillator that is part of a high-Q optical cavity to achieve high fidelity microwave-to-optical quantum information exchange. We analyze the transfer between two spatially distant nodes connected by an optical fibre and using currently accessible parameters we predict that the fidelity of transfer could be as high as $\sim 80\%$, even with significant loss.

id: 1407.2349
title: Classical Realization of Dispersion Cancellation by Time-Reversal Method
authors: Kazuhisa Ogawa, Shuhei Tamate, Toshihiro Nakanishi, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Masao Kitano
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013846 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2349
abstract: We propose a classical optical interferometry scheme that reproduces dispersion-insensitive Hong-Ou-Mandel interferograms. The interferometric scheme is derived from a systematic method based on the time-reversal symmetry of quantum mechanics. The scheme uses a time-reversed version of a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer with pairs of orthogonally polarized input laser pulses. We experimentally demonstrate automatic dispersion cancellation using the interferometry. The results show that the interferometer can obtain high-visibility interferograms with high signal conversion efficiency.

id: 1407.2400
title: The local unitary equivalence of multipartite pure states
authors: Yan-Ling Wang, Mao-Sheng Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhu-Jun Zheng
comments: Accepted by International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2400
abstract: In this paper, we give a method for the local unitary equivalent problem which is more efficient than that was proposed by Bin Liu $et \ al$ \cite{bliu}.

id: 1407.2404
title: Unextendible maximally entangled bases in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d'}$
authors: Mao-Sheng Li, Yan-Ling Wang, Zhu-Jun Zheng
comments: 4 pages,Physical Review A, June, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2404
abstract: We solved the unextendible maximally entangled basis (UMEB) problem in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d'}(d\neq d')$,the results turn out to be that there always exist a UMEB.In addition,there might be two sets of UMEB with different numbers.The main difficult is to prove the unextendibility of the set of states.We give an explicit construction of UMEB by considering the Schmidt number of the complementary space of the states we construct.

id: 1407.2442
title: A new criterion for macroscopic quantum states
authors: Benjamin Yadin, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2442
abstract: There have recently been a number of proposals for measures to describe the extent to which the quantum behaviour of a system extends to the macroscopic scale. We argue that measures for systems of qubits should be extended to classify a larger set of states (including two-dimensional cluster states and certain topological states) as macroscopically quantum. This is motivated by the ability to use local measurements to distil a Schroedinger's cat state from states which are not macroscopically quantum according to current measures. We also investigate the role played by imperfect measurements.

id: 1407.2455
title: Optimising the signal-to-noise ratio in measurement of photon pairs with detector arrays
authors: Eric Lantz, Paul-Antoine Moreau, Fabrice Devaux
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063811 (Published 9 December 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2455
abstract: To evidence multimode spatial entanglement of spontaneous down-conversion, detector arrays allow a full field measurement, without any a priori selection of the paired photons. We show by comparing results of the recent literature that electron-multiplying CCD (EMCCD) cameras allow, in the present state of technology, the detection of quantum correlations with the best signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), while intensified CCD (ICCD) cameras allow at best to identify pairs. The SNR appears to be proportional to the square root of the number of coherence cells in each image, or Schmidt number. Then, corrected estimates are derived for extended coherence cells and not very low and not space-stationary photon fluxes. Finally, experimental measurements of the SNR confirm our model.

id: 1407.2470
title: Environment-induced mixing processes in quantum walks
authors: Lauri Lehman
comments: 11 pages. Same as the published version
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 12 (4), 1450021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2470
abstract: The mixing process of discrete-time quantum walks on one-dimensional lattices is revisited in a setting where the walker is coupled to an environment, and the time evolution of the walker and the environment is unitary. The mixing process is found to be incomplete, in the sense that the walker does not approach the maximally mixed state indefinitely, but the distance to the maximally mixed state saturates to some finite value depending on the size of the environment. The quantum speedup of mixing time is investigated numerically as the size of the environment decreases from infinity to a finite value. The mixing process in this unitary setting can be explained by interpreting it as an equilibration process in a closed quantum system, where subsystems can exhibit equilibration even when the entropy of the total system remains zero.

id: 1407.2492
title: Momentum bispinor, two-qubit entanglement and twistor space
authors: Seungbeom Chin, Sangmin Lee
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure; v2. minor clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2492
abstract: We re-examine the symmetry structure of massive momentum bispinors in four dimensional Minkowski spacetime and apply the result to the geometry of a two-qubit entanglement system. The geometry of entanglement is recovered by restricting the momentum to unit-energy hyperplane inside the future light-cone. On a more formal side, to understand Czachor's alternative normalization of the bispinor and its projection property, we analyze the geometry of momentum twistor space. An interesting correpondence between a submanifold of the momentum twistor space and tachyonic particle is also investigated.

id: 1407.2522
title: Simple alternative model of the dual nature of light and its Gedanken experiment
authors: F. Henault
comments: 7 pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2522
abstract: In this paper is presented a simple alternative model of the dual nature of light, based on the deliberate inversion of the original statement from P. A. M. Dirac: "Each photon interferes only with itself. Interference between different photons never occurs." Such an inversion implies that photons and light quanta are considered as different classes of objects, but stays apparently compatible with results reported from different recent experiments. A Gedanken experiment having the potential capacity to test the proposed model in single photon regime is described, and its possible outcomes are discussed. The proposed setup could also be utilized to assess the modern interpretation of the principle of complementarity.

id: 1407.2526
title: Fundamental phenomena of quantum mechanics explored with neutron interferometers
authors: J. Klepp, S. Sponar, Y. Hasegawa
comments: Review article, 63 pages, to be published in Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2014), some figures replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2526
abstract: Ongoing fascination with quantum mechanics keeps driving the development of the wide field of quantum-optics, including its neutron-optics branch. Application of neutron-optical methods and, especially, neutron interferometry and polarimetry has a long-standing tradition for experimental investigations of fundamental quantum phenomena. We give an overview of related experimental efforts made in recent years.

id: 1407.2566
title: Decompositions of Hilbert Spaces, Stability Analysis and Convergence Probabilities for Discrete-Time Quantum Dynamical Semigroups
authors: Giuseppe Ilario Cirillo, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: 14 pages, no figures, to appear in Journal of Physics A, 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2566
abstract: We investigate convergence properties of discrete-time semigroup quantum dynamics, including asymptotic stability, probability and speed of convergence to pure states and subspaces. These properties are of interest in both the analysis of uncontrolled evolutions and the engineering of controlled dynamics for quantum information processing. Our results include two Hilbert space decompositions that allow for deciding the stability of the subspace of interest and for estimating of the speed of convergence, as well as a formula to obtain the limit probability distribution for a set of orthogonal invariant subspaces.

id: 1407.2639
title: Critical points of the linear entropy for pure L-qubit states
authors: Tomasz Maciazek, Adam Sawicki
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2015 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 045305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2639
abstract: We present a substancially improved version of the method proposed in Sawicki et al (2012, 2014) for finding critical points of the linear entropy for L-qubit system. The new approach is based on the corespondance between momentum maps for abelian and non-abelian groups, as described in Kirwan (1984). The proposed method can be implemented numerically much easier than the previous one.

id: 1407.2658
title: Reconstructing quantum states from local data
authors: Brian Swingle, Isaac H. Kim
comments: 4+2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2658
abstract: We consider the problem of reconstructing global quantum states from local data. Because the reconstruction problem has many solutions in general, we consider the reconstructed state of maximum global entropy consistent with the local data. We show that unique ground states of local Hamiltonians are exactly reconstructed as the maximal entropy state. More generally, we show that if the state in question is a ground state of a local Hamiltonian with a degenerate space of locally indistinguishable ground states, then the maximal entropy state is close to the ground state projector. We also show that local reconstruction is possible for thermal states of local Hamiltonians. Finally, we discuss a procedure to certify that the reconstructed state is close to the true global state. We call the entropy of our reconstructed maximum entropy state the "reconstruction entropy", and we discuss its relation to emergent geometry in the context of holographic duality.

id: 1407.2713
title: Order 3 Symmetry in the Clifford Hierarchy
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Kate Blanchfield, Earl Campbell, Mark Howard
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 455302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2713
abstract: We investigate the action of the first three levels of the Clifford hierarchy on sets of mutually unbiased bases comprising the Ivanovic MUB and the Alltop MUBs. Vectors in the Alltop MUBs exhibit additional symmetries when the dimension is a prime number equal to 1 modulo 3 and thus the set of all Alltop vectors splits into three Clifford orbits. These vectors form configurations with so-called Zauner subspaces, eigenspaces of order 3 elements of the Clifford group highly relevant to the SIC problem. We identify Alltop vectors as the magic states that appear in the context of fault-tolerant universal quantum computing, wherein the appearance of distinct Clifford orbits implies a surprising inequivalence between some magic states.

id: 1407.2777
title: Scheme for constructing graphs associated with stabilizer quantum codes
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Damian Markham, Peter van Loock
comments: 42 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2777
abstract: We propose a systematic scheme for the construction of graphs associated with binary stabilizer codes. The scheme is characterized by three main steps: first, the stabilizer code is realized as a codeword-stabilized (CWS) quantum code; second, the canonical form of the CWS code is uncovered; third, the input vertices are attached to the graphs. To check the effectiveness of the scheme, we discuss several graphical constructions of various useful stabilizer codes characterized by single and multi-qubit encoding operators. In particular, the error-correcting capabilities of such quantum codes are verified in graph-theoretic terms as originally advocated by Schlingemann and Werner. Finally, possible generalizations of our scheme for the graphical construction of both (stabilizer and nonadditive) nonbinary and continuous-variable quantum codes are briefly addressed.

id: 1407.2778
title: Unextendible mutually unbiased bases (after Mandayam, Bandyopadhyay, Grassl and Wootters)
authors: Koen Thas
comments: 16 pages; submitted (July 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2778
abstract: We consider questions posed in a recent paper of Mandayam, Bandyopadhyay, Grassl and Wootters [10] on the nature of "unextendible mutually unbiased bases." We describe a conceptual framework to study these questions, using a connection proved by the author in [19] between the set of nonidentity generalized Pauli operators on the Hilbert space of $N$ $d$-level quantum systems, $d$ a prime, and the geometry of non-degenerate alternating bilinear forms of rank $N$ over finite fields $\mathbb{F}_d$. We then supply alternative and short proofs of results obtained in [10], as well as new general bounds for the problems considered in loc. cit. In this setting, we also solve Conjecture 1 of [10], and speculate on variations of this conjecture.

id: 1407.2830
title: Quantum-enhanced deliberation of learning agents using trapped ions
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Nicolai Friis, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 023006 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2830
abstract: A scheme that successfully employs quantum mechanics in the design of autonomous learning agents has recently been reported in the context of the projective simulation (PS) model for artificial intelligence. In that approach, the key feature of a PS agent, a specific type of memory which is explored via random walks, was shown to be amenable to quantization. In particular, classical random walks were substituted by Szegedy-type quantum walks, allowing for a speed-up. In this work we propose how such classical and quantum agents can be implemented in systems of trapped ions. We employ a generic construction by which the classical agents are `upgraded' to their quantum counterparts by nested coherent controlization, and we outline how this construction can be realized in ion traps. Our results provide a flexible modular architecture for the design of PS agents. Furthermore, we present numerical simulations of simple PS agents which analyze the robustness of our proposal under certain noise models.

id: 1407.2841
title: Coherent backscattering of intense light by cold atoms with degenerate energy levels: Diagrammatic treatment
authors: V.N. Shatokhin, R. Blattmann, T. Wellens, A. Buchleitner
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2841
abstract: We present a generalization of the diagrammatic pump-probe approach to coherent backscattering (CBS) of intense laser light for atoms with degenerate energy levels. We employ this approach for a characterization of the double scattering signal from optically pumped atoms with the transition $J_g\rightarrow J_e=J_g+1$ in the helicity preserving polarization channel. We show that, in the saturation regime, the internal degeneracy becomes manifest for atoms with $J_g\geq 1$, leading to a faster decrease of the CBS enhancement factor with increasing saturation parameter than in the non-degenerate case.

id: 1407.2871
title: Network of Time-Multiplexed Optical Parametric Oscillators as a Coherent Ising Machine
authors: Alireza Marandi, Zhe Wang, Kenta Takata, Robert L. Byer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2871
abstract: Finding the ground states of the Ising Hamiltonian [1] maps to various combinatorial optimization problems in biology, medicine, wireless communications, artificial intelligence, and social network. So far no efficient classical and quantum algorithm is known for these problems, and intensive research is focused on creating physical systems - Ising machines - capable of finding the absolute or approximate ground states of the Ising Hamiltonian [2-6]. Here we report a novel Ising machine using a network of degenerate optical parametric oscillators (OPOs). Spins are represented with above-threshold binary phases of the OPOs and the Ising couplings are realized by mutual injections [7]. The network is implemented in a single OPO ring cavity with multiple trains of femtosecond pulses and configurable mutual couplings, and operates at room temperature. We programed the smallest non-deterministic polynomial time (NP)- hard Ising problem on the machine, and in 1000 runs of the machine no computational error was detected.

id: 1407.2886
title: Generalizing Bell-type and Leggett-Garg-type Inequalities to Systems with Signaling
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: 5 pp., 1 fig. In vv. 4 and 5 minor typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2886
abstract: Contextuality means non-existence of a joint distribution for random variables recorded under mutually incompatible conditions, subject to certain constraints imposed on how the identity of these variables may change across these conditions. In simple quantum systems contextuality is indicated by violations of Bell-type or Leggett-Garg-type inequalities. These inequalities, however, are predicated on the assumption of no-signaling, defined as invariance of the distributions of measurement results with respect to other (e.g., earlier in time) measurements' settings. Signaling makes the inequalities inapplicable: a non-signaling system with any degree of contextuality, however high, loses any relation to this concept as soon as it exhibits any degree of signaling, however small. This is unsatisfactory. We describe a principled way of defining and measuring contextuality in arbitrary systems with random outputs, whether signaling is absent or present.

id: 1407.2887
title: A case study in programming a quantum annealer for hard operational planning problems
authors: Eleanor G. Rieffel, Davide Venturelli, Bryan O'Gorman, Minh B. Do, Elicia Prystay, Vadim N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 19 pages, 16 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2887
abstract: We report on a case study in programming an early quantum annealer to attack optimization problems related to operational planning. While a number of studies have looked at the performance of quantum annealers on problems native to their architecture, and others have examined performance of select problems stemming from an application area, ours is one of the first studies of a quantum annealer's performance on parametrized families of hard problems from a practical domain. We explore two different general mappings of planning problems to quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) problems, and apply them to two parametrized families of planning problems, navigation-type and scheduling-type. We also examine two more compact, but problem-type specific, mappings to QUBO, one for the navigation-type planning problems and one for the scheduling-type planning problems. We study embedding properties and parameter setting, and examine their effect on the efficiency with which the quantum annealer solves these problems. From these results we derive insights useful for the programming and design of future quantum annealers: problem choice, the mapping used, the properties of the embedding, and the annealing profile all matter, each significantly affecting the performance.

id: 1407.2888
title: All optical quantum storage based on spatial chirp of the control field
authors: Xiwen Zhang, Alexey Kalachev, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2888
abstract: We suggest an all-optical quantum memory scheme which is based on the off-resonant Raman interaction of a signal quantum field and a strong control field in a three-level atomic medium in the case, when the control field has a spatially varying frequency across the beam, called a spatial chirp. We show that the effect of such a spatial chirp is analogous to the effect of a controllable reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB) of the atomic transition used in the gradient echo memory (GEM) scheme. However, the proposed scheme does not require temporal modulation of the control field or the atomic levels, and can be realized without additional electric or magnetic fields. It means that materials demonstrating neither linear Stark nor Zeeman effects can be used and/or materials which are placed in specific external fields remain undisturbed.

id: 1407.2926
title: An invariant of topologically ordered states under local unitary transformations
authors: Jeongwan Haah
comments: revtex, 17 pages (v2) minor change
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2926
abstract: For an anyon model in two spatial dimensions described by a modular tensor category, the topological S-matrix encodes the mutual braiding statistics, the quantum dimensions, and the fusion rules of anyons. It is nontrivial whether one can compute the S-matrix from a single ground state wave function. Here, we define a class of Hamiltonians consisting of local commuting projectors and an associated matrix that is invariant under local unitary transformations. We argue that the invariant is equivalent to the topological S-matrix. The definition does not require degeneracy of the ground state. We prove that the invariant depends on the state only, in the sense that it can be computed by any Hamiltonian in the class of which the state is a ground state. As a corollary, we prove that any local quantum circuit that connects two ground states of quantum double models (discrete gauge theories) with non-isomorphic abelian groups, must have depth that is at least linear in the system's diameter.

id: 1407.2930
title: Delayed-choice gedanken experiments and their realizations
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Johannes Kofler, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 26 pages, 34 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2930
abstract: The wave-particle duality dates back to Einstein's explanation of the photoelectric effect through quanta of light and de Broglie's hypothesis of matter waves. Quantum mechanics uses an abstract description for the behavior of physical systems such as photons, electrons, or atoms. Whether quantum predictions for single systems in an interferometric experiment allow an intuitive understanding in terms of the particle or wave picture, depends on the specific configuration which is being used. In principle, this leaves open the possibility that quantum systems always either behave definitely as a particle or definitely as a wave in every experimental run by a priori adapting to the specific experimental situation. This is precisely what is tried to be excluded by delayed-choice experiments, in which the observer chooses to reveal the particle or wave character -- or even a continuous transformation between the two -- of a quantum system at a late stage of the experiment. We review the history of delayed-choice gedanken experiments, which can be traced back to the early days of quantum mechanics. Then we discuss their experimental realizations, in particular Wheeler's delayed choice in interferometric setups as well as delayed-choice quantum erasure and entanglement swapping. The latter is particularly interesting, because it elevates the wave-particle duality of a single quantum system to an entanglement-separability duality of multiple systems.

id: 1407.2934
title: Using entanglement against noise in quantum metrology
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 250801 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2934
abstract: We analyze the role of entanglement among probes and with external ancillas in quantum metrology. In the absence of noise, it is known that unentangled sequential strategies can achieve the same Heisenberg scaling of entangled strategies and that external ancillas are useless. This changes in the presence of noise: here we prove that entangled strategies can have higher precision than unentangled ones and that the addition of passive external ancillas can also increase the precision. We analyze some specific noise models and use the results to conjecture a general hierarchy for quantum metrology strategies in the presence of noise.

id: 1407.3005
title: How ¦×-epistemic models fail at explaining the indistinguishability of quantum states
authors: Cyril Branciard
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020409 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3005
abstract: We study the extent to which \psi-epistemic models for quantum measurement statistics---models where the quantum state does not have a real, ontic status---can explain the indistinguishability of nonorthogonal quantum states. This is done by comparing the overlap of any two quantum states with the overlap of the corresponding classical probability distributions over ontic states in a \psi-epistemic model. It is shown that in Hilbert spaces of dimension $d \geq 4$, the ratio between the classical and quantum overlaps in any \psi-epistemic model must be arbitrarily small for certain nonorthogonal states, suggesting that such models are arbitrarily bad at explaining the indistinguishability of quantum states. For dimensions $d$ = 3 and 4, we construct explicit states and measurements that can be used experimentally to put stringent bounds on the ratio of classical-to-quantum overlaps in \psi-epistemic models, allowing one in particular to rule out maximally \psi-epistemic models more efficiently than previously proposed.

id: 1407.3012
title: Multipartite distribution property of one way discord beyond measurement
authors: Si-Yuan Liu, Yu-Ran Zhang, Wen-Li Yang, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 354, 157 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3012
abstract: We investigate the distribution property of one way discord in multipartite system by introducing the concept of polygamy deficit for one way discord. The difference between one way discord and quantum discord is analogue to the difference between entanglement of assistance and entanglement of formation. For tripartite pure states, two kinds of polygamy deficits are presented with the equivalent expressions and physical interpretations regardless of measurement. For four-partite pure states, we provide a condition which makes one way discord polygamy being satisfied. Those results can be applicable to multipartite quantum systems and are complementary to our understanding of the shareability of quantum correlations.

id: 1407.3021
title: Entanglement universality of two-qubit X-states
authors: Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca, Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Di¨®genes Galetti
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures. v2 includes new references and minor changes (accepted version)
journal: Annals of Physics 351 (2014) 79 - 103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3021
abstract: We demonstrate that for every two-qubit state there is a X-counterpart, i.e., a corresponding two-qubit X-state of same spectrum and entanglement, as measured by concurrence, negativity or relative entropy of entanglement. By parametrizing the set of two-qubit X-states and a family of unitary transformations that preserve the sparse structure of a two-qubit X-state density matrix, we obtain the parametric form of a unitary transformation that converts arbitrary two-qubit states into their X-counterparts. Moreover, we provide a semi-analytic prescription on how to set the parameters of this unitary transformation in order to preserve concurrence or negativity. We also explicitly construct a set of X-state density matrices, parametrized by their purity and concurrence, whose elements are in one-to-one correspondence with the points of the concurrence versus purity (CP) diagram for generic two-qubit states.

id: 1407.3035
title: Optoelectromechanical transducer: reversible conversion between microwave and optical photons
authors: Lin Tian
comments: Review article, to appear in Annalen der Physik; 7 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 527, 1 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3035
abstract: Quantum states encoded in microwave photons or qubits can be effectively manipulated, whereas optical photons can be coherently transferred via optical fibre and waveguide. The reversible conversion of quantum states between microwave and optical photons will hence enable the distribution of quantum information over long distance and significantly improve the scalability of hybrid quantum systems. Owning to technological advances, mechanical resonators couple to quantum devices in distinctly different spectral range with tunable coupling, and can serve as a powerful interface to connect those devices. In this review, we summarize recent theory and experimental progress in the coherent conversion between microwave and optical fields via optoelectromechanical transducers. The challenges and perspectives in achieving single-photon-level quantum state conversion will also be discussed.

id: 1407.3036
title: Coherent-feedback-induced photon blockade and optical bistability by an optomechanical controller
authors: Yu-Long Liu, Zhong-Peng Liu, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3036
abstract: It is well-known that some nonlinear phenomena such as strong photon blockade are hard to be observed in optomechanical system with current experimental technology. Here, we present a coherent feedback control strategy in which a linear cavity is coherently controlled by an optomechanical controller in a feedback manner. The coherent feedback loop transfers and enhances quantum nonlinearity from the controller to the controlled cavity, which makes it possible to observe strong nonlinear effects in either linear cavity or optomechanical cavity. More interestingly, we find that the strong photon blockade under single-photon optomechanical weak coupling condition could be observed in the quantum regime. Additionally, the coherent feedback loop leads to two-photon and multiphoton tunnelings for the controlled linear cavity, which are also typical quantum nonlinear phenomenon. We hope that our work can give new perspectives in engineering nonlinear quantum phenomena.

id: 1407.3059
title: Dispersive Qubit Measurement by Interferometry with Parametric Amplifiers
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, D. P. DiVincenzo, B. M. Terhal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 134515(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3059
abstract: We perform a detailed analysis of how an amplified interferometer can be used to enhance the quality of a dispersive qubit measurement, such as one performed on a superconducting transmon qubit, using homodyne detection on an amplified microwave signal. Our modeling makes a realistic assessment of what is possible in current circuit-QED experiments; in particular, we take into account the frequency-dependence of the qubit-induced phase shift for short microwaves pulses. We compare the possible signal-to-noise ratios obtainable with (single-mode) SU(1,1) interferometers with the current coherent measurement and find a considerable reduction in measurement error probability in an experimentally-accessible range of parameters.

id: 1407.3080
title: Tunable photon statistics in weakly nonlinear photonic molecules
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yong Li
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043822 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3080
abstract: In recent studies [Liew et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 183601 (2010); Bamba et al., Phys. Rev. A 83, 021802(R) (2011)], due to destructive interference between different paths for two-photon excitation, strong photon antibunching can be obtained in a photonic molecule consisting of two coupled cavity modes with weak Kerr nonlinearity when one of the cavity modes is driven resonantly. Here, we study the photon statistics in a nonlinear photonic molecule with both the two cavity modes being driven coherently. We show that the statistical properties of the photons can be controlled by regulating the coupling constant between the cavity modes, the strength ratio and the relative phase between the driving fields. The photonic molecules with two driven modes can be used to generate tunable single-photon sources or controlled photonic quantum gates with weak Kerr nonlinearity.

id: 1407.3088
title: Partial Transpose As A General Criterion for the Separability of Quantum States
authors: Pranav P., M. Ravendranadhan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3088
abstract: Usual separability criteria applicable to distinguishable particles are not applicable to identical particles. Here we show that Partial transposition and symmetrization (or anti symmetrization) of density matrix of bipartite boson systems (fermion systems) can be used to check whether a state is separable or not.By using determinant based separability criteria it has been found that bipartite states of identical particles are always separable. It is found that partial transposition and symmetrization is equivalent to realignment criteria proposed by Wu.

id: 1407.3094
title: Storage of up-converted telecom photons in a doped crystal
authors: Nicolas Maring, Kutlu Kutluer, Joachim Cohen, Matteo Cristiani, Margherita Mazzera, Patrick M. Ledingham, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3094
abstract: We report on an experiment that demonstrates the frequency up-conversion of telecommunication wavelength single-photon-level pulses to be resonant with a $\mathrm{Pr}^{3+}$:$\mathrm{Y}_2\mathrm{Si}\mathrm{O}_5$ crystal. We convert the telecom photons at $1570\,\mathrm{nm}$ to $606\,\mathrm{nm}$ using a periodically-poled potassium titanyl phosphate nonlinear waveguide. The maximum device efficiency (which includes all optical loss) is inferred to be $\eta_{\mathrm{dev}}^{\mathrm{max}} = 22 \pm 1\,%$ (internal efficiency $\eta_{\mathrm{int}} = 75\pm8\,%$) with a signal to noise ratio exceeding 1 for single-photon-level pulses with durations of up to 560$\,$ns. The converted light is then stored in the crystal using the atomic frequency comb scheme with storage and retrieval efficiencies exceeding $\eta_{\mathrm{AFC}} = 20\,%$ for predetermined storage times of up to $5\,\mu\mathrm{s}$. The retrieved light is time delayed from the noisy conversion process allowing us to measure a signal to noise ratio exceeding 100 with telecom single-photon-level inputs. These results represent the first demonstration of single-photon-level optical storage interfaced with frequency up-conversion.

id: 1407.3114
title: Entanglement and nonlocality are inequivalent for any number of particles
authors: R. Augusiak, M. Demianowicz, J. Tura, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: submitted version, 7 pages (4.25 + appendix), 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3114
abstract: Understanding the relation between nonlocality and entanglement is one of the fundamental problems in quantum physics. In the bipartite case, it is known that the correlations observed for some entangled quantum states can be explained within the framework of local models, thus proving that these resources are inequivalent in this scenario. However, except for a single example of an entangled three-qubit state that has a local model, almost nothing is known about such relation in multipartite systems. We provide a general construction of genuinely multipartite entangled states that do not display genuinely multipartite nonlocality, thus proving that entanglement and nonlocality are inequivalent for any number of particles.

id: 1407.3134
title: Atomic-scale nuclear spin imaging using quantum-assisted sensors in diamond
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Ulf Bissbort, Mikhail D. Lukin, Ronald L. Walsworth, Paola Cappellaro
comments: Contains supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3134
abstract: Nuclear spin imaging at the atomic level is essential for the understanding of fundamental biological phenomena and for applications such as drug discovery. The advent of novel nano-scale sensors has given hope of achieving the long-standing goal of single-protein, high spatial-resolution structure determination in their natural environment and ambient conditions. In particular, quantum sensors based on the spin-dependent photoluminescence of Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) centers in diamond have recently been used to detect nanoscale ensembles of external nuclear spins. While NV sensitivity is approaching single-spin levels, extracting relevant information from a very complex structure is a further challenge, since it requires not only the ability to sense the magnetic field of an isolated nuclear spin, but also to achieve atomic-scale spatial resolution. Here we propose a method that, by exploiting the coupling of the NV center to an intrinsic quantum memory associated with the Nitrogen nuclear spin, can reach a tenfold improvement in spatial resolution, down to atomic scales. The spatial resolution enhancement is achieved through coherent control of the sensor spin, which creates a dynamic frequency filter selecting only a few nuclear spins at a time. We propose and analyze a protocol that would allow not only sensing individual spins in a complex biomolecule, but also unraveling couplings among them, thus elucidating local characteristics of the molecule structure.

id: 1407.3170
title: Discord of bipartite correlations in generalized nonsignaling theories and quantum correlations
authors: C. Jebarathinam
comments: Revised version, 10 pages, RevTeX 4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3170
abstract: We introduce the measures, Bell discord (BD) and Mermin discord (MD), for investigating bipartite nonsignaling (NS) correlations. These measures divide the NS polytope into four regions which have (i) nonzero BD and zero MD, (ii) zero BD and nonzero MD, (iii) nonzero BD and nonzero MD, and (iv) zero BD and zero MD. We show that any NS correlation can be written as a convex mixture of a PR-box, a maximal Mermin discordant box, and a Bell local box which has zero BD and zero MD. The measures serve us to quantify nonlocality and contextuality of quantum correlations arising from the quantum-quantum states which are neither classical-quantum states nor quantum-classical states for all incompatible measurements. We identify a largest subpolytope that contains only quantum correlations and has overlap with all the four regions of the full NS polytope.

id: 1407.3194
title: The quantum pigeonhole principle and the nature of quantum correlations
authors: Y. Aharonov, F. Colombo, S. Popescu, I. Sabadini, D.C.Struppa, J. Tollaksen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3194
abstract: The pigeonhole principle: "If you put three pigeons in two pigeonholes at least two of the pigeons end up in the same hole" is an obvious yet fundamental principle of Nature as it captures the very essence of counting. Here however we show that in quantum mechanics this is not true! We find instances when three quantum particles are put in two boxes, yet no two particles are in the same box. Furthermore, we show that the above "quantum pigeonhole principle" is only one of a host of related quantum effects, and points to a very interesting structure of quantum mechanics that was hitherto unnoticed. Our results shed new light on the very notions of separability and correlations in quantum mechanics and on the nature of interactions. It also presents a new role for entanglement, complementary to the usual one. Finally, interferometric experiments that illustrate our effects are proposed.

id: 1407.3225
title: Determining the squeezing in multimode fields using nonlocal quantum probes
authors: Steffen Wi?mann, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures; title and some sections changed in published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90,032117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3225
abstract: We present a scheme allowing to access the squeezing parameter of multimode fields by means of the dynamics of nonlocal quantum probes. The model under consideration is composed of two two-level systems which are coupled locally to an environment consisting of nonlocally correlated field modes given by two-mode Gaussian states. Introducing independently switchable interactions, one observes revivals of nonlocal coherences of the two-qubit system which are unambiguously connected to the squeezing parameter of the Gaussian environmental states. Thus, the locally interacting two two-level systems represent a dynamical quantum probe for the squeezing in multimode fields. It is finally demonstrated that perfectly reviving nonlocal coherences also persists for nonentangled correlated field modes and an explanation for this phenomenon is presented by connecting it to the correlation coefficient of the environmental coupling operators.

id: 1407.3229
title: Emulating quantum state transfer through a spin-1 chain on a 1D lattice of superconducting qutrits
authors: Joydip Ghosh
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3229
abstract: Spin-1 systems, in comparison to spin-1/2 systems, offer a better security for encoding and transfer of quantum information, primarily due to their larger Hilbert spaces. Superconducting artificial atoms possess multiple energy-levels, thereby capable of emulating higher-spin systems. Here we consider a 1D lattice of nearest-neighbor-coupled superconducting transmon systems, and devise a scheme to transfer an arbitrary qutrit-state (a state encoded in a three-level quantum system) across the chain. We assume adjustable couplings between adjacent transmons, derive an analytic constraint for the control-pulse, and show how to satisfy the constraint to achieve a high-fidelity state-transfer under current experimental conditions. Our protocol thus enables enhanced quantum communication and information processing with promising superconducting qutrits.

id: 1407.3232
title: The Asymptotic Cooling of Heat-Bath Algorithmic Cooling
authors: Sadegh Raeisi, Michele Mosca
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, In the new version we clarified the main proofs and moved parts to the main body of the paper. Elaborated on implications for more general initial states. Additional references added. Minor corrections and changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 100404 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3232
abstract: The purity of quantum states is a key requirement for many quantum applications. Improving the purity is limited by fundamental laws of thermodynamics. Here we are probing the fundamental limits for a natural approach to this problem, namely heat-bath algorithmic cooling(HBAC). The existence of the cooling limit for HBAC techniques was proved by Schulman et al. in, the limit however remained unknown for the past decade. Here for the first time we find this limit. In the context of quantum thermodynamics, this corresponds to the maximum extractable work from the quantum system.

id: 1407.3257
title: Demystifying the Information Reconciliation Protocol Cascade
authors: Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Christoph Pacher, Momtchil Peev, Alex Ciurana, Vicente Martin
comments: 30 pages, 13 figures, 3 tables
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, vol. 15, no. 5&6, pp. 453-477 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3257
abstract: Cascade is an information reconciliation protocol proposed in the context of secret key agreement in quantum cryptography. This protocol allows removing discrepancies in two partially correlated sequences that belong to distant parties, connected through a public noiseless channel. It is highly interactive, thus requiring a large number of channel communications between the parties to proceed and, although its efficiency is not optimal, it has become the de-facto standard for practical implementations of information reconciliation in quantum key distribution. The aim of this work is to analyze the performance of Cascade, to discuss its strengths, weaknesses and optimization possibilities, comparing with some of the modified versions that have been proposed in the literature. When looking at all design trade-offs, a new view emerges that allows to put forward a number of guidelines and propose near optimal parameters for the practical implementation of Cascade improving performance significantly in comparison with all previous proposals.

id: 1407.3292
title: Magnetic Quantum-Phase Control between Two Entangled Macroscopic Nuclear Ensembles
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Christoph H. Keitel, Adriana P¨¢lffy
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3292
abstract: Heralded generation and manipulation of quantum entanglement between two macroscopic and spatially separated crystals at room temperature is theoretically studied. We show that by combining an x-ray parametric down-conversion source and x-ray interferometry with nuclear resonant scattering techniques, two macroscopic crystals hosting M\"ossbauer nuclei located each on an interferometer arm can be entangled for few tens of nanoseconds. The coherence time of the entanglement state can be prolonged up to values comparable to the lifetime of a single nuclear excited state, on the order of hundred nanoseconds. A non-mechanical magnetic control of the quantum phase between the two spatially separated entangled nuclear crystals is put forward.

id: 1407.3319
title: Macroscopicity of quantum superpositions on a one-parameter unitary path in Hilbert space
authors: T.J. Volkoff, K.B. Whaley
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062122 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3319
abstract: We analyze quantum states formed as superpositions of an initial pure product state and its image under local unitary evolution, using two measurement-based measures of superposition size: one based on the optimal quantum binary distinguishability of the branches of the superposition and another based on the ratio of the maximal quantum Fisher information of the superposition to that of its branches, i.e., the relative metrological usefulness of the superposition. A general formula for the effective sizes of these states according to the branch distinguishability measure is obtained and applied to superposition states of $N$ quantum harmonic oscillators composed of Gaussian branches. Considering optimal distinguishability of pure states on a time-evolution path leads naturally to a notion of distinguishability time that generalizes the well known orthogonalization times of Mandelstam and Tamm and Margolus and Levitin. We further show that the distinguishability time provides a compact operational expression for the superposition size measure based on the relative quantum Fisher information. By restricting the maximization procedure in the definition of this measure to an appropriate algebra of observables, we show that the superposition size of, e.g., N00N states and hierarchical cat states, can scale linearly with the number of elementary particles comprising the superposition state, implying precision scaling inversely with the total number of photons when these states are employed as probes in quantum parameter estimation of a 1-local Hamiltonian in this algebra.

id: 1407.3332
title: Stimulated Raman Spectroscopy with Entangled Light; Enhanced Resolution and Pathway Selection
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Frank Schlawin, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3332
abstract: We propose a novel femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy (FSRS) technique that combines entangled photons with interference detection to select matter pathways and enhance the resolution. Following photo excitation by an actinic pump, the measurement uses a pair of broadband entangled photons, one (signal) interacts with the molecule together with a third narrowband pulse induces the Raman process. The other (idler) photon provides a reference for the coincidence measurement. This interferometric photon-coincidence counting detection allows to separately measure Raman gain and loss signals, which is not possible with conventional probe transmission detection. Entangled photons further provide a unique temporal and spectral detection window that can better resolve fast excited state dynamics compared to classical and correlated disentangled states of light.

id: 1407.3337
title: Resonator-Assisted Quantum Bath Engineering of a Flux Qubit
authors: Xian-Peng Zhang, Li-Tuo Shen, Zhang-Qi Yin, Huai-Zhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3337
abstract: We demonstrate quantum bath engineering for preparation of any orbital state with controllable phase factor of a superconducting flux qubit assisted by a microwave coplanar waveguide resonator. We investigate the polarization efficiency of the arbitrary direction rotating on the Bloch sphere, and obtain an effective Rabi frequency by using the convergence condition of Markovian master equation. The processes of polarization can be implemented effectively in a dissipative environment created by resonator photon loss when the spectrum of the microwave resonator matches with the specially tailored Rabi and resonant frequencies of the drive. Our calculations indicate that state-preparation fidelities in excess of 99\% and the required time on the order of magnitude of microsecond are in principle possible for experimentally reasonable sample parameters. Furthermore, our proposal could be applied to other systems with spin-based qubits.

id: 1407.3352
title: Quasi-Coulomb series in a two-dimensional three-body system
authors: Maxim A. Efremov, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 5 pages; submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3352
abstract: We show that the bound states in a three-body system display a Coulomb series with a Gaussian cut-off provided: (i) the system consists of a light particle and two heavy bosonic ones, (ii) the heavy-light short-range potential has a resonance in the $p$-wave scattering amplitude, and (iii) all three particles move in two space dimensions. For a decreasing mass ratio this quasi-Coulomb series merges into a pure Coulombic one.

id: 1407.3362
title: Repeat-until-success quantum repeaters
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Thomas M. Barlow, Mohsen Razavi, Almut Beige
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3362
abstract: We propose a repeat-until-success protocol to improve the performance of probabilistic quantum repeaters. Quantum repeaters rely on passive static linear optics elements and photodetectors to perform Bell-state measurements (BSMs). Conventionally, the success rate of these BSMs cannot exceed 50%, which is an impediment for entanglement swapping between distant quantum memories. Every time that a BSM fails, entanglement needs to be re-distributed between the corresponding memories in the repeater link. The key ingredient in our scheme is a repeatable BSM. Although it too relies only on linear optics and photo-detection, it ideally allows us to repeat every BSM until it succeeds. This, in principle, can turn a probabilistic quantum repeater into a deterministic one. Under realistic conditions, where our measurement devices are lossy, our repeatable BSMs may also fail. However, we show that by using additional threshold detectors, we can improve the entanglement generation rate between one and two orders of magnitude as compared to the probabilistic repeater systems that rely on conventional BSMs. This improvement is sufficient to make the performance of probabilistic quantum repeaters comparable with some of existing proposals for deterministic quantum repeaters.

id: 1407.3365
title: Effects of three-body collisions in a two-mode Bose-Einstein condenstate
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn, Pablo Barberis-Blostein, Cristopher Hern¨¢ndez, Robert B. Mann, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. I.F. previously published as I. Fuentes-Schuller and I. Fuentes-Guridi
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3365
abstract: We study the effects of three-body collisions in the basic physical properties of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate. By finding the exact analytical solution of a model which includes two-body and three-body elastic and mode-exchange collisions, we show analytically that three-body interactions produce observable effects in the probability distribution of the ground state and the dynamics of the relative population. In particular, we find that three-body interactions under certain circumstances inhibit collapse of the relative population.

id: 1407.3376
title: Equivalence of a compressible inviscid flow and the Bloch vector under the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: 19 pages, 5 eps figures, latex2e, Because the manuscript arXiv:1205.4308v2 was too long, it was divided into two parts. This manuscript is the second part of the original one. In the current paper, the discussions focus on the equivalence between the dynamics of a compressible fluid and the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3376
abstract: In this paper, we show that the time evolution of the Bloch vector governed by the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model is equivalent to a compressible inviscid flow with zero vorticity. Because of its quasiperiodicity, the dynamics of the Bloch vector includes countably infinite angular momenta as integrals of motion. Moreover, to derive the Bloch vector, we trace out the Hilbert space of the cavity field and remove entanglement between the single atom and the cavity mode. These facts indicate that the dynamics of the Bloch vector can be described with a classical field theory. Our results fit these considerations.

id: 1407.3412
title: Secure Quantum Communication with Orthogonal States
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak, R. Srikanth
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. This article is a modified version of the tutorial lecture delivered by Anirban Pathak at International Program on Quantum Information (IPQI-2014), February 17-28, 2014, Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar, India
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3412
abstract: In majority of protocols of secure quantum communication (such as, BB84, B92, etc.), the unconditional security of the protocols are obtained by using conjugate coding (two or more mutually unbiased bases). Initially all the conjugate-coding-based protocols of secure quantum communication were restricted to quantum key distribution (QKD), but later on they were extended to other cryptographic tasks (such as, secure direct quantum communication and quantum key agreement). In contrast to the conjugate-coding-based protocols, a few completely orthogonal-state-based protocols of unconditionally secure QKD (such as, Goldenberg-Vaidman (GV) and N09) were also proposed. However, till the recent past orthogonal-state-based protocols were only a theoretical concept and were limited to QKD. Only recently, orthogonal-state-based protocols of QKD are experimentally realized and extended to cryptographic tasks beyond QKD. This paper aims to briefly review the orthogonal-state-based protocols of secure quantum communication that are recently introduced by our group and other researchers.

id: 1407.3413
title: Topological and Error-Correcting Properties for Symmetry-Protected Topological Order
authors: Bei Zeng, Duan-Lu Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3413
abstract: We discuss the symmetry-protected topological (SPT) orders for bosonic systems from an information-theoretic viewpoint. We show that with a proper choice of the onsite basis, the degenerate ground-state space of SPT orders (on a manifold with boundary) is a quantum error-correcting code with macroscopic classical distance, hence is stable against any local bit-flip errors. We show that this error-correcting property of the SPT orders has a natural connection to that of the symmetry-breaking orders, whose degenerate ground-state space is a classical error-correcting code with a macroscopic distance, providing a new angle for the hidden symmetry-breaking properties in SPT orders. We propose new types of topological entanglement entropy that probe the STP orders hidden in their symmetric ground states, which also signal the topological phase transitions protected by symmetry. Combined with the original definition of topological entanglement entropy that probes the 'intrinsic topological orders', and the recent proposed one that probes the symmetry-breaking orders, the set of different types of topological entanglement entropy may hence distinguish topological orders, SPT orders, and symmetry-breaking orders, which may be mixed up in a single system.

id: 1407.3438
title: Analyzing the Time Evolution of Wave Functions by Decomposing the Hamiltonian into State-Preserving and State-Changing Hamiltonians
authors: Chyi-Lung Lin
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3438
abstract: We show a new method for analyzing the time evolution of the Schrodinger wave function Psi(x,t). We propose the decomposition of the Hamiltonian as: H(t)=Hp(t)+Hc(t), where Hp(t) is the Hamiltonian such that Psi(x,t) is its instantaneous eigenfunction, and Hc(t) the Hamiltonian which changes the state Psi. With this decomposition, the action of H(t) on the wave function is simplified and the Schrodinger equation is in a simpler form which can be solved more easily. We illustrate this method by exactly solving the Schrodinger equation for cases of nonspreading wave packets. This method can be applied as well to analyzing the time evolution of general Hamiltonian systems.

id: 1407.3441
title: Irreversible work and inner friction in quantum thermodynamic processes
authors: F. Plastina, A. Alecce, T. J. G. Apollaro, G. Falcone, G. Francica, F. Galve, N. Lo Gullo, R. Zambrini
comments: improved text, new citations added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3441
abstract: We discuss the thermodynamics of closed quantum systems driven out of equilibrium by a change in a control parameter and undergoing a unitary process. We compare the work actually done on the system with the one that would be performed along ideal adiabatic and isothermal transformations. The comparison with the latter leads to the introduction of irreversible work, while that with the former leads to the introduction of inner friction. We show that these two quantities can be treated on equal footing, as both can be linked with the heat exchanged in thermalization processes and both can be expressed as relative entropies. Furthermore, we show that a specific fluctuation relation for the entropy production associated with the inner friction exists, which allows the inner friction to be written in terms of its cumulants.

id: 1407.3448
title: Experimental construction of generic three-qubit states and their reconstruction from two-party reduced states on an NMR quantum information processor
authors: Shruti Dogra, Kavita Dorai, Arvind
comments: Revised version to appear in PRA new results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3448
abstract: We experimentally explore the state space of three qubits on an NMR quantum information processor. We construct a scheme to experimentally realize a canonical form for general three-qubit states up to single-qubit unitaries. This form involves a non-trivial combination of GHZ and W-type maximally entangled states of three qubits. The general circuit that we have constructed for the generic state reduces to those for GHZ and W states as special cases. The experimental construction of a generic state is carried out for a nontrivial set of parameters and the good fidelity of preparation is confirmed by complete state tomography. The GHZ and W-states are constructed as special cases of the general experimental scheme. Further, we experimentally demonstrate a curious fact about three-qubit states, where for almost all pure states, the two-qubit reduced states can be used to reconstruct the full three-qubit state. For the case of a generic state and for the W-state, we demonstrate this method of reconstruction by comparing it with the directly tomographed three-qubit state.

id: 1407.3473
title: Two-step complete polarization logic Bell-state analysis
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3473
abstract: Logic qubit entanglement, which is also called the concatenated Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (C-GHZ) state, is robust in practical noisy environment. In this paper, we will describe an efficient approach to realize the complete polarization Bell-state analysis which is encoded in the logic qubit. We showed that the logic Bell-state can be distinguished in two steps with the help of the parity-check measurement (PCM), which is constructed by the cross-Kerr nonlinearity. We also explain that this approach can be used to distinguish arbitrary C-GHZ state with $N$ logic qubits. This protocol is useful in the long-distance quantum communication based on the logic qubit entanglement.

id: 1407.3486
title: Aharonov-Bohm photonic cages in waveguide and coupled resonator lattices by synthetic magnetic fields
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: slightly revised version, 3 figures, 6 pages, to appear in Optics Letters
journal: Opt. lett. 39, 5892 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3486
abstract: We suggest a method for trapping photons in quasi one-dimensional waveguide or coupled-resonator lattices, which is based on an optical analogue of the Aharonov-Bohm cages for charged particles. Light trapping results from a destructive interference of Aharonov-Bohm type induced by a synthetic magnetic field, which is realized by periodic modulation of the waveguide/resonator propagation constants/resonances.

id: 1407.3559
title: Quantum Particle Motion in Physical Space
authors: Samarin A. Yu
comments: 5 pages
journal: Adv. Studies Theor. Phys., Vol. 8, 2014, no. 1, 27 - 34
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3559
abstract: Using Feynman's representation of the quantum evolution and considering a quantum particle as a matter field (continuous medium), it is shown that individual particles of the field have unique paths of the motion. This allows describing motion of the quantum particle continuous medium by Lagrange's method. It is shown that form of the real individual particle path is determined by classical minimum action principle.

id: 1407.3567
title: The strong converse exponent of quantum hypothesis testing for correlated quantum states
authors: Mil¨¢n Mosonyi, Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: v2: Minor changes, added proof of Lemma A.2. 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3567
abstract: We present two general approaches to obtain the strong converse rate of quantum hypothesis testing for correlated quantum states. One approach requires that the states satisfy a certain factorization property; typical examples of such states are the temperature states of translation-invariant finite-range interactions on a spin chain. The other approach requires the differentiability of a regularized R\'enyi $\alpha$-divergence in the parameter $\alpha$; typical examples of such states include temperature states of non-interacting fermionic lattice systems, and classical irreducible Markov chains. In all cases, we get that the strong converse exponent is equal to the Hoeffding anti-divergence, which in turn is obtained from the regularized R\'enyi divergences of the two states.

id: 1407.3610
title: On the concept of Bell's local causality in local classical and quantum theory
authors: G. Hofer-Szab¨®, P. Vecserny¨¦s
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3610
abstract: The aim of this paper is to give a sharp definition of Bell's notion of local causality. To this end, first we unfold a framework, called local physical theory, integrating probabilistic and spatiotemporal concepts. Formulating local causality within this framework and classifying local physical theories by whether they obey local primitive causality --- a property rendering the dynamics of the theory causal, we then investigate what is needed for a local physical theory, with or without local primitive causality, to be locally causal. Finally, comparing Bell's local causality with the Common Cause Principles and relating both to the Bell inequalities we find a nice parallelism: Bell inequalities cannot be derived neither from local causality nor from a common cause unless the local physical theory is classical or the common cause is commuting, respectively.

id: 1407.3699
title: Phase control of squeezing in fluorescence radiation
authors: R. Arun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 245501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3699
abstract: We study squeezing properties of the fluorescence radiation emitted by a driven $\Lambda$-type atom in which the metastable lower energy levels are coupled by an additional field. We find that the relative phase of the applied fields can significantly modify the squeezing characteristics of radiation. It is shown that the additional field connecting the lower levels in the system can induce spectral squeezing in a parameter regime for which the squeezing is absent without the additional field. Moreover, the squeezing can be shifted from inner- to outer-sidebands of the spectrum by simply changing the relative phase. A dressed-state description is presented to explain these numerical results. The phase control of squeezing in the total variance of quadrature components is also examined. We show that the squeezing in total variance attains its maximal value when the system reduces to an effective two-level system.

id: 1407.3739
title: Quantum correlations and distinguishability of quantum states
authors: Dominique Spehner
comments: Review article, 103 pages, to appear in J. Math. Phys. 55 (special issue: non-equilibrium statistical mechanics, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3739
abstract: A survey of various concepts in quantum information is given, with a main emphasis on the distinguishability of quantum states and quantum correlations. Covered topics include generalized and least square measurements, state discrimination, quantum relative entropies, the Bures distance on the set of quantum states, the quantum Fisher information, the quantum Chernoff bound, bipartite entanglement, the quantum discord, and geometrical measures of quantum correlations. The article is intended both for physicists interested not only by collections of results but also by the mathematical methods justifying them, and for mathematicians looking for an up-to-date introductory course on these subjects, which are mainly developed in the physics literature.

id: 1407.3800
title: Information-Theoretic Implications of Quantum Causal Structures
authors: Rafael Chaves, Christian Majenz, David Gross
comments: 6 pages + appendix
journal: Nature Communications 6, 5766 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3800
abstract: The correlations that can be observed between a set of variables depend on the causal structure underpinning them. Causal structures can be modeled using directed acyclic graphs, where nodes represent variables and edges denote functional dependencies. In this work, we describe a general algorithm for computing information-theoretic constraints on the correlations that can arise from a given interaction pattern, where we allow for classical as well as quantum variables. We apply the general technique to two relevant cases: First, we show that the principle of information causality appears naturally in our framework and go on to generalize and strengthen it. Second, we derive bounds on the correlations that can occur in a networked architecture, where a set of few-body quantum systems is distributed among a larger number of parties.

id: 1407.3818
title: On the symmetry definitions for the constraint dynamical systems
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3818
abstract: The problem of proper symmetry definition for constraint dynamical systems with Hamiltonians is considered. Finally, we choose a definition of symmetry which agrees with the analogous definition used for the non-constraint dynamical systems with Hamiltonians. Our symmetry definition allows one to consider the whole spectrum of the Hamiltonian without splitting it into a few different parts.

id: 1407.3825
title: Photonic Framework to Handle Physical and Chemical Processes: Quantum Entanglement, Coherence, De-coherence, Re-coherence and the Roles of Multipartite Base States
authors: Orlando Tapia
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3825
abstract: A quantum framework, according quantum theories of electromagnetic (EM)radiation to matter response, leads to a handy scheme addressed to examine both physical and chemical processes. Fundamental quantum effects such asentanglement, coherence, de-coherence and re-coherence yield a fully quantum physical presentation applicable to chemical processes. A photonic basis-set obtains including all possibilities accessible to a system in abstract space; electronuclear (EN) base states put in resonance by photon fields are the ground where quantum states, q-states, would show time evolution. At laboratory space where energy and angular momentum conservation hold quantum dynamics (i.e. amplitude changes) is to be driven by low frequency EM radiation, e.g. microwaves. Materiality sustaining q-states unchanged.Here, focus on construction and reading of photonic quantum states that underlie a host of physical processes recently submitted to experimental examination. The approach moves away interpretational issues using classical physics language to focus on apprehending quantum states including experimental information.

id: 1407.3826
title: Quantum Mechanics on a Ring: Continuity versus Gauge Invariance
authors: Arthur Davidson
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, new: gauge invariance argument now uses de Broglie relation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3826
abstract: Remarkably we find that for a ring with linear boundary conditions such that the eigenvector and its derivative are continuous, there does not seem to be a way for the well-known de Broglie relation to be gauge invariant. Certain nonlinear boundary conditions assure gauge invariance, and lead to eigenfunctions with a discontinuous but differentiable phase and a continuous spectrum. A discrete subset of this spectrum forms a Hilbert space, while another subset is excluded by the nonlinear boundaries. We conclude that discontinuous momentum eigenfunctions are tenable, and that it is possible that quantum mechanics can have nonlinear boundary conditions in some circumstances.

id: 1407.3862
title: Hacking on decoy-state quantum key distribution system with partial phase randomization
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Xiang-Chun Ma, Chun-Yan Li, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 12 pages,4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4759, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3862
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) provides means for unconditional secure key transmission between two distant parties. However, in practical implementations, it suffers from quantum hacking due to device imperfections. Here we propose a hybrid measurement attack, with only linear optics, homodyne detection, and single photon detection, to the widely used vacuum+weak decoy state QKD system when the phase of source is partially randomized. Our analysis shows that, in some parameter regimes, the proposed attack would result in an entanglement breaking channel but still be able to trick the legitimate users to believe they have transmitted secure keys. That is, the eavesdropper is able to steal all the key information without discovered by the users. Thus, our proposal reveals that partial phase randomization is not sufficient to guarantee the security of phase-encoding QKD systems with weak coherent states.

id: 1407.3863
title: Experimental generation of multiple quantum correlated beams from hot rubidium vapor
authors: Zhongzhong Qin, Leiming Cao, Hailong Wang, A. M. Marino, Weiping Zhang, Jietai Jing
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 023602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3863
abstract: Quantum correlations and entanglement shared among multiple quantum modes are important for both fundamental science and the future development of quantum technologies. This development will also require an efficient quantum interface between multimode quantum light sources and atomic ensembles, which makes it necessary to implement multimode quantum light sources that match the atomic transitions. Here we report on such a source that provides a method for generating quantum correlated beams that can be extended to a large number of modes by using multiple four-wave mixing (FWM) processes in hot rubidium vapor. Experimentally we show that two cascaded FWM processes produce strong quantum correlations between three bright beams but not between any two of them. In addition, the intensity-difference squeezing is enhanced with the cascaded system to -7.0 $\pm$ 0.1 dB from the -5.5 $\pm$ 0.1/-4.5 $\pm$ 0.1 dB squeezing obtained with only one FWM process. One of the main advantages of our system is that as the number of quantum modes increases, so does the total degree of quantum correlations. The proposed method is also immune to phase instabilities due to its phase insensitive nature, can easily be extended to multiple modes, and has potential applications in the production of multiple quantum correlated images.

id: 1407.3886
title: Efficient controlled quantum secure direct communication based on GHZ-like states
authors: Shima Hassanpour, Monireh Houshmand
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3886
abstract: In this paper, a three party controlled quantum secure direct communication protocol based on GHZ like state is proposed. In this scheme, the receiver can obtain the sender s two secret bits under the permission of the controller. By using entanglement swapping, no qubits carrying secret messages are transmitted. Therefore, if the perfect quantum channel is used, the protocol is completely secure. The motivation behind utilizing GHZ like state as a quantum channel is that if a qubit is lost in the GHZ like state the other two qubits are still entangled. The proposed protocol improves the efficiency of the previous ones.

id: 1407.3893
title: Path integral approach to the problem of rotational excitation of molecules by an ultrashort laser pulses sequence
authors: Alexander Biryukov, Mark Shleenkov
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 2 appendixes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3893
abstract: The amplitude and probability of quantum transitions are represented as a path integrals in energy state space of the investigated multi-level quantum system. Using this approach we consider rotational dynamics of nitrogen molecules $^{14}N_{2}$ and $^{15}N_{2}$ which interact with a sequence of ultrashort laser pulses. Our computer simulations indicate the complex dependency of the high rotation states excitation probability upon ultrashort laser pulses sequence periods. We observe pronounced resonances, which correspond to the results of some experiments.

id: 1407.3897
title: Bayesian Network Structure Learning Using Quantum Annealing
authors: Bryan O'Gorman, Alejandro Perdomo-Ortiz, Ryan Babbush, Alan Aspuru-Guzik, Vadim Smelyanskiy
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Spec. Top., 225 (1), 163 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3897
abstract: We introduce a method for the problem of learning the structure of a Bayesian network using the quantum adiabatic algorithm. We do so by introducing an efficient reformulation of a standard posterior-probability scoring function on graphs as a pseudo-Boolean function, which is equivalent to a system of 2-body Ising spins, as well as suitable penalty terms for enforcing the constraints necessary for the reformulation; our proposed method requires $\mathcal O(n^2)$ qubits for $n$ Bayesian network variables. Furthermore, we prove lower bounds on the necessary weighting of these penalty terms. The logical structure resulting from the mapping has the appealing property that it is instance-independent for a given number of Bayesian network variables, as well as being independent of the number of data cases.

id: 1407.3902
title: Improving frequency standard performance by optimized measurement feedback
authors: J. Sastrawan, C. Jones, I. Akhalwaya, H. Uys, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3902
abstract: We demonstrate a new approach to precision frequency standard characterization and stabilization, providing performance enhancements in the presence of non-Markovian noise in the local oscillator with "software-only" modifications. We develop a theoretical framework casting various measures for frequency standard variance in terms of frequency-domain transfer functions, incorporating the effects of feedback stabilization via a chain of Ramsey measurements. Using this framework we introduce a novel optimized \emph{hybrid feedforward} measurement protocol which employs results from multiple measurements and transfer-function-based calculations of measurement covariance given the local oscillator power spectrum. This approach exploits statistical correlations in the local oscillator frequency noise to provide high-accuracy corrections in the presence of uncompensated dead time in the measurement cycle or oscillator-frequency evolution during the Ramsey measurement period itself. We present numerical simulations of oscillator performance under competing feedback schemes and demonstrate benefits in both correction accuracy and long-term oscillator stability using hybrid feedforward.

id: 1407.3942
title: Conjugate degradable channels: A new class of quantum channels with a tractable quantum capacity formula
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: v3: new title
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3942
abstract: Conjugate degradable channels are channels whose quantum capacity is calculable. They were defined and studied in [1] where, however, only channels that are both degradable and conjugate degradable were found. In this paper we bring the very first example of conjugate degradable channels that are not degradable. We also identify the physical origin of these channels and show that they belong to the class of optimal universal asymmetric cloners. We thus not only positively answer the question whether conjugate degradable channels form a new class of channels with a single-letter capacity formula but as a side result we also calculate the quantum capacity of the optimal asymmetric 1->1+1 cloning channels.

id: 1407.3944
title: Interlaced spin grating for optical wave filtering
authors: H¨¦lo?se Linget, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Perrine Berger, Lo?c Morvan, Anne Louchet-Chauvet
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures in Physical Review A, 2015
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023804 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3944
abstract: Interlaced Spin Grating is a scheme for the preparation of spectro-spatial periodic absorption gratings in a inhomogeneously broadened absorption profile. It relies on the optical pumping of atoms in a nearby long-lived ground state sublevel. The scheme takes advantage of the sublevel proximity to build large contrast gratings with unlimited bandwidth and preserved average optical depth. It is particularly suited to Tm-doped crystals in the context of classical and quantum signal processing. In this paper, we study the optical pumping dynamics at play in an Interlaced Spin Grating and describe the corresponding absorption profile shape in an optically thick atomic ensemble. We show that, in Tm:YAG, the diffraction efficiency of such a grating can reach 18.3% in the small angle, and 11.6% in the large angle configuration when the excitation is made of simple pulse pairs, considerably outperforming conventional gratings.

id: 1407.3965
title: Different operational meanings of continuous variable Gaussian entanglement criteria and Bell inequalities
authors: D. Buono, G. Nocerino, S. Solimeno, A. Porzio
comments: The journal version is slightly different in the list of References and in a few sentences
journal: Laser Phys. 24 (2014) 074008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3965
abstract: Entanglement, one of the most intriguing aspects of quantum mechanics, marks itself into different features of quantum states. For this reason different criteria can be used for verifying entanglement. In this paper we review some of the entanglement criteria casted for continuous variable states and link them to peculiar aspects of the original debate on the famous EPR paradox. Moreover, we give a handy expression for valuating Bell-type non-locality on Gaussian states. We also present the experimental measurement of a particular realization of the Bell operator over continuous variable entangled states produced by a sub-threshold type-II OPO.

id: 1407.3996
title: Experimental entanglement redistribution under decoherence channels
authors: G. H. Aguilar, A. Vald¨¦s-Hern¨¢ndez, L. Davidovich, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 240501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3996
abstract: When an initially entangled pair of qubits undergoes local decoherence processes, there are a number of ways in which the original entanglement can spread throughout the multipartite system consisting of the two qubits and their environments. Here we report theoretical and experimental results regarding the dynamics of the distribution of entanglement in this system. The experiment employs an all optical set-up in which the qubits are encoded in the polarization degrees of freedom of two photons, and each local decoherence channel is implemented with an interferometer that couples the polarization to the path of each photon, which acts as an environment. We monitor the dynamics and distribution of entanglement and observe the transition from bipartite to multipartite entanglement and back, and show how these transitions are intimately related to the sudden death and sudden birth of entanglement. The multipartite entanglement is further analyzed in terms of 3- and 4- partite entanglement contributions, and genuine four-qubit entanglement is observed at some points of the evolution.

id: 1407.4041
title: Investigation graph isomorphism problem via entanglement entropy in strongly regular graphs
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, F. Eghbalifam, S. Nami
comments: 37 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1206.2999, arXiv:1007.3739 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4041
abstract: We investigate the quantum networks that their nodes are considered as quantum harmonic oscillators. The entanglement of the ground state can be used to quantify the amount of information one part of a network shares with the other part of the system. The networks which we studied in this paper, are called strongly regular graphs (SRG). These kinds of graphs have some special properties like they have three strata in the strat- i?cation basis. The Schur complement method is used to calculate the Schmidt number and entanglement entropy between two parts of graph. We could obtain analytically, all blocks of adjacency matrix in several important kinds of strongly regular graphs. Also the entanglement entropy in the large coupling limit is considered in these graphs and the relationship between Entanglement entropy and the ratio of size of boundary to size of the system is found. Then, area-law is studied to show that there are no entanglement entropy for the highest size of system. Then, the graph isomorphism problem is considered in SRGs by using the elements of blocks of adjacency matrices. Two SRGs with the same parameters:(n; ?; ?; ?) are iso- morphic if they can be made identical by relabeling their vertices. So the adjacency matrices of two isomorphic SRGs become identical by replacing of rows and columns. The nonisomirph SRGs could be distinguished by using the elements of blocks of adja- cency matrices in the strati?cation basis, numerically.

id: 1407.4044
title: Entanglement entropy and Schmidt numbers in quantum networks of coupled quantum oscillator
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, S. Nami, F. Eghbalifam
comments: 29 pages, 10 pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4044
abstract: We investigate the entanglement of the ground state in the quantum networks that their nodes are considered as quantum harmonic oscillators. To this aim, the Schmidt numbers and entanglement entropy between two arbitrary partitions of a network, are calculated. In partitioning an arbitrary graph into two parts there are some nodes in each parts which are not connected to the nodes of the other part. So these nodes of each part, can be in distinct subsets. Therefore the graph separates into four subsets. The nodes of the ?rst and last subsets are those which are not connected to the nodes of other part. In theorem I, by using generalized Schur complement method in these four subsets, we prove that all graphs which their connections between all two alternative subsets are complete, have the same entropy. A large number of graphs satisfy this theorem. Then the entanglement entropy in the limit of large coupling and large size of system, is investigated in these graphs. One of important quantities about partitioning, is conductance of graph. The con- ductance of graph is considered in some various graphs. In these graphs we compare the conductance of graph and the entanglement entropy.

id: 1407.4074
title: States that "look the same" with respect to every basis in a mutually unbiased set
authors: Ilya Amburg, Roshan Sharma, Daniel Sussman, William K. Wootters
comments: 24 pages; minor notational change in v2; simplified notation and a note added on inequivalent MUBs in v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4074
abstract: A complete set of mutually unbiased bases in a Hilbert space of dimension $d$ defines a set of $d+1$ orthogonal measurements. Relative to such a set, we define a "MUB-balanced state" to be a pure state for which the list of probabilities of the $d$ outcomes of one of these measurements is independent of the choice of measurement, up to permutations. In this paper we explicitly construct a MUB-balanced state for each prime power dimension $d$ for which $d = 3$ (mod 4). These states have already been constructed by Appleby in unpublished notes, but our presentation here is different in that both the expression for the states themselves and the proof of MUB-balancedness are given in terms of the discrete Wigner function, rather than the density matrix or state vector. The discrete Wigner functions of these states are "rotationally symmetric" in a sense roughly analogous to the rotational symmetry of the energy eigenstates of a harmonic oscillator in the continuous two-dimensional phase space. Upon converting the Wigner function to a density matrix, we find that the states are expressible as real state vectors in the standard basis. We observe numerically that when $d$ is large (and not a power of 3), a histogram of the components of such a state vector appears to form a semicircular distribution.

id: 1407.4083
title: A Non-Local Reality: Is there a Phase Uncertainty in Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Elizabeth S. Gould, Niayesh Afshordi
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4083
abstract: A century after the advent of Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity, both theories enjoy incredible empirical success, constituting the cornerstones of modern physics. Yet, paradoxically, they suffer from deep-rooted, so-far intractable, conflicts. Motivations for violations of the notion of relativistic locality include the Bell's inequalities for hidden variable theories, the cosmological horizon problem, and Lorentz-violating approaches to quantum geometrodynamics, such as Horava-Lifshitz gravity. Here, we explore a recent proposal for a "real ensemble" non-local description of quantum mechanics, in which "particles" can copy each others' observable values AND phases, independent of their spatial separation. We first specify the exact theory, ensuring that it is consistent and has (ordinary) quantum mechanics as a fixed point, where all particles with the same values for a given observable have the same phases. We then study the stability of this fixed point numerically, and analytically, for simple models. We provide evidence that most systems (in our study) are locally stable to small deviations from quantum mechanics, and furthermore, the phase variance per value of the observable, as well as systematic deviations from quantum mechanics, decay as $\sim$ (Energy$\times$Time)$^{-2n}$, where $n \geq 1$. Interestingly, this convergence is controlled by the absolute value of energy (and not energy difference), suggesting a possible connection to gravitational physics. Finally, we discuss different issues related to this theory, as well as potential novel applications for the spectrum of primordial cosmological perturbations and the cosmological constant problem.

id: 1407.4133
title: Certifying quantumness: Benchmarks for the optimal processing of generalized coherent and squeezed states
authors: Yuxiang Yang, Giulio Chiribella, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4133
abstract: Quantum technology promises revolutionary advantages in information processing and transmission compared to classical technology; however, determining which specific resources are needed to surpass the capabilities of classical machines often remains a nontrivial problem. To address such a problem, one first needs to establish the best classical solutions, which set benchmarks that must be beaten by any implementation claiming to harness quantum features for an enhanced performance. Here we introduce and develop a self-contained formalism to obtain the ultimate, generally probabilistic benchmarks for quantum information protocols including teleportation and approximate cloning, with arbitrary ensembles of input states generated by a group action, so-called Gilmore-Perelomov coherent states. This allows us to construct explicit fidelity thresholds for the transmission of multimode Gaussian and non-Gaussian states of continuous variable systems, as well as qubit and qudit pure states drawn according to nonuniform distributions on the Bloch hypersphere, which accurately model the current laboratory facilities. The performance of deterministic classical procedures such as square-root measurement strategies is further compared with the optimal probabilistic benchmarks, and the state-of-the-art performance of experimental quantum implementations against our newly derived thresholds is discussed. This work provides a comprehensive collection of directly useful criteria for the reliable certification of quantum communication technologies.

id: 1407.4178
title: Perturbation Methods for Non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion Equation
authors: Jie Xu, Xinyu Zhao, Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, Ting Yu
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Vol. 47, No. 43, 435301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4178
abstract: Two perturbation methods for the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD) equation are investigated. The first perturbation method under investigation is based on a functional expansion of the NMQSD equation, while the second one expands the NMQSD equation in terms of the coupling strength. We have compared the advantages of the two methods based on bipartite systems where the accuracy of both perturbation methods can be examined by comparing the approximations with the exact solutions. Additionally, we provide an analytical solution for a special family of system's initial states, and the entanglement dynamics is discussed based on this solution.

id: 1407.4204
title: Internal Decoherence of a Gaussian Wave Packet in a Harmonic Potential
authors: A. Cidrim, F. E. A. dos Santos, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4204
abstract: We have studied the quantum dissipative problem of a Gaussian wave packet under the influence of a harmonic potential. A phenomenological approach to dissipation is adopted in the light of the well-known model in which the environment is composed of a bath of non-interacting harmonic oscillators. As one of the effects of the coupling to the bath is the evolution of an initially pure wave packet into a statistical mixture, we estimate the characteristic time elapsed for this to occur for different regimes of temperature, damping, and also different initial states.

id: 1407.4219
title: Spontaneous parametric downconversion in waveguides: What's loss got to do with it?
authors: L. G. Helt, J. E. Sipe, M. J. Steel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4219
abstract: We derive frequency correlation and exit probability expressions for photons generated via spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) in nonlinear waveguides that exhibit linear scattering loss. Such loss is included within a general Hamiltonian formalism by connecting waveguide modes to reservoir modes with a phenomenological coupling Hamiltonian, the parameters of which are later related to the usual loss coefficients. In the limit of a low probability of SPDC pair production, the presence of loss requires that we write the usual lossless generated pair state as a reduced density operator, and we find that this density operator is naturally composed of two photon, one photon, and zero photon contributions. The biphoton probability density, or joint spectral intensity (JSI), associated with the two-photon contribution is determined not only by a phase matching term, but also by a loss matching term. The relative size of the loss coefficients within this term lead to three qualitatively different regimes of SPDC JSIs. If either the pump or generated photon loss is much higher than the other, the side lobes of the phase matching squared sinc function are washed out. On the other hand, if pump and generated photon loss are appropriately balanced, the lossy JSI is identical to the lossless JSI. Finally, if the generated photon loss is frequency dependent, the shape of the JSI can be altered more severely, potentially leading to generated photons that are less frequency correlated though also produced less efficiently when compared to photons generated in low-loss waveguides.

id: 1407.4250
title: A model of a quantum particle in a quantum environment: a numerical study
authors: R. Carlone, R. Figari, C. Negulescu
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4250
abstract: We define and investigate, via numerical analysis, a one dimensional toy-model of a cloud chamber. An energetic quantum particle, whose initial state is a superposition of two identical wave packets with opposite average momentum, interacts during its evolution and exchanges (small amounts of) energy with an array of localized spins. Triggered by the interaction with the environment, the initial superposition state turns into an incoherent sum of two states describing the following situation: or the particle is going to the left and a large number of spins on the left side changed their states, or the same is happening on the right side. This evolution is reminiscent of what happens in a cloud chamber where a quantum particle, emitted as a spherical wave by a radioactive source, marks its passage inside a supersaturated vapour-chamber in the form of a sequence of small liquid bubbles arranging themselves around a possible classical trajectory of the particle.

id: 1407.4290
title: Steady quantum coherence in non-equilibrium environment
authors: Sheng-Wen Li, C. Y. Cai, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4290
abstract: We study the steady state of a three-level system in contact with a non-equilibrium environment, which is composed of two independent heat baths at different temperatures. We derive a master equation to describe the non-equilibrium process of the system. For the three level systems with two dipole transitions, i.e., the $\Lambda$-type and V-type, we find that the interferences of two transitions in a non-equilibrium environment can give rise to non-vanishing steady quantum coherence, namely, there exist non-zero off-diagonal terms in the steady state density matrix (in the energy representation). Moreover, the non-vanishing off-diagonal terms increase with the temperature difference of the two heat baths. Such interferences of the transitions were usually omitted by secular approximation, for it was usually believed that they only take effect in short time behavior and do not affect the steady state. Here we show that, in non-equilibrium systems, such omission would lead to the neglect of the steady quantum coherence.

id: 1407.4343
title: Quantum Speed Limits for General Physical Processes
authors: M. M. Taddei
comments: Cover data partially in Portuguese, main text in English. Ph.D. thesis presented in February 13th, 2014; advisor: R. L. de Matos Filho; peer-reviewed publication can be found in arxiv:1209.0362, work done in collaboration with B. M. Escher, L. Davidovich and R. L. de Matos Filho; 133 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4343
abstract: Quantum speed limits are relations yielding lower bounds on the evolution time of quantum systems. These results have been generalized in some ways, in particular by including evolutions to non-orthogonal states. However, there was a gap in the literature on this area, for only unitary evolutions -- closed quantum systems -- had been considered. On this Ph.D. thesis, such limitation is overcome: our main result is a bound for quantum-system evolutions in general, whether unitary or not, and correctly recovers the known bounds in the unitary case. Applications of this bound to several concrete cases of interest are herein presented. This bound is also used to extend to the non-unitary case the discussion of the role of entanglement in fast evolutions, leading to nontrivial results. For the derivation of the results, a geometric approach has been employed, which allows a clear interpretation of the bounds and a discussion of the criteria for their saturation. No previous knowledge of quantum-state geometry by the reader has been assumed.

id: 1407.4345
title: In Quantum Computing Speedup Illusory?: The False Coin of "Counting Function Evaluations"
authors: David Ellerman
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author since the conclusions are too sweeping in light of the model presented and thus the paper needs to be rewritten from scratch
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4345
abstract: By using a new way to encode Boolean functions in a reversible gate, an algorithm is developed in quantum computing over Z_2, symbolized QC/2, (as opposed to QC over C) that needs only one function evaluation to solve the Grover Database Search Problem of finding a designated record among 2^m records for any m. In the usual Grover algorithm in quantum computing over C, one needs essentially Sqrt(2^m) function evaluations as opposed to the average of (2^m)/2 functions evaluations needed in the classical algorithm. The one function evaluation of the QC/2 algorithm (for any m) represents such a super speedup, even over the Grover algorithm in QC/C, that one feels something has gone awry. Indeed, our analysis of the transparent calculations of Boolean functions over Z_2 shows that the classical algorithm is just repackaged in a rather obvious way in the single function evaluation of the QC/2 algorithm--whereas the calculations are hidden and non-transparent in the Grover QC/C algorithm using C. The conclusion in both cases (which is rather obvious in the QC/2 case) is that "counting function evaluations" is a false coin to measure speedup in the comparison between quantum and classical computing.

id: 1407.4362
title: Unextendible entangled bases with fixed Schmidt number
authors: Yu Guo, Shengjun Wu
comments: 4 pages, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A.90.054303(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4362
abstract: The unextendible product basis (UPB) is generalized to the unextendible entangled basis with any arbitrarily given Schmidt number $k$ (UEBk) for any bipartite system $\mathbb{C}^d\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d'}$ ($2\leq k<d\leq d'$), which can also be regarded as a generalization of the unextendible maximally entangled basis (UMEB). A general way of constructing such a basis with arbitrary $d$ and $d'$ is proposed. Consequently, it is shown that there are at least $k-r$ (here $r=d$ mod $k$, or $r=d'$ mod $k$) sets of UEBk when $d$ or $d'$ is not the multiple of $k$, while there are at least $2(k-1)$ sets of UEBk when both $d$ and $d'$ are the multiples of $k$.

id: 1407.4370
title: The Schr?dinger-Newton equation and its foundations
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Andr¨¦ Gro?ardt, Sandro Donadi, Angelo Bassi
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, revised version (some minor changes)
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 115007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4370
abstract: The necessity of quantising the gravitational field is still subject to an open debate. In this paper we compare the approach of quantum gravity, with that of a fundamentally semi-classical theory of gravity, in the weak-field non-relativistic limit. We show that, while in the former case the Schr\"odinger equation stays linear, in the latter case one ends up with the so-called Schr\"odinger-Newton equation, which involves a nonlinear, non-local gravitational contribution. We further discuss that the Schr\"odinger-Newton equation does not describe the collapse of the wave-function, although it was initially proposed for exactly this purpose. Together with the standard collapse postulate, fundamentally semi-classical gravity gives rise to superluminal signalling. A consistent fundamentally semi-classical theory of gravity can therefore only be achieved together with a suitable prescription of the wave-function collapse. We further discuss, how collapse models avoid such superluminal signalling and compare the nonlinearities appearing in these models with those in the Schr\"odinger-Newton equation.

id: 1407.4386
title: Bipartite separability of one parameter families of states using conditional quantum relative Tsallis entropy
authors: Anantha S Nayak, Sudha, A. K. Rajagopal, A. R. Usha Devi
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; Title changed; A theorem is newly added; 1 figure, a new subsection (with new examples) added; New references included;
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4386
abstract: In any bipartition of a quantum state, it is proved that the negative values of the conditional version of sandwiched Tsallis relative entropy necessarily implies quantum entanglement. For any N, the separability ranges in the 1:N-1 partition of symmetric one parameter families of noisy N- qubit W-, GHZ states are determined using the conditional quantum relative Tsallis entropy approach. The 1:N-1 separability range matches exactly with the range obtained through positive partial transpose criterion, for all N. The advantages of using non-commuting version of q-conditional relative Tsallis entropy is brought out through this and other examples of one-parameter states.

id: 1407.4411
title: Hole Spin Pumping and Re-pumping in a p-type ¦Ä-doped InAs Quantum Dot
authors: Konstantinos G. Lagoudakis, Kevin A. Fischer, Tomas Sarmiento, Kai Mueller, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 121402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4411
abstract: We have grown high quality p-type {\delta}-doped InAs quantum dots and have demonstrated coherent spin pumping and repumping of a hole spin in a positively charged quantum dot by means of a single-laser driving scheme under a high magnetic field in the Voigt configuration. Modeling of our system shows excellent qualitative agreement with the experimental findings and further explores the performance of the single-laser scheme for spin pumping and re-pumping.

id: 1407.4419
title: Irreversibility and Entanglement Spectrum Statistics in Quantum Circuits
authors: Daniel Shaffer, Claudio Chamon, Alioscia Hamma, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P12007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4419
abstract: We show that in a quantum system evolving unitarily under a stochastic quantum circuit the notions of irreversibility, universality of computation, and entanglement are closely related. As the state evolves from an initial product state, it gets asymptotically maximally entangled. We define irreversibility as the failure of searching for a disentangling circuit using a Metropolis-like algorithm. We show that irreversibility corresponds to Wigner-Dyson statistics in the level spacing of the entanglement eigenvalues, and that this is obtained from a quantum circuit made from a set of universal gates for quantum computation. If, on the other hand, the system is evolved with a non-universal set of gates, the statistics of the entanglement level spacing deviates from Wigner-Dyson and the disentangling algorithm succeeds. These results open a new way to characterize irreversibility in quantum systems.

id: 1407.4437
title: H-theorem in quantum systems interacting with reservoir
authors: G.B. Lesovik, I.A. Sadovskyy, A.V. Lebedev, M.V. Suslov, V.M. Vinokur
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4437
abstract: Boltzmann's H-theorem stating that entropy of a physical system would tend to increase over time remains a foundation of thermodynamics. Original Boltzmann's formulation given for classical gases was resting on the molecular chaos hypothesis. Von Neumann's quantum H-theorem claimed quantum origin of irreversibility but included as a part of the proof macroscopic measurement procedure going thus beyond the strictly quantum consideration. Recent developments related entropy growth to quantum entanglement hinting the solely quantum origin of macroscopic irreversibility. In particular, progress in quantum informatics brought in several rigorous results on the conditions for the non-negative entropy gain, however, many questions of how to adapt them to the realm of physics remain. Utilizing the mathematical formalism, we show that entanglement of electrons with either electromagnetic environment or phonon bath results in the evolution of the electron density matrix that belong in the classes of evolution described in quantum informatics. Using exemplary physical systems we formulate and prove the H-theorem for a wide class of physical phenomena.

id: 1407.4509
title: Quantum Security for the Physical Layer
authors: Travis S. Humble
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: IEEE Communications Magazine 51 (8), 56-62 (August 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4509
abstract: The physical layer describes how communication signals are encoded and transmitted across a channel. Physical security often requires either restricting access to the channel or performing periodic manual inspections. In this tutorial, we describe how the field of quantum communication offers new techniques for securing the physical layer. We describe the use of quantum seals as a unique way to test the integrity and authenticity of a communication channel and to provide security for the physical layer. We present the theoretical and physical underpinnings of quantum seals including the quantum optical encoding used at the transmitter and the test for non-locality used at the receiver. We describe how the envisioned quantum physical sublayer senses tampering and how coordination with higher protocol layers allow quantum seals to influence secure routing or tailor data management methods. We conclude by discussing challenges in the development of quantum seals, the overlap with existing quantum key distribution cryptographic services, and the relevance of a quantum physical sublayer to the future of communication security.

id: 1407.4589
title: Structural Quantification of Entanglement
authors: F. Shahandeh, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 12 pages, 1 table and 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4589
abstract: We introduce an approach which allows a detailed structural and quantitative analysis of multipartite entanglement. The sets of states with different structures are convex and nested. Hence, they can be distinguished from each other using appropriate measurable witnesses. We derive equations for the construction of optimal witnesses and discuss general properties arising from our approach. As an example, we formulate witnesses for a 4-cluster state and perform a full quantitative analysis of the entanglement structure in the presence of noise and losses. The strength of the method in multimode continuous variable systems is also demonstrated by considering a dephased GHZ-type state.

id: 1407.4594
title: Phase-kicked control of counter-rotating interactions in the quantum Rabi model
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, C. K. Law
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023806 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4594
abstract: We present an interaction scheme to control counter-rotating terms in the quantum Rabi model. We show that by applying a sequence of $\pi/2$ phase kicks to a two-level atom and a single mode quantized field, the natural dynamics of the Rabi model can be interrupted in a way that counter-rotating transitions can be significantly enhanced. This is achieved by a suitable timing of the phase kicks determined by a phase matching condition. If the time between successive kicks is sufficiently short, our scheme is turned into a dynamical decoupling problem in which the effects of counter-rotating terms can be strongly suppressed under ultrastrong coupling.

id: 1407.4602
title: A Very Low Latency Photonic Quantum Random Bit Generator for use in a Loophole Free Bell Test
authors: Mario Stip?evi?
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 3 equations, 1 table, 15 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4602
abstract: A novel type of a quantum random number generator is presented that features characteristics necessary for application in a loophole-free Bell inequality test: (1) a very short latency between the request for a random bit and moment when the bit is generated of (9.8 \pm 0.2) ns; (2) all physical processes relevant to a generation of a bit happen after the bit request signal; (3) high efficiency of producing a bit upon a request (100\% by design). Additionally, the generator is characterized by: ability of high bit generation rate, possibility to use a low-efficiency photon detector, a high ratio of number of bits per detected photon (\approx 2) and simplicity of design. Generated sequences of random bits pass NIST Statistical Test Suite without postprocessing. The generator can be also used for any other purpose where random numbers are needed.

id: 1407.4613
title: Weak measurement criteria for the past of a quantum particle
authors: B. E. Y. Svensson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4613
abstract: Vaidman, Phys.Rev. A 87, 052104 (2013), has proposed a weak value criterion for the past of a quantum particle, and applied it to photons in a particular setup of nested Mach-Zehnder interferometers. From his analysis, he draws some astonishing conclusions regarding which arms of the setup the photons populate. I argue that the weak values Vaidman employs as weak tracers in his analysis cannot be used in this case and that, consequently, the conclusions he draws cannot be upheld. The reason is that weak values are defined as a limit which in this case turns out to be discontinuous. I propose instead a weak mean value criterion which avoids these shortcomings.

id: 1407.4618
title: Energetic fluctuations in an open quantum process
authors: John Goold, Kavan Modi
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4618
abstract: Relations similar to work and exchange fluctuations have been recently derived for open systems dynamically evolving in the presence of an ancilla. Extending these relations and constructing a non-equilibrium Helmholtz equation we derive a general expression for the energetic and entropic changes of an open quantum system undergoing a nontrivial evolution. The expressions depend only on the state of the system and the dynamical map generating the evolution. Furthermore our formalism makes no assumption on either the nature or dimension of the ancilla. Our results are expected to find application in understanding the energetics of complex quantum systems undergoing open dynamics.

id: 1407.4634
title: Comment on: Local Unitary Equivalence of Multipartite Pure Qubits States
authors: A. M. Martins
comments: Comment on the Letter by B. Kraus {\it Phys. Rev. Lett.}{\bf 104}, 020504 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4634
abstract: A Comment on the Letter by B. Kraus {\it Phys. Rev. Lett.}{\bf 104}, 020504 (2010).

id: 1407.4642
title: Casimir Energies of Periodic Dielectric Gratings
authors: Noah Graham
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; v2: added clarifications and references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032507 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4642
abstract: Reflection of electromagnetic waves from a periodic grating can be described in terms of a discrete coupled multichannel scattering problem. By modeling the grating as a space- and frequency-dependent dielectric, it is possible to use a variable phase method, applied to a generalized Helmholtz equation incorporating both transverse and longitudinal modes, to efficiently compute the scattering $S$-matrix. The projection onto transverse modes of this result, evaluated for imaginary wave vector, provides the information necessary for a Casimir energy calculation. This approach is of particular interest for gratings with deep corrugations, which can limit the applicability of techniques based on the Rayleigh expansion. We demonstrate the method by calculating the Casimir interaction energy between sinusoidal grating profiles as a function of separation and lateral displacement.

id: 1407.4690
title: Dealing with ignorance: universal discrimination, learning and quantum correlations
authors: Gael Sent¨ªs
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, Universitat Aut\`onoma de Barcelona, 200 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4690
abstract: The problem of discriminating the state of a quantum system among a number of hypothetical states is usually addressed under the assumption that one has perfect knowledge of the possible states of the system. In this thesis, I analyze the role of the prior information available in facing such problems, and consider scenarios where the information regarding the possible states is incomplete. In front of a complete ignorance of the possible states' identity, I discuss a quantum "programmable" discrimination machine for qubit states that accepts this information as input programs using a quantum encoding, rather than as a classical description. The optimal performance of these machines is studied for general qubit states when several copies are provided, in the schemes of unambiguous, minimum-error, and error-margin discrimination. Then, this type of automation in discrimination tasks is taken further. By realizing a programmable machine as a device that is trained through quantum information to perform a specific task, I propose a quantum "learning" machine for classifying qubit states that does not require a quantum memory to store the qubit programs and, nevertheless, performs as good as quantum mechanics permits. Such learning machine thus allows for several optimal uses with no need for retraining. A similar learning scheme is also discussed for coherent states of light. I present it in the context of the readout of a classical memory by means of classically correlated coherent signals, when these are produced by an imperfect source. I show that, in this case, the retrieval of information stored in the memory can be carried out more accurately when fully general quantum measurements are used. Finally, as a transversal topic, I propose an efficient algorithmic way of decomposing any quantum measurement into convex combinations of simpler (extremal) measurements.

id: 1407.4696
title: Perfect transfer of quantum states in a network of harmonic oscillators
authors: Dirceu Portes Jr, Hilario Rodrigues, Sergio B. Duarte, Basilio Baseia
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, The European Physical Journal G (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4696
abstract: This work presents an exactly soluble scheme to address the problem of optimal transfer of quantum states through a set of $s$ harmonic oscillators composing a network with connected ends as a closed quantum circuit. For this purpose we start from a general quadratic Hamiltonian form. The relationship between the parameters of the Hamiltonian, the network size, and the time interval required for such transfer are explicitly shown. Particular physical realizations of this Hamiltonian, transfer of entangled states, including transfer of states at the expense of a quantum entanglement, are also considered.

id: 1407.4746
title: Life and death in the tails of the GRW wave function
authors: David Wallace
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4746
abstract: It seems to be widely assumed that the only effect of the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (`GRW') dynamical collapse mechanism on the `tails' of the wavefunction (that is, the components of superpositions on which the collapse is \emph{not} centred) is to reduce their weight. In consequence it seems to be generally accepted that the tails behave exactly as do the various branches in the Everett interpretation except for their much lower weight. These assumptions are demonstrably inaccurate: the collapse mechanism has substantial and detectable effects within the tails. The relevance of this misconception for the dynamical-collapse theories is debatable, though.

id: 1407.4754
title: Quantum correlations; quantum probability approach
authors: W.A. Majewski
comments: Revised version, Minor improvements. Typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4754
abstract: This survey gives a comprehensive account of quantum correlations understood as a phenomenon stemming from the rules of quantization. Centered on quantum probability it describes the physical concepts related to correlations (both classical and quantum), mathematical structures, and their consequences. These include the canonical form of classical correlation functionals, general definitions of separable (entangled) states, definition and analysis of quantumness of correlations, description of entanglement of formation, and PPT states. This work is intended both for physicists interested not only in collection of results but also in the mathematical methods justifying them, and mathematicians looking for an application of quantum probability to concrete new problems of quantum theory.

id: 1407.4759
title: Quantum State Tomography of a Single Qubit: Comparison of Methods
authors: Roman Schmied
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, 1 table; added Chernoff information measure; added Appendix on the choice of measurement axes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4759
abstract: We present an overview of different tomographic methods for determining the quantum-mechanical density matrix of a single qubit: (scaled) direct inversion, maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), minimum Fisher information distance, and Bayesian mean estimation (BME). We discuss the different prior densities in the space of density matrices, on which both MLE and BME depend, as well as ways of including experimental errors and of estimating tomography errors. As a measure of the accuracy of these methods we average the trace distance between a given density matrix and the tomographic density matrices it can give rise to through experimental measurements. We find that the BME provides the most accurate estimate of the density matrix, and suggest using either the pure-state prior, if the system is known to be in a rather pure state, or the Bures prior if any state is possible. The MLE is found to be slightly less accurate. We comment on the extrapolation of these results to larger systems.

id: 1407.4805
title: True precision limits in quantum metrology
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013010 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4805
abstract: We show that quantification of the performance of quantum-enhanced measurement schemes based on the concept of quantum Fisher information yields asymptotically equivalent results as the rigorous Bayesian approach, provided generic uncorrelated noise is present in the setup. At the same time, we show that for the problem of decoherence-free phase estimation this equivalence breaks down and the achievable estimation uncertainty calculated within the Bayesian approach is by a $\pi$ factor larger than that predicted by the QFI even in the large prior knowledge (small parameter fluctuation) regime, where QFI is conventionally regarded as a reliable figure of merit. We conjecture that the analogous discrepancy is present in arbitrary decoherence-free unitary parameter estimation scheme and propose a general formula for the asymptotically achievable precision limit. We also discuss protocols utilizing states with indefinite number of particles and show that within the Bayesian approach it is legitimate to replace the number of particles with the mean number of particles in the formulas for the asymptotic precision, which as a consequence provides another argument that proposals based on the properties of the QFI of indefinite particle number states leading to sub-Heisenberg precisions are not practically feasible.

id: 1407.4817
title: Reliable quantum certification for photonic quantum technologies
authors: L. Aolita, C. Gogolin, M. Kliesch, J. Eisert
comments: 8 pages + 20 pages appendix, 2 figures, results generalized to scenarios with post-selection, presentation improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4817
abstract: A major roadblock for large-scale photonic quantum technologies is the lack of practical reliable certification tools. We introduce an experimentally friendly - yet mathematically rigorous - certification test for experimental preparations of arbitrary m-mode pure Gaussian states, pure non-Gaussian states generated by linear-optical circuits with n-boson Fock-basis states as inputs, and states of these two classes subsequently post-selected with local measurements on ancillary modes. The protocol is efficient in m and the inverse post-selection success probability for all Gaussian states and all mentioned non-Gaussian states with constant n. We follow the mindset of an untrusted prover, who prepares the state, and a skeptic certifier, with classical computing and single-mode homodyne-detection capabilities only. No assumptions are made on the type of noise or capabilities of the prover. Our technique exploits an extremality-based fidelity bound whose estimation relies on non-Gaussian state nullifiers, which we introduce on the way as a byproduct result. The certification of many-mode photonic networks, as those used for photonic quantum simulations, boson samplers, and quantum metrology, is now within reach.

id: 1407.4826
title: Comment on Macroscopic Test of the Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: Tomislav Ivezic
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4826
abstract: In this Comment it is shown that it cannot be argued that in the magnetic AB effect there is no force acting on the particle, i.e., that the observed phase shift is entirely due to nonzero vector potential. In stationary resistive conductors carrying constant currents there are quasistatic surface charges, which generate not only the electric field inside the wire driving the current, but also a static electric field outside it. These external static electric fields have nothing to do with Boyer's force picture and with his result for the existence of a time delay.

id: 1407.4829
title: Perturbative 2-body Parent Hamiltonians for Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Courtney G. Brell, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures, v2 published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 123056 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4829
abstract: We construct parent Hamiltonians involving only local 2-body interactions for a broad class of Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS). Making use of perturbation gadget techniques, we define a perturbative Hamiltonian acting on the virtual PEPS space with a finite order low energy effective Hamiltonian that is a gapped, frustration-free parent Hamiltonian for an encoded version of a desired PEPS. For topologically ordered PEPS, the ground space of the low energy effective Hamiltonian is shown to be in the same phase as the desired state to all orders of perturbation theory. An encoded parent Hamiltonian for the double semion string net ground state is explicitly constructed as a concrete example.

id: 1407.4838
title: A Simplified Basis for Bell-Kochen-Specker Theorems
authors: James D. Malley, Arthur Fine
comments: Accepted for publication: Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4838
abstract: We show that a reduced form of the structural requirements for deterministic hidden variables used in Bell-Kochen-Specker theorems is already sufficient for the no-go results. Those requirements are captured by the following principle: an observable takes a spectral value x if and only if the spectral projector associated with x takes the value 1. We show that the only if part of this condition suffices. The proof identifies an important structural feature behind the no-go results; namely, if at least one projector is assigned the value 1 in any resolution of the identity, then at most one is.

id: 1407.4843
title: Noncommutative quantum mechanics in a time-dependent background
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 084005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4843
abstract: We investigate a quantum mechanical system on a noncommutative space for which the structure constant is explicitly time-dependent. Any autonomous Hamiltonian on such a space acquires a time-dependent form in terms of the conventional canonical variables. We employ the Lewis-Riesenfeld method of invariants to construct explicit analytical solutions for the corresponding time-dependent Schroedinger equation. The eigenfunctions are expressed in terms of the solutions of variants of the nonlinear Ermakov-Pinney equation and discussed in detail for various types of background fields. We utilize the solutions to verify a generalized version of Heisenberg's uncertainty relations for which the lower bound becomes a time-dependent function of the background fields. We study the variance for various states including standard Glauber coherent states with their squeezed versions and Gaussian Klauder coherent states resembling a quasi-classical behaviour. No type of coherent states appears to be optimal in general with regard to achieving minimal uncertainties, as this feature turns out to be background field dependent.

id: 1407.4883
title: Comparing resolved-sideband cooling and measurement-based feedback cooling on an equal footing: analytical results in the regime of ground-state cooling
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Hendra I. Nurdin, Frederick W. Strauch, Matthew James
comments: 14 pages, 2 png figures; v2: revised for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 043812 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4883
abstract: We show that in the regime of ground-state cooling, simple expressions can be derived for the performance of resolved-sideband cooling --- an example of coherent feedback control --- and optimal linear measurement-based feedback cooling for a harmonic oscillator. These results are valid to leading order in the small parameters that define this regime. They provide insight into the origins of the limitations of coherent and measurement-based feedback for linear systems, and the relationship between them. These limitations are not fundamental bounds imposed by quantum mechanics, but are due to the fact that both cooling methods are restricted to use only a linear interaction with the resonator. We compare the performance of the two methods on an equal footing --- that is, for the same interaction strength --- and confirm that coherent feedback is able to make much better use of the linear interaction than measurement-based feedback. We find that this performance gap is caused not by the back-action noise of the measurement but by the projection noise. We also obtain simple expressions for the maximal cooling that can be obtained by both methods in this regime, optimized over the interaction strength.

id: 1407.4938
title: Quantum network of superconducting qubits through opto-mechanical interface
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, W. L. Yang, L. Sun, L. M. Duan
comments: 6.1 pages, 4 figures, accepted for PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012333 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4938
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize quantum networking of superconducting qubits based on the opto-mechanical interface. The superconducting qubits interact with the microwave photons, which then couple to the optical photons through the opto-mechanical interface. The interface generates a quantum link between superconducting qubits and optical flying qubits with tunable pulse shapes and carrier frequencies, enabling transmission of quantum information to other superconducting or atomic qubits. We show that the scheme works under realistic experimental conditions and it also provides a way for fast initialization of the superconducting qubits under 1 K instead of 20 mK operation temperature.

id: 1407.4951
title: Fidelity Measures in Asymmetric Quantum Cloning
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages + 2 pages of appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4951
abstract: Quantum Cloning is the quintessential no-go theorem of quantum mechanics -- possible in the classical world, but impossible to implement perfectly in the quantum world, and reflecting such fundamental properties of the quantum world that it is commonly used as a postulate in information theoretic explorations. Recent progress has enabled the derivation of optimal cloning results when an arbitrary single-qudit pure state is cloned to N imperfect copies, allowing arbitrary asymmetries in the cloning quality. However, this result was achieved using a specific measure of success, the single-copy fidelity. In this paper, we substantially extend the mathematical formalism in order to handle different quality measures by which collections of qubits are assessed.

id: 1407.4952
title: Reduction formulas for symmetric products of spin matrices
authors: Palash B. Pal
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4952
abstract: We show that, for SU(2) generators of arbitrary dimension $D$, there exist identities that express the completely symmetric product of $D$ matrices in terms of completely symmetric products of fewer number of matrices. We also indicate why such identities are important in characterizing electromagnetic interactions of particles.

id: 1407.4995
title: Quantum simulation of the Schwinger model: A study of feasibility
authors: Stefan K¨¹hn, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mari-Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4995
abstract: We analyze some crucial questions regarding the practical feasibility of quantum simulation for lattice gauge models. Our analysis focuses on two models suitable for the quantum simulation of the Schwinger Hamiltonian, or QED in 1+1 dimensions, which we investigate numerically using tensor networks. In particular, we explore the effect of representing the gauge degrees of freedom with finite-dimensional systems and show that the results converge rapidly; thus even with small dimensions it is possible to obtain a reasonable accuracy. We also discuss the time scales required for the adiabatic preparation of the interacting vacuum state and observe that for a suitable ramping of the interaction the required time is almost insensitive to the system size and the dimension of the physical systems. Finally, we address the possible presence of noninvariant terms in the Hamiltonian that is realized in the experiment and show that for low levels of noise it is still possible to achieve a good precision for some ground-state observables, even if the gauge symmetry is not exact in the implemented model.

id: 1407.4997
title: Control of populations of two-level systems by a single resonant laser pulse
authors: Nikolay V. Golubev, Alexander I. Kuleff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4997
abstract: We present a simple approach allowing to obtain analytical expressions for laser pulses that can drive a two-level system in an arbitrarily chosen way. The proposed scheme relates every desired population-evolution path to a single resonant laser pulse. It allows to drive the system from any initial superposition of the two states to a final state having the desired distribution of the populations. We exemplify the scheme with a concrete example, where the system is driven from a non-stationary superposition of states to one of its eigenstates. We argue that the proposed approach may have interesting applications for designing pulses that can control ultrafast charge-migration processes in molecules. Although focused on laser driven population control, the results obtained are general and could be applied for designing other types of control fields.

id: 1407.5007
title: The pointer basis and the feedback stabilization of quantum systems
authors: L. Li, A. Chia, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 
journal: 2014 New J. Phys. 16 113026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5007
abstract: The dynamics for an open quantum system can be `unravelled' in infinitely many ways, depending on how the environment is monitored, yielding different sorts of conditioned states, evolving stochastically. In the case of ideal monitoring these states are pure, and the set of states for a given monitoring forms a basis (which is overcomplete in general) for the system. It has been argued elsewhere [D. Atkins et al., Europhys. Lett. 69, 163 (2005)] that the `pointer basis' as introduced by Zurek and Paz [Phys. Rev. Lett 70, 1187(1993)], should be identified with the unravelling-induced basis which decoheres most slowly. Here we show the applicability of this concept of pointer basis to the problem of state stabilization for quantum systems. In particular we prove that for linear Gaussian quantum systems, if the feedback control is assumed to be strong compared to the decoherence of the pointer basis, then the system can be stabilized in one of the pointer basis states with a fidelity close to one (the infidelity varies inversely with the control strength). Moreover, if the aim of the feedback is to maximize the fidelity of the unconditioned system state with a pure state that is one of its conditioned states, then the optimal unravelling for stabilizing the system in this way is that which induces the pointer basis for the conditioned states. We illustrate these results with a model system: quantum Brownian motion. We show that even if the feedback control strength is comparable to the decoherence, the optimal unravelling still induces a basis very close to the pointer basis. However if the feedback control is weak compared to the decoherence, this is not the case.

id: 1407.5073
title: Deflating the Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: David Wallace
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5073
abstract: I argue that the metaphysical import of the Aharonov-Bohm effect has been overstated: correctly understood, it does not require either rejection of gauge invariance or any novel form of nonlocality. The conclusion that it does require one or the other follows from a failure to keep track, in the analysis, of the complex scalar field to which the magnetic vector potential is coupled. Once this is recognised, the way is clear to a local account of the ontology of electrodynamics (or at least, to an account no more nonlocal than quantum theory in general requires); I sketch a possible such account.

id: 1407.5082
title: Sanov and Central Limit Theorems for output statistics of quantum Markov chains
authors: Merlijn van Horssen, Madalin Guta
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5082
abstract: In this paper we consider the statistics of repeated measurements on the output of a quantum Markov chain. We establish a large deviations result analogous to Sanov's theorem for the empirical measure associated to finite sequences of consecutive outcomes of a classical stochastic process. Our result relies on the construction of an extended quantum transition operator (which keeps track of previous outcomes) in terms of which we compute moment generating functions, and whose spectral radius is related to the large deviations rate function. As a corollary to this we obtain a central limit theorem for the empirical measure. Such higher level statistics may be used to uncover critical behaviour such as dynamical phase transitions, which are not captured by lower level statistics such as the sample mean. As a step in this direction we give an example of a finite system whose level-one rate function is independent of a model parameter while the level-two rate is not.

id: 1407.5088
title: Quantum learning robust to noise
authors: Andrew W. Cross, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5088
abstract: Noise is often regarded as anathema to quantum computation, but in some settings it can be an unlikely ally. We consider the problem of learning the class of $n$-bit parity functions by making queries to a quantum example oracle. In the absence of noise, quantum and classical parity learning are easy and almost equally powerful, both information-theoretically and computationally. We show that in the presence of noise this story changes dramatically. Indeed, the classical learning problem is believed to be intractable, while the quantum version remains efficient. Depolarizing the qubits at the oracle's output at any constant nonzero rate does not increase the computational (or query) complexity of quantum learning more than logarithmically. However, the problem of learning from corresponding classical examples is the Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem, for which the best known algorithms have superpolynomial complexity. This creates the possibility of observing a quantum advantage with a few hundred noisy qubits. The presence of noise is essential for creating this quantum-classical separation.

id: 1407.5090
title: Localized eigenstates with enhanced entanglement in quantum Heisenberg spin-glasses
authors: Arun Kannawadi, Auditya Sharma, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5090
abstract: The concurrence versus participation ratio phase diagram of the eigenstates of the quantum infinite range Heisenberg spin glass shows two distinct separate clouds. We show that the special states that agglomerate away from the main one, are precisely those that are obtained by promoting the eigenstates of a lower number sector of the Hamiltonian to particle added eigenstates of a higher number sector of the Hamiltonian. We compare the properties of these states with states of similar structure constructed from GOE random matrices that are easier to understand. In particular, we obtain the scaling behaviour of average entanglement of these special states with system size. By studying a power-law decay Hamiltonian, we see a merger of the main cloud into these special states as we go away from the infinite-range model and move towards short-range models. This could indicate that short-range quantum spin glasses are essentially different from the infinite range model.

id: 1407.5103
title: Quantum computing by color-code lattice surgery
authors: Andrew J. Landahl, Ciaran Ryan-Anderson
comments: 13 pages, 19 figures. Video of talk on paper at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5103
abstract: We demonstrate how to use lattice surgery to enact a universal set of fault-tolerant quantum operations with color codes. Along the way, we also improve existing surface-code lattice-surgery methods. Lattice-surgery methods use fewer qubits and the same time or less than associated defect-braiding methods. Furthermore, per code distance, color-code lattice surgery uses approximately half the qubits and the same time or less than surface-code lattice surgery. Color-code lattice surgery can also implement the Hadamard and phase gates in a single transversal step---much faster than surface-code lattice surgery can. Against uncorrelated circuit-level depolarizing noise, color-code lattice surgery uses fewer qubits to achieve the same degree of fault-tolerant error suppression as surface-code lattice surgery when the noise rate is low enough and the error suppression demand is high enough.

id: 1407.5127
title: Tunable spin-spin interactions and entanglement of ions in separate wells
authors: Andrew C. Wilson, Yves Colombe, Kenton R. Brown, Emanuel Knill, Dietrich Leibfried, David J. Wineland
comments: To appear in Nature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5127
abstract: Quantum simulation - the use of one quantum system to simulate a less controllable one - may provide an understanding of the many quantum systems which cannot be modeled using classical computers. Impressive progress on control and manipulation has been achieved for various quantum systems, but one of the remaining challenges is the implementation of scalable devices. In this regard, individual ions trapped in separate tunable potential wells are promising. Here we implement the basic features of this approach and demonstrate deterministic tuning of the Coulomb interaction between two ions, independently controlling their local wells. The scheme is suitable for emulating a range of spin-spin interactions, but to characterize the performance of our setup we select one that entangles the internal states of the two ions with 0.82(1) fidelity. Extension of this building-block to a 2D-network, which ion-trap micro-fabrication processes enable, may provide a new quantum simulator architecture with broad flexibility in designing and scaling the arrangement of ions and their mutual interactions. To perform useful quantum simulations, including those of intriguing condensed-matter phenomena such as the fractional quantum Hall effect, an array of tens of ions might be sufficient.

id: 1407.5131
title: Fisher informations and local asymptotic normality for continuous-time quantum Markov processes
authors: Catalin Catana, Luc Bouten, Madalin Guta
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5131
abstract: We consider the problem of estimating an arbitrary dynamical parameter of an quantum open system in the input-output formalism. For irreducible Markov processes, we show that in the limit of large times the system-output state can be approximated by a quantum Gaussian state whose mean is proportional to the unknown parameter. This approximation holds locally in a neighbourhood of size $t^{-1/2}$ in the parameter space, and provides an explicit expression of the asymptotic quantum Fisher information in terms of the Markov generator. Furthermore we show that additive statistics of the counting and homodyne measurements also satisfy local asymptotic normality and we compute the corresponding classical Fisher informations. The mathematical theorems are illustrated with the examples of a two-level system and the atom maser. Our results contribute towards a better understanding of the statistical and probabilistic properties of the output process, with relevance for quantum control engineering, and the theory of non-equilibrium quantum open systems.

id: 1407.5132
title: Conditional Ramsey Spectroscopy with Synchronized Atoms
authors: Minghui Xu, M. J. Holland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 103601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5132
abstract: We investigate Ramsey spectroscopy performed on a synchronized ensemble of two-level atoms. The synchronization is induced by the collective coupling of the atoms to a heavily damped mode of an optical cavity. We show that, in principle, with this synchronized system it is possible to observe Ramsey fringes indefinitely, even in the presence of spontaneous emission and other sources of individual-atom dephasing. This could have important consequences for atomic clocks and a wide range of precision metrology applications.

id: 1407.5143
title: The double-slit quantum eraser experiments and Hardy's paradox in the quantum linguistic interpretation
authors: Shiro Ishikawa
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1404.2664
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5143
abstract: Recently we proposed the linguistic interpretation of quantum mechanics (called quantum and classical measurement theory), which was characterized as a kind of metaphysical and linguistic turn of the Copenhagen interpretation. This turn from physics to language does not only extend quantum theory to classical systems but also yield the quantum mechanical world view (i.e., quantum philosophy or quantum language). The purpose of this paper is to formulate the double-slit experiment, the quantum eraser experiment, Wheeler's delayed choice experiment, Hardy's paradox and the three boxes paradox (the weak value associated with a weak measurement due to Aharonov, et al.) in the linguistic interpretation of quantum mechanics. Through these arguments, we assert that the linguistic interpretation is just the final version of so called Copenhagen interpretation. And therefore, we conclude that the Copenhagen interpretation does not belong to physics (i.e., the realistic world view) but the linguistic world view.

id: 1407.5175
title: Coherent control of a qubit is trap-free
authors: Alexander Pechen, Nikolay Il'in
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the Steklov Institute of Mathematics, vol. 285, pp. 233--240 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5175
abstract: There is a strong interest in optimal manipulating of quantum systems by external controls. Traps are controls which are optimal only locally but not globally. If they exist, they can be serious obstacles to the search of globally optimal controls in numerical and laboratory experiments, and for this reason the analysis of traps attracts considerable attention. In this paper we prove that for a wide range of control problems for two-level quantum systems all locally optimal controls are also globally optimal. Hence we conclude that two-level systems in general are trap-free. In particular, manipulating qubits---two-level quantum systems forming a basic building block for quantum computation---is free of traps for fundamental problems such as the state preparation and gate generation.

id: 1407.5177
title: "Fully covariant radiation force on a polarizable particle" - Reply to the Comment by Volokitin and Persson
authors: Carsten Henkel, Gregor Pieplow
comments: 6 pages, submitted to New J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5177
abstract: We argue that the theories of Volokitin and Persson [Comment arXiv:1405:2525], of Dedkov and Kyasov [J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 20 (2008) 354006], and Pieplow and Henkel [New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023027] agree on the electromagnetic force on a small, polarizable particle that is moving parallel to a planar, macroscopic body, as far as the contribution of evanescent waves is concerned. The apparent differences are discussed in detail and explained by choices of units and integral transformations. We point out in particular the role of Lorentz contraction in the procedure used by Volokitin and Persson, where a macroscopic body is "diluted" to get the force on a small particle. Differences that appear in the contribution of propagating photons are briefly mentioned.

id: 1407.5196
title: Macroscopicity in an optomechanical matter-wave interferometer
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Hendrik Ulbricht, Mauro Paternostro
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Communications, special issue on "Macroscopic Quantumness: Theory and Applications in Optical Sciences"
journal: Opt. Comm. 337, 53 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5196
abstract: We analyse a proposal that we have recently put forward for an interface between matter-wave and optomechanical technologies from the perspective of macroscopic quantumness. In particular, by making use of a measure of macroscopicity in quantum superpositions that is particularly well suited for continuous variables systems, we demonstrate the existence of working points for our interface at which a quantum mechanical superposition of genuinely mesoscopic states is achieved. Our proposal thus holds the potential to affirm itself as a viable atom-to-mechanics transducer of quantum coherences.

id: 1407.5199
title: Two-component polariton condensate in optical microcavity
authors: Yong-Chang Zhang, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Guang-Can Guo, Xingxiang Zhou, Han Pu, Zheng-Wei Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phy. Rev. A 89, 053624 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5199
abstract: We present a scheme for engineering the extended two-component Bose-Hubbard model using polariton condensate supported by optical microcavity. Compared to the usual two-component Bose-Hubbard model with only Kerr nonlinearity, our model includes a nonlinear tunneling term which depends on the number difference of the particle in the two modes. In the mean field treatment, this model is an analog to a nonrigid pendulum with a variable pendulum length whose sign can be also changed. We study the dynamic and ground state properties of this model and show that there exists a first-order phase transition as the strength of the nonlinear tunneling rate is varied. Furthermore, we propose a scheme to obtain the polariton condensate wave function.

id: 1407.5202
title: Electromagnetially-induced-transparency-like ground-state cooling in a double-cavity optomechanical system
authors: Yujie Guo, Kai Li, Wenjie Nie, Yong Li
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5202
abstract: We propose to cool a mechanical resonator close to its ground state via an electromagnetically-induced-transparency- (EIT-) like cooling mechanism in a double-cavity optomechanical system, where an additional cavity couples to the original one in the standard optomechanical system. By choosing optimal parameters such that the cooling process of the mechanical resonator corresponds to the maximum value of the optical fluctuation spectrum and the heating process to the minimum one, the mechanical resonator can be cooled with the final mean phonon number less than that at the absence of the additional cavity. And we show the mechanical resonator may be cooled close to its ground state via such an EIT-like cooling mechanism even when the original resolved sideband condition is not fulfilled at the absence of the additional cavity.

id: 1407.5213
title: Supersymmetry in quantum optics and in spin-orbit coupled systems
authors: Michael Tomka, Mikhail Pletyukhov, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5213
abstract: Light-matter interaction is naturally described by coupled bosonic and fermionic subsystems. This suggests that a certain Bose-Fermi duality is naturally present in the fundamental quantum mechanical description of photons interacting with atoms. We reveal submanifolds in parameter space of a basic light-matter interacting system where this duality is promoted to a supersymmetry (SUSY) which remains unbroken. We show that SUSY is robust with respect to decoherence and dissipation. In particular, a stationary density matrix at the supersymmetric lines in the parameter space has a degenerate subspace. A dimension of this subspace is given by the Witten index and thus topologically protected. As a consequence of this SUSY, dissipative dynamics at the supersymmetric lines is constrained by an additional conserved quantity which translates some part of information about an initial state into the stationary state subspace. We also demonstrate a robustness of this additional conserved quantity away from the supersymmetric lines. In addition, we demonstrate that the same SUSY structures are present in condensed matter systems with spin-orbit couplings of Rashba and Dresselhaus types, and therefore spin-orbit coupled systems at the SUSY lines should be robust with respect to various types of disorder and decoherences. Our findings suggest that optical and condensed matter systems at the SUSY points can be used for quantum information technology and can open an avenue for quantum simulation of the SUSY field theories.

id: 1407.5275
title: Heralded Preparation and Readout of Entangled Phonons in a Photonic Crystal Cavity
authors: H. Flayac, V. Savona
comments: 5 Pages, 3 Figures + Supplemental Material 3 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 143603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5275
abstract: We propose a realistic protocol for the preparation and readout of mechanical Bell states in an optomechanical system. The proposal relies on parameters characterizing a photonic crystal cavity mode, coupled to two localized flexural modes of the structure, but equally applies to other optomechanical systems in the same parameter range. The nonclassical states are heralded via optical postselection and revealed in specific interference patterns characterizing the emission at the cavity frequency.

id: 1407.5318
title: Optimization strategies in measurement based quantum computation
authors: Giulia Ferrini, Jonathan Roslund, Francesco Arzani, Yin Cai, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5318
abstract: This work introduces optimization strategies to continuous variable measurement based quantum computation (MBQC) at different levels. We provide a recipe for mitigating the effects of finite squeezing, which affect the production of cluster states and the result of a traditional MBQC. These strategies are readily implementable by several experimental groups. Furthermore, a more general scheme for MBQC is introduced that does not necessarily rely on the use of ancillary cluster states to achieve its aim, but rather on the detection of a resource state in a suitable mode basis followed by digital post-processing. A recipe is provided to optimize the adjustable parameters that are employed within this framework.

id: 1407.5340
title: Multigraph approach to quantum non-locality
authors: Rafael Rabelo, Cristhiano Duarte, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Adan Cabello
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 424021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5340
abstract: Non-contextuality (NC) and Bell inequalities can be expressed as bounds $\Omega$ for positive linear combinations $S$ of probabilities of events, $S \leq \Omega$. Exclusive events in $S$ can be represented as adjacent vertices of a graph called the exclusivity graph of $S$. In the case that events correspond to the outcomes of quantum projective measurements, quantum probabilities are intimately related to the Gr\"otschel-Lov\'asz-Schrijver theta body of the exclusivity graph. Then, one can easily compute an upper bound to the maximum quantum violation of any NC or Bell inequality by optimizing $S$ over the theta body and calculating the Lov\'asz number of the corresponding exclusivity graph. In some cases, this upper bound is tight and gives the exact maximum quantum violation. However, in general, this is not the case. The reason is that the exclusivity graph does not distinguish among the different ways exclusivity can occur in Bell-inequality (and similar) scenarios. An interesting question is whether there is a graph-theoretical concept which accounts for this problem. Here we show that, for any given $N$-partite Bell inequality, an edge-coloured multigraph composed of $N$ single-colour graphs can be used to encode the relationships of exclusivity between each party's parts of the events. Then, the maximum quantum violation of the Bell inequality is exactly given by a refinement of the Lov\'asz number that applies to these edge-coloured multigraphs. We show how to calculate upper bounds for this number using a hierarchy of semi-definite programs and calculate upper bounds for $I_3$, $I_{3322}$ and the three bipartite Bell inequalities whose exclusivity graph is a pentagon. The multigraph-theoretical approach introduced here may remove some obstacles in the program of explaining quantum correlations from first principles.

id: 1407.5359
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of open quantum systems without rotating wave approximation
authors: Ming-Jia Tang, Yu-Kai Wu, Ming Lyu, Jia-Nan Tang, Zhen Guo, Tian Chen, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5359
abstract: We study the non-Markovian dynamics of a damped oscillator coupled with a reservoir. We present exact formulas for the oscillator's evolution directly from the BCH formula by series expansion with neither Markovian nor rotating wave approximation (RWA). Based on these, we show the existence of the non-Markovian feature of the system's evolution for the damped oscillator. By numerical simulation we find that the non-Markovian feature exists within a wide range of the coupling strength, even when the coupling strength is very small. To this problem, prior art results have assumed RWA and the existence of non-Markovian feature was found when the system-reservoir coupling is strong enough. However, as we show, given such a strong coupling, the original Hamiltonian without RWA is actually not physical. Therefore, our exact study here has thoroughly concluded the issue of non-Markovian feature.

id: 1407.5389
title: Minimum Error Discrimination for an Ensemble of Linearly Independent Pure States
authors: Tanmay Singal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 37 pages, no figures, all comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5389
abstract: Inspired by the work done by Belavkin [BelavkinV.P.Stochastics,1,315(1975)] and C. Mochon [Phys.Rev.A73,032328,(2006)], we formulate the problem of minimum error discrimination of an ensemble of n linearly independent pure states by embedding the optimal conditions in a matrix equation and matrix inequality. This isolates the rotationally invariant aspect of the problem from the rotationally covariant part of it. Employing the implicit function theorem in the matrix equation we get a set of first-order coupled ordinary non-linear differential equations which can be used to drag the solution from an initial point (where solution is known) to another point (whose solution is sought). This can be done through a simple taylor series expansion and analytic continuation when required. Thus, we complete the work done by Belavkin and C. Mochon by ultimately leading their theory to a solution for the MED problem of LI pure state ensembles. We also compare the computational complexity of this technique with a barrier-type interior point method of SDP and show that our technique is computationally less expensive than the SDP algorithm, with the added advantage of being simpler to implement.

id: 1407.5424
title: Quantum walks and wavepacket dynamics on a lattice with twisted photons
authors: Filippo Cardano, Francesco Massa, Hammam Qassim, Ebrahim Karimi, Sergei Slussarenko, Domenico Paparo, Corrado de Lisio, Fabio Sciarrino, Enrico Santamato, Robert W. Boyd, Lorenzo Marrucci
comments: This revised version has a new title; few errors have been corrected and some images have been modified in order to present the data clearly. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1403.4857
journal: Science Advances 1, e1500087 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5424
abstract: The "quantum walk" has emerged recently as a paradigmatic process for the dynamic simulation of complex quantum systems, entanglement production and quantum computation. Hitherto, photonic implementations of quantum walks have mainly been based on multi-path interferometric schemes in real space. Here, we report the experimental realization of a discrete quantum walk taking place in the orbital angular momentum space of light, both for a single photon and for two simultaneous photons. In contrast to previous implementations, the whole process develops in a single light beam, with no need of interferometers; it requires optical resources scaling linearly with the number of steps; and it allows flexible control of input and output superposition states. Exploiting the latter property, we explored the system band structure in momentum space and the associated spin-orbit topological features by simulating the quantum dynamics of Gaussian wavepackets. Our demonstration introduces a novel versatile photonic platform for quantum simulations.

id: 1407.5435
title: Highly Efficient Processing Multi-photon States
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5435
abstract: How to implement multi-qubit gates is an important problem in quantum information processing. Based on cross phase modulation, we present an approach to realizing a family of multi-qubit gates that deterministically operate on single photons as the qubits. These gates include the general n-qubit unitary operation. The approach greatly relax the requirement on the resources, such as the ancilla photons and coherent beams, as well as the number of operations on the qubits. The improvement made in the framework may facilitate large scale quantum information processing.

id: 1407.5464
title: On the Schmidt-rank-three bipartite and multipartite unitary operator
authors: Lin Chen, Li Yu
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, almost published version
journal: Annals of Physics 351,682 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5464
abstract: Unitary operations are physically implementable. We further the understanding of such operations by studying the possible forms of nonlocal unitary operators, which are bipartite or multipartite unitary operators that are not tensor product operators. They are of broad relevance in quantum information processing. We prove that any nonlocal unitary operator of Schmidt rank three on a $d_A\times d_B$ bipartite system is locally equivalent to a controlled unitary. This operator can be locally implemented assisted by a maximally entangled state of Schmidt rank $\min\{d_A^2,d_B\}$ when $d_A\le d_B$. We further show that any multipartite unitary operator $U$ of Schmidt rank three can be controlled by one system or collectively controlled by two systems, regardless of the number of systems of $U$. In the scenario of $n$-qubit, we construct non-controlled $U$ for any odd $n\ge5$, and prove that $U$ is a controlled unitary for any even $n\ge4$.

id: 1407.5507
title: Nonzero Classical Discord
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Marcos C. de Oliveira, Barry C. Sanders
comments: improved presentation, updated references, any comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5507
abstract: Quantum discord is the quantitative difference between two alternative expressions for bipartite mutual information, given respectively in terms of two distinct definitions for the conditional entropy. Whereas nonzero discord is touted as a form of quantum correlation, we show, by constructing a stochastic classical model of shared states, that discord indeed quantifies the presence of some stochasticity in the measurement process. We then establish an operational meaning of classical discord in the context of state merging with noisy measurement and thereby show the quantum-classical separation is not discord being nonzero but rather negative conditional entropy.

id: 1407.5529
title: Route to chaos in optomechanics
authors: L. Bakemeier, A. Alvermann, H. Fehske
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures. Final version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 013601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5529
abstract: We establish the emergence of chaotic motion in optomechanical systems. Chaos appears at negative detuning for experimentally accessible values of the pump power and other system parameters. We describe the sequence of period doubling bifurcations that leads to chaos, and state the experimentally observable signatures in the optical spectrum. In addition to the semi-classical dynamics we analyze the possibility of chaotic motion in the quantum regime. We find that quantum mechanics protects the optomechanical system against irregular dynamics, such that simple periodic orbits reappear and replace the classically chaotic motion. In this way observation of the dynamical signatures makes it possible to pin down the crossover from quantum to classical mechanics.

id: 1407.5577
title: Detection efficiency loophole in Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem
authors: Arijit Dutta, Marcin Pawlowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042125 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5577
abstract: Detection efficiency loophole poses a significant problem for experimental tests of Bell inequalities. Recently discovered Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph (PBR) theorem suffers from the same vulnerability. In this paper we calculate the critical detection efficiency, below which the PBR argument for the ontic nature of quantum state is inconclusive. This is done for the maximally $\psi$-epistemic models. We use two different definitions of this property. The optimal number of parties, for which the critical detection efficiency is the lowest is given. We also approach the problem from the opposite direction. We provide a function which enables us to specify which epistemic models are ruled out by the results of an experiment with a given detection efficiency.

id: 1407.5588
title: Does Svetlichny-box polytope fully characterize quantum correlations?
authors: C. Jebarathinam
comments: improved version, 15 pages, RevTeX 4-1, all comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5588
abstract: We characterize tripartite quantum correlations in the framework of generalized nonsignaling theories. Svetlichny-box polytope which is a straightforward generalization of bipartite PR-box polytope to the multipartite scenario is defined. Svetlichny-box polytope is only sufficient to characterize three-way nonlocal quantum correlations, however, it characterizes biseparable and seperable quantum correlations. The two measures, Svetlichny discord and Mermin discord, which quantify nonclassicality of quantum correlations due to the components of Svetlichny box and three-way contextual box are defined. These two measures allows us to characterize quantum correlations contained in the Svetlichny-box polytope as a convex mixture of a Svetlichny box, a three-way contextual box and a two-way local box which has zero Svetlichny discord and zero Mermin discord. A third measure is introduced to discuss the problem of separating total correlations in a quantum joint probability distribution into nonlocality, contextuality and classical correlation.

id: 1407.5589
title: Quantum Correlations in Cavity QED Networks
authors: Miguel Orszag, Nellu Ciobanu, Raul Coto, Vitalie Eremeev
comments: 31 pages,15 figures, to appear in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5589
abstract: We present a Review of the dynamical features such as generation, propagation, distribution, sudden transition and freezing of the various quantum correlation measures, as Concurrence, Entanglement of Formation, Quantum Discord, as well their geometrical measure counterparts within the models of Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics Networks. Dissipation and thermal effects are discussed both in the generation of quantum correlations as well as their effect on the sudden changes and freezing of the classical and quantum correlations in a cavity quantum electrodynamical network. For certain initial conditions, double transitions in the Bures geometrical discord are found. One of these transitions tends to disappear at a critical temperature

id: 1407.5631
title: Efficient estimation of resonant coupling between quantum systems
authors: Markku P.V. Stenberg, Yuval R. Sanders, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5631
abstract: We present an efficient method for the characterization of two coupled discrete quantum systems, one of which can be controlled and measured. For two systems with transition frequencies $\omega_q$, $\omega_r$, and coupling strength $g$ we show how to obtain estimates of $g$ and $\omega_r$ whose error decreases exponentially in the number of measurement shots rather than as a power law expected in simple approaches. Our algorithm can thereby identify $g$ and $\omega_r$ simultaneously with high precision in a few hundred measurement shots. This is achieved by adapting measurement settings upon data as it is collected. We also introduce a method to eliminate erroneous estimates with small overhead. Our algorithm is robust against the presence of relaxation and typical noise. Our results are applicable to many candidate technologies for quantum computation, in particular, for the characterization of spurious two-level systems in superconducting qubits or stripline resonators.

id: 1407.5634
title: Arbitrarily small amount of measurement independence is su?cient to manifest quantum nonlocality
authors: Gilles P¨¹tz, Denis Rosset, Tomer Jack Barnea, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5+5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 190402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5634
abstract: The use of Bell's theorem in any application or experiment relies on the assumption of free choice or, more precisely, measurement independence, meaning that the measurements can be chosen freely. Here, we prove that even in the simplest Bell test - one involving 2 parties each performing 2 binary-outcome measurements - an arbitrarily small amount of measurement independence is sufficient to manifest quantum nonlocality. To this end, we introduce the notion of measurement dependent locality and show that the corresponding correlations form a convex polytope. These correlations can thus be characterized efficiently, e.g., using a finite set of Bell-like inequalities - an observation that enables the systematic study of quantum nonlocality and related applications under limited measurement independence.

id: 1407.5663
title: Graphs whose normalized Laplacian matrices are separable as density matrices in quantum mechanics
authors: Chai Wah Wu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5663
abstract: Recently normalized Laplacian matrices of graphs are studied as density matrices in quantum mechanics. Separability and entanglement of density matrices are important properties as they determine the nonclassical behavior in quantum systems. In this note we look at the graphs whose normalized Laplacian matrices are separable or entangled. In particular, we show that the number of such graphs is related to the number of 0-1 matrices that are line sum symmetric and to the number of graphs with at least one vertex of degree 1.

id: 1407.5748
title: Multiple phase estimation in quantum cloning machines
authors: Yao Yao, Li Ge, Xing Xiao, Xiao-guang Wang, Chang-pu Sun
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Any suggestions and comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022327 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5748
abstract: Since the initial discovery of the Wootters-Zurek no-cloning theorem, a wide variety of quantum cloning machines have been proposed aiming at imperfect but optimal cloning of quantum states within its own context. Remarkably, most previous studies have employed the Bures fidelity or the Hilbert-Schmidt norm as the figure of merit to characterize the quality of the corresponding cloning scenarios. However, in many situations, what we truly care about is the relevant information about certain parameters encoded in quantum states. In this work, we investigate the multiple phase estimation problem in the framework of quantum cloning machines, from the perspective of quantum Fisher information matrix (QFIM). Focusing on the generalized d-dimensional equatorial states, we obtain the analytical formulas of QFIM for both universal quantum cloning machine (UQCM) and phase-covariant quantum cloning machine (PQCM), and prove that PQCM indeed performs better than UQCM in terms of QFIM. We highlight that our method can be generalized to arbitrary cloning schemes where the fidelity between the single-copy input and output states is input-state independent. Furthermore, the attainability of the quantum Cramer-Rao bound is also explicitly discussed.

id: 1407.5768
title: Visualizing nonclassical effects in phase space
authors: B. K¨¹hn, W. Vogel
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033821 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5768
abstract: Nonclassicality filters provide a universal method to visualize the nonclassicality of arbitrary quantum states of light through negativities of a regularized Glauber-Sudarshan $P$ function, also denoted as nonclassicality quasiprobability. Such filters are introduced and analyzed for optimizing the experimental certification of nonclassical effects. An analytic filter is constructed which preserves the full information on the quantum state. For balanced homodyne detection, the number of data points is analyzed to get the negativities of the nonclassicality quasiprobability with high statistical significance. The method is applied to different scenarios, such as phase randomized squeezed vacuum states, single-photon-added thermal states, and heralded state engineering with array detectors. The generalization to visualize quantum correlations of multimode radiation fields is also considered.

id: 1407.5769
title: Robust self testing of the 3-qubit $W$ state
authors: Xingyao Wu, Yu Cai, Tzyh Haur Yang, Huy Nguyen Le, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Valerio Scarani
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042339 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5769
abstract: Self-testing is a device independent method which can be used to determine the nature of a physical system or device, without knowing any detail of the inner mechanism or the physical dimension of Hilbert space of the system. The only information required are the number of measurements, number of outputs of each measurement and the statistics of each measurement. Earlier works on self testing restricted either to two parties scenario or multipartite graph states. Here, we construct a method to self-test the three-qubit $W$ state, and show how to extend it to other pure three-qubit states. Our bounds are robust against the inevitable experimental errors.

id: 1407.5778
title: Classical distinguishability as an operational measure of polarization
authors: G. Bjork, H. de Guise, A. B. Klimov, P. de la Hoz, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5778
abstract: We put forward an operational degree of polarization that can be extended in a natural way to fields whose wave fronts are not necessarily planar. This measure appears as a distance from a state to the set of all its polarization-transformed counterparts. By using the Hilbert-Schmidt metric, the resulting degree is a sum of two terms: one is the purity of the state and the other can be interpreted as a classical distinguishability, which can be experimentally determined in an interferometric setup. For transverse fields, this reduces to the standard approach, whereas it allows one to get a straight expression for nonparaxial fields.

id: 1407.5779
title: State-dependent photon blockade via quantum-reservoir engineering
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Jiri Bajer, Malgorzata Paprzycka, Yu-xi Liu, Alexandre M. Zagoskin, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033831 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5779
abstract: An arbitrary initial state of an optical or microwave field in a lossy driven nonlinear cavity can be changed, in the steady-state limit, into a partially incoherent superposition of only the vacuum and the single-photon states. This effect is known as single-photon blockade, which is usually analyzed for a Kerr-type nonlinear cavity parametrically driven by a single-photon process assuming single-photon loss mechanisms. We study photon blockade engineering via a squeezed reservoir, i.e., a quantum reservoir, where only two-photon absorption is allowed. Namely, we analyze a lossy nonlinear cavity parametrically driven by a two-photon process and allowing two-photon loss mechanisms, as described by the master equation derived for a two-photon absorbing reservoir. The nonlinear cavity engineering can be realized by a linear cavity with a tunable two-level system via the Jaynes-Cummings interaction in the dispersive limit. We show that by tuning properly the frequencies of the driving field and the two-level system, the steady state of the cavity field can be the single-photon Fock state or a partially incoherent superposition of several Fock states with photon numbers, e.g., (0,2), (1,3), (0,1,2), or (0,2,4). We observe that an arbitrary initial coherent or incoherent superposition of Fock states with an even (odd) number of photons can be changed into a partially incoherent superposition of a few Fock states of the same photon-number parity. A general solution for an arbitrary initial state is a weighted mixture of the above two solutions with even and odd photon numbers, where the weights are given by the probabilities of measuring the even and odd numbers of photons of the initial cavity field, respectively. Thus, in contrast to the standard photon blockade, we prove that the steady state in the engineered photon blockade, can depend on its initial state.

id: 1407.5911
title: Device-independent tomography of multipartite quantum states
authors: Karoly F. Pal, Tamas Vertesi, Miguel Navascues
comments: See also the related work of arXiv:1407.5769
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042340 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5911
abstract: In the usual tomography of multipartite entangled quantum states one assumes that the measurement devices used in the laboratory are under perfect control of the experimenter. In this paper, using the so-called SWAP concept introduced recently, we show how one can remove this assumption in realistic experimental conditions and nevertheless be able to characterize the produced multipartite state based only on observed statistics. Such a black box tomography of quantum states is termed self-testing. As a function of the magnitude of the Bell violation, we are able to self-test emblematic multipartite quantum states such as the three-qubit W state, the three- and four-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, and the four-qubit linear cluster state.

id: 1407.5920
title: Connectivity structures of quantum entanglement
authors: St¨¦phane Dugowson
comments: in French. 46 pages, avec index des notations et table des mati\`eres. Deux figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Topology (math.GN)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5920
abstract: In this paper, after some recalls about connectivity structures and about the formalisms of quantum mechanics, we associate some families of connectivity structures with any entangled quantum state, and with any "measurement device" on such states. This finally allows us to define a new classification tool for quantum entanglement: the connectivity order. --- Dans ce texte, apr\`es des rappels d'une part sur la notion de structure connective et d'autre part sur les formalismes de la m\'ecanique quantique, nous associons certaines familles de structures connectives \`a tout \'etat quantique intriquant un nombre fini quelconque de particules, ainsi qu'\`a tout "dispositif de mesure", portant sur de tels \'etats. Cela nous permet finalement de d\'efinir un nouvel outil de classification de l'intrication quantique : l'ordre connectif.

id: 1407.5954
title: Schr?dinger equation derived from complex Gaussian propagator with no prior physical assumptions
authors: P. M. Grinwald
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5954
abstract: Feynman based his path integral approach on a Lagrangian formula for the physical action, transposed into the complex number system by a rule that is arbitrary; Gaussian integrals then lead to the Schr\"odinger equation. Here we dispense with the action formula, and work directly with the complex-valued Gaussian as an object of interest in its own right. We show that there is no need to postulate any physics to start with, because the Gaussian, with all its terms made fully complex, and acting as a propagator, describes the relevant physics anyway, provided only that the system is normalized in the standard way. Thus we derive the non relativistic Schr\"odinger equation including scalar and vector potentials, using no prior physical assumptions, but rather as a process of irregular motion that has the essential characteristics of the random walk in R except that it is executed under the rules of C. Thus Schr\"odinger's equation is an expression of the laws of large numbers via the Gaussian, and does not have to be viewed as an irreducible postulate of empirical physics.

id: 1407.5958
title: Local models and hidden nonlocality in Quantum Theory
authors: Leonardo Guerini
comments: Master's thesis, 77 pages, 6 figures, conclusion updated in July, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5958
abstract: This Master's thesis has two central subjects: the simulation of correlations generated by local measurements on entangled quantum states by local hidden-variables models and the revelation of hidden nonlocality. We present and detail the Werner's local model and the hidden nonlocality of some Werner states of dimension $d\geq5$, the Gisin-Degorre's local model for a Werner state of dimension $d=2$ and the local model of Hirsch et al. for mixtures of the singlet state and noise, all of them for projective measurements. Finally, we introduce the local model for POVMs of Hirsch et al. for a state constructed upon the singlet with noise, that still violates the CHSH inequality after local filters are applied, hence presenting the so-called genuine hidden nonlocality.

id: 1407.6036
title: Photon emission and absorption of a single ion coupled to an optical fiber-cavity
authors: M. Steiner, H. M. Meyer, J. Reichel, M. K?hl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6036
abstract: We present a light-matter interface which consists of a single $^{174}$Yb$^+$ ion coupled to an optical fiber-cavity. We observe that photons at 935 nm are mainly emitted into the cavity mode and that correlations between the polarization of the photon and the spin state of the ion are preserved despite the intrinsic coupling into a single-mode fiber. Complementary, when a faint coherent light field is injected into the cavity mode we find enhanced and polarization dependent absorption by the ion.

id: 1407.6055
title: Optimal Fusion Transformations for Linear Optical Cluster State Generation
authors: D. B. Uskov, P. Lougovski, P. M. Alsing, M. L. Fanto, L. Kaplan, A. M. Smith
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6055
abstract: We analyze the generation of linear optical cluster states (LOCS) via addition of one and two qubits. Existing approaches employ the stochastic linear optical two-qubit CZ gate with success rate of 1/9 per fusion operation. The question of optimality of the CZ gate with respect to LOCS generation remains open. We report that there are alternative schemes to the CZ gate that are exponentially more efficient and show that sequential LOCS growth is globally optimal. We find that the optimal cluster growth operation is a state transformation on a subspace of the full Hilbert space. We show that the maximal success rate of fusing n photonic qubits or m Bell pairs is 1/2^n-1 and 1/4^m-1 respectively and give an explicit optical design.

id: 1407.6066
title: Two-dimensional Lattice Gauge Theories with Superconducting Quantum Circuits
authors: D. Marcos, P. Widmer, E. Rico, M. Hafezi, P. Rabl, U.-J. Wiese, P. Zoller
comments: Published version
journal: Annals of Physics 351, 634 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6066
abstract: A quantum simulator of U(1) lattice gauge theories can be implemented with superconducting circuits. This allows the investigation of confined and deconfined phases in quantum link models, and of valence bond solid and spin liquid phases in quantum dimer models. Fractionalized confining strings and the real-time dynamics of quantum phase transitions are accessible as well. Here we show how state-of-the-art superconducting technology allows us to simulate these phenomena in relatively small circuit lattices. By exploiting the strong non-linear couplings between quantized excitations emerging when superconducting qubits are coupled, we show how to engineer gauge invariant Hamiltonians, including ring-exchange and four-body Ising interactions. We demonstrate that, despite decoherence and disorder effects, minimal circuit instances allow us to investigate properties such as the dynamics of electric flux strings, signaling confinement in gauge invariant field theories. The experimental realization of these models in larger superconducting circuits could address open questions beyond current computational capability.

id: 1407.6073
title: Optical modular arithmetic
authors: Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Proceedings SPIE 9083, Micro- and Nanotechnology Sensors, Systems, and Applications VI, 908315 (June 4, 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6073
abstract: Nanoscale integrated photonic devices and circuits offer a path to ultra-low power computation at the few-photon level. Here we propose an optical circuit that performs a ubiquitous operation: the controlled, random-access readout of a collection of stored memory phases or, equivalently, the computation of the inner product of a vector of phases with a binary "selector" vector, where the arithmetic is done modulo 2pi and the result is encoded in the phase of a coherent field. This circuit, a collection of cascaded interferometers driven by a coherent input field, demonstrates the use of coherence as a computational resource, and of the use of recently-developed mathematical tools for modeling optical circuits with many coupled parts. The construction extends in a straightforward way to the computation of matrix-vector and matrix-matrix products, and, with the inclusion of an optical feedback loop, to the computation of a "weighted" readout of stored memory phases. We note some applications of these circuits for error correction and for computing tasks requiring fast vector inner products, e.g. statistical classification and some machine learning algorithms.

id: 1407.6087
title: EPR Paradox and Magician's Props
authors: Liangsuo Shu, Shiping Jin, Xiaokang Liu, Suyi Huang, Zhidong Zeng, Alice Fox, Kun Li, Jingyi Tan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6087
abstract: Local realism has been knocked down by the experiments with entangled pairs of particles based on Bell's theorem(J. S. Bell, Physics (Long Island City, N.Y.) 1, 195 (1964)). However, there has been continuing debate on whether locality or realism is the problem. In this work, we analyzed the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen thought experiment of Bohm's version using information theory and thermodynamics. The inference of non-locality from EPR experiments will be against the principle of non-realism of quantum mechanics. Therefore, the experiments about quantum entanglement cannot provide any proof to accuse locality.

id: 1407.6091
title: Quantum metrology for a general Hamiltonian parameter
authors: Shengshi Pang, Todd Brun
comments: 8 pages, v2 is very close to the published version
journal: Physical Review A 90, 022117 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6091
abstract: Quantum metrology enhances the sensitivity of parameter estimation using the distinctive resources of quantum mechanics such as entanglement. It has been shown that the precision of estimating an overall multiplicative factor of a Hamiltonian can be increased to exceed the classical limit, yet little is known about estimating a general Hamiltonian parameter. In this paper, we study this problem in detail. We find that the scaling of the estimation precision with the number of systems can always be optimized to the Heisenberg limit, while the time scaling can be quite different from that of estimating an overall multiplicative factor. We derive the generator of local parameter translation on the unitary evolution operator of the Hamiltonian, and use it to evaluate the estimation precision of the parameter and establish a general upper bound on the quantum Fisher information. The results indicate that the quantum Fisher information generally can be divided into two parts: one is quadratic in time, while the other oscillates with time. When the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian do not depend on the parameter, the quadratic term vanishes, and the quantum Fisher information will be bounded in this case. To illustrate the results, we give an example of estimating a parameter of a magnetic field by measuring a spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ particle, and compare the results for estimating the amplitude and the direction of the magnetic field.

id: 1407.6136
title: Thermal states of random quantum many-body systems
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 050304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6136
abstract: We study a distribution of thermal states given by random Hamiltonians with a local structure. We show that the ensemble of thermal states monotonically approaches the unitarily invariant ensemble with decreasing temperature if all particles interact according to a single random interaction and achieves a state $t$-design at temperature $O(1/\log(t))$. For the system where the random interactions are local, we show that the ensemble achieves a state $1$-design. We then provide numerical evidence indicating that the ensemble undergoes a phase transition at finite temperature.

id: 1407.6152
title: Geometrical and Topological Aspects of Quantum Information Systems
authors: Tommaso F. Demarie
comments: PhD Thesis, Macquarie University (Supervisors: Daniel Terno and Gavin Brennen), 195 pages. The main results are based on arXiv:1108.0973, arXiv:1209.3087 and arXiv:1305.0409
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6152
abstract: In this Thesis we examine the interplay between the encoding of information in quantum systems and their geometrical and topological properties. We first study photonic qubit probes of space-time curvature, showing how gauge-independent trajectories of photons can help to perform quantum information tasks in space. Then we introduce the first example of topologically ordered systems constructed using interacting light modes on a two-dimensional lattice, which paves the way for feasible observations of topological order in bosonic systems. To conclude, motivated by a theory of quantum gravity we analyze the convergence of entropy in unitarily inequivalent quantization schemes.

id: 1407.6170
title: Quantum propagator and characteristic equation in the presence of a chain of $¦Ä$-potentials
authors: A. Refaei, F. Kheirandish
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6170
abstract: The quantum propagator and characteristic equation in the presence of a chain of $\delta$-potentials are obtained in the rectangular, cylindrical and spherical coordinate systems. The simplicity and efficiency of the method is illustrated via examples. As an application, the characteristic equation of a quantum harmonic oscillator confined to an infinite box is obtained. The roots of the characteristic equation, determining the energy eigenvalues of the restricted oscillator, are calculated approximately and compared with the existing numerical data.

id: 1407.6171
title: On oscillator-bath system: Exact propagator, Reduced density matrix and Green's function
authors: A. Refaei, F. Kheirandish
comments: (Extended)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6171
abstract: The exact form of quantum propagator of a quantum oscillator interacting with a bosonic bath consisting of $N$ distinguished quantum oscillators with different frequencies is obtained in the Heisenberg picture. Reduced density matrix for oscillator is obtained. The kernel or Green's function connecting the initial density matrix of the oscillator to the density matrix in an arbitrary time is obtained and its connection to Feynman-Vernon influence functional is discussed. Weak coupling regime and squared mean values for position, momentum and energy of the oscillator are obtained in equilibrium.

id: 1407.6192
title: Strongly correlated two-photon transport in a one-dimensional waveguide coupled to a weakly nonlinear cavity
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yong Li
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033832 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6192
abstract: We study the photon-photon correlation properties of two-photon transport in a one-dimensional waveguide coupled to a nonlinear cavity via a real-space approach. It is shown that the intrinsic dissipation of the nonlinear cavity has an important effect upon the correlation of the transported photons. More importantly, strongly correlated photons can be obtained in the transmitted photons even when the nonlinear interaction strength is weak in the cavity. The strong photon-photon correlation is induced by the Fano resonance involving destructive interference between the plane wave and bound state for two-photon transport.

id: 1407.6228
title: Quantum stabilizer codes from Abelian and non-Abelian groups association schemes
authors: A. Naghipour, M. A. Jafarizadeh, S. Shahmorad
comments: 23 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0901.1968, arXiv:quant-ph/0304161, arXiv:1207.6512 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6228
abstract: A new method for the construction of the binary quantum stabilizer codes is provided, where the construction is based on Abelian and non-Abelian groups association schemes. The association schemes based on non-Abelian groups are constructed by bases for the regular representation from U6n, T4n, V8n and dihedral D2n groups. By using Abelian group association schemes followed by cyclic groups and non-Abelian group association schemes a list of binary stabilizer codes up to 40 qubits is given in tables 4, 5, and 10. Moreover, several binary stabilizer codes of distances 5 and 7 with good quantum parameters is presented. The preference of this method specially for Abelian group association schemes is that one can construct any binary quantum stabilizer code with any distance by using the commutative structure of association schemes

id: 1407.6230
title: Realizing universal topological quantum gates in simulated time-reversal-invariant superconducting chains
authors: Yong Hu, Y. X. Zhao, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Z. D. Wang
comments: Main text: 4 pages, 1 figure; Supplemental: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6230
abstract: We propose a topology-preserved hard-core boson simulator of one-dimensional time-reversal-invariant topological superconductor. By using the developed dispersive dynamic modulation approach, not only the faithful simulation of this DIII type of spinful superconducting chains is achieved, but also a set of universal topological quantum gates can be realized. Physical implementation of our scheme based on a Josephson quantum circuit is presented, where our detailed analysis pinpoints that this scheme is experimentally feasible with the state-of-the-art technology.

id: 1407.6250
title: Review: Towards Spintronic Quantum Technologies with Dopants in Silicon
authors: Gavin W. Morley
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, fixed minor typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6250
abstract: Dopants in crystalline silicon such as phosphorus (Si:P) have electronic and nuclear spins with exceptionally long coherence times making them promising platforms for quantum computing and quantum sensing. The demonstration of single-spin single-shot readout brings these ideas closer to implementation. Progress in fabricating atomic-scale Si:P structures with scanning tunnelling microscopes offers a powerful route to scale up this work, taking advantage of techniques developed by the computing industry. The experimental and theoretical sides of this emerging quantum technology are reviewed with a focus on the period from 2009 to mid-2014.

id: 1407.6262
title: Resolving single molecule structures with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Matthias Kost, Jianming Cai, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6262
abstract: We present two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy protocols based on nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond as efficient quantum sensors of protein structure. Continuous microwave driving fields are used to achieve Hartmann-Hahn resonances between NV spin sensor and proximate nuclei for selective control of nuclear spins and measurement of their polarization. Our protocols take advantage of the strong coupling between the NV sensor and the nuclei, thus facilitating coherence control of nuclear spins and relax the requirement of nuclear spin polarization. We dramatically reduce the experimental effort by employing a singular value thresholding matrix completion algorithm from signal processing to regain the resolution of protein structure based on sub-sampled data from NV based single molecule nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. As an illustration, we demonstrate the power of this approach by identifying the nitrogen-Hydrogen interaction peak in an Alanine spectrum based on merely 5% of the sample data.

id: 1407.6278
title: Justifying the Classical-Quantum Divide of the Copenhagen Interpretation
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 9 pages; Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6278
abstract: Perhaps the most significant drawback, which the Copenhagen interpretation (still the most popular interpretation of quantum theory) suffers from, is the classical-quantum divide between the large classical systems that carry out measurements and the small quantum systems that they measure. So, an "ideal" alternative interpretation of quantum theory would either eliminate this divide or justify it in some reasonable way. The present paper demonstrates that it is possible to justify the classical-quantum dualism of the Copenhagen interpretation by way of the analysis of the time complexity of Schrodinger's equation.

id: 1407.6323
title: Quantum Private Comparison over noisy channels
authors: Vikesh Siddhu, Arvind
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6323
abstract: Quantum Private Comparison (QPC) allows us to protect private information during its comparison. In the past various three-party quantum protocols have been proposed that claim to work well under noisy conditions. Here we tackle the problem of QPC under noise. We analyze the EPR-based protocol under depolarizing noise, bit flip and phase flip noise. We show how noise affects the robustness of the EPR-based protocol. We then present a straightforward protocol based on CSS codes to perform QPC which is robust against noise and secure under general attacks.

id: 1407.6326
title: Aspects of Complementarity and Uncertainty
authors: Radhika Vathsan, Tabish Qureshi
comments: Based on talk presented at IPQI 2014 at Bhubaneshwar
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6326
abstract: The two-slit experiment with quantum particles provides many insights into the behaviour of quantum mechanics, including Bohr's complementarity principle. Here we analyze Einstein's recoiling slit version of the experiment and show how the inevitable entanglement between the particle and the recoiling slit as a which-way detector is responsible for complementarity. We derive the Englert-Greenberger-Yasin duality from this entanglement, which can also be thought of as a consequence of sum-uncertainty relations between certain complementary observables of the recoiling slit. Thus, entanglement is an integral part of the which-way detection process, and so is uncertainty, though in a completely different way from that envisaged by Bohr and Einstein.

id: 1407.6389
title: Multimode Quantum State Tomography Using Unbalanced Array Detection
authors: Brandon S. Harms, Blake E. Anthony, Noah T. Holte, Hunter A. Dassonville, Andrew M.C. Dawes
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053818 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6389
abstract: We measure the joint Q-function of a multi-spatial-mode field using a charge-coupled device array detector in an unbalanced heterodyne configuration. The intensity pattern formed by interference between a weak signal field and a strong local oscillator is resolved using Fourier analysis and used to reconstruct quadrature amplitude statistics for 22 spatial modes simultaneously. The local oscillator and signal propagate at an angle of 12 mrad thus shifting the classical noise to modes that do not overlap with the signal. In this configuration, balanced detection is not necessary.

id: 1407.6402
title: A Fast Quantum Algorithm for the Affine Boolean Function Identification
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6402
abstract: Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm (the one-query algorithm) can identify a completely specified linear Boolean function using a single query to the oracle with certainty. The first aim of the paper is to show that if the provided Boolean function is affine, then one more query to the oracle (the two-query algorithm) is required to identify the affinity of the function with certainty. The second aim of the paper is to show that if the provided Boolean function is incompletely defined, then the one-query and the two-query algorithms can be used as bounded-error quantum polynomial algorithms to identify certain classes of incompletely defined linear and affine Boolean functions respectively with probability of success at least $2/3$.

id: 1407.6407
title: Classical to quantum transfer of optical vortices
authors: Veronica Vicuna-Hernandez, Hector Cruz-Ramirez, Roberto Ramirez-Alarcon, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Express. 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6407
abstract: We show that an optical vortex beam, implemented classically, can be transferred to the transverse amplitude of a heralded single photon. For this purpose we have relied on the process of spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) for the generation of signal and idler photon pairs, using a pump in the form of a Bessel-Gauss (BG) beam with orbital angular momentum (specifically, with topological charge l = 1 and l = 2). We have designed our source so that it operates within the short SPDC crystal regime for which, the amplitude and phase of the pump may be transferred to a heralded single photon. In order to verify the vortex nature of our heralded single photon, we have shown that the conditional angular spectrum and the transverse intensity at the single-photon level match similar measurements carried out for the pump. In addition, we have shown that when our heralded single photon is diffracted through a triangular aperture, the far-field singlephoton transverse intensity exhibits the expected triangular arrangement of intensity lobes associated with the presence of orbital angular momentum.

id: 1407.6460
title: Interference Visibility as a Witness of Entanglement and Quantum Correlation
authors: Lin Zhang, Arun Kumar Pati, Junde Wu
comments: 6 pages, Revtex4-1, no figure. Any comments or remarks are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6460
abstract: In quantum information and communication one looks for the non-classical features like interference and quantum correlations to harness the true power of composite systems. We show how the concept akin to interference is, in fact, intertwined in a quantitative manner to entanglement and quantum correlation. In particular, we prove that the difference in the squared visibility for a density operator before and after a complete measurement, averaged over all unitary evolutions, is directly related to the quantum correlation measure based on the measurement disturbance. For pure and mixed bipartite states the unitary average of the squared visibility is related to entanglement measure. This may constitute direct detection of entanglement and quantum correlations with quantum interference setups. Furthermore, we prove that for a fixed purity of the subsystem state, there is a complementarity relation between the linear entanglement of formation and the measurement disturbance. This brings out a quantitative difference between two kinds of quantum correlations.

id: 1407.6466
title: Exchange and Distribution of Multipartite Entanglement via Atomic Coherence
authors: Xihua Yang, Bolin Xue, Junxiang Zhang, Shiyao Zhu
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6466
abstract: We present a convenient and efficient way to exchange and distribute multipartite entangled state via atomic coherence induced by electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an atomic ensemble. By using the EIT-based nondegenerate four-wave mixing processes, the generation, exchange, and distribution of light-light, atom-light, and atom-atom multipartite entanglement can be achieved in a deterministic way with only coherent light fields. This EIT-induced atomic coherence acts as a quantum information processor and has the function of quantum beam splitter, quantum frequency converter, quantum entangler, and quantum repeater, which greatly facilitates the operations in quantum information processing, and holds promising applications in realistic scalable quantum communication and quantum networks

id: 1407.6495
title: Hydrogen atom in rotationally invariant noncommutative space
authors: Kh. P. Gnatenko, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 
journal: Kh.P. Gnatenko, V.M. Tkachuk, Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 3509-3515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6495
abstract: We consider the noncommutative algebra which is rotationally invariant. The hydrogen atom is studied in a rotationally invariant noncommutative space. We find the corrections to the energy levels of the hydrogen atom up to the second order in the parameter of noncommutativity. The upper bound of the parameter of noncommutativity is estimated on the basis of the experimental results for 1s-2s transition frequency.

id: 1407.6502
title: High-Speed Driving of a Two-Level System
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 90}, 032110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6502
abstract: A remarkably simple result is found for the optimal protocol of drivings for a general two-level Hamiltonian which transports a given initial state to a given final state in minimal time. If one of the three possible drivings is unconstrained in strength the problem is analytically completely solvable. A surprise arises for a class of states when one driving is bounded by a constant $c$ and the other drivings are constant. Then, for large $c$, the optimal driving is of type bang-off-bang and for increasing $c$ one recovers the unconstrained result. However, for smaller $c$ the optimal driving can suddenly switch to bang-bang type. It is also shown that for general states one may have a multistep protocol. The present paper explicitly proves and considerably extends the author's results contained in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 111}, 260501 (2013).

id: 1407.6538
title: Optimized multifrequency light collection by adaptive self-ordering of scatterers in optical resonators
authors: Valentin Torggler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6538
abstract: Mobile light scatterers in a high-Q optical cavity transversely illuminated by laser light close to a cavity resonance form ordered patterns, which maximize light scattering into the cavity and induce optical self-trapping. We show that a generalized form of such crystallization dynamics appears in multicolored pump fields with several cavity modes. Here the particles arrange in spatial patterns maximizing total light collection into the resonator. For changing input frequencies and strengths the particles dynamically adapt to the current illumination. Interestingly the system keeps some memory on past configurations, so that a later renewed application of the same pattern exhibits faster adaptation towards optimal collective scattering. In a noisy environment particles explore larger regions of configuration space spending most of the time close to optimum scattering configurations. This adaptive self-ordering dynamics should be implementable in a wide range of systems ranging from cold atoms in multimode cavities or nano-fiber traps to molecules or mobile nano-particles within an optical resonator.

id: 1407.6616
title: Source coding for a mixed source: determination of second order asymptotics
authors: Felix Leditzky, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 38 pages, 1 figure; v2: slight changes in notation; v3: corrected an error in previous version, main result is now a complete (quantum) generalization of classical result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6616
abstract: The simplest example of a quantum information source with memory is a mixed source which emits signals entirely from either one of two memoryless quantum sources with given a priori probabilities. For such a source, we derive the second order asymptotic rates for fixed-length (visible) source coding. This provides the first example of second order asymptotics for a quantum information-processing task employing a resource with memory. For the case of a classical mixed source (using a finite alphabet), our results reduce to those obtained by Nomura and Han [IEEE Trans. on Inf. Th. 59.1 (2013), pp. 1-16]. Moreover, the known optimal asymptotic rate and strong converse rate for fixed-length source coding for an arbitrary sequence of mixed sources (derived in the classical case by Han ["Information-spectrum methods in information theory", Springer, 2013] and in the quantum case in [arXiv:quant-ph/0610003]) are directly obtainable from our results.

id: 1407.6634
title: Universal quantum computation in integrable systems
authors: Seth Lloyd, Simone Montangero
comments: 7 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6634
abstract: Quantized integrable systems can be made to perform universal quantum computation by the application of a global time-varying control. The action-angle variables of the integrable system function as qubits or qudits, which can be coupled selectively by the global control to induce universal quantum logic gates. By contrast, chaotic quantum systems, even if controllable, do not generically allow quantum computation under global control.

id: 1407.6644
title: Universal state orthogonalizer and qubit generator
authors: Antonio S. Coelho, Luca S. Costanzo, Alessandro Zavatta, Catherine Hughes, M. S. Kim, Marco Bellini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6644
abstract: The superposition principle is at the heart of quantum mechanics and at the root of many paradoxes arising when trying to extend its predictions to our everyday world. Schroedinger's cat is the prototype of such paradoxes and here, in contrast to many others, we choose to investigate it from the operational point of view. We experimentally demonstrate a universal strategy for producing an unambiguously distinguishable type of superposition, that of an arbitrary pure state and its orthogonal. It relies on only a limited amount of information about the input state to first generate its orthogonal one. Then, a simple change in the experimental parameters is used to produce arbitrary superpositions of the mutually orthogonal states. Constituting a sort of Schroedinger's black box, able to turn a whole zoo of input states into coherent superpositions, our scheme can produce arbitrary continuous-variable optical qubits, which may prove practical for implementing quantum technologies and measurement tasks.

id: 1407.6668
title: On Single Qubit Quantum State Tomography
authors: Ramesh Bhandari
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6668
abstract: In this paper, we derive analytic expressions for the starting (initial) values of the parameters of the T-matrix that is frequently employed in the construction of a theoretical density matrix in a Maximum Likelihood Estimate (MLE) procedure; this optimization procedure is used to fit the experimental data pertaining to single qubit state tomography. Appropriate starting values are critical in achieving a global minimum in the fitting process. We also indicate an analytic way of making the experimentally determined density matrix physical without resorting to the MLE process, if optimality in quantum state tomography can be disregarded, since the ultimate goal is optimality in quantum process tomography.

id: 1407.6747
title: Photon-mediated interactions between distant artificial atoms
authors: Arjan F. van Loo, Arkady Fedorov, Kevin Lalumi¨¨re, Barry C. Sanders, Alexandre Blais, Andreas Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures and supplementary material (1 page)
journal: Science 342, 1494 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6747
abstract: Photon-mediated interactions between atoms are of fundamental importance in quantum optics, quantum simulations and quantum information processing. The exchange of real and virtual photons between atoms gives rise to non-trivial interactions the strength of which decreases rapidly with distance in three dimensions. Here we study much stronger photon mediated interactions using two superconducting qubits in an open onedimensional transmission line. Making use of the unique possibility to tune these qubits by more than a quarter of their transition frequency we observe both coherent exchange interactions at an effective separation of $3\lambda/4$ and the creation of super- and sub-radiant states at a separation of one photon wavelength $\lambda$. This system is highly suitable for exploring collective atom/photon interactions and applications in quantum communication technology.

id: 1407.6762
title: A Priori Which-Way Information in Quantum Interference with Unstable Particles
authors: D. E. Krause, E. Fischbach, Z. J. Rohrbach
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014) 2490-2494
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6762
abstract: If an unstable particle used in a two-path interference experiment decays before reaching a detector, which-way information becomes available which reduces the detected interference fringe visibility ${\cal V}$. Here we argue that even when an unstable particle does {\em not} decay while in the interferometer, {\em a priori} which-way information is still available in the form of path predictability ${\cal P}$ which depends on the particle's decay rate $\Gamma$. We further demonstrate that in a matter-wave Mach-Zehnder interferometer using an excited atom with an appropriately tuned cavity, ${\cal P}$ is related to ${\cal V}$ through the duality relation ${\cal P}^{2} + {\cal V}^{2} = 1$.

id: 1407.6768
title: Maxwell's demons in multipartite quantum correlated systems
authors: Helena C. Braga, Clodoaldo C. Rulli, Thiago R. de Oliveira, Marcelo S. Sarandy
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. v2: Minor corrections. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6768
abstract: We investigate the extraction of thermodynamic work by a Maxwell's demon in a multipartite quantum correlated system. We begin by adopting the standard model of a Maxwell's demon as a Turing machine, either in a classical or quantum setup depending on its ability of implementing classical or quantum conditional dynamics, respectively. Then, for an n-partite system (A_1, A_2, ..., A_n), we introduce a protocol of work extraction that bounds the advantage of the quantum demon over its classical counterpart through the amount of multipartite quantum correlation present in the system, as measured by a thermal version of the global quantum discord. This result is illustrated for an arbitrary n-partite pure state of qubits with Schmidt decomposition, where it is shown that the thermal global quantum discord exactly quantifies the quantum advantage. Moreover, we also consider the work extraction via mixed multipartite states, where examples of tight upper bounds can be obtained.

id: 1407.6798
title: Noiseless Linear Amplification and Quantum Channels
authors: R¨¦mi Blandino, Marco Barbieri, Philippe Grangier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6798
abstract: The employ of a noiseless linear amplifier (NLA) has been proven as a useful tool for mitigating imperfections in quantum channels. Its analysis is usually conducted within specific frameworks, for which the set of input states for a given protocol is fixed. Here we obtain a more general description by showing that a noisy and lossy Gaussian channel followed by a NLA has a general description in terms of effective channels. This has the advantage of offering a simpler mathematical description, best suitable for mixed states, both Gaussian and non-Gaussian. We investigate the main properties of this effective system, and illustrate its potential by applying it to loss compensation and reduction of phase uncertainty.

id: 1407.6804
title: Quantum correlations in qutrit-qutrit systems under local quantum noise channels
authors: Nasibollah Doustimotlagh, Jin-Liang Guo, Shuhao Wang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to crucial wrong physical understanding of the LQU
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6804
abstract: Due to decoherence, realistic quantum systems inevitably interact with the environment when quantum information is processed, which causes the loss of quantum properties. As a fundamental issue of quantum properties, quantum correlations have attracted a lot of interests in recent years. In this work, we study the quantum correlations affected by the Markovian environment by considering the quantum correlations of qutrit-qutrit quantum systems measured by the local quantum uncertainty. The local noise channels covered in this work includes dephasing, trit-flip, trit-phase-flip, and depolarising channels. We have also investigated the cases where the local decoherence channels of two sides are identical and non-identical.

id: 1407.6816
title: Uncertainty relations based on mutually unbiased measurements
authors: Bin Chen, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6816
abstract: We derive uncertainty relation inequalities according to the mutually unbiased measurements. Based on the calculation of the index of coincidence of probability distribution given by $d+1$ MUMs on any density operator $\rho$ in $\mathbb{C}^{d}$, both state-dependent and state-independent forms of lower entropic bounds are given. Furthermore, we formulate uncertainty relations for MUMs in terms of R\'{e}nyi and Tsallis entropies.

id: 1407.6820
title: Sympathetic cooling of a membrane oscillator in a hybrid mechanical-atomic system
authors: Andreas J?ckel, Aline Faber, Tobias Kampschulte, Maria Korppi, Matthew T. Rakher, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 10, 55-59 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6820
abstract: Sympathetic cooling with ultracold atoms and atomic ions enables ultralow temperatures in systems where direct laser or evaporative cooling is not possible. It has so far been limited to the cooling of other microscopic particles, with masses up to $90$ times larger than that of the coolant atom. Here we use ultracold atoms to sympathetically cool the vibrations of a Si$_3$N$_4$ nanomembrane, whose mass exceeds that of the atomic ensemble by a factor of $10^{10}$. The coupling of atomic and membrane vibrations is mediated by laser light over a macroscopic distance and enhanced by placing the membrane in an optical cavity. We observe cooling of the membrane vibrations from room temperature to $650\pm 230$ mK, exploiting the large atom-membrane cooperativity of our hybrid optomechanical system. Our scheme enables ground-state cooling and quantum control of low-frequency oscillators such as nanomembranes or levitated nanoparticles, in a regime where purely optomechanical techniques cannot reach the ground state.

id: 1407.6862
title: Dynamics of an open quantum system interacting with a quantum environment
authors: Athreya Shankar, S. Lakshmibala, V. Balakrishnan
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6862
abstract: We examine the dynamics of subsystems of bipartite and tripartite quantum systems with nonlinear Hamiltonians. We consider two models which capture the generic features of open quantum systems: a three-level atom interacting with a single-mode radiation field, and a three-level atom interacting with two field modes which do not directly interact with each other. The entanglement of specific initially unentangled states of the atom-field system is examined through the time-varying subsystem von Neumann entropy (SVNE). The counterparts of near-revivals and fractional revivals of the initial state are clearly identifiable in the SVNE in all cases where revival phenomena occur. The Mandel $Q$ parameter corresponding to the photon number of a radiation field is obtained as a function of time in both models. In those cases where revivals are absent, a time series analysis of the mean photon number reveals a variety of ergodicity properties (as manifested in return maps, recurrence-time distributions and Lyapunov exponents), depending on the strength of the nonlinearity and the degree of coherence of the initial state of the radiation field(s).

id: 1407.6910
title: Probabilistic metrology defeats ultimate deterministic bound
authors: J. Calsamiglia, B. Gendra, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6910
abstract: Quantum-enhanced measurements exploit quantum mechanical effects to provide ultra-precise estimates of physical variables for use in advanced technologies, such as frequency calibration of atomic clocks, gravitational waves detection, and biosensing. Quantum metrology studies the fundamental limits in the estimation precision given a certain amount of resources (e.g. the number of probe systems) and restrictions (e.g. limited interaction time, or coping with unavoidable presence of noise). Here we show that, even in the presence of noise, probabilistic measurement strategies (which have a certain probability of failure or abstention) can provide, upon a heralded successful outcome, estimates with a precision that violates the deterministic bounds. This establishes a new ultimate quantum metrology limit. For probe systems subject to local dephasing, we quantify such precision limit as a function of the probability of failure that can be tolerated. We show that the possibility of abstaining can substantially set back the detrimental effects of noise.

id: 1407.6928
title: Quantum Cellular Automaton Theory of Light
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6928
abstract: We present a quantum theory of light based on quantum cellular automata (QCA). This approach allows us to have a thorough quantum theory of free electrodynamics encompassing an hypothetical discrete Planck scale. The theory is particularly relevant because it provides predictions at the macroscopic scale that can be experimentally tested. We show how, in the limit of small wave-vector k, the free Maxwell's equations emerge from two Weyl QCAs derived from informational principles in Ref. [1]. Within this framework the photon is introduced as a composite particle made of a pair of correlated massless Fermions, and the usual Bosonic statistics is recovered in the low photon density limit. We derive the main phenomenological features of the theory, consisting in dispersive propagation in vacuum, the occurrence of a small longitudinal polarization, and a saturation effect originated by the Fermionic nature of the photon. We then discuss whether these effects can be experimentally tested, and observe that only the dispersive effects are accessible with current technology, from observations of arrival times of pulses originated at cosmological distances.

id: 1407.6939
title: Quantum bit commitment with cheat sensitive binding and approximate sealing
authors: Yan-Bing Li, Sheng-Wei Xu, Wei Huang, Zhong-Jie Wan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6939
abstract: This paper proposes a cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment (CSQBC) scheme based on single photons, in which Alice commits a bit to Bob. Here, Bob only can cheat the committed bit with probability close to $0$ with the increasing of used single photons' amount. And if Alice altered her committed bit after commitment phase, she will be detected with probability close to $1$ with the increasing of used single photons' amount. The scheme is easy to be realized with nowadays technology.

id: 1407.6976
title: Effects of time ordering in quantum nonlinear optics
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada, J. E. Sipe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063840 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6976
abstract: We study time ordering corrections to the description of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC), four wave mixing (SFWM) and frequency conversion (FC) using the Magnus expansion. Analytic approximations to the evolution operator that are unitary are obtained. They are Gaussian preserving, and allow us to understand order-by-order the effects of time ordering. We show that the corrections due to time ordering vanish exactly if the phase matching function is sufficiently broad. The calculation of the effects of time ordering on the joint spectral amplitude of the photons generated in spontaneous SPDC and SFWM are reduced to quadrature.

id: 1407.6999
title: Bounds on quantum non-locality via partial transposition
authors: Karol Horodecki, Gl¨¢ucia Murta
comments: 5+4 pages, 1 figure. Improved text, few typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6999
abstract: We explore the link between two concepts: the level of violation of a Bell inequality by a quantum state and discrimination between two states by means of local operations and classical communication (LOCC). For any bipartite Bell inequality, we show that its value on a given quantum state can not exceed the classical bound by more than the maximal quantum violation shrunk by a factor reporting distinguishability of this state from the separable set by means of LOCC. We then consider the general scenarios where the parties are allowed to perform a local pre-processing of many copies of the state before the Bell test (asymptotic and hidden-non-locality scenarios). We define the rate of non-locality and, for PPT states, we bound this quantity by the relative entropy of entanglement of the partially transposed state. The bounds are strong enough to limit the use of certain states containing private key in the device-independent scenario.

id: 1407.7025
title: Quantum non-locality, causality and mistrustful cryptography
authors: Muhammad Nadeem
comments: 14 pages, one figure is included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7025
abstract: Here we propose a general relativistic quantum framework for cryptography that exploits the fascinating connection of quantum non-locality and special theory of relativity with cryptography. The underlying principle of unconditional security is causality and two-fold quantum non-local correlations: first entanglement swapping and then teleportation over causally independent entangled systems. We show that the proposed framework has following remarkable and novel features in mistrustful cryptography: (i) It helps in defining a new notion of oblivious transfer where both the data transferred and the transfer position remains oblivious. (ii) The authenticity and integrity of the data transferred is guaranteed by the fundamental principles of quantum theory instead of computational complexity. (iii) It directly leads to unconditionally secure and deterministic two-sided two-party computation which is currently considered to be impossible. (iv) the proposed framework turns out to be asynchronous ideal coin tossing with zero bias which has not been achieved previously. (v) The same framework also implies unconditionally secure bit commitment. Finally, the combination of quantum non-locality and theory of relativity as discussed here can easily be generalized to multiparty setting that could be used to solve other mistrustful cryptographic tasks such as secret sharing and key agreement securely.

id: 1407.7052
title: Random density matrices versus random evolution of open system
authors: Carlos Pineda, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7052
abstract: In the framework of random matrix theory for open quantum systems, one can use both random matrix models for the time evolution of the state, or for the state itself. While the former yields a dynamical model that describes time evolution, the latter gives a static model for density matrices. Yet the two models can be compared, if the degree of decoherence is fixed, e.g., by purity. A random matrix ensemble of density matrices, with given purity, is therefore developed. We next compare this ensemble to one obtained evolving an initial pure state with different random matrix models, up to the time where the given purity is reached. For moderate and strong interactions good agreement between the static and the dynamic ensembles is found. Surprisingly, even in a model where one qubit does not interact with the environment excellent agreement is found, but only if there is maximal entanglement with the interacting one. We extend the analysis to other measures of decoherence, using the von Neumann entropy as a paradigmatic example.

id: 1407.7063
title: Device-independent quantum reading and noise-assisted quantum transmitters
authors: Wojciech Roga, Daniela Buono, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: Revised and improved version, new results added. Accepted for publication, to appear in New J. Phys. 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013031 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7063
abstract: In quantum reading, a quantum state of light (transmitter) is applied to read classical information. In the presence of noise or for sufficiently weak signals, quantum reading can outperform classical reading by enhanced state distinguishability. Here we show that the enhanced quantum efficiency depends on the presence in the transmitter of a particular type of quantum correlations, the discord of response. Different encodings and transmitters give rise to different levels of efficiency. Considering noisy quantum probes we show that squeezed thermal transmitters with non-symmetrically distributed noise among the field modes yield a higher quantum efficiency compared to coherent thermal quantum states. The noise-enhanced quantum advantage is a consequence of the discord of response being a non-decreasing function of increasing thermal noise under constant squeezing, a behavior that leads to an increased state distinguishability. We finally show that, for non-symmetric squeezed thermal states, the probability of error, as measured by the quantum Chernoff bound, vanishes asymptotically with increasing local thermal noise at finite global squeezing. Therefore, at fixed finite squeezing, noisy but strongly discordant quantum states with large noise imbalance between the field modes can outperform noisy classical resources as well as pure entangled transmitters with the same finite level of squeezing.

id: 1407.7104
title: M Times Photon Subtraction-Addition Coherent Superposition Operated Odd-Schr?dinger-cat State: Nonclassicality and Decoherence
authors: Li Huang, Qin Guo, Li-ying Jiang, Ge Chen, Xue-xiang Xu, Wen Yuan
comments: 14 pages with 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7104
abstract: We introduce a new non-Gaussian state, generated by m times coherent superposition operation $a\cos \theta +a^{\dagger }e^{i\varphi }\sin \theta $ (MCSO) on odd-Schrodinger-cat state (OSCS). Its normalized constant is turned out to be related with the Hermite polynomial. We further investigate the nonclassical properties of the MCSO-OSCS through Mandel's Q-parameter, quadrature squeezing, the photocount distribution and Wigner function (WF). It is shown that the nonclassicality of the MCSO-OSCS is influenced by the number of times (m) of coherent superpositon operation, the angle $\theta $ and the amplitude of the coherent state (|$\alpha _{0}$|). Especially the volume of negative region of WF increases with the increment of parameters m, $\theta $ and $\alpha _{0}$. We also investigate the decoherence of the MCSO-OSCS in terms of the fadeaway of the negativity of WF in a thermal environment.

id: 1407.7109
title: Number-phase entropic squeezing and nonclassical properties of a three-level atom interacting with a two-mode field: Intensity-dependent coupling, deformed Kerr medium and detuning effects
authors: M J Faghihi, M K Tavassoly
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30 (2013) 2810
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7109
abstract: In this paper, we follow our presented model in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B {\bf 30}, 1109--1117 (2013), in which the interaction between a $\Lambda$-type three-level atom and a quantized two-mode radiation field in a cavity in the presence of nonlinearities is studied. After giving a brief review on the procedure of obtaining the state vector of the atom-field system, some further interesting and important physical features (which are of particular interest in the quantum optics field of research) of the whole system state, i.e., the number-phase entropic uncertainty relation (based on the two-mode Pegg-Barnett formalism) and some of the nonclassicality signs consist of sub-Poissonian statistics, Cauchy-Schwartz inequality and two kinds of squeezing phenomenon are investigated. During our presentation, the effects of intensity-dependent coupling, deformed Kerr medium and the detuning parameters on the depth and domain of each of the mentioned nonclassical criteria of the considered quantum system are studied, in detail. It is shown that each of the mentioned nonclassicality aspects can be obtained by appropriately choosing the related parameters.

id: 1407.7154
title: Landau-Zener evolution under weak measurement: Manifestation of the Zeno effect under diabatic and adiabatic measurement protocols
authors: Anna Novelli, Wolfgang Belzig, Abraham Nitzan
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, submitted to New J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7154
abstract: The time evolution and the asymptotic outcome of a Landau-Zener-Stueckelberg-Majorana (LZ) process under continuous weak non-selective measurement is analyzed. We compare two measurement protocols in which the populations of either the adiabatic or the non-adiabatic levels are (continuously and weakly) monitored. The weak measurement formalism, described using a Gaussian Kraus operator, leads to a time evolution characterized by a Markovian dephasing process, which, in the non-adiabatic measurement protocol is similar to earlier studies of LZ dynamics in a dephasing environment. Casting the problem in the language of measurement theory makes it possible for us to compare diabatic and adiabatic measurement scenarios, to consider engineered dephasing as a control device and to examine the manifestation of the Zeno effect under the different measurement protocols. In particular, under measurement of the non- adiabatic populations, the Zeno effect is manifested not as a freezing of the measured system in its initial state, but rather as an approach to equal asymptotic populations of the two diabatic states. This behavior can be traced to the way by which the weak measurement formalism behaves in the strong measurement limit, with a built-in relationship between measurement time and strength.

id: 1407.7174
title: Continuous-variable phase-estimation with unitary and random linear disturbance
authors: Douglas Delgado de Souza, Marco G. Genoni, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7174
abstract: We address the problem of continuous-variable quantum phase estimation in the presence of linear disturbance at the Hamiltonian level, by means of Gaussian probe states. In particular we discuss both unitary and random disturbance, by considering the parameter which characterizes the unwanted linear term present in the Hamiltonian as fixed (unitary disturbance) or random with a given probability distribution (random disturbance). We derive the optimal input Gaussian states at fixed energy, maximizing the quantum Fisher information over the squeezing angle and the squeezing energy fraction, and we discuss the scaling of the quantum Fisher information in terms of the output number of photons $n_{out}$. We observe that in the case of unitary disturbance the optimal state is a squeezed vacuum state and the quadratic scaling is conserved. As regards the random disturbance, we observe that the optimal squeezing fraction may not be equal to one, and, for any non-zero value of the noise parameter, the quantum Fisher information scales linearly with the average number of photons. We finally discuss the performance of homodyne measurement, comparing the achievable precision with the ultimate limit posed by the quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound.

id: 1407.7195
title: Josephson parametric phase-locked oscillator and its application to dispersive readout of superconducting qubits
authors: Z. R. Lin, K. Inomata, K. Koshino, W. D. Oliver, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai, T. Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, including supplementary material
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4480 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7195
abstract: The parametric phase-locked oscillator (PPLO), also known as a parametron, is a resonant circuit in which one of the reactances is periodically modulated. It can detect, amplify, and store binary digital signals in the form of two distinct phases of self-oscillation. Indeed, digital computers using PPLOs based on a magnetic ferrite ring or a varactor diode as its fundamental logic element were successfully operated in 1950s and 1960s. More recently, basic bit operations have been demonstrated in an electromechanical resonator, and an Ising machine based on optical PPLOs has been proposed. Here, using a PPLO realized with Josephson-junction circuitry, we demonstrate the demodulation of a microwave signal digitally modulated by binary phase-shift keying. Moreover, we apply this demodulation capability to the dispersive readout of a superconducting qubit. This readout scheme enables a fast and latching-type readout, yet requires only a small number of readout photons in the resonator to which the qubit is coupled, thus featuring the combined advantages of several disparate schemes. We have achieved high-fidelity, single-shot, and non-destructive qubit readout with Rabi-oscillation contrast exceeding 90%, limited primarily by the qubit's energy relaxation.

id: 1407.7248
title: Systematic Construction of Genuine Multipartite Entanglement Criteria using Uncertainty Relations
authors: A. Saboia, A. T. Avelar, S. P. Walborn, F. Toscano
comments: 22 pages (10 main manuscript, 12 supplementary material). Submitted to Physical Review Letters on July 7 of 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7248
abstract: A general procedure to construct criteria for identifying genuine multipartite continuous variable entanglement is presented. It relies on the proper definition of adequate global operators describing the multipartite system, the positive partial transpose criterion of separability, and quantum mechanical uncertainty relations. As a consequence, each criterion encountered consists of a single inequality that is nicely computable and experimentally feasible, and that when violated is sufficient condition for genuine multipartite entanglement. Additionally we show that the previous work of van Loock and Furusawa [Phys. Rev. A, 67, 052315 (2003)] is a special case of our result that includes strongest criteria to detect entanglement.

id: 1407.7251
title: Quantum circuit design for accurate simulation of qudit channels
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 22 pages; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17 043004 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7251
abstract: We construct a classical algorithm that designs quantum circuits for algorithmic quantum simulation of arbitrary qudit channels on fault-tolerant quantum computers within a pre-specified error tolerance with respect to diamond-norm distance. The classical algorithm is constructed by decomposing a quantum channel into a convex combination of generalized extreme channels by convex optimization of a set of nonlinear coupled algebraic equations. The resultant circuit is a randomly chosen generalized extreme channel circuit whose run-time is logarithmic with respect to the error tolerance and quadratic with respect to Hilbert space dimension, which requires only a single ancillary qudit plus classical dits.

id: 1407.7333
title: On uncertainty relations and entanglement detection with mutually unbiased measurements
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Minor improvements. Typos fixed
journal: Open Sys. & Inf. Dyn., Vol. 22, 1550005 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7333
abstract: We formulate some properties of a set of several mutually unbiased measurements. These properties are used for deriving entropic uncertainty relations. Applications of mutually unbiased measurements in entanglement detection are also revisited. First, we estimate from above the sum of the indices of coincidence for several mutually unbiased measurements. Further, we derive entropic uncertainty relations in terms of the R\'{e}nyi and Tsallis entropies. Both the state-dependent and state-independent formulations are obtained. Using the two sets of local mutually unbiased measurements, a method of entanglement detection in bipartite finite-dimensional systems may be realized. A certain trade-off between a sensitivity of the scheme and its experimental complexity is discussed.

id: 1407.7336
title: Subwavelength vacuum lattices and atom-atom interactions in photonic crystals
authors: A. Gonz¨¢lez-Tudela, C.-L. Hung, D. E. Chang, J. I. Cirac, H. J. Kimble
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 9, 320-325 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7336
abstract: We propose the use of photonic crystal structures to design subwavelength optical lattices in two dimensions for ultracold atoms by using both Guided Modes and Casimir-Polder forces. We further show how to use Guided Modes for photon-induced large and strongly long-range interactions between trapped atoms. Finally, we analyze the prospects of this scheme to implement spin models for quantum simulation

id: 1407.7352
title: Bounds on Quantum Multiple-Parameter Estimation with Gaussian State
authors: Yang Gao, Hwang Lee
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7352
abstract: We investigate the quantum Cramer-Rao bounds on the joint multiple-parameter estimation with the Gaussian state as a probe. We derive the explicit right logarithmic derivative and symmetric logarithmic derivative operators in such a situation. We compute the corresponding quantum Fisher information matrices, and find that they can be fully expressed in terms of the mean displacement and covariance matrix of the Gaussian state. Finally, we give some examples to show the utility of our analytical results.

id: 1407.7354
title: Detuning Enhanced Cavity Spin Squeezing
authors: Yan-Lei Zhang, Chang-Ling Zou, Xu-Bo Zou, Liang Jiang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7354
abstract: The unconditionally squeezing of the collective spin of an atomic ensemble in a laser driven optical cavity (I. D. Leroux, M. H. Schleier-Smith, and V. Vuletic, Phys. Rev. Lett 104, 073602 (2010)) is studied and analyzed theoretically. Surprisingly, we find that the largely detuned driving laser can improve the scaling of cavity squeezing from $S^{-2/5}$ to $S^{-2/3}$, where S is the total atomic spin. Moreover, we also demonstrate that the experimental imperfection of photon scattering into free space can be efficiently suppressed by detuning.

id: 1407.7375
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution based on Bell's inequality
authors: Hua-Lei Yin, Yao Fu, Yan-Lin Tang, Yuan Li, Teng-Yun Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7375
abstract: We propose two quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols based on Bell's inequality, which can be considered as modified time-reversed E91 protocol. Similar to the measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol, the first scheme requires the assumption that Alice and Bob perfectly characterize the encoded quantum states. However, our second protocol does not require this assumption, which can defeat more known and unknown source-side attacks compared with the MDI-QKD. The two protocols are naturally immune to all hacking attacks with respect to detections. Therefore, the security of the two protocols can be proven based on the violation of Bell's inequality with measurement data under fair-sampling assumption. In our simulation, the results of both protocols show that long-distance quantum key distribution over 200 km remains secure with conventional lasers in the asymptotic-data case. We present a new technique to estimate the Bell's inequality violation, which can also be applied to other fields of quantum information processing.

id: 1407.7410
title: Two Copies of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen State of Light Lead to Refutation of EPR Ideas
authors: Krzysztof Roso?ek, Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Marcin Wie?niak, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 100402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7410
abstract: Bell's theorem applies to the normalizable approximations of the original Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) state. The constructions of the proof require measurements difficult to perform, and dichotomic observables. By noticing the fact that the four mode squeezed vacuum state produced in type II down-conversion can be seen both as two copies of approximate EPR states, and also as a kind of polarization supersinglet, we show a straightforward way to test violations of the EPR concepts with direct use of their state. The observables involved are simply photon numbers at outputs of polarizing beam splitters. Suitable chained Bell inequalities are based on the geometric concept of distance. For a few settings they are potentially a new tool for quantum information applications, involving observables of a nondichotomic nature, and thus of higher informational capacity. In the limit of infinitely many settings we get a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type contradiction: EPR reasoning points to a correlation, while quantum prediction is an anticorrelation. Violations of the inequalities are fully resistant to multipair emissions in Bell experiments using parametric down-conversion sources.

id: 1407.7426
title: Reconstructing high-dimensional two-photon entangled states via compressive sensing
authors: Francesco Tonolini, Susan Chan, Megan Agnew, Alan Lindsay, Jonathan Leach
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7426
abstract: Accurately establishing the state of large-scale quantum systems is an important tool in quantum information science; however, the large number of unknown parameters hinders the rapid characterisation of such states, and reconstruction procedures can become prohibitively time-consuming. Compressive sensing, a procedure for solving inverse problems by incorporating prior knowledge about the form of the solution, provides an attractive alternative to the problem of high-dimensional quantum state characterisation. Using a modified version of compressive sensing that incorporates the principles of singular value thresholding, we reconstruct the density matrix of a high-dimensional two-photon entangled system. The dimension of each photon is equal to $d= 17$, corresponding to a system of 83521 unknown real parameters. Accurate reconstruction is achieved with approximately 2500 measurements, only 3\% of the total number of unknown parameters in the state. The algorithm we develop is fast, computationally inexpensive, and applicable to a wide range of quantum states, thus demonstrating compressive sensing as an effective technique for measuring the state of large-scale quantum systems.

id: 1407.7427
title: Provably Secure and Practical Quantum Key Distribution over 307 km of Optical Fibre
authors: Boris Korzh, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Raphael Houlmann, Nicolas Gisin, Ming Jun Li, Daniel Nolan, Bruno Sanguinetti, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 6+7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 9, 163-168 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7427
abstract: Proposed in 1984, quantum key distribution (QKD) allows two users to exchange provably secure keys via a potentially insecure quantum channel. Since then, QKD has attracted much attention and significant progress has been made in both theory and practice. On the application front, however, the operating distance of practical fibre-based QKD systems is limited to about 150 km, which is mainly due to the high background noise produced by commonly used semiconductor single-photon detectors (SPDs) and the stringent demand on the minimum classical- post-processing (CPP) block size. Here, we present a compact and autonomous QKD system that is capable of distributing provably-secure cryptographic key over 307 km of ultra-low-loss optical fibre (51.9 dB loss). The system is based on a recently developed standard semiconductor (inGaAs) SPDs with record low background noise and a novel efficient finite-key security analysis for QKD. This demonstrates the feasibility of practical long-distance QKD based on standard fibre optic telecom components.

id: 1407.7446
title: Non-adiabatic emission of ultrastrongly-coupled oscillators: signatures of the $A^2$ term
authors: K. R. McEnery, Tommaso Tufarelli, S. A. Maier, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7446
abstract: We investigate the emission of a polaritonic system, where the coupling between a large number of two-level emitters and a single-mode cavity field is non-adiabatically switched on. Counter-rotating terms as well as the so-called $A^2$ term are included in the light-matter interaction, where ${\bf A }$ is the vector potential. We find that the Thomas-Reiche-Kuhn sum rule enforces qualitative constraints on the quantum statistics of the resulting vacuum radiation, which consists of two spectrally resolved output modes. For ideal two-level emitters the populations of the two modes are always found equal. This result cannot be recovered if $A^2$ is neglected, or even if it is included perturbatively via renormalization of the cavity frequency. We then extend our study to imperfect two-level emitters, featuring residual couplings to higher levels, and find that a naive application of the two-level approximation alters these predictions incorrectly. We discuss how a refined two-level approximation may be obtained by rescaling the $A^2$ term.

id: 1407.7491
title: Minimum Time Optimal Synthesis for a Control System on SU(2)
authors: Francesca Albertini, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7491
abstract: For the time optimal control on an invariant system on SU(2), with two independent controls and a bound on the norm of the control, the extremals of the maximum principle are explicit functions of time and the resulting differential equations can be explicitly integrated. We use this fact here to perform the optimal synthesis for these systems, i.e., find all optimal trajectories. As a consequence, we describe a simple method to find the minimum time control for every desired final condition. Although the Lie group SU(2) is three dimensional, optimal trajectories can be described in the unit disk of the complex plane. We find that a circular trajectory separates optimal trajectories that reach the boundary of the unit disk from the others. Inside this separatrix circle another trajectory (the critical trajectory) plays an important role in that all optimal trajectories end at an intersection with this curve. Our results are of interest to find the minimum time needed to achieve a given evolution of a two level quantum system.

id: 1407.7510
title: Photon-photon gate via the interaction between two collective Rydberg excitations
authors: Mohammadsadegh Khazali, Khabat Heshami, Christoph Simon
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7510
abstract: We propose a scheme for a deterministic controlled-phase gate between two photons based on the strong interaction between two stationary collective Rydberg excitations in an atomic ensemble. The distance-dependent character of the interaction causes both a momentum displacement of the collective excitations and unwanted entanglement between them. We show that these effects can be overcome by swapping the collective excitations in space and by optimizing the geometry, resulting in a photon-photon gate with high fidelity and efficiency.

id: 1407.7517
title: Security bound of cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7517
abstract: Cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment (CSQBC) loosens the security requirement of quantum bit commitment (QBC), so that the existing impossibility proofs of unconditionally secure QBC can be evaded. But here we analyze the common features in all existing CSQBC protocols, and show that in any CSQBC having these features, the receiver can always learn a non-trivial amount of information on the sender's committed bit before it is unveiled, while his cheating can pass the security check with a probability not less than 50%.

id: 1407.7567
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in Quantum Information Processing
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Antonio D'Arrigo, Stefano Siccardi, Giuliano Strini
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052313 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7567
abstract: We demonstrate, in the regime of ultrastrong matter-field coupling, the strong connection between the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) and the performance of quantum information protocols. Our results are illustrated by means of a realistic quantum communication channel and show that the DCE is a fundamental limit for quantum computation and communication and that novel schemes are required to implement ultrafast and reliable quantum gates. Strategies to partially counteract the DCE are also discussed.

id: 1407.7581
title: Theory of adiabatic quantum control in the presence of cavity-photon shot noise
authors: Christopher Chamberland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7581
abstract: Many areas of physics rely upon adiabatic state transfer protocols, allowing a quantum state to be moved between different physical systems for storage and retrieval or state manipulation. However, these state-transfer protocols suffer from dephasing and dissipation. In this thesis we go beyond the standard open-systems treatment of quantum dissipation allowing us to consider non-Markovian environments. We use adiabatic perturbation theory in order to give analytic descriptions for various quantum state-transfer protocols. The leading-order corrections will give rise to additional terms adding to the geometric phase preventing us from achieving a perfect fidelity. We obtain analytical descriptions for the effects of the geometric phase in non-Markovian regimes. The Markovian regime is usually treated by solving a standard Bloch-Redfield master equation, while in the non-Markovian regime, we perform a secular approximation allowing us to obtain a solution to the density matrix without solving master equations. This solution contains all the relevant phase information for our state-transfer protocol. After developing the general theoretical tools, we apply our methods to adiabatic state transfer between a four-level atom in a driven cavity. We explicitly consider dephasing effects due to unavoidable photon shot noise and give a protocol for performing a phase gate. These results will be useful to ongoing experiments in circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) systems.

id: 1407.7606
title: A Generalization of the Functional Calculus of Observables and Notion of Joint Measurability to the Case of Non-commuting Observables
authors: Richard DeJonghe, Kimberly Frey, Tom Imbo
comments: v2: BibTeX problems fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7606
abstract: For any pair of bounded observables $A$ and $B$ with pure point spectra, we construct an associated "joint observable" which gives rise to a notion of a joint (projective) measurement of $A$ and $B$, and which conforms to the intuition that one can measure non-commuting observables simultaneously, provided one is willing to give up arbitrary precision. As an application, we show how our notion of a joint observable naturally allows for a construction of a "functional calculus," so that for any pair of observables $A$ and $B$ as above, and any (Borel measurable) function $f: \mathbb{R}^2 \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$, a new "generalized observable" $f(A,B)$ is obtained. Moreover, we show that this new functional calculus has some rather remarkable properties.

id: 1407.7610
title: Quantum Mechanics reconstruction from invariance of the laws of nature under tensor composition
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: 51 pages, 2 figures, formatted for Springer using svjour2 version 2: added a subsection, minor updates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7610
abstract: Quantum and classical mechanics are derived using four natural physical principles: (1) the laws of nature are invariant under time evolution, (2) the laws of nature are invariant under tensor composition, (3) the laws of nature are relational, and (4) positivity (the ability to define a physical state). Quantum mechanics is singled out by a fifth experimentally justified postulate: nature violates Bell's inequalities.

id: 1407.7620
title: Quantum Model Of Spin Noise
authors: R. Annabestani, D. G. Cory, J. Emerson
comments: 11 pages, 7 figure
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance (2015), pp. 94-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7620
abstract: Any ensemble of quantum particles exhibits statistical fluctuations known as spin noise. Here, we provide a description of spin noise in the language of open quantum systems. The description unifies the signatures of spin noise under both strong and weak measurements. Further, the model accounts for arbitrary spin dynamics from an arbitrary initial state. In all cases we can find both the spin noise and its time correlation function.

id: 1407.7642
title: Nonlinear Quantum Optical Springs and Their Nonclassical Properties
authors: M.J. Faghihi, M.K. Tavassoly
comments: 10 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1004.2199
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 56 (2011) 327
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7642
abstract: The original idea of quantum optical spring arises from the requirement of quantization of the frequency of oscillations in the Hamiltonian of harmonic oscillator. This purpose is achieved by considering a spring whose constant (and so its frequency) depends on the quantum states of another system. Recently, it is realized that by the assumption of frequency modulation of $\omega$ to $\omega\sqrt{1+\mu a^\dagger a}$ the mentioned idea can be established. In the present paper, we generalize the approach of quantum optical spring with particular attention to the {\it dependence of frequency to the intensity of radiation field} that {\it naturally} observes in the {\it nonlinear coherent states}, from which we arrive at a physical system has been called by us as {\it nonlinear quantum optical spring}. Then, after the introduction of the generalized Hamiltonian of nonlinear quantum optical spring and it's solution, we will investigate the nonclassical properties of the obtained states. Specially, typical collapse and revival in the distribution functions and squeezing parameters, as particular quantum features, will be revealed.

id: 1407.7681
title: Comparing different modes of quantum state transfer in a XXZ spin chain
authors: Sima Pouyandeh, Farhad Shahbazi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7681
abstract: We study the information transferring ability of a spin-1/2 XXZ Hamiltonian for two different modes of state transfer, namely, the well studied attaching scenario and the recently proposed measurement induced transport. The latter one has been inspired by recent achievements in optical lattice experiments for local addressability of individual atoms and their time evolution when only local rotations and measurements are available and local control of the Hamiltonian is very limited. We show that while measurement induced transport gives higher fidelity for quantum state transfer around the isotropic Heisenberg point, its superiority is less pronounced in non-interacting free fermionic XX phase. Moreover, we study the quality of state transfer in the presence of thermal fluctuations and environmental interactions and show that measurement scheme gives higher fidelity for low temperatures and weak interaction with environment.

id: 1407.7683
title: Interferometric measurement of the biphoton wave function
authors: Federica A. Beduini, Joanna A. Zieli¨½ska, Vito G. Lucivero, Yannick A. de Icaza Astiz, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 183602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7683
abstract: Interference between an unknown two-photon state (a "biphoton") and the two-photon component of a reference state gives a phase-sensitive arrival-time distribution containing full information about the biphoton temporal wave function. Using a coherent state as a reference, we observe this interference and reconstruct the wave function of single-mode biphotons from a low-intensity narrowband squeezed vacuum state.

id: 1407.7690
title: Quantum entanglement and position-momentum entropic squeezing of a moving Lambda-type three-level atom interacting with a single-mode quantized field with intensity-dependent coupling
authors: M. J. Faghihi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1303.4106
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 145506
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7690
abstract: In this paper, we study the interaction between a moving $\Lambda$-type three-level atom and a single-mode cavity field in the presence of intensity-dependent atom-field coupling. After obtaining the state vector of the entire system explicitly, we study the nonclassical features of the system such as quantum entanglement, position-momentum entropic squeezing, quadrature squeezing and sub-Poissonian statistics. According to the obtained numerical results we illustrate that the squeezed period, the duration of entropy squeezing and the maximal squeezing can be controlled by choosing the appropriate nonlinearity function together with entering the atomic motion effect by suitably selection of the field-mode structure parameter. Also, the atomic motion, as well as the nonlinearity function leads to the oscillatory behaviour of the degree of entanglement between the atom and field.

id: 1407.7702
title: Noise powered amplification in CV quantum key distribution
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7702
abstract: Amplification plays a key role in classical communication protocols, where it compensates the unavoidable loss of the signal. However, when we enter the quantum domain this approach starts being problematic as the standard kinds of amplifiers are usually accompanied by excess noise which detrimentally affects the quantum features of used states. Recently, several kinds of "noiseless" amplifiers that do not suffer from this feature have been proposed. Among these amplifiers, one that stands out is the noise powered amplifier, which acts incoherently, amplifying the signal by adding the "right" kind of noise. Here we show that despite the incoherence, which makes the amplifier unsuitable for protocols such as entanglement distillation, the added noise is not a big problem in quantum key distribution tasks and can be in some situations beneficial.

id: 1407.7716
title: Tripartite entanglement dynamics and entropic squeezing of a three-level atom interacting with a bimodal cavity field
authors: M. J. Faghihi, M. K. Tavassoly, M. Bagheri Harouni
comments: 19 pages
journal: Laser Phys. 24 (2014) 045202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7716
abstract: In this paper, we study the interaction between a $\Lambda$-type three-level atom and two quantized electromagnetic fields which are simultaneously injected in a bichromatic cavity surrounded by a Kerr medium in the presence of the field-field interaction (parametric down conversion) and detuning parameters. By applying a canonical transformation, the introduced model is reduced to a well-known form of the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model. Under particular initial conditions which may be prepared for the atom and the field, the time evolution of state vector of the entire system is analytically evaluated. Then, the dynamics of atom is studied through the evolution of the atomic population inversion. In addition, two different measures of entanglement between the tripartite system (three entities make the system: two field modes and one atom) i.e., von Neumann and linear entropy are investigated. Also, two kinds of entropic uncertainty relations, from which entropy squeezing can be obtained, are discussed. In each case, the influences of the detuning parameters and Kerr medium on the above nonclassicality features are analyzed via numerical results, in detail. It is illustrated that the amount of the above-mentioned physical phenomena can be tuned by choosing the evolved parameters, appropriately.

id: 1407.7752
title: Direct tests of measurement uncertainty relations: what it takes
authors: Paul Busch, Neil Stevens
comments: 8 pages including Supplement. This version 2 has been substantially rewritten, including a change of title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 070402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7752
abstract: The uncertainty principle being a cornerstone of quantum mechanics, it is surprising that in nearly 90 years there have been no direct tests of measurement uncertainty relations. This lacuna was due to the absence of two essential ingredients: appropriate measures of measurement error (and disturbance), and precise formulations of such relations that are {\em universally valid}and {\em directly testable}. We formulate two distinct forms of direct tests, based on different measures of error. We present a prototype protocol for a direct test of measurement uncertainty relations in terms of {\em value deviation errors} (hitherto considered nonfeasible), highlighting the lack of universality of these relations. This shows that the formulation of universal, directly testable measurement uncertainty relations for {\em state-dependent} error measures remains an important open problem. Recent experiments that were claimed to constitute invalidations of Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation are shown to conform with the spirit of Heisenberg's principle if interpreted as direct tests of measurement uncertainty relations for error measures that quantify {\em distances between observables}.

id: 1407.7757
title: Retrodictive derivation of the radical-ion-pair master equation and Monte-Carlo simulation with single-molecule quantum trajectories
authors: M. Kritsotakis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042719 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7757
abstract: Radical-ion-pair reactions, central in photosynthesis and the avian magnetic compass mechanism, have recently shown to be a paradigm system for applying quantum information science in a biochemical setting. The fundamental quantum master equation describing radical-ion-pair reactions is still under debate. We here use quantum retrodiction to produce a rigorous refinement of the theory put forward in Phys. Rev. E {\bf 83}, 056118 (2011). We also provide a rigorous analysis of the measure of singlet-triplet coherence required for deriving the radical-pair master equation. A Monte-Carlo simulation with single-molecule quantum trajectories supports the self-consistency of our approach.

id: 1407.7765
title: Extractable work from correlations
authors: Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Marcus Huber, Paul Skrzypczyk, Nicolas Brunner, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 5+6 pages, 1 figure; new title, two new results, improved presentation, and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7765
abstract: Work and quantum correlations are two fundamental resources in thermodynamics and quantum information theory. In this work we study how to use correlations among quantum systems to optimally store work. We analyse this question for isolated quantum ensembles, where the work can be naturally divided into two contributions: a local contribution from each system, and a global contribution originating from correlations among systems. We focus on the latter and consider quantum systems which are locally thermal, thus from which any extractable work can only come from correlations. We compute the maximum extractable work for general entangled states, separable states, and states with fixed entropy. Our results show that while entanglement gives an advantage for small quantum ensembles, this gain vanishes for a large number of systems.

id: 1407.7766
title: Quantum collapse rules from the maximum relative entropy principle
authors: Frank Hellmann, Wojciech Kami¨½ski, Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: v2: some references added, improved presentation, result generalised to cover nonfaithful states; v3: cross-ref to arXiv:1408.3502 added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7766
abstract: We show that the von Neumann--Lueders collapse rules in quantum mechanics always select the unique state that maximises the quantum relative entropy with respect to the premeasurement state, subject to the constraint that the postmeasurement state has to be compatible with the knowledge gained in the measurement. This way we provide an information theoretic characterisation of quantum collapse rules by means of the maximum relative entropy principle.

id: 1407.7805
title: Monte Carlo sampling from the quantum state space. I
authors: Jiangwei Shang, Yi-Lin Seah, Hui Khoon Ng, David John Nott, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, 26 references
journal: Jiangwei Shang et al 2015 New J. Phys. 17 043017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7805
abstract: High-quality random samples of quantum states are needed for a variety of tasks in quantum information and quantum computation. Searching the high-dimensional quantum state space for a global maximum of an objective function with many local maxima or evaluating an integral over a region in the quantum state space are but two exemplary applications of many. These tasks can only be performed reliably and efficiently with Monte Carlo methods, which involve good samplings of the parameter space in accordance with the relevant target distribution. We show how the standard strategies of rejection sampling, importance sampling, and Markov-chain sampling can be adapted to this context, where the samples must obey the constraints imposed by the positivity of the statistical operator. For a comparison of these sampling methods, we generate sample points in the probability space for two-qubit states probed with a tomographically incomplete measurement, and then use the sample for the calculation of the size and credibility of the recently-introduced optimal error regions [see New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 123026]. Another illustration is the computation of the fractional volume of separable two-qubit states.

id: 1407.7806
title: Monte Carlo sampling from the quantum state space. II
authors: Yi-Lin Seah, Jiangwei Shang, Hui Khoon Ng, David John Nott, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 12 references
journal: Yi-Lin Seah et al 2015 New J. Phys. 17 043018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7806
abstract: High-quality random samples of quantum states are needed for a variety of tasks in quantum information and quantum computation. Searching the high-dimensional quantum state space for a global maximum of an objective function with many local maxima or evaluating an integral over a region in the quantum state space are but two exemplary applications of many. These tasks can only be performed reliably and efficiently with Monte Carlo methods, which involve good samplings of the parameter space in accordance with the relevant target distribution. We show how the Markov-chain Monte Carlo method known as Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, or hybrid Monte Carlo, can be adapted to this context. It is applicable when an efficient parameterization of the state space is available. The resulting random walk is entirely inside the physical parameter space, and the Hamiltonian dynamics enable us to take big steps, thereby avoiding strong correlations between successive sample points while enjoying a high acceptance rate. We use examples of single and double qubit measurements for illustration.

id: 1407.7842
title: Prethermalization of atoms due to photon-mediated long-range interactions
authors: Stefan Sch¨¹tz, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 203002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7842
abstract: Atoms can spontaneously form spatially-ordered structures in optical resonators when they are transversally driven by lasers. This occurs when the laser intensity exceeds a threshold value and results from the mechanical forces on the atoms associated with superradiant scattering into the cavity mode. We treat the atomic motion semiclassically and show that, while the onset of spatial ordering depends on the intracavity-photon number, the stationary momentum distribution is a Maxwell-Boltzmann whose width is determined by the rate of photon losses. Above threshold, the dynamics is characterized by two time scales: after a violent relaxation, the system slowly reaches the stationary state over time scales exceeding the cavity lifetime by several orders of magnitude. In this transient regime the atomic momenta form non-Gaussian metastable distributions, which emerge from the interplay between the long-range dispersive and dissipative mechanical forces of light. We argue that the dynamics of selforganization of atoms in cavities offers a testbed for studying the statistical mechanics of long-range interacting systems.

id: 1407.7843
title: Alternate Forms of the T-Matrix in Quantum State Tomography
authors: Ramesh Bhandari
comments: 7 pages; some irrelevant, misleading material in the appendix removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7843
abstract: In this paper, we focus on alternate forms of the T-matrix used in the Maximum Likelihood Estimate (MLE) procedure for fitting the experimental data collected in quantum state tomography experiments. In particular, we analyze the single quantum state tomography case, deriving in the process three new valid alternate forms for achieving optimality. These alternative forms then serve as a consistency check, thus enhancing the robustness of the MLE fitting process. One form, in particular, serves as a useful compliment to the standard form normally employed. We subsequently provide a generalization of these forms to the case of multiqubit state tomography.

id: 1407.7851
title: Dynamics of entanglement of a three-level atom in motion interacting with two coupled modes including parametric down conversion
authors: M. J. Faghihi, M. K. Tavassoly, M. Hatami
comments: 12 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1407.7716, arXiv:1407.7690
journal: Physica A 407 (2014) 100
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7851
abstract: In this paper, a model by which we study the interaction between a motional three-level atom and two-mode field injected simultaneously in a bichromatic cavity is considered; the three-level atom is assumed to be in a $\Lambda$-type configuration. As a result, the atom-field and the field-field interaction (parametric down conversion) will be appeared. It is shown that, by applying a canonical transformation, the introduced model can be reduced to a well-known form of the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model. Under particular initial conditions, which may be prepared for the atom and the field, the time evolution of state vector of the entire system is analytically evaluated. Then, the dynamics of atom by considering `atomic population inversion' and two different measures of entanglement, i.e., `von Neumann entropy' and `idempotency defect' is discussed, in detail. It is deduced from the numerical results that, the duration and the maximum amount of the considered physical quantities can be suitably tuned by selecting the proper field-mode structure parameter $p$ and the detuning parameters.

id: 1407.7863
title: Exploiting locality in quantum computation for quantum chemistry
authors: Jarrod R. McClean, Ryan Babbush, Peter J. Love, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7863
abstract: Accurate prediction of chemical and material properties from first principles quantum chemistry is a challenging task on traditional computers. Recent developments in quantum computation offer a route towards highly accurate solutions with polynomial cost, however this solution still carries a large overhead. In this perspective, we aim to bring together known results about the locality of physical interactions from quantum chemistry with ideas from quantum computation. We show that the utilization of spatial locality combined with the Bravyi-Kitaev transformation offers an improvement in the scaling of known quantum algorithms for quantum chemistry and provide numerical examples to help illustrate this point. We combine these developments to improve the outlook for the future of quantum chemistry on quantum computers.

id: 1407.7909
title: Using arbitrary parity-check matrices for quantum error correction assisted by less noisy qubits
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7909
abstract: Recently a framework for assisted quantum error correction was proposed in which a specific type of error is allowed to occur on auxiliary qubits, which is in contrast to standard entanglement assistance that requires noiseless auxiliary qubits. However, while the framework maintains the ability to import any binary or quaternary linear code without sacrificing active error correction power, it requires the code designer to turn a parity-check matrix of the underlying classical code into an equivalent one in standard form. This means that classical coding theoretic techniques that require parity-check matrices to be in specific form may not fully be exploitable. Another issue of the recently proposed scheme is that the error correction capabilities for bit errors and phase errors are generally equal, which is not ideal for asymmetric error models. This paper addresses these two problems. We generalize the framework in such a way that any parity-check matrix of any binary or quaternary linear code can be exploited. Our generalization also allows for importing a pair of distinct linear codes so that error correction capabilities become suitably asymmetric.

id: 1407.8012
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution over 200 km
authors: Yan-Lin Tang, Hua-Lei Yin, Si-Jing Chen, Yang Liu, Wei-Jun Zhang, Xiao Jiang, Lu Zhang, Jian Wang, Li-Xing You, Jian-Yu Guan, Dong-Xu Yang, Zhen Wang, Hao Liang, Zhen Zhang, Nan Zhou, Xiongfeng Ma, Teng-Yun Chen, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 190501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8012
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDIQKD) protocol is immune to all attacks on detection and guarantees the information-theoretical security even with imperfect single photon detectors. Recently, several proof-of-principle demonstrations of MDIQKD have been achieved. Those experiments, although novel, are implemented through limited distance with a key rate less than 0.1 bps. Here, by developing a 75 MHz clock rate fully-automatic and highly-stable system, and superconducting nanowire single photon detectors with detection efficiencies more than 40%, we extend the secure transmission distance of MDIQKD to 200 km and achieve a secure key rate of three orders of magnitude higher. These results pave the way towards a quantum network with measurement-device-independent security.

id: 1407.8016
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with ensemble-based memories
authors: Nicol¨® Lo Piparo, Mohsen Razavi, Christiana Panayi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8016
abstract: Quantum memories are enabling devices for extending the reach of quantum key distribution (QKD) systems. The required specifications for memories are, however, often considered too demanding for available technologies. One can change this mindset by introducing memory-assisted measurement-device-independent QKD (MDI-QKD), which imposes less stringent conditions on the memory modules. It has been shown that, in the case of {\em fast} single-qubit memories, we can reach rates and distances not attainable by single no-memory QKD links. Single-qubit memories, such as single atoms or ions, have, currently, too slow of an access time to offer an advantage in practice. Here, we relax that assumption, and consider ensemble-based memories, which satisfy the main two requirements of having short access times and large storage-bandwidth products. Our results, however, suggest that the multiple-excitation effects in such memories can be so detrimental that they may wash away the scaling improvement offered by memory-equipped systems. We then propose an alternative setup that can in principle remedy the above problem. As a prelude to our main problem, we also obtain secret key generation rates for MDI-QKD systems that rely on imperfect single-photon sources with nonzero probabilities of emitting two photons.

id: 1407.8020
title: Distinguishing between evidence and its explanations in the steering of atomic clocks
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: 37 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 350 (2014) 29-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8020
abstract: Quantum theory reflects within itself a separation of evidence from explanations. This separation leads to a known proof that: (1) no wave function can be determined uniquely by evidence, and (2) any chosen wave function requires a guess reaching beyond logic to things unforeseeable. Chosen wave functions are encoded into computer-mediated feedback essential to atomic clocks, including clocks that step computers through their phases of computation and clocks in space vehicles that supply evidence of signal propagation explained by hypotheses of spacetimes with metric tensor fields. The propagation of logical symbols from one computer to another requires a shared rhythm---like a bucket brigade. Here we show how hypothesized metric tensors, dependent on guesswork, take part in the logical synchronization by which clocks are steered in rate and position toward aiming points that satisfy phase constraints, thereby linking the physics of signal propagation with the sharing of logical symbols among computers. Recognizing the dependence of the phasing of symbol arrivals on guesses about signal propagation transports logical synchronization from the engineering of digital communications to a discipline essential to physics. Within this discipline we begin to explore questions invisible under any concept of time that fails to acknowledge unforeseeable events. In particular, variation of spacetime curvature is shown to limit the bit rate of logical communication.

id: 1407.8025
title: Long-Distance Trust-Free Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Nicol¨® Lo Piparo, Mohsen Razavi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8025
abstract: The feasibility of trust-free long-haul quantum key distribution (QKD) networks is addressed. We combine measurement-device-independent QKD (MDI-QKD), as an access technology, with a quantum repeater setup, at the core of future quantum communication networks. This will provide a quantum link none of whose intermediary nodes need to be trusted, or, in our terminology, a trust-free QKD link. As the main figure of merit, we calculate the secret key generation rate when a particular probabilistic quantum repeater protocol is in use. We assume the users are equipped with imperfect single photon sources, which can possibly emit two single photons, or laser sources to implement decoy-state techniques. We consider apparatus imperfection, such as quantum efficiency and dark count of photodetectors, path loss of the channel, and writing and reading efficiencies of quantum memories. By optimizing different system parameters, we estimate the maximum distance over which users can share secret keys when a finite number of memories are employed in the repeater setup.

id: 1407.8050
title: Renormalized entropy of entanglement in relativistic field theory
authors: Issam Ibnouhsein, Fabio Costa, Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 065032 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8050
abstract: Entanglement is defined between subsystems of a quantum system, and at fixed time two regions of space can be viewed as two subsystems of a relativistic quantum field. The entropy of entanglement between such subsystems is ill-defined unless an ultraviolet cutoff is introduced, but it still diverges in the continuum limit. This behaviour is generic for arbitrary finite-energy states, hence a conceptual tension with the finite entanglement entropy typical of nonrelativistic quantum systems. We introduce a novel approach to explain the transition from infinite to finite entanglement, based on coarse graining the spatial resolution of the detectors measuring the field state. We show that states with a finite number of particles become localized, allowing an identification between a region of space and the nonrelativistic degrees of freedom of the particles therein contained, and that the renormalized entropy of finite-energy states reduces to the entanglement entropy of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 1407.8051
title: Implementing a neutral-atom controlled-phase gate with a single Rydberg pulse
authors: Rui Han, Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8051
abstract: One can implement fast two-qubit entangling gates by exploiting the Rydberg blockade. Although various theoretical schemes have been proposed, experimenters have not yet been able to demonstrate two-atom gates of high fidelity due to experimental constraints. We propose a novel scheme, which only uses a single Rydberg pulse, for the construction of neutral-atom controlled-phase gates. In contrast to the existing schemes, our scheme is simpler to implement and requires neither individual addressing of atoms nor adiabatic procedures. With realistically estimated experimental parameters, a gate fidelity higher than 0.99 is achievable.

id: 1407.8065
title: Precision-Guaranteed Quantum Metrology
authors: Takanori Sugiyama
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. Complementary explanations of relations to known results were added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042126 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8065
abstract: Quantum metrology is a general term for methods to precisely estimate the value of an unknown parameter by actively using quantum resources. In particular, some classes of entangled states can be used to significantly suppress the estimation error. Here, we derive a formula for rigorously evaluating an upper bound for the estimation error in a general setting of quantum metrology with arbitrary finite data sets. Unlike in the standard approach, where lower bounds for the error are evaluated in an ideal setting with almost infinite data, our method rigorously guarantees the estimation precision in realistic settings with finite data. We also prove that our upper bound shows the Heisenberg limit scaling whenever the linearized uncertainty, which is a popular benchmark in the standard approach, shows it. As an example, we apply our result to a Ramsey interferometer, and numerically show that the upper bound can exhibit the quantum enhancement of precision for finite data.

id: 1407.8074
title: Improving quantum gate performance through neighboring optimal control
authors: Yuchen Peng, Frank Gaitan
comments: 27 pages; 11 figures; 13 tables; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8074
abstract: Successful implementation of a fault-tolerant quantum computation on a system of qubits places severe demands on the hardware used to control the many-qubit state. It is known that an accuracy threshold $P_{a}$ exists for any quantum gate that is to be used in such a computation. Specifically, the error probability $P_{e}$ for such a gate must fall below the accuracy threshold: $P_{e} < P_{a}$. Estimates of $P_{a}$ vary widely, though $P_{a}\sim 10^{-4}$ has emerged as a challenging target for hardware designers. In this paper we present a theoretical framework based on neighboring optimal control that takes as input a good quantum gate and returns a new gate with better performance. We illustrate this approach by applying it to all gates in a universal set of quantum gates produced using non-adiabatic rapid passage that has appeared in the literature. Performance improvements are substantial, both for ideal and non-ideal controls. Under suitable conditions detailed below, all gate error probabilities fall well below the target threshold of $10^{-4}$.

id: 1407.8077
title: Cavity-aided quantum parameter estimation in a bosonic double-well Josephson junction
authors: M. Zuppardo, J. P. Santos, G. De Chiara, M. Paternostro, F. L. Semiao, G. M. Palma
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8077
abstract: We describe an apparatus designed to make non-demolition measurements on a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped in a double-well optical cavity. This apparatus contains, as well as the bosonic gas and the trap, an optical cavity. We show how the interaction between the light and the atoms, under appropriate conditions, can allow for a weakly disturbing yet highly precise measurement of the population imbalance between the two wells and its variance. We show that the setting is well suited for the implementation of quantum-limited estimation strategies for the inference of the key parameters defining the evolution of the atomic system and based on measurements performed on the cavity field. This would enable {\it de facto} Hamiltonian diagnosis via a highly controllable quantum probe.

id: 1407.8090
title: Classical stochastic measurement trajectories: Bosonic atomic gases in an optical cavity and quantum measurement backaction
authors: Mark D. Lee, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8090
abstract: We formulate computationally efficient classical stochastic measurement trajectories for a multimode quantum system under continuous observation. Specifically, we consider the nonlinear dynamics of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate contained within an optical cavity subject to continuous monitoring of the light leaking out of the cavity. The classical trajectories encode within a classical phase-space representation a continuous quantum measurement process conditioned on a given detection record. We derive a Fokker-Planck equation for the quasi-probability distribution of the combined condensate-cavity system. We unravel the dynamics into stochastic classical trajectories that are conditioned on the quantum measurement process of the continuously monitored system, and that these trajectories faithfully represent measurement records of individual experimental runs. Since the dynamics of a continuously measured observable in a many-atom system can be closely approximated by classical dynamics, the method provides a numerically efficient and accurate approach to calculate the measurement record of a large multimode quantum system. Numerical simulations of the continuously monitored dynamics of a large atom cloud reveal considerably fluctuating phase profiles between different measurement trajectories, while ensemble averages exhibit local spatially varying phase decoherence. Individual measurement trajectories lead to spatial pattern formation and optomechanical motion that solely result from the measurement backaction. The backaction of the continuous quantum measurement process, conditioned on the detection record of the photons, spontaneously breaks the symmetry of the spatial profile of the condensate and can be tailored to selectively excite collective modes.

id: 1407.8097
title: Spontaneous PT-symmetry breaking for systems of noncommutative Euclidean Lie algebraic type
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring, Thilagarajah Mathanaranjan
comments: 7 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2014) 10, 1007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8097
abstract: We propose a noncommutative version of the Euclidean Lie algebra $E_2$. Several types of non-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems expressed in terms of generic combinations of the generators of this algebra are investigated. Using the breakdown of the explicitly constructed Dyson maps as a criterium, we identify the domains in the parameter space in which the Hamiltonians have real energy spectra and determine the exceptional points signifying the crossover into the different types of spontaneously broken PT-symmetric regions with pairs of complex conjugate eigenvalues. We find exceptional points which remain invariant under the deformation as well as exceptional points becoming dependent on the deformation parameter of the algebra.

id: 1407.8108
title: Nonlinear quantum input-output analysis using Volterra series
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Re-Bing Wu, Kurt Jacobs, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Lan Yang, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Franco Nori
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8108
abstract: Quantum input-output theory plays a very important role for analyzing the dynamics of quantum systems, especially large-scale quantum networks. As an extension of the input-output formalism of Gardiner and Collet, we develop a new approach based on the quantum version of the Volterra series which can be used to analyze nonlinear quantum input-output dynamics. By this approach, we can ignore the internal dynamics of the quantum input-output system and represent the system dynamics by a series of kernel functions. This approach has the great advantage of modelling weak-nonlinear quantum networks. In our approach, the number of parameters, represented by the kernel functions, used to describe the input-output response of a weak-nonlinear quantum network, increases linearly with the scale of the quantum network, not exponentially as usual. Additionally, our approach can be used to formulate the quantum network with both nonlinear and nonconservative components, e.g., quantum amplifiers, which cannot be modelled by the existing methods, such as the Hudson-Parthasarathy model and the quantum transfer function model. We apply our general method to several examples, including Kerr cavities, optomechanical transducers, and a particular coherent feedback system with a nonlinear component and a quantum amplifier in the feedback loop. This approach provides a powerful way to the modelling and control of nonlinear quantum networks.

id: 1407.8122
title: Quantum measurement of spins and magnets, and the classical limit of PR-boxes
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: Talk presented at the European Chist-Era DIQIP project meeting in May 2013. 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8122
abstract: When Alice measures all her spin-$\half$ of a large ensemble of $N$ singlets, all along the same direction $\vec a$, she prepares at a distance an ensemble of spins for Bob which, because of statistical fluctuations, have a magnetic moment of the order $\sqrt{N}$. By making $N$ large enough, this magnetic moment can be made arbitrarily large. We show that, nevertheless, Bob can't read out of this large magnetic moment Alice's choice of measurement direction $\vec a$. We also consider stronger than quantum correlations and show that Tsirelson's bound follows from the physical assumption that in the macroscopic limit all measurements are compatible and that this should not lead to signaling.

id: 1407.8146
title: Oblivious transfer based on single-qubit rotations
authors: J. Rodrigues, P. Mateus, N. Paunkovi?, A. Souto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8146
abstract: We present a bit-string quantum oblivious transfer protocol based on single-qubit rotations. The proposed protocol does not violate the Lo's no-go theorem that prevents the unconditional security of $1$-out-of-$2$ oblivious transfer. Our protocol is based on a previously proposed quantum public key protocol and its security relies on the laws of Quantum Mechanics. We also present a single-bit oblivious transfer based on the proposed bit-string protocol. The protocol can be implemented with current technology based on optics.

id: 1407.8148
title: Realization of a quantum walk in phase space using resonator-assisted double quantum dots
authors: Zhihao Bian, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Rong Zhang, Peng Xue
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8148
abstract: We implement a quantum walk in phase space with a new mechanism based on the superconducting resonator-assisted double quantum dots. By analyzing the hybrid system, we obtain the necessary factors of realization of a quantum walk in phase space: the walker, coin, coin flipping and conditional phase shift. In order to implement the coin flipping operator, we add a driving field to the resonator. The interaction between the quantum dots and resonator field is used to implement conditional phase shift. Furthermore, we show with different driving fields the quantum walk in phase space exhibits a ballistic behavior over 25 steps and numerically analyze the factors which influence the spreading of the walker in phase space.

id: 1407.8160
title: Quantum Channel Capacities with Passive Environment Assistance
authors: Siddharth Karumanchi, Stefano Mancini, Andreas Winter, Dong Yang
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures, IEEE format, Theorem 9 (statement and proof) changed, updated References and Example 11 added. Comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8160
abstract: We initiate the study of passive environment-assisted communication via a quantum channel, modeled as a unitary interaction between the information carrying system and an environment. In this model, the environment is controlled by a benevolent helper who can set its initial state such as to assist sender and receiver of the communication link. (The case of a malicious environment, also known as jammer, or arbitrarily varying channel, is essentially well-understood and comprehensively reviewed.) Here, after setting out precise definitions, focussing on the problem of quantum communication, we show that entanglement plays a crucial role in this problem: indeed, the assisted capacity where the helper is restricted to product states between channel uses is different from the one with unrestricted helper. Furthermore, prior shared entanglement between the helper and the receiver makes a difference, too.

id: 1407.8172
title: Optimal measurement-based feedback control for a single qubit: a candidate protocol
authors: Ashkan Balouchi, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8172
abstract: Feedback control of quantum systems via continuous measurement involves complex nonlinear dynamics. Except in very special cases, even for a single qubit optimal feedback protocols are unknown. Not even do intuitive candidates exist for choosing the measurement basis, which is the primary non-trivial ingredient in the feedback control of a qubit. Here we present a series of arguments that suggest a particular form for the optimal protocol for a broad class of noise sources in the regime of good control. This regime is defined as that in which the control is strong enough to keep the system close to the desired state. With the assumption of this form the remaining parameters can be determined via a numerical search. The result is a non-trivial feedback protocol valid for all feedback strengths in the regime of good control. We conjecture that this protocol is optimal to leading order in the small parameters that define this regime. The protocol can be described relatively simply, and as a notable feature contains a discontinuity as a function of the feedback strength.

id: 1407.8183
title: Dimensionality reduction for adiabatic quantum optimizers: Beyond symmetry exploitation
authors: Salvatore Mandr¨¤, Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: The manuscript has been widely revised to focus the reader's attention on the proposed method and its applications in presence of local disorder
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8183
abstract: Adiabatic quantum optimization is a procedure to solve a vast class of optimization problems by slowly changing the Hamiltonian of a quantum system. The evolution time necessary for the algorithm to be successful scales inversely with the minimum energy gap encountered during the dynamics. Unfortunately, the direct calculation of the gap is strongly limited by the exponential growth in dimensionality of quantum systems. Although many special-purpose methods have been devised to reduce the effective dimensionality of the Hilbert space, they are strongly limited to particular classes of problems with evident symmetries. Here, we propose and implement a reduction method that does not rely on any explicit symmetry and which requires, under certain but quite general conditions, only a polynomial amount of classical resources. As a concrete example, we analyze the well known Grover problem in presence of local disorder. In particular we show that adiabatic quantum optimization, even when affected by random noise, is still potentially faster than any classical algorithm.

id: 1407.8195
title: Monogamy equalities for qubit entanglement from Lorentz invariance
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8195
abstract: A striking result from nonrelativistic quantum mechanics is the monogamy of entanglement, which states that a particle can be maximally entangled only with one other party, not with several ones. While there is the exact quantitative relation for three qubits and also several inequalities describing monogamy properties it is not clear to what extent exact monogamy relations are a general feature of quantum mechanics. We prove that in all many-qubit systems there exist strict monogamy laws for quantum correlations. They come about through the curious relation between the nonrelativistic quantum mechanics of qubits and Minkowski space. We elucidate the origin of entanglement monogamy from this symmetry perspective and provide recipes to construct new families of such equalities.

id: 1407.8201
title: 3D transformation for point rotating reference frames and localized neutrinos in a rotating electromagnetic field
authors: Boris V. Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8201
abstract: The problem of Dirac's equation in a rotating electromagnetic field can be reduced to the stationary by using a transformation for point rotating reference frames. The general form of the non-Galilean transformation is deduced in the paper. For the non-Galilean transformation time is different in the rotating and resting frame. This transformation contains a constant, with the dimension of time. The constant is assumed to be fundamental. The transformation forms the necessary condition for the existence of periodic, bounded and square integrable solutions in both the rotating and resting frame. Variety of such solutions exists. Among the solutions massless states are identified. They describe localized neutrinos with invariable spin. The states in the resting frame are not stationary but they have a good chance to be stable.

id: 1407.8202
title: Efficient Approximation of Quantum Channel Capacities
authors: David Sutter, Tobias Sutter, Peyman Mohajerin Esfahani, Renato Renner
comments: 36 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8202
abstract: We propose an iterative method for approximating the capacity of classical-quantum channels with a discrete input alphabet and a finite dimensional output, possibly under additional constraints on the input distribution. Based on duality of convex programming, we derive explicit upper and lower bounds for the capacity. To provide an $\varepsilon$-close estimate to the capacity, the presented algorithm requires $O(\tfrac{(N \vee M) M^3 \log(N)^{1/2}}{\varepsilon})$, where $N$ denotes the input alphabet size and $M$ the output dimension. We then generalize the method for the task of approximating the capacity of classical-quantum channels with a bounded continuous input alphabet and a finite dimensional output. For channels with a finite dimensional quantum mechanical input and output, the idea of a universal encoder allows us to approximate the Holevo capacity using the same method. In particular, we show that the problem of approximating the Holevo capacity can be reduced to a multidimensional integration problem. For families of quantum channels fulfilling a certain assumption we show that the complexity to derive an $\varepsilon$-close solution to the Holevo capacity is subexponential or even polynomial in the problem size. We provide several examples to illustrate the performance of the approximation scheme in practice.

id: 1407.8217
title: Communication tasks with infinite quantum-classical separation
authors: Christopher Perry, Rahul Jain, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: V2: Slight modification in entanglement assisted setting - Alice must now abort rather than Bob. Improved proofs in appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8217
abstract: Quantum resources can be more powerful than classical resources - a quantum computer can solve certain problems exponentially faster than a classical computer, and computing a function of two people's inputs can be done with exponentially less communication with quantum messages than with classical ones. Here we consider a task between two players, Alice and Bob where quantum resources are infinitely more powerful than classical ones. Alice is given a string of length n, and Bob's task is to exclude certain combinations of bits that Alice might have. If Alice must send classical messages, then she must reveal nearly n bits of information to Bob, but if she is allowed to send quantum bits, the amount of information she must reveal goes to zero with increasing n. Next, we consider a version of the task where the parties can only send classical messages but may have access to entanglement. When assisted by entanglement, Alice only needs to send a constant number of bits, while without entanglement, the number of bits Alice must send grows linearly with n. The task is related to the PBR theorem which arises in the context of the foundations of quantum theory.

id: 1407.8233
title: Violations of Bell inequalities from random pure states
authors: Max R. Atkin, Stefan Zohren
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8233
abstract: We consider the expected violations of Bell inequalities from random pure states. More precisely, we focus on a slightly generalised version of the CGLMP inequality, which concerns Bell experiments of two parties, two measurement options and N outcomes and analyse their expected quantum violations from random pure states for varying N, assuming the conjectured optimal measurement operators. It is seen that for small N the Bell inequality is not violated, while for larger N it is. Using techniques from random matrix theory this is obtained analytically for small and large N and numerically for intermediate N. The results show a beautiful interplay of different aspects of random matrix theory, ranging from the Marchenko-Pastur distribution and fixed-trace ensembles to the O(n) model.

id: 1407.8281
title: Derivation of the time-dependent Schr?dinger equation from Fisher information
authors: Tzu-Chao Hung
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8281
abstract: Fisher information measures a disorder system, which is specified by a corresponding probability, the likelihood. In this article, we provide a bridge to connect classical and quantum mechanics by using Fisher information. Following the principle of minimum Fisher information, we can derive the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation step by step.

id: 1407.8292
title: Reversing the temporal envelope of a heralded single photon using a cavity
authors: Bharath Srivathsan, Gurpreet Kaur Gulati, Alessandro Cer¨¨, Brenda Chng, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 163601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8292
abstract: We demonstrate a way to prepare single photons with a temporal envelope that resembles the time reversal of photons from the spontaneous decay process. We use the photon pairs generated from a time-ordered atomic cascade decay: the detection of the first photon of the cascade is used as a herald for the ground-state transition resonant second photon. We show how the interaction of the heralding photon with an asymmetric Fabry-Perot cavity reverses the temporal shape of its twin photon from a decaying to a rising exponential envelope. This single photon is expected to be ideal for interacting with two level systems.

id: 1407.8296
title: Cross-level Validation of Topological Quantum Circuits
authors: Alexandru Paler, Simon J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto, Ilia Polian
comments: 12 Pages, 5 Figures. Comments Welcome. RC2014, Springer Lecture Notes on Computer Science (LNCS) 8507, pp. 189-200. Springer International Publishing, Switzerland (2014), Y. Shigeru and M.Shin-ichi (Eds.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8296
abstract: Quantum computing promises a new approach to solving difficult computational problems, and the quest of building a quantum computer has started. While the first attempts on construction were succesful, scalability has never been achieved, due to the inherent fragile nature of the quantum bits (qubits). From the multitude of approaches to achieve scalability topological quantum computing (TQC) is the most promising one, by being based on an flexible approach to error-correction and making use of the straightforward measurement-based computing technique. TQC circuits are defined within a large, uniform, 3-dimensional lattice of physical qubits produced by the hardware and the physical volume of this lattice directly relates to the resources required for computation. Circuit optimization may result in non-intuitive mismatches between circuit specification and implementation. In this paper we introduce the first method for cross-level validation of TQC circuits. The specification of the circuit is expressed based on the stabilizer formalism, and the stabilizer table is checked by mapping the topology on the physical qubit level, followed by quantum circuit simulation. Simulation results show that cross-level validation of error-corrected circuits is feasible.

id: 1407.8301
title: Entanglement analysis of two-atom nonlinear JCM with nondegenerate two-photon transition, Kerr nonlinearity and two-mode Stark shift
authors: H. R. Baghshahi, M. K. Tavassoly, M. J. Faghihi
comments: 17 pages, To be Published in Laser Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8301
abstract: Entangled state, as an essential tool in quantum information processing, may be generated through the interaction between light and matter in cavity quantum electrodynamics. In this paper, we study the interaction between two two-level atoms and a two-mode field in an optical cavity enclosed by a medium with Kerr nonlinearity in the presence of detuning parameter and Stark effect. It is assumed that atom-field coupling and third-order susceptibility of the Kerr medium depend on the intensity of light. In order to investigate the dynamics of the introduced system, we obtain the exact analytical form of the state vector of the considered atom-field system under initial conditions which may be prepared for the atoms (in a coherent superposition of their ground and upper states) and the fields (in standard coherent state). Then, in order to evaluate the degree of entanglement between subsystems, we investigate the dynamics of entanglement through the well-known criteria such as von Neumann reduced entropy, entanglement of formation and negativity. Finally, we analyze the influences of Stark shift, deformed Kerr medium, intensity-dependent coupling and also detuning parameter on the above-mentioned measures, in detail. Numerical results show that the amount of entanglement between different subsystems can be controlled by choosing the evolved parameters, appropriately.

id: 1407.8302
title: Entanglement criteria of two two-level atoms interacting with two coupled modes
authors: H. R. Baghshahi, M. J. Faghihi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1407.7716
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8302
abstract: In this paper, we study the interaction between two two-level atoms and two coupled modes of a quantized radiation field in the form of parametric frequency converter injecting within an optical cavity enclosed by a medium with Kerr nonlinearity. It is demonstrated that, by applying the Bogoliubov-Valatin canonical transformation, the introduced model is reduced to a well-known form of the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model. Then, under particular initial conditions which may be prepared for the atoms (in a coherent superposition of its ground and upper states) and the fields (in a standard coherent state), the time evolution of state vector of the entire system is analytically evaluated. In order to understand the degree of entanglement between subsystems (atom-field and atom-atom), the dynamics of entanglement through different measures, namely, von Neumann reduced entropy, concurrence and negativity is evaluated. In each case, the effects of Kerr nonlinearity and detuning parameter on the above criteria are numerically analyzed, in detail. It is illustrated that the amount of the degree of entanglement can be tuned by choosing the evolved parameters, appropriately.

id: 1407.8304
title: Algebraic and group treatments to nonlinear displaced number states and their nonclassicality features
authors: N. Asili Firouzabadi, M. K. Tavassoly, M. J. Faghihi
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8304
abstract: Recently, nonlinear displaced number states (NDNSs) have been \emph{manually} introduced, in which the deformation function $f(n)$ has been artificially added to the well-known displaced number states (DNSs). In this paper, after expressing enough physical motivation of our procedure, four distinct classes of NDNSs are presented by applying algebraic and group treatments. To achieve this purpose, by considering the DNSs and recalling the nonlinear coherent states formalism, the NDNSs are logically defined through an algebraic consideration. In addition, by using a particular class of Gilmore-Perelomov-type of $SU(1,1)$ and a class of $SU(2)$ coherent states, the NDNSs are introduced via group theoretical approach. Then, in order to examine the nonclassical behaviour of these states, sub-Poissonian statistics by evaluating Mandel parameter and Wigner quasi-probability distribution function associated with the obtained NDNSs are discussed, in detail.

id: 1407.8364
title: Quantum optomechanical piston engines powered by heat
authors: Andrea Mari, Alessandro Farace, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8364
abstract: We study two different models of optomechanical systems where a temperature gradient between two radiation baths is exploited for inducing self-sustained coherent oscillations of a mechanical resonator. Viewed from a thermodynamic perspective, such systems represent quantum instances of self-contained thermal machines converting heat into a periodic mechanical motion and thus they can be interpreted as nano-scale analogues of macroscopic piston engines. Our models are potentially suitable for testing fundamental aspects of quantum thermodynamics in the laboratory and for applications in energy efficient nanotechnology.

id: 1407.8389
title: Intrinsic probability distributions for physical systems
authors: Tzu-Chao Hung
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8389
abstract: For a given metric $g_{\mu\nu}$, which is identified as Fisher information metric, we generate new constraints for the probability distributions for physical systems. We postulate the existence of intrinsic probability distributions for physical systems, and calculate the probability distribution by optimizing the Fisher information metric under specified constraints. Accordingly, we get differential equations for the probability distributions.

id: 1407.8408
title: Reliable experimental quantification of bipartite entanglement without reference frames
authors: Thomas Lawson, Anna Pappa, Boris Bourdoncle, Iordanis Kerenidis, Damian Markham, Eleni Diamanti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042336 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8408
abstract: Simply and reliably detecting and quantifying entanglement outside laboratory conditions will be essential for future quantum information technologies. Here we address this issue by proposing a method for generating expressions which can perform this task between two parties who do not share a common reference frame. These reference frame independent expressions only require simple local measurements, which allows us to experimentally test them using an off-the-shelf entangled photon source. We show that the values of these expressions provide bounds on the concurrence of the state, and demonstrate experimentally that these bounds are more reliable than values obtained from state tomography since characterizing experimental errors is easier in our setting. Furthermore, we apply this idea to other quantities, such as the Renyi and von Neumann entropies, which are also more reliably calculated directly from the raw data than from a tomographically reconstructed state. This highlights the relevance of our approach for practical quantum information applications that require entanglement.

id: 1407.8427
title: Proceedings 9th Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic
authors: Ross Duncan, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 158, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8427
abstract: This volume contains the proceedings of the ninth workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL2012) which took place in Brussels from the 10th to the 12th of October 2012. QPL2012 brought together researchers working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum computing, and spatio-temporal causal structures. The particular focus was on the use of logical tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures, formal languages, semantical techniques, and other computer science methods for the study of physical behaviour in general.

id: 1407.8440
title: A representation of two-qubit entanglement witnesses using ellipsoids
authors: Antony Milne, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8440
abstract: Any two-qubit state can be represented by a steering ellipsoid inside the Bloch sphere. We extend this approach to represent any block positive two-qubit operator $B$. We derive a novel classification scheme based on the positivity of $\det B$ and $\det B^\mathrm{T_B}$; this shows that any ellipsoid inside the Bloch sphere must represent either a two-qubit state or a two-qubit entanglement witness. We focus on such witnesses and their corresponding ellipsoids, finding that properties such as witness optimality are naturally manifest in the ellipsoid representation.

id: 1407.8487
title: Heralding efficiency and correlated-mode coupling of near-IR fiber coupled photon pairs
authors: P. Ben Dixon, Danna Rosenberg, Veronika Stelmakh, Matthew E. Grein, Ryan S. Bennink, Eric A. Dauler, Andrew J. Kerman, Richard J. Molnar, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8487
abstract: We report on a systematic experimental study of heralding efficiency and generation rate of telecom-band infrared photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion and coupled to single mode optical fibers. We define the correlated-mode coupling efficiency--an inherent source efficiency--and explain its relation to heralding efficiency. For our experiment, we developed a reconfigurable computer controlled pump-beam and collection-mode optical apparatus which we used to measure the generation rate and correlated-mode coupling efficiency. The use of low-noise, high-efficiency superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors in this setup allowed us to explore focus configurations with low overall photon flux. The measured data agree well with theory and we demonstrated a correlated-mode coupling efficiency of $97 \pm 2\%$, which is the highest efficiency yet achieved for this type of system. These results confirm theoretical treatments and demonstrate that very high overall heralding efficiencies can, in principle, be achieved in quantum optical systems. It is expected that these results and techniques will be widely incorporated into future systems that require, or benefit from, a high heralding efficiency.

id: 1407.8501
title: Beam Splitters, Interferometers and Hong-Ou-Mandel Effect for Interacting Bosonic and Fermionic Walkers in a Lattice
authors: Enrico Compagno, Leonardo Banchi, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8501
abstract: Tight binding lattices offer a unique platform in which particles may be either static or mobile depending on the potential barrier between the sites. It is tempting to use the static and mobile versions of the particles to store and process information respectively. Motivated by this, we show how a beam splitter between two hopping particles traveling from distant lattice sites can be implemented by an on-site potential at the center of the lattice. We show how this enables the two mode Hong-Ou-Mandel effect to be observed, and how the intra-site interaction results in a crossover from bosonic to fermionic behavior close to the superfluid-Mott transition point. A tunable Mach-Zehnder interferometer is implemented adding a step-like potential. Finally we discuss how our results may pave the way towards the realization of a KLM quantum computer with bosonic neutral atoms in a lattice setup.

id: 1407.8524
title: On channels with positive quantum zero-error capacity having vanishing n-shot capacity
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 20 pages, in v.2 the examples of channels are made explicit (without uncertain parameter) and their quantum zero-error capacity is estimated, in v.3 the multi-dimensional generalization is added and open questions are formulated, in v.5 some of these questions are solved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8524
abstract: We show that unbounded number of channel uses may be necessary for perfect transmission of quantum information. For any n we explicitly construct low-dimensional quantum channels ($d_A$=4, $d_E$=2 or 4) whose quantum zero-error capacity is positive but the corresponding n-shot capacity is zero. We give estimates for quantum zero-error capacity of such channels (as a function of n) and show that these channels can be chosen in any small vicinity (in the cb-norm) of a classical-quantum channel. Mathematically, this property means appearance of an ideal (noiseless) subchannel only in sufficiently large tensor power of a channel. Our approach (using special continuous deformation of a maximal commutative *-subalgebra of $M_4$) also gives low-dimensional examples of superactivation of 1-shot quantum zero-error capacity. Finally, we consider multi-dimensional construction which gives channels with greater values of quantum zero-error capacity and vanishing n-shot capacity.

id: 1407.8530
title: PR-box correlations have no classical limit
authors: Daniel Rohrlich
comments: for a video of this talk at the Aharonov-80 Conference in 2012 at Chapman University, see quantum.chapman.edu/talk-10, published in Quantum Theory: A Two-Time Success Story (Yakir Aharonov Festschrift), eds. D. C. Struppa and J. M. Tollaksen (New York: Springer), 2013, pp. 205-211
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8530
abstract: One of Yakir Aharonov's endlessly captivating physics ideas is the conjecture that two axioms, namely relativistic causality ("no superluminal signalling") and nonlocality, so nearly contradict each other that a unique theory - quantum mechanics - reconciles them. But superquantum (or "PR-box") correlations imply that quantum mechanics is not the most nonlocal theory (in the sense of nonlocal correlations) consistent with relativistic causality. Let us consider supplementing these two axioms with a minimal third axiom: there exists a classical limit in which macroscopic observables commute. That is, just as quantum mechanics has a classical limit, so must any generalization of quantum mechanics. In this classical limit, PR-box correlations violate relativistic causality. Generalized to all stronger-than-quantum bipartite correlations, this result is a derivation of Tsirelson's bound without assuming quantum mechanics.

id: 1407.8536
title: Quantum feedback: theory, experiments, and applications
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Re-Bing Wu, Kurt Jacobs, Franco Nori
comments: Updated version of a review paper about quantum feedback
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8536
abstract: The control of individual quantum systems is now a reality in a variety of physical settings. Feedback control is an important class of control methods because of its ability to reduce the effects of noise. In this review we give an introductory overview of the various ways in which feedback may be implemented in quantum systems, the theoretical methods that are currently used to treat it, the experiments in which it has been demonstrated to-date, and its applications. In the last few years there has been rapid experimental progress in the ability to realize quantum measurement and control of mesoscopic systems. We expect that the next few years will see further rapid advances in the precision and sophistication of feedback control protocols realized in the laboratory.

id: 1407.0113
title: Gravitational tests of the Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Fabio Scardigli, Roberto Casadio
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0113
abstract: We compute the corrections to the Schwarzschild metric necessary to reproduce the Hawking temperature derived from a Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP), so that the GUP deformation parameter is directly linked to the deformation of the metric. Using this modified Schwarzschild metric, we compute corrections to the standard General Relativistic predictions for the light deflection and perihelion precession, both for planets in the solar system and for binary pulsars. This analysis allows us to set bounds for the GUP deformation parameter from well-known astronomical measurements.

id: 1407.0170
title: Polariton linewidth and the reservoir temperature dynamics in a semiconductor microcavity
authors: V. V. Belykh, D. N. Sob'yanin
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 245312 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0170
abstract: A method of determining the temperature of the nonradiative reservoir in a microcavity exciton-polariton system is developed. A general relation for the homogeneous polariton linewidth is theoretically derived and experimentally used in the method. In experiments with a GaAs microcavity under nonresonant pulsed excitation, the reservoir temperature dynamics is extracted from the polariton linewidth. Within the first nanosecond the reservoir temperature greatly exceeds the lattice temperature and determines the dynamics of the major processes in the system. It is shown that, for nonresonant pulsed excitation of GaAs microcavities, the polariton Bose-Einstein condensation is typically governed by polariton-phonon scattering, while interparticle scattering leads to condensate depopulation.

id: 1407.0294
title: Reply to "Comment on "Fully covariant radiation force on a polarizable particle""
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V.Dedkov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0294
abstract: We reply to comment on recent paper by Pieplow and Henkel (New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023027) and our results made by Volokitin and Persson (arXiv: 1405.2525)

id: 1407.0334
title: Classical and quantum realtime alternating automata
authors: H. G?kalp Demirci, Mika Hirvensalo, Klaus Reinhardt, A. C. Cem Say, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 16 pages. Accepted to NCMA2014
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0334
abstract: We present some new results on realtime classical and quantum alternating models. Firstly, we show that the emptiness problem for alternating one-counter automata on unary alphabets is undecidable. Then, we define realtime private alternating finite automata (PAFAs) and show that they can recognize some non-regular unary languages, and the emptiness problem is undecidable for them. Moreover, PAFAs augmented with a counter can recognize the unary squares language, which seems to be difficult even for some classical counter automata with two-way input. For quantum finite automata (QFAs), we show that the emptiness problem for universal QFAs on general alphabets and alternating QFAs with two alternations on unary alphabets are undecidable. On the other hand, the same problem is decidable for nondeterministic QFAs on general alphabets. We also show that the unary squares language is recognized by alternating QFAs with two alternations.

id: 1407.0372
title: Superconducting-semiconductor quantum devices: from qubits to particle detectors
authors: Yun-Pil Shim, Charles Tahan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; (v2) accepted version, to appear in IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics
journal: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics 21, 9100209 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0372
abstract: Recent improvements in materials growth and fabrication techniques may finally allow for superconducting semiconductors to realize their potential. Here we build on a recent proposal to construct superconducting devices such as wires, Josephson junctions, and qubits inside and out-of single crystal silicon or germanium. Using atomistic fabrication techniques such as STM hydrogen lithography, heavily-doped superconducting regions within a single crystal could be constructed. We describe the characteristic parameters of basic superconducting elements---a 1D wire and a tunneling Josephson junction---and estimate the values for boron-doped silicon. The epitaxial, single-crystal nature of these devices, along with the extreme flexibility in device design down to the single-atom scale, may enable lower-noise or new types of devices and physics. We consider applications for such super-silicon devices, showing that the state-of-the-art transmon qubit and the sought-after phase-slip qubit can both be realized. The latter qubit leverages the natural high kinetic inductance of these materials. Building on this, we explore how kinetic inductance based particle detectors (e.g., photon or phonon) could be realized with potential application in astronomy or nanomechanics. We discuss super-semi devices (such as in silicon, germanium, or diamond) which would not require atomistic fabrication approaches and could be realized today.

id: 1407.0450
title: Comment on "Polar and antiferromagnetic order in f=1 boson systems"
authors: C.G. Bao
comments: one page, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0450
abstract: An inequality for the lower bound of the average number of hyperfine component $\mu =0$ particles in the ground state of spin-1 condensates under a magnetic field has been derived in ref.\cite{tasa13}. It is shown in this comment that, in a broad domain of parameters usually accessed in experiments, the lower bound appears to be negative. Thus the applicability of the inequality is very limited.

id: 1407.0468
title: Zero field line in the magnetic spectra of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: S.V. Anishchik, V.G. Vins, A.P. Yelisseyev, N.N. Lukzen, N.L. Lavrik, V.A. Bagryansky
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0468
abstract: The dependence of the luminescence of diamonds with negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy centers (NV-) vs. applied magnetic field (magnetic spectrum) was studied. A narrow line in zero magnetic field was discovered. The properties of this line are considerably different from those of other narrow magnetic spectrum lines. Its magnitude is weakly dependent of the orientation of the single-crystal sample to the external magnetic field. This line is also observed in a powdered sample. The shape of the line changes greatly when excitation light polarization is varied. The magnitude of the line has a non-linear relation to excitation light intensity. For low intensities this dependence is close to a square law. To explain the mechanism giving rise to this line in the magnetic spectrum, we suggest a model based on the dipole-dipole interaction between different NV- centers.

id: 1407.0680
title: Interaction-induced connectivity of disordered two-particle states
authors: D. O. Krimer, S. Flach
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 100201(R) (2015)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0680
abstract: We study the interaction-induced connectivity in the Fock space of two particles in a disordered one-dimensional potential. Recent computational studies showed that the largest localization length $\xi_2$ of two interacting particles in a weakly random tight binding chain is increasing unexpectedly slow relative to the single particle localization length $\xi_1$, questioning previous scaling estimates. We show this to be a consequence of the approximate restoring of momentum conservation of weakly localized single particle eigenstates, and disorder-induced phase shifts for partially overlapping states. The leading resonant links appear among states which share the same energy and momentum. We substantiate our analytical approach by computational studies for up to $\xi_1 = 1000$. A potential nontrivial scaling regime sets in for $ \xi_1 \approx 400$, way beyond all previous numerical attacks.

id: 1407.0681
title: Constructor Theory of Life
authors: Chiara Marletto
comments: 
journal: Royal Society Interface, Volume: 12, Issue: 104, March 2015
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0681
abstract: Neo-Darwinian evolutionary theory explains how the appearance of purposive design in the sophisticated adaptations of living organisms can have come about without their intentionally being designed. The explanation relies crucially on the possibility of certain physical processes: mainly, gene replication and natural selection. In this paper I show that for those processes to be possible without the design of biological adaptations being encoded in the laws of physics, those laws must have certain other properties. The theory of what these properties are is not part of evolution theory proper, and has not been developed, yet without it the neo-Darwinian theory does not fully achieve its purpose of explaining the appearance of design. To this end I apply Constructor Theory's new mode of explanation to provide an exact formulation of the appearance of design, of no-design laws, and of the logic of self-reproduction and natural selection, within fundamental physics. I conclude that self-reproduction, replication and natural selection are possible under no-design laws, the only non-trivial condition being that they allow digital information to be physically instantiated. This has an exact characterisation in the constructor theory of information. I also show that under no-design laws an accurate replicator requires the existence of a "vehicle" constituting, together with the replicator, a self-reproducer.

id: 1407.0705
title: Universal Bounds on the Time Evolution of Entanglement Entropy
authors: Steven G. Avery, Miguel F. Paulos
comments: 8 page, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 231604 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0705
abstract: Using relative entropy, we derive bounds on the time rate of change of geometric entanglement entropy for any relativistic quantum field theory in any dimension. The bounds apply to both mixed and pure states, and may be extended to curved space. We illustrate the bounds in a few examples and comment on potential applications and future extensions.

id: 1407.0707
title: Renyi Entanglement Entropy of Interacting Fermions Calculated Using Continuous-Time Quantum Monte Carlo Method
authors: Lei Wang, Matthias Troyer
comments: Added references and footnote [53]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 110401 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0707
abstract: We present a new algorithm for calculating the Renyi entanglement entropy of interacting fermions using the continuous-time quantum Monte Carlo method. The algorithm only samples interaction correction of the entanglement entropy, which by design ensures efficient calculation of weakly interacting systems. Combined with Monte Carlo reweighting, the algorithm also performs well for systems with strong interactions. We demonstrate the potential of this method by studying the quantum entanglement signatures of the charge-density-wave transition of interacting fermions on a square lattice.

id: 1407.0734
title: Quantization of a Particle on a Two-Dimensional Manifold of Constant Curvature
authors: Paul Bracken
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0734
abstract: The formulation of quantum mechanics on spaces of constant curvature is studied. It is shown how a transition from a classical system to the quantum case can be accomplished by the quantization of the Noether momenta. These can be determined by Lie differentiation of the metric which defines the manifold. For the metric examined here, it is found that the resulting Schrodinger equation is separable and the spectrum and eigenfunctions can be investigated in detail.

id: 1407.0858
title: Simple atom interferometer in a double-well potential
authors: Karol Gietka, Jan Chwedenczuk
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0858
abstract: We present a detailed study of an atom interferometer which can be realized in a double-well potential. We assume that the interferometric phase is imprinted in the presence of coherent tunneling between the wells. We calculate the ultimate bounds for the estimation sensitivity and show how they relate to the precision of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The interferometer presented here allows for sub shot-noise sensitivity when fed with the spin-squeezed states with reduced either the relative population imbalance or the relative phase. We also calculate the precision of the estimation from the population imbalance and show that it overcomes the shot-noise level when the entangled squeezed-states are used at the input.

id: 1407.0879
title: Wightman function and the Casimir effect for a Robin sphere in a constant curvature space
authors: S. Bellucci, A. A. Saharian, N. A. Saharyan
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX file
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 74 (2014) 3047
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0879
abstract: We evaluate the Wightman function, the mean field squared and the vacuum expectation value (VEV) of the energy-momentum tensor for a scalar field with Robin boundary condition on a spherical shell in the background of a constant negative curvature space. For the coefficient in the boundary condition there is a critical value above which the scalar vacuum becomes unstable. In both interior and exterior regions, the VEVs are decomposed into the boundary-free and sphere-induced contributions. For the latter, rapidly convergent integral representations are provided. In the region inside the sphere, the eigenvalues are expressed in terms of the zeros of the combination of the associated Legendre function and its derivative and the decomposition is achieved by making use of the Abel-Plana type summation formula for the series over these zeros. The sphere-induced contribution to the VEV of the field squared is negative for Dirichlet boundary condition and positive for Neumann one. At distances from the sphere larger than the curvature scale of the background space the suppression of the vacuum fluctuations in the gravitational field corresponding to the negative curvature space is stronger compared with the case of the Minkowskian bulk. In particular, the decay of the VEVs with the distance is exponential for both massive and massless fields. The corresponding results are generalized for spaces with spherical bubbles and for cosmological models with negative curvature spaces.

id: 1407.0919
title: Photofragmentation beam splitters for matter-wave interferometry
authors: Nadine D?rre, Jonas Rodewald, Philipp Geyer, Bernd von Issendorff, Philipp Haslinger, Markus Arndt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 233001 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0919
abstract: Extending the range of quantum interferometry to a wider class of composite nanoparticles requires new tools to diffract matter waves. Recently, pulsed photoionization light gratings have demonstrated their suitability for high mass matter-wave physics. Here we extend quantum interference experiments to a new class of particles by introducing photofragmentation beam splitters into time-domain matter-wave interferometry. Photofragmentation gratings can act on objects as different as van der Waals clusters and biomolecules which are thermally unstable and often resilient to single-photon ionization. We present data that demonstrate this coherent beam splitting mechanism with clusters of hexafluorobenzene and we show single-photon depletion gratings based both on fragmentation and ionization for clusters of vanillin.

id: 1407.0924
title: Dephasing-assisted transport in linear triple quantum dots
authors: L.D. Contreras-Pulido, M. Bruderer, S.F. Huelga, M.B. Plenio
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics, 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113061 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0924
abstract: Environmental noise usually hinders the efficiency of charge transport through coherent quantum systems; an exception is dephasing-assisted transport (DAT). We show that linear triple quantum dots in a transport configuration and subjected to pure dephasing exhibit DAT if the coupling to the drain reservoir exceeds a threshold. DAT occurs for arbitrarily weak dephasing and the enhancement can be directly controlled by the coupling to the drain. Moreover, for specific settings, the enhanced current is accompanied by a reduction in relative shot noise. We identify the quantum Zeno effect and long-distance tunnelling as underlying dynamical processes involved in dephasing-assisted and -suppressed transport. Our analytical results are obtained by using the density matrix formalism and the characteristic polynomial approach to full counting statistics.

id: 1407.0977
title: Higher-Order Quantum-Inspired Genetic Algorithms
authors: Robert Nowotniak, Jacek Kucharski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.0977
abstract: This paper presents a theory and an empirical evaluation of Higher-Order Quantum-Inspired Genetic Algorithms. Fundamental notions of the theory have been introduced, and a novel Order-2 Quantum-Inspired Genetic Algorithm (QIGA2) has been presented. Contrary to all QIGA algorithms which represent quantum genes as independent qubits, in higher-order QIGAs quantum registers are used to represent genes strings which allows modelling of genes relations using quantum phenomena. Performance comparison has been conducted on a benchmark of 20 deceptive combinatorial optimization problems. It has been presented that using higher quantum orders is beneficial for genetic algorithm efficiency, and the new QIGA2 algorithm outperforms the old QIGA algorithm which was tuned in highly compute intensive metaoptimization process.

id: 1407.1033
title: Entanglement properties of spin models in triangular lattices
authors: M. Moreno-Cardoner, S. Paganelli, G. De Chiara, A. Sanpera
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P10008
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1033
abstract: The different quantum phases appearing in strongly correlated systems as well as their transitions are closely related to the entanglement shared between their constituents. In 1D systems, it is well established that the entanglement spectrum is linked to the symmetries that protect the different quantum phases. This relation extends even further at the phase transitions where a direct link associates the entanglement spectrum to the conformal field theory describing the former. For 2D systems much less is known. The lattice geometry becomes a crucial aspect to consider when studying entanglement and phase transitions. Here, we analyze the entanglement properties of triangular spin lattice models by considering also concepts borrowed from quantum information theory such as geometric entanglement.

id: 1407.1037
title: Interaction quench in a trapped one-dimensional Bose gas
authors: Paolo P. Mazza, Mario Collura, M¨¢rton Kormos, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P11016
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1037
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium quench dynamics from free to hard-core one-dimensional bosons in the presence of a hard-wall confining potential. We characterise the density profile and the two-point fermionic correlation function in the stationary state as well as their full time evolution. We find that for long times the system relaxes to a uniform density profile, but the correlation function keeps memory of the initial state with a stationary algebraic long-distance decay as opposite to the exponential behaviour found for the same quench in the periodic setup. We also compute the stationary bosonic two-point correlator which turns out to decay exponentially for large distances. We show that a two-step mechanism governs the time evolution: a quick approach to an almost stationary value is followed by a slow algebraic relaxation to the true stationary state.

id: 1407.1046
title: Commensurate and Incommensurate States of Topological Quantum Matter
authors: Ashley Milsted, Emilio Cobanera, Michele Burrello, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 195101 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1046
abstract: We prove numerically and by dualities the existence of modulated, commensurate and incommensurate states of topological quantum matter in simple systems of parafermions, motivated by recent proposals for the realization of such systems in mesoscopic arrays. In two space dimensions, we obtain the simplest representative of a topological universality class that we call Lifshitz. It is characterized by a topological tricritical point where a non-locally ordered homogeneous phase meets a disordered phase and a third phase that displays modulations of a non-local order parameter.

id: 1407.1091
title: Influence of the Pauli exclusion principle on scattering properties of cobosons
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica B: Condensed Matter 457, 232-239 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1091
abstract: We examine the influence of the Pauli exclusion principle on the scattering properties of composite bosons (cobosons) made of two fermions, such as the exciton quasiparticle. The scattering process incorporates boson-phonon interactions that arise due to lattice vibrations. Composite boson scattering rates increase with the entanglement between the two fermionic constituents, which comes with a larger number of available single-fermion states. An important role is played by probabilities associated with accommodating an incoming boson among the remaining unoccupied Schmidt modes in the initial composite system. While due attention is given to bi-fermion bosons, the methodology is applicable to any composite boson made up of smaller boson fragments. Due to super-bunching in a system of multiple boson condensates such as bi-bosons, there is enhanced scattering associated with bosons occupying macroscopically occupied Schmidt modes, in contrast to the system of bi-fermion pairs.

id: 1407.1104
title: Extracting work from the magnetic field coupled Brownian particles
authors: Tian Chen, Xiang-Bin Wang, Ting Yu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 022101 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1104
abstract: Thermodynamics of the magnetic field coupled Brownian particles is studied. We show that in the presence of the magnetic field, work can be extracted from the reservoir even when the measurement operation and the potential change operation are applied in different spatial directions. In particular, we show that more work can be extracted if the measurements are applied in two different directions simultaneously. In all these cases, we show that the generalized second law involving the measurement information and potential change is satisfied. In addition, we show how the continuous potential change and measurement position affect the work extraction.

id: 1407.1122
title: On the ro-vibrational energies for the lithium dimer; maximum-possible rotational levels
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 7 pages, to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 065101
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1122
abstract: The Deng-Fan potential is used to discuss the reliability of the improved Greene-Aldrich approximation and the factorization recipe of Badawi et al.'s [17] for the central attractive/repulsive core. The factorization recipe is shown to be a more reliable approximation and is used to obtain the ro-vibrational energies for the lithium dimer. For each vibrational state only a limited number of the rotational levels are found to be supported by the lithium dimer.

id: 1407.1146
title: Direct Probe of Topological Order for Cold Atoms
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Sheng-Tao Wang, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, including Supplemental Material, version accepted by PRA as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 041601(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1146
abstract: Cold-atom experiments in optical lattices offer a versatile platform to realize various topological quantum phases. A key challenge in those experiments is to unambiguously probe the topological order. We propose a method to directly measure the characteristic topological invariants (order) based on the time-of-flight imaging of cold atoms. The method is generally applicable to detection of topological band insulators in one, two, or three dimensions characterized by integer topological invariants. Using detection of the Chern number for the 2D anomalous quantum Hall states and the Chern-Simons term for the 3D chiral topological insulators as examples, we show that the proposed detection method is practical, robust to typical experimental imperfections such as limited imaging resolution, inhomogeneous trapping potential, and disorder in the system.

id: 1407.1159
title: On-demand maximally entangled states with a parity meter and continuous feedback
authors: Clemens Meyer zu Rheda, G¨¦raldine Haack, Alessandro Romito
comments: 8 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155438 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1159
abstract: Generating on-demand maximally entangled states is one of the corner stones for quantum information processing. Parity measurements can serve to create Bell states and have been implemented via an electronic Mach-Zehnder interferometer among others. However, the entanglement generation is necessarily harmed by measurement induced dephasing processes in one of the two parity subspace. In this work, we propose two different schemes of continuous feedback for a parity measurement. They enable us to avoid both the measurement-induced dephasing process and the experimentally unavoidable dephasing, e.g. due to fluctuations of the gate voltages controlling the initialization of the qubits. We show that we can generate maximally entangled steady states in both parity subspaces. Importantly, the measurement scheme we propose is valid for implementation of parity measurements with feedback loops in various solid-state environments.

id: 1407.1232
title: On Quantum Codes Obtained From Cyclic Codes Over F_2+vF_2+v^2F_2
authors: Abdullah Dertli, Yasemin Cengellenmis, Senol Eren
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1232
abstract: A new Gray map which is both an isometry and a weight preserving map from R=F_2+vF_2+v^2F_2 to (F_2)^3 is defined. A construction for quantum error correcting codes from cyclic codes over finite ring R=F_2+vF_2+v^2F_2, v^3=v is given. The parameters of quantum codes which are obtained from cyclic codes over R are determined.

id: 1407.1282
title: Spectral density of generalized Wishart matrices and free multiplicative convolution
authors: Wojciech Mlotkowski, Maciej A. Nowak, Karol A. Penson, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 10 latex pages including 4 figures, Ver 3, new section and new references
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1282
abstract: We investigate level density for several ensembles of positive random matrices of a Wishart--like structure, $W=XX^{\dagger}$, where $X$ stands for a nonhermitian random matrix. In particular, making use of the Cauchy transform we study free multiplicative powers of the Marchenko-Pastur (MP) distribution, ${\rm MP}^{\boxtimes s}$, which for an integer $s$ yield Fuss-Catalan distributions corresponding to a product of $s$ independent square random matrices, $X=X_1\cdots X_s$. Known formulae for the level densities are rederived in the case $s=2$ and $s=1/2$ and explicit distributions are obtained for $s=3$ and $s=1/3$. Moreover, the level density generated by a product of two rectangular random matrices $X=X_1 X_2$ is obtained and the generalized Bures distribution given by the free convolution of arcsine and MP distributions is derived. The technique proposed here allows us to obtain level densities for several related cases.

id: 1407.1299
title: Entanglement spectrum of correlated electron states
authors: Archak Purkayastha, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1299
abstract: Entanglement spectrum of finite-size correlated electron systems are investigated using the Gutzwiller projection technique. The product of largest eigenvalue and rank of the block reduced density matrix, which is a measure of distance of the state from the maximally entangled state of the corresponding rank, is seen to characterise the insulator to metal crossover in the state. The fraction of distinct eigenvalues exhibits a `chaotic' behaviour in the crossover region, and it shows a `integrable' behaviour at both insulating and metallic ends. The integrated entanglement spectrum obeys conformal field theory (CFT) prediction at the metal and insulator ends, but shows a noticeable deviation from CFT prediction in the crossover regime, thus it can also track a metal-insulator crossover. A modification of the CFT result for the entanglement spectrum for finite size is proposed which holds in the crossover regime also. The adjacent level spacing distribution of unfolded non-zero eigenvalues for intermediate values of Gutzwiller projection parameter $g$ is the same as that of an ensemble of random matrices obtained by replacing each block of reduced density matrix by a random real symmetric Toeplitz matrix. It is strongly peaked at zero, with an exponential tail proportional to $e^{-(n/R)s}$, where $s$ is the adjacent level spacing, $n$ is number of distinct eigenvalues and $R$ is the rank of the reduced density matrix.

id: 1407.1306
title: Coherent feedback control in quantum transport
authors: Clive Emary, John Gough
comments: 8 pages; 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205436- Published 26 November 2014
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1306
abstract: We discuss control of the quantum-transport properties of a mesoscopic device by connecting it in a coherent feedback loop with a quantum-mechanical controller. We work in a scattering approach and derive results for the combined scattering matrix of the device-controller system and determine the conditions under which the controller can exert ideal control on the output characteristics. As concrete example we consider the use of feedback to optimise the conductance of a chaotic quantum dot and investigate effects of controller dimension and decoherence. In both respects we find that the performance of the feedback geometry is well in excess of that offered by a simple series configuration.

id: 1407.1346
title: Flux qubits in a planar circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture: quantum control and decoherence
authors: J.-L. Orgiazzi, C. Deng, D. Layden, R. Marchildon, F. Kitapli, F. Shen, M. Bal, F. R. Ong, A. Lupascu
comments: 8 pages, including supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1346
abstract: We report experiments on superconducting flux qubits in a circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) setup. Two qubits, independently biased and controlled, are coupled to a coplanar waveguide resonator. Dispersive qubit state readout reaches a maximum contrast of $72\,\%$. We find intrinsic energy relaxation times at the symmetry point of $7\,\mu\text{s}$ and $20\,\mu\text{s}$ and levels of flux noise of $2.6\,\mu \Phi_0/\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ and $2.7\,\mu \Phi_0/\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ at 1 Hz for the two qubits. We discuss the origin of decoherence in the measured devices. These results demonstrate the potential of cQED as a platform for fundamental investigations of decoherence and quantum dynamics of flux qubits.

id: 1407.1350
title: Private quantum codes: introduction and connection with higher rank numerical ranges
authors: D. W. Kribs, S. Plosker
comments: 9 pages
journal: Linear and Multilinear Algebra, 62, pp. 639-647, 2014
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1350
abstract: We give a brief introduction to private quantum codes, a basic notion in quantum cryptography and key distribution. Private code states are characterized by indistinguishability of their output states under the action of a quantum channel, and we show that higher rank numerical ranges can be used to describe them. We also show how this description arises naturally via conjugate channels and the bridge between quantum error correction and cryptography.

id: 1407.1358
title: Universal Thermal Corrections to Entanglement Entropy for Conformal Field Theories on Spheres
authors: Christopher P. Herzog
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures; v2, major revision, discrepancy explained (published version); v3, beta typo fixed, refs added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1358
abstract: We consider entanglement entropy of a cap-like region for a conformal field theory living on a sphere times a circle in d space-time dimensions. Assuming that the finite size of the system introduces a unique ground state with a nonzero mass gap, we calculate the leading correction to the entanglement entropy in a low temperature expansion. The correction has a universal form for any conformal field theory that depends only on the size of the mass gap, its degeneracy, and the angular size of the cap. We confirm our result by calculating the entanglement entropy of a conformally coupled scalar numerically. We argue that an apparent discrepancy for the scalar can be explained away through a careful treatment of boundary terms. In an appendix, to confirm the accuracy of the numerics, we study the mutual information of two cap-like regions at zero temperature.

id: 1407.1401
title: An exactly solvable deformation of the Coulomb problem associated with the Taub-NUT metric
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: 23 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 351 (2014) 540-557
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1401
abstract: In this paper we quantize the $N$-dimensional classical Hamiltonian system $H= \frac{|q|}{2(\eta + |q|)} p^2-\frac{k}{\eta +|q|}$, that can be regarded as a deformation of the Coulomb problem with coupling constant $k$, that it is smoothly recovered in the limit $\eta\to 0$. Moreover, the kinetic energy term in $H$ is just the one corresponding to an $N$-dimensional Taub-NUT space, a fact that makes this system relevant from a geometric viewpoint. Since the Hamiltonian $H$ is known to be maximally superintegrable, we propose a quantization prescription that preserves such superintegrability in the quantum mechanical setting. We show that, to this end, one must choose as the kinetic part of the Hamiltonian the conformal Laplacian of the underlying Riemannian manifold, which combines the usual Laplace-Beltrami operator on the Taub-NUT manifold and a multiple of its scalar curvature. As a consequence, we obtain a novel exactly solvable deformation of the quantum Coulomb problem, whose spectrum is computed in closed form for positive values of $\eta$ and $k$, and showing that the well-known maximal degeneracy of the flat system is preserved in the deformed case. Several interesting algebraic and physical features of this new exactly solvable quantum system are analysed, and the quantization problem for negative values of $\eta$ and/or $k$ is also sketched.

id: 1407.1410
title: Nonlinear Interference effect for Optical Clocks in Yb Atoms
authors: Tara Ahmadi, Sergei.A Pulkin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1410
abstract: In this paper, two-photon absorption resonance has been investigated . We studied this phenomenon in three-level system with common upper level, two lower long-life levels and two quasi-resonant laser fields with different frequency spectrum. It has been shown that, the absorption coefficient in the far distance from absorption line at the frequency of two-photon resonance has considerable amplitude and narrow width. Frequency difference between two lower levels is transition frequency for optical clocks. This resonance is much less sensitive to the effects of noise components and probing fields compared with electromagnetically induced transparency. Stark shift of the two-photon resonance can be offset and reduced by the changes in the probing field amplitude. We recommended to use an additional laser with narrow line to stabilize the frequency at optical clock to get a line in sub-Hertz range.

id: 1407.1518
title: Molecular cavity optomechanics: a theory of plasmon-enhanced Raman scattering
authors: Philippe Roelli, Christophe Galland, Nicolas Piro, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: Extensively revised version. Includes Supplementary Information
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1518
abstract: We present a new theory of plasmon-enhanced Raman scattering by mapping the problem onto the canonical model of cavity optomechanics, in which a bi-directional interaction takes place between molecular vibration and plasmon. The optomechanical coupling rate, from which we derive the Raman cross section, is computed from the molecules Raman activities and the plasmonic field distribution. When the excitation is blue-detuned from the plasmon onto the vibrational sideband, the resulting dynamical backaction can lead to amplification of molecular vibrations, revealing an enhancement mechanism not contemplated before. The optomechanical theory provides a quantitative framework for the calculation of enhanced cross-sections and enables the design of novel systems that leverage dynamical backaction to achieve additional, mode-selective enhancement. It yields a new understanding of plasmon-enhanced Raman scattering and opens a route to molecular quantum optomechanics.

id: 1407.1555
title: Noise-compensating pulses for electrostatically controlled silicon spin qubits
authors: Xin Wang, Fernando A. Calderon-Vargas, Muhed S. Rana, Jason P. Kestner, Edwin Barnes, Sankar Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155306 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1555
abstract: We study the performance of SUPCODE---a family of dynamically correcting pulses designed to cancel simultaneously both Overhauser and charge noise for singlet-triplet spin qubits---adapted to silicon devices with electrostatic control. We consider both natural Si and isotope-enriched Si systems, and in each case we investigate the behavior of individual gates under static noise and perform randomized benchmarking to obtain the average gate error under realistic 1/f noise. We find that in most cases SUPCODE pulses offer roughly an order of magnitude reduction in gate error, and especially in the case of isotope-enriched Si, SUPCODE yields gate operations of very high fidelity. We also develop a version of SUPCODE that cancels the charge noise only, "$\delta J$-SUPCODE", which is particularly beneficial for isotope-enriched Si devices where charge noise dominates Overhauser noise, offering a level of error reduction comparable to the original SUPCODE while yielding gate times that are 30% to 50% shorter. Our results show that the SUPCODE noise-compensating pulses provide a fast, simple, and effective approach to error suppression, bringing gate errors well below the quantum error correction threshold in principle.

id: 1407.1633
title: Mean Field Asymptotic Behavior of Quantum Particles with Initial Correlations
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1633
abstract: In the paper we consider the problem of the rigorous description of the kinetic evolution in the presence of initial correlations of quantum large particle systems. One of the developed approaches consists in the description of the evolution of quantum many-particle systems within the framework of marginal observables in mean field scaling limit. Another method based on the possibility to describe the evolution of states within the framework of a one-particle marginal density operator governed by the generalized quantum kinetic equation in case of initial states specified by a one-particle marginal density operator and correlation operators.

id: 1407.1704
title: The quantum optical description of a double Mach-Zehnder interferometer
authors: Stefan Ataman
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1704
abstract: In this paper we describe within the formalism of Quantum Optics (QO) a double Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI). For single photon Fock states this experimental setup is shown to exhibit a counter-intuitive behavior: for certain values of the path length difference of the first MZI, the singles photon-count statistics at the output detectors does not change, whatever the difference in path length for the second MZI. For simultaneously impinging light quanta, we show that this setup is able to show the same HOM antibunching effect previously obtained with a beam splitter. However, by adding substantial delays in each MZI, we can obtain the same effect even if the "photon wave packets" do not overlap at the second beam splitter.

id: 1407.1709
title: From membrane-in-the-middle to mirror-in-the-middle with a high-reflectivity sub-wavelength grating
authors: Corey Stambaugh, Haitan Xu, Utku Kemiktarak, Jacob Taylor, John Lawall
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1709
abstract: We demonstrate a "membrane in the middle" optomechanical system using a silicon nitride membrane patterned as a subwavelength grating. The grating has a reflectivity of over 99.8%, effectively creating two sub-cavities, with free spectral ranges of 6 GHz, optically coupled via photon tunneling. Measurements of the transmission and reflection spectra show an avoided crossing where the two sub-cavities simultaneously come into resonance, with a frequency splitting of 54 MHz. We derive expressions for the lineshapes of the symmetric and antisymmetric modes at the avoided crossing, and infer the grating reflection, transmission, absorption, and scattering through comparison with the experimental data.

id: 1407.1811
title: Reduced hierarchical equations of motion in real and imaginary time: Correlated initial states and thermodynamic quantities
authors: Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: J. Chem. Phys. Accepted
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 044114 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1811
abstract: For a system strongly coupled to a heat bath, the quantum coherence of the system and the heat bath plays an important role in the system dynamics. This is particularly true in the case of non-Markovian noise. We rigorously investigate the influence of system-bath coherence by deriving the reduced hierarchal equations of motion (HEOM), not only in real time, but also in imaginary time, which represents an inverse temperature. It is shown that the HEOM in real time obtained when we include the system-bath coherence of the initial thermal equilibrium state possess the same form as those obtained from a factorized initial state. We find that the difference in behavior of systems treated in these two manners results from the difference in initial conditions of the HEOM elements, which are defined in path integral form. We also derive HEOM along the imaginary time path to obtain the thermal equilibrium state of a system strongly coupled to a non-Markovian bath. Then, we show that the steady state hierarchy elements calculated from the real-time HEOM can be expressed in terms of the hierarchy elements calculated from the imaginary-time HEOM. Moreover, we find that the imaginary-time HEOM allow us to evaluate a number of thermodynamic variables, including the free energy, entropy, internal energy, heat capacity, and susceptibility. The expectation values of the system energy and system-bath interaction energy in the thermal equilibrium state are also evaluated.

id: 1407.1832
title: Time-evolving a matrix product state with long-ranged interactions
authors: Michael P. Zaletel, Roger S. K. Mong, Christoph Karrasch, Joel E. Moore, Frank Pollmann
comments: 5 pages + 3 pages appendices, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1832
abstract: We introduce a numerical algorithm to simulate the time evolution of a matrix product state under a long-ranged Hamiltonian. In the effectively one-dimensional representation of a system by matrix product states, long-ranged interactions are necessary to simulate not just many physical interactions but also higher-dimensional problems with short-ranged interactions. Since our method overcomes the restriction to short-ranged Hamiltonians of most existing methods, it proves particularly useful for studying the dynamics of both power-law interacting one-dimensional systems, such as Coulombic and dipolar systems, and quasi two-dimensional systems, such as strips or cylinders. First, we benchmark the method by verifying a long-standing theoretical prediction for the dynamical correlation functions of the Haldane-Shastry model. Second, we simulate the time evolution of an expanding cloud of particles in the two-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model, a subject of several recent experiments.

id: 1407.1840
title: Analyzing many-body localization with a quantum computer
authors: Bela Bauer, Chetan Nayak
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures; slightly revised, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041021 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1840
abstract: Many-body localization, the persistence against electron-electron interactions of the localization of states with non-zero excitation energy density, poses a challenge to current methods of theoretical and numerical analysis. Numerical simulations have so far been limited to a small number of sites, making it difficult to obtain reliable statements about the thermodynamic limit. In this paper, we explore the ways in which a relatively small quantum computer could be leveraged to study many-body localization. We show that, in addition to studying time-evolution, a quantum computer can, in polynomial time, obtain eigenstates at arbitrary energies to sufficient accuracy that localization can be observed. The limitations of quantum measurement, which preclude the possibility of directly obtaining the entanglement entropy, make it difficult to apply some of the definitions of many-body localization used in the recent literature. We discuss alternative tests of localization that can be implemented on a quantum computer.

id: 1407.2004
title: Entropy Production of Open Quantum System in Multi-Bath Environment
authors: Cheng-Yun Cai, Sheng-Wen Li, Xu-Feng Liu, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2004
abstract: We study the entropy production of an open quantum system surrounded by a complex environment consisting of several heat baths at different temperatures. The detailed balance is elaborated in view of the distinguishable channels provided by the couplings to different heat baths, and a refined entropy production rate is derived accordingly. It is demonstrated that the entropy production rates can characterize the quantum statistical property of the baths: the bosonic and fermionic baths display different behaviors in the high-temperature limit while they have the same asymptotic behavior at low temperature.

id: 1407.2043
title: Off-diagonal matrix elements of local operators in many-body quantum systems
authors: Wouter Beugeling, Roderich Moessner, Masudul Haque
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012144 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2043
abstract: In the time evolution of isolated quantum systems out of equilibrium, local observables generally relax to a long-time asymptotic value, governed by the expectation values (diagonal matrix elements) of the corresponding operator in the eigenstates of the system. The temporal fluctuations around this value, response to further perturbations, and the relaxation toward this asymptotic value, are all determined by the off-diagonal matrix elements. Motivated by this non-equilibrium role, we present generic statistical properties of off-diagonal matrix elements of local observables in two families of interacting many-body systems with local interactions. Since integrability (or lack thereof) is an important ingredient in the relaxation process, we analyze models that can be continuously tuned to integrability. We show that, for generic non-integrable systems, the distribution of off-diagonal matrix elements is a gaussian centered at zero. As one approaches integrability, the peak around zero becomes sharper, so that the distribution is approximately a combination of two gaussians. We characterize the proximity to integrability through the deviation of this distribution from a gaussian shape. We also determine the scaling dependence on system size of the average magnitude of off-diagonal matrix elements.

id: 1407.2134
title: On Model Theory, Zilber and Physics
authors: ?sa Hirvonen, Tapani Hyttinen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2134
abstract: We study B. Zilber's method of calculating the Feynman propagator for the free particle and harmonic oscillator.

id: 1407.2142
title: Exotic Spin Order due to Orbital Fluctuations
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Jacek Dziarmaga, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 126, A-40-A-49 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2142
abstract: We investigate the phase diagrams of the spin-orbital $d^9$ Kugel-Khomskii model for increasing system dimensionality: from the square lattice monolayer, via the bilayer to the cubic lattice. In each case we find strong competition between different types of spin and orbital order, with entangled spin-orbital phases at the crossover from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic correlations in the intermediate regime of Hund's exchange. These phases have various types of exotic spin order and are stabilized by effective interactions of longer range which follow from enhanced spin-orbital fluctuations. We find that orbital order is in general more robust and spin order melts first under increasing temperature, as observed in several experiments for spin-orbital systems.

id: 1407.2181
title: Constrained geometric dynamics of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex: The role of correlated motion in reducing uncertainty in excitation energy transfer
authors: Alexander S. Fokas, Daniel J. Cole, Alex W. Chin
comments: 
journal: Fokas, A.S. and Cole, D.J. and Chin A.W. Photosynth. Res., 2014, Online
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2181
abstract: The Fenna Mathews Olson (FMO) complex of green sulphur bacteria is an example of a photosynthetic pigment protein complex, in which the electronic properties of the pigments are modified by the protein environment to promote efficient excitonic energy transfer from antenna complexes to the reaction centres. Many of the electronic properties of the FMO complex can be extracted from knowledge of the static crystal structure. However, the recent observation and analysis of long lasting quantum dynamics in the FMO complex point to protein dynamics as a key factor in protecting and generating quantum coherence under laboratory conditions. While fast inter and intra molecular vibrations have been investigated extensively, the slow dynamics which effectively determine the optical inhomogeneous broadening of experimental ensembles has received less attention. Our study employs constrained geometric dynamics to study the flexibility in the protein network by efficiently generating the accessible conformational states from the published crystal structure. Statistical and principle component analysis reveal highly correlated low frequency motions between functionally relevant elements, including strong correlations between pigments that are excitonically coupled. Our analysis reveals a hierarchy of structural interactions which enforce these correlated motions, from the level of monomer monomer interfaces right down to the alpha helices, beta sheets and pigments. In addition to inducing strong spatial correlations across the conformational ensemble, we find that the overall rigidity of the FMO complex is exceptionally high. We suggest that these observations support the idea of highly correlated inhomogeneous disorder of the electronic excited states, which is further supported by the remarkably low variance of the excitonic couplings of the conformational ensemble.

id: 1407.2256
title: Inferring latent structures via information inequalities
authors: R. Chaves, L. Luft, T. O. Maciel, D. Gross, D. Janzing, B. Sch?lkopf
comments: 10 pages + appendix, 5 figures. To appear in Proceedings of the 30th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI2014)
journal: Proceedings of the 30th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2014), pp. 112 - 121, AUAI Press, 2014
subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2256
abstract: One of the goals of probabilistic inference is to decide whether an empirically observed distribution is compatible with a candidate Bayesian network. However, Bayesian networks with hidden variables give rise to highly non-trivial constraints on the observed distribution. Here, we propose an information-theoretic approach, based on the insight that conditions on entropies of Bayesian networks take the form of simple linear inequalities. We describe an algorithm for deriving entropic tests for latent structures. The well-known conditional independence tests appear as a special case. While the approach applies for generic Bayesian networks, we presently adopt the causal view, and show the versatility of the framework by treating several relevant problems from that domain: detecting common ancestors, quantifying the strength of causal influence, and inferring the direction of causation from two-variable marginals.

id: 1407.2530
title: Quantum phase transitions in networks of Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick models
authors: A. V. Sorokin, V. M. Bastidas, T. Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042141 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2530
abstract: We study the quantum critical behavior of networks consisting of Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick models with an anisotropic ferromagnetic coupling. We focus on the low-energy properties of the system within a mean-field approach and the quantum corrections around the mean-field solution. Our results show that the weak-coupling regime corresponds to the paramagnetic phase when the local field dominates the dynamics, but the local anisotropy leads to the existence of an exponentially-degenerate ground state. In the strong-coupling regime, the ground state is twofold degenerate and possesses long-range magnetic ordering. Analytical results for a network with the ring topology are obtained.

id: 1407.2603
title: To Principles of Quantum Mechanics Development
authors: Dmitri Yerchuck, Alla Dovlatova, Felix Borovik, Yauhen Yerchak, Vyacheslav Stelmakh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2603
abstract: New insight to the principles of the quantum physics development is given. The correct ways for the construction of new versions of quantum mechanics on the second main postulate base are discussed. The conclusion on the status of the second main postulate is given. Its formulation in all textbooks has to be represented in the form of statement, since the hypothesis of Schr\"odinger on the existance of the field scalar function, being to be observable quantity, just charge density, is strictly proved for the case of EM-field, the role of which is argued to be decisive for the dynamics of the atomic systems. It is shown, that the field scalar function, being to be the function the only of coordinates and time, actually describes the state of the system. The second main postulate in Schr\"odinger formulation is mathematically strictly grounded, but in the popular probabilistic form used in modern textbooks on quantum theory it cannot be proved. The probabilistic theatise, proposed by Born is true in a number of special cases, quite correctly indicated by Dirac. The possible ways of the development of quantum theory, based on clear understanding of the origin of corpuscular-wave dualism are analysed.

id: 1407.2605
title: Is a Single Photon Always Circularly Polarized? A Proposed Experiment using a Superconducting Microcalorimeter Photon Detector
authors: Alan M. Kadin, Steven B. Kaplan
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to special issue on Superconducting Quantum Electronics of the IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, June 1, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2605
abstract: A single photon is well known to have spin S = hbar, which would correspond to circular polarization, and all quantum transitions with photon absorption or emission correspond to DeltaS = +/-hbar. However, it is also widely believed that a single photon may be linearly polarized, which would correspond to a state with S = 0. Indeed, linearly polarized single photons are central to most quantum entanglement experiments. On the contrary, it has recently been suggested (based on a realistic spin-quantized wave picture of quantum states) that a linearly polarized photon state must be a superposition of a pair of circularly polarized photons, each with S = +/-hbar. This question cannot be resolved using a conventional photon detector, which generally cannot distinguish one photon from two simultaneous photons. However, it can be addressed using a superconducting microcalorimeter detector with sub-eV energy resolution and high quantum efficiency (QE). A careful experiment demonstrating this photon pairing could place in question some of the paradoxical central foundations of modern quantum theory, including quantum entanglement and nonlocality.

id: 1407.2655
title: Systematic pathway to ${\mathcal{PT}}$ symmetry breaking in scattering systems
authors: P.A. Kalozoumis, G. Pappas, F.K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2655
abstract: Recently [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 093902 (2011)] it has been shown that $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric scattering systems with balanced gain and loss, undergo a transition from $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric scattering eigenstates, which are norm preserving, to symmetry broken pairs of eigenstates exhibiting net amplification and loss. In the present work we derive the existence of an invariant non-local current which can be directly associated with the observed transition playing the role of an "order parameter". The use of this current for the description of the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry breaking allows the extension of the known phase diagram to higher dimensions incorporating scattering states which are not eigenstates of the scattering matrix.

id: 1407.2846
title: Coherent Interaction of Light and Single Molecules in a Dielectric Nanoguide
authors: Sanli Faez, Pierre T¨¹rschmann, Harald R. Haakh, Stephan G?tzinger, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 213601 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2846
abstract: We present a new scheme for performing optical spectroscopy on single molecules. A glass capillary with a diameter of 600 nm filled with an organic crystal tightly guides the excitation light and provides a maximum spontaneous emission coupling factor ($\beta$) of 18% for the dye molecules doped in the organic crystal. Combination of extinction, fluorescence excitation and resonance fluorescence spectroscopy with microscopy provides high-resolution spatio-spectral access to a very large number of single molecules in a linear geometry. We discuss strategies for exploring a range of quantum optical phenomena, including coherent cooperative interactions in a mesoscopic ensemble of molecules mediated by a single mode of propagating photons.

id: 1407.2851
title: Minimal circuit for a flux-controlled Majorana qubit in a quantum spin-Hall insulator
authors: B. van Heck, T. Hyart, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: Contribution for the proceedings of the Nobel Symposium on topological insulators. 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2851
abstract: We construct a minimal circuit, based on the top-transmon design, to rotate a qubit formed out of four Majorana zero-modes at the edge of a two-dimensional topological insulator. Unlike braiding operations, generic rotations have no topological protection, but they do allow for a full characterization of the coherence times of the Majorana qubit. The rotation is controlled by variation of the flux through a pair of split Josephson junctions in a Cooper pair box, without any need to adjust gate voltages. The Rabi oscillations of the Majorana qubit can be monitored via oscillations in the resonance frequency of the microwave cavity that encloses the Cooper pair box.

id: 1407.2875
title: Quantum Dynamics, Minkowski-Hilbert space, and A Quantum Stochastic Duhamel Principle
authors: Matthew F. Brown
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2875
abstract: In this paper we shall re-visit the well-known Schr\"odinger and Lindblad dynamics of quantum mechanics. However, these equations shall be realized as the consequence of a more general, underlying dynamical process. In both cases we shall see that the evolution of a quantum state $P_\psi=\varrho(0)$ may be given the not so well-known pseudo-quadratic form $\partial_t\varrho(t)=\mathbf{V}^\star\varrho(t)\mathbf{V}$ where $\mathbf{V}$ is a vector operator in a complex Minkowski space and the pseudo-adjoint $\mathbf{V}^\star$ is induced by the Minkowski metric $\boldsymbol{\eta}$. The interesting thing about this formalism is that its derivation has very deep roots in a new understanding of the differential calculus of time. This Minkowski-Hilbert representation of quantum dynamics is called the \emph{Belavkin Formalism}; a beautiful, but not well understood theory of mathematical physics that understands that both deterministic and stochastic dynamics may be `unraveled' into a second-quantized Minkowski space. Working in such a space provided the author with the means to construct a QS (quantum stochastic) Duhamel principle and simple applications to a Schr\"odinger dynamics perturbed by a continual measurement process are considered. What is not known, but presented here, is the role of the Lorentz transform in quantum measurement and the appearance of Riemannian geometry in quantum measurement is also discussed.

id: 1407.2878
title: Dynamics of the effective mass and the anomalous velocity in two-dimensional lattices
authors: Y. Fang, Federico Duque-Gomez, J. E. Sipe
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053407 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2878
abstract: The semiclassical description of the dynamics of wave packets in periodic potentials and subject to an applied force relies on the concepts of effective mass and anomalous transport. This picture is valid if the force changes slowly in time and space, so that the particle described by the wave packet has time to respond according to the properties of the lattice. We analyze the dynamical corrections to this picture when a uniform force is suddenly applied, identifying separate corrections to the usual group and anomalous velocities. We find approximate semianalytical expressions for generalized "dynamical" group and anomalous velocities, and the associated accelerations. We use a two-dimensional optical lattice with finite Berry curvature to illustrate the semianalytical approximation in a regime where the dynamical corrections are significant, suggesting the possibility of experiments to detect them; we compare the results with a full numerical solution, showing excellent agreement for weak forces.

id: 1407.2895
title: Spin noise spectroscopy beyond thermal equilibrium and linear response
authors: P. Glasenapp, Luyi Yang, D. Roy, D. G. Rickel, A. Greilich, M. Bayer, N. A. Sinitsyn, S. A. Crooker
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2895
abstract: Per the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, the information obtained from spin fluctuation studies in thermal equilibrium is necessarily constrained by the system's linear response functions. However, by including weak radiofrequency magnetic fields, we demonstrate that intrinsic and random spin fluctuations even in strictly unpolarized ensembles \emph{can} reveal underlying patterns of correlation and coupling beyond linear response, and can be used to study non-equilibrium and even multiphoton coherent spin phenomena. We demonstrate this capability in a classical vapor of $^{41}$K alkali atoms, where spin fluctuations alone directly reveal Rabi splittings, the formation of Mollow triplets and Autler-Townes doublets, ac Zeeman shifts, and even nonlinear multiphoton coherences.

id: 1407.2965
title: On the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics and the notion of closed systems
authors: J¨¦r¨¦my Faupin, J¨¹rg Fr?hlich, Baptiste Schubnel
comments: Typos corrected. Accepted for publication in Ann. Henri Poincar\'e
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2965
abstract: The notion of "closed systems" in Quantum Mechanics is discussed. For this purpose, we study two models of a quantum-mechanical system $P$ spatially far separated from the "rest of the universe" $Q$. Under reasonable assumptions on the interaction between $P$ and $Q$, we show that the system $P$ behaves as a closed system if the initial state of $P \vee Q$ belongs to a large class of states, including ones exhibiting entanglement between $P$ and $Q$. We use our results to illustrate the non-deterministic nature of quantum mechanics. Studying a specific example, we show that assigning an initial state and a unitary time evolution to a quantum system is generally not sufficient to predict the results of a measurement with certainty.

id: 1407.3172
title: A probability loophole in the CHSH
authors: J.F. Geurdes
comments: 2 pages, accepted for publication
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3172
abstract: In the present paper a robustness stress-test of the CHSH experiments for Einstein locality and causality is designed and employed. Random A and B from dice and coins, but based on a local model, run "parallel" to a real experiment. We found a local causal model with a nonzero probability to violate the CHSH inequality for some relevant quartets $\mathcal{Q}$ of settings in the series of trials.

id: 1407.3541
title: Two-photon interference and coherent control of single InAs quantum dot emissions in an Ag-embedded structure
authors: X. Liu, H. Kumano, H. Nakajima, S. Odashima, T. Asano, T. Kuroda, I. Suemune
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 116, 043103 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3541
abstract: We have recently reported the successful fabrication of bright single-photon sources based on Ag-embedded nanocone structures that incorporate InAs quantum dots. The source had a photon collection efficiency as high as 24.6%. Here we show the results of various types of photonic characterizations of the Ag-embedded nanocone structures that confirm their versatility as regards a broad range of quantum optical applications. We measure the first-order autocorrelation function to evaluate the coherence time of emitted photons, and the second-order correlation function, which reveals the strong suppression of multiple photon generation. The high indistinguishability of emitted photons is shown by the Hong-Ou-Mandel-type two-photon interference. With quasi-resonant excitation, coherent population flopping is demonstrated through Rabi oscillations. Extremely high single-photon purity with a $g^{(2)}$(0) value of 0.008 is achieved with $\pi$-pulse quasi-resonant excitation.

id: 1407.3575
title: Ground state properties of ultracold trapped bosons with an immersed ionic impurity
authors: J. M. Schurer, P. Schmelcher, A. Negretti
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures, v2: double column, typos corrected, and figures updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3575
abstract: We consider a trapped atomic ensemble of interacting bosons in the presence of a single trapped ion in a quasi one dimensional geometry. Our study is carried out by means of the newly developed multilayer-multiconfiguration time-dependent Hartree method for bosons, a numerical exact approach to simulate quantum many-body dynamics. In particular, we are interested in the scenario by which the ion is so strongly trapped that its motion can be effectively neglected. This enables us to focus on the atomic ensemble only. With the development of a model potential for the atom-ion interaction, we are able to numerically obtain the exact many-body ground state of the atomic ensemble in the presence of an ion. We analyse the influence of the atom number and the atom-atom interaction on the ground state properties. Interestingly, for weakly interacting atoms, we find that the ion impedes the transition from the ideal gas behaviour to the Thomas-Fermi limit. Furthermore, we show that this effect can be exploited to infer the presence of the ion both in the momentum distribution of the atomic cloud and by observing the interference fringes occurring during an expansion of the quantum gas. In the strong interacting regime, the ion modifies the fragmentation process in dependence of the atom number parity which allows a clear identification of the latter in expansion experiments. Hence, we propose in both regimes experimentally viable strategies to assess the impact of the ion on the many-body state of the atomic gas. This study serves as the first building block for systematically investigate many-body physics of such hybrid system.

id: 1407.3595
title: Cavity cooling a single charged nanoparticle
authors: J. Millen, P. Z. G. Fonseca, T. Mavrogordatos, T. S. Monteiro, P. F. Barker
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures Updated version includes additional references, new title, and supplementary information included
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3595
abstract: The development of laser cooling coupled with the ability to trap atoms and ions in electromagnetic fields, has revolutionised atomic and optical physics, leading to the development of atomic clocks, high-resolution spectroscopy and applications in quantum simulation and processing. However, complex systems, such as large molecules and nanoparticles, lack the simple internal resonances required for laser cooling. Here we report on a hybrid scheme that uses the external resonance of an optical cavity, combined with radio frequency (RF) fields, to trap and cool a single charged nanoparticle. An RF Paul trap allows confinement in vacuum, avoiding instabilities that arise from optical fields alone, and crucially actively participates in the cooling process. This system offers great promise for cooling and trapping a wide range of complex charged particles with applications in precision force sensing, mass spectrometry, exploration of quantum mechanics at large mass scales and the possibility of creating large quantum superpositions.

id: 1407.3611
title: Creation, excitation and ionization of a mesoscopic superatom
authors: T. M. Weber, M. H?ning, T. Niederpr¨¹m, T. Manthey, O. Thomas, V. Guarrera, M. Fleischhauer, G. Barontini, H. Ott
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 11, 157-161 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3611
abstract: Controlling strongly interacting many-body systems enables the creation of tailored quantum matter, with properties surpassing single particle physics. Atomic ensembles which are optically driven to a Rydberg state provide many examples for this, such as atom-atom entanglement [1,2], many-body Rabi oscillations [3], and strong photon-photon interaction [4]. In its most basic form, Rydberg quantum matter consists of an isolated ensemble of strongly interacting atoms spatially confined to the blockade volume - a so-called superatom. Here, we demonstrate the controlled creation and characterization of an isolated mesoscopic superatom by means of accurate density engineering and excitation to Rydberg p-states. Looking at continuous laser-induced ionization we observe a transition from strongly anti-bunched ion emission under blockade conditions to extremely bunched ion emission under off-resonant excitation. Our experimental setup enables in vivo measurements of the superatom, yielding insight into the excitation statistics and dynamics. We anticipate straightforward applications in quantum optics and quantum information as well as future experiments on many-body physics with superatoms.

id: 1407.3614
title: Strong coupling of an optomechanical system to an anomalously dispersive atomic medium
authors: Haibin Wu, Min Xiao
comments: The manuscript is originally submitted to PRL on July, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3614
abstract: We investigate a hybrid optomechanical system in which a membrane oscillator is coupled to a collective spin of ground states of an intracavity $\Lambda$-type three-level atomic medium. The cavity field response is greatly modified by atomic coherence and the anomalous dispersion generated by two Raman pumping beams near two-photon resonance. The optomechanical interaction, therefore radiation pressure force, is substantially enhanced due to superluminal propagation of photons in the cavity. Such improvement facilitates ground-state cooling of the mechanical oscillator with room temperature thermal environment. Moreover, it can greatly improve the sensitivity and bandwidth of displacement measurement. In such system, optically-controlled strong-coupling interaction between the mechanical oscillator and cavity field could be implemented on small intracavity photon number, even at the single quanta level, which is important for weak-light nonlinear photonics and the generation of nonclassical quantum states in the mechanical field.

id: 1407.3741
title: Kelvin probe force microscopy of metallic surfaces used in Casimir force measurements
authors: R. O. Behunin, D. A. R. Dalvit, R. S. Decca, C. Genet, I. W. Jung, A. Lambrecht, A. Liscio, D. Lopez, S. Reynaud, G. Schnoering, G. Voisin, Y. Zeng
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Updated conclusions. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062115 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3741
abstract: Kelvin probe force microscopy at normal pressure was performed by two different groups on the same Au-coated planar sample used to measure the Casimir interaction in a sphere-plane geometry. The obtained voltage distribution was used to calculate the separation dependence of the electrostatic pressure $P_{\rm res}(D)$ in the configuration of the Casimir experiments. In the calculation it was assumed that the potential distribution in the sphere has the same statistical properties as the measured one, and that there are no correlation effects on the potential distributions due to the presence of the other surface. Within this framework, and assuming that the potential distribution does not vary significantly at low pressure, the calculated $P_{\rm res}(D)$ does not explain the magnitude or the separation dependence of the difference $\Delta P (D)$ between the measured Casimir pressure and the one calculated using a Drude model for the electromagnetic response of Au.

id: 1407.3779
title: Spin-resolved entanglement spectroscopy of critical spin chains and Luttinger liquids
authors: Nicolas Laflorencie, Stephan Rachel
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P11013
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3779
abstract: Quantum critical chains are well described and understood by virtue of conformal field theory. Still the meaning of the real space entanglement spectrum -- the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix -- of such systems remains in general elusive, even when there is an additional quantum number available such as spin or particle number. In this paper we explore in details the properties and the structure of the reduced density matrix of critical XXZ spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ chains. We investigate the quantum/thermal correspondence between the reduced density matrix of a $T=0$ pure quantum state and the thermal density matrix of an effective entanglement Hamiltonian. Using large scale DMRG and QMC simulations, we investigate the conformal structure of the spectra, the entanglement Hamiltonian and temperature. We then introduce the notion of spin-resolved entanglement entropies which display interesting scaling features.

id: 1407.3788
title: Beyond the Born-Oppenheimer approximation with quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Norm M. Tubman, Ilkka Kyl?np??, Sharon Hammes-Schiffer, David M. Ceperley
comments: 6 Pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042507 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3788
abstract: In this work we develop tools that enable the study of non-adiabatic effects with variational and diffusion Monte Carlo methods. We introduce a highly accurate wave function ansatz for electron-ion systems that can involve a combination of both fixed and quantum ions. We explicitly calculate the ground state energies of H$_{2}$, LiH, H$_{2}$O and FHF$^{-}$ using fixed-node quantum Monte Carlo with wave function nodes that explicitly depend on the ion positions. The obtained energies implicitly include the effects arising from quantum nuclei and electron-nucleus coupling. We compare our results to the best theoretical and experimental results available and find excellent agreement.

id: 1407.3828
title: Spectral broadening and shaping of nanosecond pulses: towards shaping of single photons from quantum emitters
authors: Imad Agha, Serkan Ates, Luca Sapienza, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3828
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate spectral broadening and shaping of exponentially-decaying nanosecond pulses via nonlinear mixing with a phase-modulated pump in a periodically-poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide. A strong, 1550~nm pulse is imprinted with a temporal phase and used to upconvert a weak 980 nm pulse to 600 nm while simultaneously broadening the spectrum to that of a Lorentzian pulse up to 10 times shorter. While the current experimental demonstration is for spectral shaping, we also provide a numerical study showing the feasibility of subsequent spectral phase correction to achieve temporal compression and re-shaping of a 1~ns mono-exponentially decaying pulse to a 250 ps Lorentzian, which would constitute a complete spectro-temporal waveform shaping protocol. This method, which uses quantum frequency conversion in PPLN with >100:1 signal-to-noise ratio, is compatible with single photon states of light.

id: 1407.3842
title: Fermionic suppression of dipolar relaxation: Observation of universal inelastic dipolar scattering
authors: Nathaniel Q. Burdick, Kristian Baumann, Yijun Tang, Mingwu Lu, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: new title and text edited for clarity; 4.5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table; supplemental info, 7.5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 023201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3842
abstract: We observe the suppression of inelastic dipolar scattering in ultracold Fermi gases of the highly magnetic atom dysprosium: the more energy that is released, the less frequently these exothermic reactions take place, and only quantum spin statistics can explain this counterintuitive effect. Inelastic dipolar scattering in non-zero magnetic fields leads to heating or to loss of the trapped population, both detrimental to experiments intended to study quantum many-body physics with strongly dipolar gases. Fermi statistics, however, is predicted to lead to a kinematic suppression of these harmful reactions. Indeed, we observe a 120-fold suppression of dipolar relaxation in fermionic versus bosonic Dy, as expected from theory describing universal inelastic dipolar scattering, though never before experimentally confirmed. Similarly low inelastic cross sections are observed in spin mixtures, also with striking correspondence to universal dipolar scattering predictions. The suppression of relaxation opens the possibility of employing fermionic dipolar species---atoms or molecules---in studies of quantum many-body physics involving, e.g., synthetic gauge fields and pairing.

id: 1407.3847
title: Dual-axis, high data-rate atom interferometer via cold ensemble exchange
authors: Akash V. Rakholia, Hayden J. McGuinness, Grant W. Biedermann
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3847
abstract: We demonstrate a dual-axis accelerometer and gyroscope atom interferometer, which forms the building blocks of a six-axis inertial measurement unit. By recapturing the atoms after the interferometer sequence, we maintain a large atom number at high data-rates of 50 to 100 measurements per second. Two cold ensembles are formed in trap zones located a few centimeters apart, and are launched toward one-another. During their ballistic trajectory, they are interrogated with a stimulated Raman sequence, detected, and recaptured in the opposing trap zone. We achieve sensitivities at $\mathrm{\mu \mathit{g} / \sqrt{Hz}}$ and $\mathrm{\mu rad / s / \sqrt{Hz}}$ levels, making this a compelling prospect for expanding the use of atom interferometer inertial sensors beyond benign laboratory environments.

id: 1407.3923
title: Quantum model of coupled intersubband plasmons
authors: Giulia Pegolotti, Angela Vasanelli, Yanko Todorov, Carlo Sirtori
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 90, 035305 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3923
abstract: We present a quantum model to calculate the dipole-dipole coupling between electronic excitations in the conduction band of semiconductor quantum wells. We demonstrate that the coupling depends on a characteristic length, related to the overlap between microscopic current densities associated with each electronic excitation. As a result of the coupling, a macroscopic polarization is established in the quantum wells, corresponding to one or few bright collective modes of the electron gas. Our model is applied to derive a sum rule and to investigate the interplay between tunnel coupling and Coulomb interaction in the absorption spectrum of a dense electron gas.

id: 1407.3924
title: $C^1$-classification of gapped parent Hamiltonians of quantum spin chains
authors: Sven Bachmann, Yoshiko Ogata
comments: The asymmetric case considered in [v1] has been removed from [v2] because of an error in Lemma 4.1(b)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3924
abstract: We consider the $C^1$-classification of gapped Hamiltonians introduced in [Fannes-Nachtergaele-Werner, Nachtergaele] as parents Hamiltonians of translation invariant finitely correlated states. Within this family, we show that the number of edge modes, which is equal at the left and right edge, is the complete invariant. The construction proves that translation invariance of the `bulk' ground state does not need to be broken to establish $C^1$-equivalence, namely that the spin chain does not need to be blocked.

id: 1407.3963
title: Intermittency and dynamical Lee-Yang zeros of open quantum systems
authors: James M. Hickey, Christian Flindt, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, final version as published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062128 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3963
abstract: We use high-order cumulants to investigate the Lee-Yang zeros of generating functions of dynamical observables in open quantum systems. At long times the generating functions take on a large deviation form with singularities of the associated cumulant generating functions - or dynamical free energies - signifying phase transitions in the ensemble of dynamical trajectories. We consider a driven three-level system as well as the dissipative Ising model. Both systems exhibit dynamical intermittency in the statistics of quantum jumps. From the short-time behavior of the dynamical Lee-Yang zeros we identify critical values of the counting field which we attribute to the observed intermittency and dynamical phase co-existence. Furthermore, for the dissipative Ising model we construct a trajectory phase diagram and estimate the value of the transverse field where the stationary state changes from being ferromagnetic (inactive) to being paramagnetic (active).

id: 1407.4063
title: Angular and polarization analysis for two-photon decay of 2s hyperfine states of hydrogenlike Uranium
authors: Laleh Safari, Pedro Amaro, Jose Paulo Santos, Filippo Fratini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures,will be published in Phys. Rev. A (2014). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.6601
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 014502 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4063
abstract: The amplitude of two-photon transitions between hyperfine states in hydrogenlike ions is derived based on relativistic Dirac equation and second order perturbation theory. We study angular and linear polarization properties of the photon pair emitted in the decay of $2s$ states, where spin-flip and non-spin-flip transitions are highlighted. We pay particular attention to hydrogenlike uranium, since it is an ideal candidate for investigating relativistic and high-multipole effects, such as spin-flip transitions. Two types of emission patterns are identified: i) non-spin-flip transitions are found to be characterized by an angular distribution of the type $W(\theta)\sim1+\cos^2\theta$ while the polarizations of the emitted photons are parallel; ii) spin-flip transitions have somewhat smaller decay rates and are found to be characterized by an angular distribution of the type $W(\theta)\sim1-1/3\cos^2\theta$ while the polarizations of the emitted photons are orthogonal, where $\theta$ is the angle between photons directions. Deviations due to non-dipole and relativistic contributions are evaluated for both types of transitions. This work is the first step toward exploring the effect of nucleus over the the angular and polarization properties of the photon pairs emitted by two-photon transitions.

id: 1407.4064
title: Non-Abelian Fusion Rules from an Abelian System
authors: Pramod Padmanabhan, Paulo Teotonio-Sobrinho
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4064
abstract: We demonstrate the emergence of non-Abelian fusion rules for excitations of a two dimensional lattice model built out of Abelian degrees of freedom. It can be considered as an extension of the usual toric code model on a two dimensional lattice augmented with matter fields. It consists of the usual $\mathbb{C}(\mathbb{Z}_p)$ gauge degrees of freedom living on the links together with matter degrees of freedom living on the vertices. The matter part is described by a $n$ dimensional vector space which we call $H_n$. The $\mathbb{Z}_p$ gauge particles act on the vertex particles and thus $H_n$ can be thought of as a $\mathbb{C}(\mathbb{Z}_p)$ module. An exactly solvable model is built with operators acting in the corresponding Hilbert space. The vertex excitations for this model are studied and shown to obey non-Abelian fusion rules. We will show this for specific values of $n$ and $p$, though we believe this feature holds for all $n>p$. We will see that non-Abelian anyons of the quantum double of $\mathbb{C}(S_3)$ are obtained as part of the vertex excitations of the model with $n=6$ and $p=3$. Ising anyons are obtained in the model with $n=4$ and $p=2$. The $n=3$ and $p=2$ case is also worked out as this is the simplest model exhibiting non-Abelian fusion rules. Another common feature shared by these models is that the ground states have a higher symmetry than $\mathbb{Z}_p$. This makes them possible candidates for realizing quantum computation.

id: 1407.4090
title: Maximal Atom-Photon Entanglement in a Double-Lambda Quantum System
authors: Zeinab Kordi, Saeed Ghanbari, Mohammad Mahmoudi
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4090
abstract: The atom-photon entanglement of dressed atom and its spontaneous emission in a Double-Lambda closed-loop atomic system is studied in multi-photon resonance condition. It is shown that, even in the absence of quantum interference due to the spontaneous emission, the von Neumann entropy is phase-sensitive and it can be controlled by either intensity or relative phase of the applied fields. It is demonstrated that, for the special case of Rabi frequency of the applied fields the system is maximally entangled. Moreover, the open-loop configuration is considered and it is shown that the degree of entanglement measure (DEM) can be controlled by intensity of the applied fields. Furthermore, in electromagnetically induced transparency condition, the system is disentangled. Such a system can be used for quantum information processing via entanglement using optical switching.

id: 1407.4127
title: Comment on "Consistent thermostatistics forbids negative absolute temperatures"
authors: Ulrich Schneider, Stephan Mandt, Akos Rapp, Simon Braun, Hendrik Weimer, Immanuel Bloch, Achim Rosch
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4127
abstract: In this comment we argue that negative absolute temperatures are a well-established concept for systems with bounded spectra. They are not only consistent with thermodynamics, but are even unavoidable for a consistent description of the thermal equilibrium of inverted populations.

id: 1407.4205
title: Measuring the Chern number of Hofstadter bands with ultracold bosonic atoms
authors: M. Aidelsburger, M. Lohse, C. Schweizer, M. Atala, J. T. Barreiro, S. Nascimb¨¨ne, N. R. Cooper, I. Bloch, N. Goldman
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 11, 162-166 (2015), AOP 3171 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4205
abstract: Sixty years ago, Karplus and Luttinger pointed out that quantum particles moving on a lattice could acquire an anomalous transverse velocity in response to a force, providing an explanation for the unusual Hall effect in ferromagnetic metals. A striking manifestation of this transverse transport was then revealed in the quantum Hall effect, where the plateaus depicted by the Hall conductivity were attributed to a topological invariant characterizing Bloch bands: the Chern number. Until now, topological transport associated with non-zero Chern numbers has only been revealed in electronic systems. Here we use studies of an atomic cloud's transverse deflection in response to an optical gradient to measure the Chern number of artificially generated Hofstadter bands. These topological bands are very flat and thus constitute good candidates for the realization of fractional Chern insulators. Combining these deflection measurements with the determination of the band populations, we obtain an experimental value for the Chern number of the lowest band $\nu_{\mathrm{exp}} =0.99(5)$. This result, which constitutes the first Chern-number measurement in a non-electronic system, is facilitated by an all-optical artificial gauge field scheme, generating uniform flux in optical superlattices.

id: 1407.4212
title: $¦Ä-¦Ä^\prime$ generalized Robin boundary conditions and quantum vacuum fluctuations
authors: J. M. Munoz-Castaneda, J. Mateos Guilarte
comments: 21 pages and 11 figures. PhysRevD
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4212
abstract: The effects induced by the quantum vacuum fluctuations of one massless real scalar field on a configuration of two partially transparent plates are investigated. The physical properties of the infinitely thin plates are simulated by means of Dirac-$\delta-\delta^\prime$ point interactions. It is shown that the distortion caused on the fluctuations by this external background gives rise to a generalization of Robin boundary conditions. The $T$-operator for potentials concentrated on points with non defined parity is computed with total generality. The quantum vacuum interaction energy between the two plates is computed using the $TGTG$ formula to find positive, negative, and zero Casimir energies. The parity properties of the $\delta-\delta^\prime$ potential allow repulsive quantum vacuum force between identical plates.

id: 1407.4262
title: On integrable matrix product operators with bond dimension $D=4$
authors: Hosho Katsura
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, submitted to a special issue of JSTAT on "Quantum Entanglement in Condensed Matter Physics"; Conjectures presented in version 1 have been proved in version 2; typos corrected
journal: J. Stat. Mech., P01006 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4262
abstract: We construct and study a two-parameter family of matrix product operators of bond dimension $D=4$. The operators $M(x,y)$ act on $({\mathbb C}_2)^{\otimes N}$, i.e., the space of states of a spin-$1/2$ chain of length $N$. For the particular values of the parameters: $x=1/3$ and $y=1/\sqrt{3}$, the operator turns out to be proportional to the square root of the reduced density matrix of the valence-bond-solid state on a hexagonal ladder. We show that $M(x,y)$ has several interesting properties when $(x,y)$ lies on the unit circle centered at the origin: $x^2 + y^2=1$. In this case, we find that $M(x,y)$ commutes with the Hamiltonian and all the conserved charges of the isotropic spin-$1/2$ Heisenberg chain. Moreover, $M(x_1,y_1)$ and $M(x_2,y_2)$ are mutually commuting if $x^2_i + y^2_i=1$ for both $i=1$ and $2$. These remarkable properties of $M(x,y)$ are proved as a consequence of the Yang-Baxter equation.

id: 1407.4308
title: Some upper and lower bounds on PSD-rank
authors: Troy Lee, Zhaohui Wei, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4308
abstract: Positive semidefinite rank (PSD-rank) is a relatively new quantity with applications to combinatorial optimization and communication complexity. We first study several basic properties of PSD-rank, and then develop new techniques for showing lower bounds on the PSD-rank. All of these bounds are based on viewing a positive semidefinite factorization of a matrix $M$ as a quantum communication protocol. These lower bounds depend on the entries of the matrix and not only on its support (the zero/nonzero pattern), overcoming a limitation of some previous techniques. We compare these new lower bounds with known bounds, and give examples where the new ones are better. As an application we determine the PSD-rank of (approximations of) some common matrices.

id: 1407.4356
title: Adiabatic theorem for bipartite quantum systems in weak coupling limit
authors: David Viennot, Lucile Aubourg
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48, 025301 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4356
abstract: We study the adiabatic approximation of the dynamics of a bipartite quantum system with respect to one of the components, when the coupling between its two components is perturbative. We show that the density matrix of the considered component is described by adiabatic transport formulae exhibiting operator-valued geometric and dynamical phases. The present results can be used to study the quantum control of the dynamics of qubits and of open quantum systems where the two components are the system and its environment. We treat two examples, the control of an atomic qubit interacting with another one and the control of a spin in the middle of a Heisenberg spin chain.

id: 1407.4359
title: Reducing Collective Quantum State Rotation Errors with Reversible Dephasing
authors: Kevin C. Cox, Matthew A. Norcia, Joshua M. Weiner, Justin G. Bohnet, James K. Thompson
comments: Paper with supplemental material: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4359
abstract: We demonstrate that reversible dephasing via inhomogeneous broadening can greatly reduce collective quantum state rotation errors, and observe the suppression of rotation errors by more than 21 dB in the context of collective population measurements of the spin states of an ensemble of $2.1 \times 10^5$ laser cooled and trapped $^{87}$Rb atoms. The large reduction in rotation noise enables direct resolution of spin state populations 13(1) dB below the fundamental quantum projection noise limit. Further, the spin state measurement projects the system into an entangled state with 9.5(5) dB of directly observed spectroscopic enhancement (squeezing) relative to the standard quantum limit, whereas no enhancement would have been obtained without the suppression of rotation errors.

id: 1407.4401
title: Corroborating the equivalence between the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau and the Klein-Gordon and Proca equations
authors: L. B. Castro, A. S. de Castro
comments: 13 pages, to appears in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 (2014) 022101
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4401
abstract: It is shown that the Hamiltonian version of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory with electromagnetic coupling brings about a source term at the current. It is also shown that such a source term disappears from the scenario if one uses the correct physical form for the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau field, regardless the choice for representing the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau matrices. This result is used to fix the ambiguity in the electromagnetic coupling in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. Moreover, some widespread misconceptions about the Hermiticity in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory are discussed.

id: 1407.4535
title: PT spectroscopy of the Rabi problem
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Rahul Marathe, P. Durganandini, Rajeev K. Pathak
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 040101(R) (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4535
abstract: We investigate the effects of a time-periodic, non-hermitian, PT-symmetric perturbation on a system with two (or few) levels, and obtain its phase diagram as a function of the perturbation strength and frequency. We demonstrate that when the perturbation frequency is close to one of the system resonances, even a vanishingly small perturbation leads to PT symmetry breaking. We also find a restored PT-symmetric phase at high frequencies, and at moderate perturbation strengths, we find multiple frequency windows where PT-symmetry is broken and restored. Our results imply that the PT-symmetric Rabi problem shows surprisingly rich phenomena absent in its hermitian or static counterparts.

id: 1407.4603
title: Photon-photon correlation statistics in the collective emission from ensembles of self-assembled quantum dots
authors: Fitria Miftasani, Pawe? Machnikowski
comments: A forgotten acknowledgement and one relevant reference added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4603
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the intensity autocorrelation for the spontaneous emission from a planar ensemble of self-assembled quantum dots. Using the quantum jump approach, we numerically simulate the evolution of the system and construct photon-photon delay time statistics that approximates the second order correlation function of the field. The form of this correlation function in the case of collective emission from a highly homogeneous ensemble qualitatively differs form that characterizing an ensemble of independent emitters (inhomogeneous ensemble of uncoupled dots). The signatures of collective emission in the intensity correlations are observed also in the case of an inhomogeneous but sufficiently strongly coupled ensemble. Thus, we show that the second order correlation function of the emitted field provides a sensitive test of cooperative effects.

id: 1407.4624
title: Semirelativistic Bound-State Equations: Trivial Considerations
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, Franz F. Sch?berl
comments: 5 pages, contributed to "QCD@Work 2014 - International Workshop on Quantum Chromodynamics: Theory and Experiment" (16 - 19 June 2014, Giovinazzo, Bari, Italy)
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences 80 (2014) 00049
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4624
abstract: Observing renewed interest in long-standing (semi-) relativistic descriptions of bound states, we would like to make a few comments on the eigenvalue problem posed by the spinless Salpeter equation and, illustrated by the examples of the nonsingular Woods-Saxon potential and the singular Hulth\'en potential, recall elementary tools that practitioners looking for analytic albeit approximate solutions might find useful in their quest.

id: 1407.4672
title: $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric microring laser-absorber
authors: Stefano Longhi, Liang Feng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 5026 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4672
abstract: The lasing and coherent perfect absorption (CPA) properties of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric microrings with mixed index and gain gratings, externally coupled to a bus waveguide, are theoretically investigated. For a complex grating at the $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking point, perfect unidirectional (either clockwise or counterclockwise) laser emission can be realized, however the grating does not discriminate longitudinal modes and CPA can not be simultaneously achieved. Above the grating $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking point, single mode emission and simultaneous CPA can be obtained, with unbalanced and controllable excitation of clockwise and counterclockwise modes in the ring.

id: 1407.4699
title: Background Independent String Field Theory
authors: Itzhak Bars, Dmitry Rychkov
comments: 77 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4699
abstract: We develop a new background independent Moyal star formalism in bosonic open string field theory. The new star product is formulated in a half-phase-space, and because phase space is independent of any background fields, the interactions are background independent. In this basis there is a large amount of symmetry, including a supersymmetry OSp(d|2) that acts on matter and ghost degrees of freedom, and simplifies computations. The BRST operator that defines the quadratic kinetic term of string field theory may be regarded as the solution of the equation of motion A*A=0 of a purely cubic background independent string field theory. We find an infinite number of non-perturbative solutions to this equation, and are able to associate them to the BRST operator of conformal field theories on the worldsheet. Thus, the background emerges from a spontaneous-type breaking of a purely cubic highly symmetric theory. The form of the BRST field breaks the symmetry in a tractable way such that the symmetry continues to be useful in practical perturbative computations as an expansion around some background. The new Moyal basis is called the $\sigma $-basis, where $\sigma$ is the worldsheet parameter of an open string. A vital part of the new star product is a natural and crucially needed mid-point regulator in this continuous basis, so that all computations are finite. The regulator is removed after renormalization and then the theory is finite only in the critical dimension. Boundary conditions for D-branes at the endpoints of the string are naturally introduced and made part of the theory as simple rules in algebraic computations. A byproduct of our approach is an astonishing suggestion of the formalism: the roots of ordinary quantum mechanics may originate in the rules of non-commutative interactions in string theory.

id: 1407.4752
title: Asymptotic behavior of subradiant states in homonuclear diatomic molecules
authors: Bart H. McGuyer, Mickey McDonald, Geoffrey Z. Iwata, Marco G. Tarallo, Wojciech Skomorowski, Robert Moszynski, Tanya Zelevinsky
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature Physics 11, 32 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4752
abstract: Weakly bound molecules have physical properties without atomic analogues, even as the bond length approaches dissociation. In particular, the internal symmetries of homonuclear diatomic molecules result in the formation of two-body superradiant and subradiant excited states. While superradiance has been demonstrated in a variety of systems, subradiance is more elusive due to the inherently weak interaction with the environment. Transition mechanisms that are strictly forbidden for atoms become allowed just below the dissociation asymptote due to new selection rules associated with the subradiant states. Here we directly probe deeply subradiant states in ultracold diatomic strontium molecules and characterize their properties near the intercombination atomic asymptote via optical spectroscopy of doubly-forbidden transitions with intrinsic quality factors exceeding 10^(13). This precision measurement of subradiance is made possible by tightly trapping the molecules in a state-insensitive optical lattice and achieving the longest molecule-light coherent interaction times. We find that two competing effects limit the lifetimes of the subradiant molecules, with different asymptotic behaviors. The first is radiative decay via magnetic-dipole and electric-quadrupole interactions. We prove that its rate increases quadratically with the bond length, confirming quantum mechanical predictions. The second is nonradiative decay through weak gyroscopic predissociation, with a rate proportional to the vibrational mode spacing and sensitive to short-range physics. This work bridges the gap between atomic and molecular metrology based on lattice-clock techniques, yielding some of the most accurate understanding of long-range interatomic interactions.

id: 1407.4769
title: Characterization and reduction of microfabrication-induced decoherence in superconducting quantum circuits
authors: C. M. Quintana, A. Megrant, Z. Chen, A. Dunsworth, B. Chiaro, R. Barends, B. Campbell, Yu Chen, I.-C. Hoi, E. Jeffrey, J. Kelly, J. Y. Mutus, P. J. J. O'Malley, C. Neill, P. Roushan, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 062601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4769
abstract: Many superconducting qubits are highly sensitive to dielectric loss, making the fabrication of coherent quantum circuits challenging. To elucidate this issue, we characterize the interfaces and surfaces of superconducting coplanar waveguide resonators and study the associated microwave loss. We show that contamination induced by traditional qubit lift-off processing is particularly detrimental to quality factors without proper substrate cleaning, while roughness plays at most a small role. Aggressive surface treatment is shown to damage the crystalline substrate and degrade resonator quality. We also introduce methods to characterize and remove ultra-thin resist residue, providing a way to quantify and minimize remnant sources of loss on device surfaces.

id: 1407.4780
title: The Exact Form of the Green's Function of the H¨¹ckel (Tight Binding) Model
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Yuta Tsuji, Roald Hoffmann
comments: 12 + 6 pages, 6 figures. v2: minor typos fixed. The new proof of theorem 1 applies for more general matrices
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4780
abstract: The applications of the H\"uckel (tight binding) model are ubiquitous in quantum chemistry and solid state physics. The matrix representation is isomorphic to an unoriented vertex adjacency matrix of a bipartite graph, which is also the Laplacian matrix plus twice the identity. In this paper, we analytically calculate the determinant and, when it exists, the inverse of this matrix in connection with the Green's function, $\mathbf{G}$, of the $N\times N$ H\"uckel matrix for linear chains and cyclic systems. For an open linear chain we prove that $\mathbf{G}$ is a real symmetric matrix whose entries are $G\left(r,s\right)=\left(-1\right)^{\frac{r+s-1}{2}}$ when $ $$r$ is even and $s<r$ is odd; $G\left(r,s\right)=0$ otherwise. A corollary is a closed form expression for a Harmonic sum (Eq. 9). For a ring we calculate the inverse, give formulas for the entries and find that it is always a Toeplitz matrix. We then extend the results to $d-$dimensional lattices, whose linear size is $N$. The existence of the inverse becomes a question of number theory. We prove that the inverse exists if and only if $N+1$ and $d$ are odd and $d$ is smaller than the smallest divisor of $N+1$. We corroborate our results by numerical demonstrations of the entry patterns of the Green's function and discuss applications related to transport and conductivity.

id: 1407.4792
title: On the Second Law of Thermodynamics: The Significance of Coarse-Graining and the Role of Decoherence
authors: Mahdiyar Noorbala
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4792
abstract: We take up the question why the initial entropy in the universe was small, in the context of evolution of the entropy of a classical system. We note that coarse-graining is a an important aspect of entropy evaluation which can reverse the direction of the increase in entropy, i.e., the direction of thermodynamic arrow of time. Then we investigate the role of decoherence in the selection of coarse-graining and explain how to compute entropy for a decohered classical system. Finally, we argue that the requirement of low initial entropy imposes constraints on the decoherence process.

id: 1407.4816
title: Nonexponential fidelity decay in isolated interacting quantum systems
authors: E. J. Torres-Herrera, Lea F. Santos
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033623 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4816
abstract: We study isolated finite interacting quantum systems after an instantaneous perturbation and show three scenarios in which the probability for finding the initial state later in time (fidelity) decays nonexponentially, often all the way to saturation. The decays analyzed involve Gaussian, Bessel of the first kind, and cosine squared functions. The Gaussian behavior emerges in systems with two-body interactions in the limit of strong perturbation. The Bessel function, associated with the evolution under full random matrices, is obtained with surprisingly sparse random matrices. The cosine squared behavior, established by the energy-time uncertainty relation, is approached after a local perturbation in space.

id: 1407.4855
title: Symmetry operators and separation of variables for Dirac's equation on two-dimensional spin manifolds with external fields
authors: Lorenzo Fatibene, Raymond G. McLenaghan, Giovanni Rastelli
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4855
abstract: The second order symmetry operators that commute with the Dirac operator with external vector, scalar and pseudo-scalar potentials are computed on a general two-dimensional spin-manifold. It is shown that the operator is defined in terms of Killing vectors, valence two Killing tensors and scalar fields defined on the background manifold. The commuting operator that arises from a non-trivial Killing tensor is determined with respect to the associated system of Liouville coordinates and compared to the the second order operator that arises from that obtained from the unique separation scheme associated with such operators. It shown by the study of several examples that the operators arising from these two approaches coincide.

id: 1407.4882
title: Negative Refraction of Excitations in the Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: R.A. Henry, J.Q. Quach, C-H. Su, A.D. Greentree, A.M. Martin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4882
abstract: Ultracold atoms in optical lattices provide a unique opportunity to study Bose- Hubbard physics. In this work we show that by considering a spatially varying onsite interaction it is possible to manipulate the motion of excitations above the Mott phase in a Bose-Hubbard system. Specifically, we show that it is possible to "engineer" regimes where excitations will negatively refract, facilitating the construction of a flat lens.

id: 1407.4892
title: Local description of band rearrangements. Comparison of semi-quantum and full quantum approach
authors: Toshihiro Iwai, Boris Zhilinskii
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4892
abstract: Rearrangement of rotation-vibration energy bands in isolated molecules within semi-quantum approach is characterized by delta-Chern invariants associated to a local semi-quantum Hamiltonian valid in a small neighborhood of a degeneracy point for the initial semi-quantum Hamiltonian and also valid in a small neighborhood of a critical point corresponding to the crossing of the boundary between iso-Chern domains in the control parameter space. For a full quantum model, a locally approximated Hamiltonian is assumed to take the form of a Dirac operator together with a specific boundary condition. It is demonstrated that the crossing of the boundary along a path with a delta-Chern invariant equal to $\pm1$ corresponds to the transfer of one quantum level from a subspaces of quantum states to the other subspace associated with respective positive and negative energy eigenvalues of the local Dirac Hamiltonian.

id: 1407.4914
title: How Black Holes Burn
authors: Ram Brustein, A.J.M. Medved
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 084062 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4914
abstract: We present a calculation of the rate of information release from a Schwarzschild BH. We have recently extended Hawking's theory of black hole (BH) evaporation to account for quantum fluctuations of the background geometry, as well as for back-reaction and time-dependence effects. Our main result has been a two-point function matrix for the radiation that consists of Hawking's thermal matrix plus off-diagonal corrections that are initially small and become more important as the evaporation proceeds. Here, we show that, if the phases and amplitudes of the radiation matrix are recorded over the lifetime of the BH, then the radiation purifies in a continuous way. We conjecture that our results establish the maximal rate at which information can be released from a semiclassical BH, to be contrasted with the minimal rate that was predicted by Page on the basis of generic unitarity arguments. When the phases of the radiation matrix are not tracked, we show that it purifies only parametrically close to the end of the BH evaporation and does so extremely fast. Our main technical tool in the quantitative treatment of this purification is the purity of the radiation matrix and, its inverse, the participation ratio. These can be related to the Renyi entropy of the density matrix of the emitted radiation.

id: 1407.4924
title: On Anomalous Lieb-Robinson Bounds for the Fibonacci XY Chain
authors: David Damanik, Marius Lemm, Milivoje Lukic, William Yessen
comments: 23 pages, to appear in J. Spectr. Theory
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4924
abstract: We rigorously prove a new kind of anomalous (or sub-ballistic) Lieb-Robinson bound for the isotropic XY chain with Fibonacci external magnetic field at arbitrary coupling. It is anomalous in that the usual exponential decay in $x-vt$ is replaced by exponential decay in $x-vt^\alpha$ with $0<\alpha<1$. In fact, we can characterize the values of $\alpha$ for which such a bound holds as those exceeding $\alpha_u^+$, the upper transport exponent of the one-body Fibonacci Hamiltonian. Following the approach of \cite{HSS11}, we relate Lieb-Robinson bounds to dynamical bounds for the one-body Hamiltonian corresponding to the XY chain via the Jordan-Wigner transformation; in our case the one-body Hamiltonian with Fibonacci potential. We can bound its dynamics by adapting techniques developed in \cite{DT07, DT08, D05, DGY} to our purposes. We also discuss the extension to the more general class of Sturmian potentials and we explain why our method does not extend to yield anomalous Lieb-Robinson bounds of power-law type for the random dimer model.

id: 1407.4930
title: Dynamics and quantum entanglement of two-level atoms in de Sitter spacetime
authors: Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, Accepted for publication in Ann. Phys
journal: Ann. Phys. 350 (2014) 1
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4930
abstract: In the framework of open quantum systems, we study the internal dynamics of both freely falling and static two-level atoms interacting with quantized conformally coupled massless scalar field in de Sitter spacetime. We find that the atomic transition rates depend on both the nature of de Sitter spacetime and the motion of atoms, interestingly the steady states for both cases are always driven to being purely thermal, regardless of the atomic initial states. This thermalization phenomenon is structurally similar to what happens to an elementary quantum system immersed in a thermal field, and thus reveals the thermal nature of de Sitter spacetime. Besides, we find that the thermal baths will drive the entanglement shared by the freely falling atom (the static atom) and its auxiliary partner, a same two-level atom which is isolated from external fields, to being sudden death, and the proper time for the entanglement to be extinguished is computed. We also analyze that such thermalization and disentanglement phenomena, in principle, could be understood from the perspective of table-top simulation experiment.

id: 1407.4939
title: Two-time Correlations Probing the Dynamics of Dissipative Many-Body Quantum Systems: Aging and Fast Relaxation
authors: Bruno Sciolla, Dario Poletti, Corinna Kollath
comments: 5+3 pages, 4+2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4939
abstract: Two-time correlations are a crucial tool to probe the dynamics of many-body systems. We use these correlation functions to study the dynamics of dissipative quantum systems. Extending the adiabatic elimination method, we show that the correlations can display two distinct behaviors, depending on the observable of interest: a fast exponential decay, with a timescale of the order of the dissipative coupling, or a much slower dynamics. We apply this formalism to bosons in a double well subjected to phase noise. While the single-particle correlations decay exponentially, the density-density correlations display slow aging dynamics. We also show that the two-time correlations of dissipatively engineered quantum states can evolve in a drastically different manner compared to their Hamiltonian counterparts.

id: 1407.4954
title: Steering matter wave superradiance with an ultra-narrowband optical cavity
authors: H. Ke?ler, J. Klinder, M. Wolke, A. Hemmerich
comments: Article & Supplement, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 070404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4954
abstract: A superfluid atomic gas is prepared inside an optical resonator with an ultra-narrow band width on the order of the single photon recoil energy. When a monochromatic off-resonant laser beam irradiates the atoms, above a critical intensity the cavity emits superradiant light pulses with a duration on the order of its photon storage time. The atoms are collectively scattered into coherent superpositions of discrete momentum states, which can be precisely controlled by adjusting the cavity resonance frequency. With appropriate pulse sequences the entire atomic sample can be collectively accelerated or decelerated by multiples of two recoil momenta. The instability boundary for the onset of matter wave superradiance is recorded and its main features are explained by a mean field model.

id: 1407.5064
title: Coupling of a locally implanted rare-earth ion ensemble to a superconducting micro-resonator
authors: I.Wisby, S. E. de Graaf, R. Gwilliam, A. Adamyan, S. Kubatkin, P. J. Meeson, A. Ya. Tzalenchuk, T. Lindstr?m
comments: 4 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 102601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5064
abstract: We demonstrate the coupling of rare-earth ions locally implanted in a substrate (Gd$^{3+}$ in Al$_{2}$O$_{3}$) to a superconducting NbN lumped-element micro-resonator. The hybrid device is fabricated by a controlled ion implantation of rare-earth ions in well-defined micron-sized areas, aligned to lithographically defined micro-resonators. The technique does not degrade the internal quality factor of the resonators which remain above $10^{5}$. Using microwave absorption spectroscopy we observe electron-spin resonances in good agreement with numerical modelling and extract corresponding coupling rates of the order of $1$ MHz and spin linewidths of $50 - 65$ MHz.

id: 1407.5112
title: Some Subtleties in the Relationships among Heat Kernel Invariants, Eigenvalue Distributions, and Quantum Vacuum Energy
authors: S. A. Fulling, Y. Yang
comments: 14 pages; very minor revisions; redirected to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 48 (2015) 045402
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5112
abstract: A common tool in Casimir physics (and many other areas) is the asymptotic (high-frequency) expansion of eigenvalue densities, employed as either input or output of calculations of the asymptotic behavior of various Green functions. Here we clarify some fine points and potentially confusing aspects of the subject. In particular, we show how recent observations of Kolomeisky et al. [Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 042519] fit into the established framework of the distributional asymptotics of spectral functions.

id: 1407.5207
title: Highly stable polarization independent Mach-Zehnder interferometer
authors: Michal Micuda, Ester Dolakova, Ivo Straka, Martina Mikova, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek, Miroslav Jezek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor changes, references updated
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 083103 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5207
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer utilizing displaced Sagnac configuration to enhance its phase stability. The interferometer with footprint of 27x40 cm offers individually accessible paths and shows phase deviation less than 0.4 deg during a 250 s long measurement. The phase drift, evaluated by means of Allan deviation, stays below 3 deg or 7 nm for 1.5 hours without any active stabilization. The polarization insensitive design is verified by measuring interference visibility as a function of input polarization. For both interferometer's output ports and all tested polarization states the visibility stays above 93%. The discrepancy in visibility for horizontal and vertical polarization about 3.5% is caused mainly by undesired polarization dependence of splitting ratio of the beam splitter used. The presented interferometer device is suitable for quantum-information and other sensitive applications where active stabilization is complicated and common-mode interferometer is not an option as both the interferometer arms have to be accessible individually.

id: 1407.5321
title: Possibility of adiabatic transport of a Majorana edge state through an extended gapless region
authors: Atanu Rajak, Tanay Nag, Amit Dutta
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042107 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5321
abstract: In the context of slow quenching dynamics of a $p$-wave superconducting chain, it has been shown that a Majorana edge state can not be adiabatically transported from one topological phase to the other separated by a quantum critical line. On the other hand, the inclusion of a phase factor in the hopping term, that breaks the extended time reversal invariance, results in an extended gapless region between two topological phases. We show that for a finite chain with an open boundary condition there exists a non-zero probability that an edge Majorana can be adiabatically transported from one topological phase to the other across this gapless region following a slow quench of the superconducting term; this happens for an optimum transit time, that is proportional to the system size and diverges for a thermodynamically large chain. We attribute this phenomenon to the mixing of the Majorana only with low-lying inverted bulk states.

id: 1407.5352
title: Inductive measurement of optically hyperpolarized phosphorous donor nuclei in an isotopically-enriched silicon-28 crystal
authors: P. Gumann, O. Patange, C. Ramanathan, H. Haas, O. Moussa, M. L. W. Thewalt, H. Riemann, N. V. Abrosimov, P. Becker, H.-J. Pohl, K. M. Itoh, D. G. Cory
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 267604 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5352
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the inductive readout of optically hyperpolarized phosphorus-31 donor nuclear spins in an isotopically enriched silicon-28 crystal. The concentration of phosphorus donors in the crystal was 1.5 x 10$^{15}$ cm$^{-3}$, three orders of magnitude lower than has previously been detected via direct inductive detection. The signal-to-noise ratio measured in a single free induction decay from a 1 cm$^3$ sample ($\approx 10^{15}$ spins) was 113. By transferring the sample to an X-band ESR spectrometer, we were able to obtain a lower bound for the nuclear spin polarization at 1.7 K of 64 %. The $^{31}$P-T$_{2}$ measured with a Hahn echo sequence was 420 ms at 1.7 K, which was extended to 1.2 s with a Carr Purcell cycle. The T$_1$ of the $^{31}$P nuclear spins at 1.7 K is extremely long and could not be determined, as no decay was observed even on a timescale of 4.5 hours. Optical excitation was performed with a 1047 nm laser, which provided above bandgap excitation of the silicon. The build-up of the hyperpolarization at 4.2 K followed a single exponential with a characteristic time of 577 s, while the build-up at 1.7 K showed bi-exponential behavior with characteristic time constants of 578 s and 5670 s.

id: 1407.5460
title: Electroluminescence and multi-photon effects in a resonator driven by a tunnel junction
authors: Jinshuang Jin, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5460
abstract: We consider a transmission line resonator which is driven by electrons tunneling through a voltage-biased tunnel junction. Using the Born-Markovian quantum master equation in the polaron basis we investigate the nonequilibrium photon state and emission spectrum of the resonator as well as properties of the transport current across the tunnel junction and its noise spectrum. The electroluminescence is optimized, with maximum peak height and narrow linewidth, when the back-action of the tunnel junction on the resonator and the decay rate of the resonator are similar in strength. For strong coupling between the resonator and tunnel junction, multi-photon effects show up in the noise spectrum of the transport current.

id: 1407.5469
title: Beyond mean-field study of a binary bosonic mixture in a state-dependent honeycomb lattice
authors: Lushuai Cao, Sven Kr?nke, Jan Stockhofe, Peter Schmelcher, Juliette Simonet, Klaus Sengstock, Dirk-S?ren L¨¹hmann
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5469
abstract: We investigate a binary mixture of bosonic atoms loaded into a state-dependent honeycomb lattice. For this system, the emergence of a so-called twisted-superfluid ground state was experimentally observed in [Soltan-Panahi et al., Nat. Phys. 8, 71 (2012)]. Theoretically, the origin of this effect is not understood. We perform numerical simulations of an extended Bose-Hubbard model adapted to the experimental parameters employing the Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree method for Bosons. Our results confirm the overall applicability of mean-field theory within the relevant parameter range. Beyond this, we provide a detailed analysis of correlation effects correcting the mean-field result. These have the potential to induce asymmetries in single shot time-of-flight measurements, but we find no indication of the patterns characteristic of the twisted superfluid. We comment on the restrictions of our model and possible extensions.

id: 1407.5519
title: A mathematical model for measurements in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tuyen Trung Truong
comments: 7 pages. Largely revised and extended. Main change: Add that the model can be extended to be compatible with quantum entanglement
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5519
abstract: Let $V=\mathbb{C}^N$, and $H$ (an observable) a Hermitian linear operator on $V$. Let $v_1,..., v_n$ be an orthonormal basis for $V$. Let $\mathcal{M}$ be a measurement apparatus prepared to measure a state of an observed system and collapses the state to one of the $v_j$'s. Here we propose a simple model which explains the Born rule and is compatible with entanglement.

id: 1407.5535
title: Macroscopic quantum effects for classical light
authors: Nikolai I. Petrov
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5535
abstract: Macroscopic quantum optical effects (Schrodinger cat states, squeezing, collapse and revival) for light beams propagating in an inhomogeneous linear medium are demonstrated using exact analytical solutions of wave equation. It is shown that the coherent superposition of macroscopically distinguishable states is generated via mode interference from an initial off-axis single wave-packet. Squeezed cat states with a fidelity > 99% arise periodically and disappear rapidly within limited intervals of a propagation distance. Collapse and revival of wave packets at long-term non-paraxial evolution due to mode interference is demonstrated. Oscillations of the beam trajectory with extremely small amplitude of the order of 10-19 m which is typical of the estimated displacement caused by cosmic gravitational waves in gravity-wave detectors occur.

id: 1407.5596
title: Impact of quantized vibrations on the efficiency of interfacial charge separation in photovoltaic devices
authors: Soumya Bera, Nicolas Gheeraert, Simone Fratini, Sergio Ciuchi, Serge Florens
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. v2 contains additional discussion of experiments, and extra physical motivation
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5596
abstract: We demonstrate that charge separation at donor-acceptor interfaces is a complex process that is controlled by the combined action of Coulomb binding for electron-hole pairs and partial relaxation due to quantized phonons. A joint electron-vibration quantum dynamical study reveals that high energy vibrations sensitively tune the charge transfer probability as a function of time and injection energy, due to polaron formation. These results have bearings for the optimization of energy transfer both in organic and quantum dot photovoltaics, as well as in biological light harvesting complexes.

id: 1407.5635
title: An Aharonov-Bohm interferometer for determining Bloch band topology
authors: Lucia Duca, Tracy Li, Martin Reitter, Immanuel Bloch, Monika Schleier-Smith, Ulrich Schneider
comments: 5+5 pages
journal: Science 347, 288 (2015), Science Express (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5635
abstract: The geometric structure of an energy band in a solid is fundamental for a wide range of many-body phenomena in condensed matter and is uniquely characterized by the distribution of Berry curvature over the Brillouin zone. In analogy to an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer that measures the magnetic flux penetrating a given area in real space, we realize an atomic interferometer to measure Berry flux in momentum space. We demonstrate the interferometer for a graphene-type hexagonal lattice, where it has allowed us to directly detect the singular $\pi$ Berry flux localized at each Dirac point. We show that the interferometer enables one to determine the distribution of Berry curvature with high momentum resolution. Our work forms the basis for a general framework to fully characterize topological band structures and can also facilitate holonomic quantum computing through controlled exploitation of the geometry of Hilbert space.

id: 1407.5642
title: Quantum kinetics of ultracold fermions coupled to an optical resonator
authors: Francesco Piazza, Philipp Strack
comments: 41 pages. Bosons are also treated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5642
abstract: We study the far-from-equilibrium statistical mechanics of periodically driven fermionic atoms in a lossy optical resonator. We show that the interplay of the Fermi surface with cavity losses leads to sub-natural cavity linewidth narrowing, squeezed light, and out-of-equilibrium quantum statistics of the atoms. Adapting the Keldysh approach, we set-up and solve a quantum kinetic Boltzmann equation in a systematic $1/N$ expansion with $N$ the number of atoms. In the strict thermodynamic limit $N,V\rightarrow \infty$, $N/V=\text{const.}$ we find the atoms (fermions or bosons) remain immune against cavity-induced heating or cooling. At next-to-leading order in $1/N$, we find a "one-way thermalization" of the atoms determined by cavity decay. We argue that, in absence of an equilibrium fluctuation-dissipation relation, the long-time limit $\Delta t \rightarrow \infty$ does not commute with the thermodynamic limit $N\rightarrow \infty$, such that for the physically relevant case of large but finite $N$, the dynamics ultimately becomes strongly coupled, especially close to the superradiance phase transition.

id: 1407.5678
title: Super-radiance and flux conservation
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Tritos Ngampitipan, Matt Visser
comments: V1: 8 pages; no figures; V2: 6 references added, no physics changes, now 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 064013 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5678
abstract: The theoretical foundations of the phenomenon known as super-radiance still continues to attract considerable attention. Despite many valiant attempts at pedagogically clear presentations, the effect nevertheless still continues to generate some significant confusion. Part of the confusion arises from the fact that super-radiance in a quantum field theory [QFT] context is not the same as super-radiance (super-fluorescence) in some condensed matter contexts; part of the confusion arises from traditional but sometimes awkward normalization conventions, and part is due to sometimes unnecessary confusion between fluxes and probabilities. We shall argue that the key point underlying the effect is flux conservation, (and, in the presence of dissipation, a controlled amount of flux non-conservation), and that attempting to phrase things in terms of reflection and transmission probabilities only works in the absence of super-radiance. To help clarify the situation we present a simple exactly solvable toy model exhibiting both super-radiance and damping.

id: 1407.5728
title: Tests of CPT and Lorentz symmetry from muon anomalous magnetic dipole moment
authors: Y. V. Stadnik, B. M. Roberts, V. V. Flambaum
comments: 6 pages. Minor corrections and new references added
journal: Physical Review D 90, 045035 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5728
abstract: We derive the relativistic factor for splitting of the $g$-factors of a fermion and its anti-fermion partner, which is important for placing constraints on dimension-5, $CPT$-odd and Lorentz-invariance-violating interactions from experiments performed in a cyclotron. From existing data, we extract limits (1$\sigma$) on the coupling strengths of the temporal component, $f^0$, of a background field (including the field amplitude), which is responsible for such $g$-factor splitting, with an electron, proton, and muon: $|f^0_e|< 2.3 \times 10^{-12} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, $|f^0_p|< 4 \times 10^{-9} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, and $|f^0_\mu|< 8 \times 10^{-11} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, respectively, in the laboratory frame. From existing data, we also extract limits on the coupling strengths of the spatial components, $d^{\perp}$, of related dimension-5 interactions of a background field with an electron, proton, neutron, and muon: $| {d}_e^{\perp} | \lesssim 10^{-9} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, $| {d}_p^{\perp} | \lesssim 10^{-9} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, $| {d}_n^{\perp} | \lesssim 10^{-10} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, and $| {d}_\mu^{\perp} | \lesssim 10^{-9} ~\mu_{\textrm{B}}$, respectively, in the laboratory frame.

id: 1407.5746
title: Phase-controlled Fano resonance by the nanoscale optomechanics
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Yi Xu, Keyu Xia, Zhi-Ping Dai, Wen Yang, Shangqing Gong, Mang Feng
comments: 5 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5746
abstract: Observation of the Fano line shapes is essential to understand properties of the Fano resonance in different physical systems. We explore a tunable Fano resonance by tuning the phase shift in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) based on a single-mode nano-optomechanical cavity. The Fano resonance is resulted from the optomechanically induced transparency caused by a nano-mechanical resonator and can be tuned by applying an optomechanical MZI. By tuning the phase shift in one arm of the MZI, we can observe the periodically varying line shapes of the Fano resonance, which represents an elaborate manipulation of the Fano resonance in the nanoscale optomechanics.

id: 1407.5822
title: How brains make decisions
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Springer Proc. Phys. 150 (2014) 37-53
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5822
abstract: This chapter, dedicated to the memory of Mino Freund, summarizes the Quantum Decision Theory (QDT) that we have developed in a series of publications since 2008. We formulate a general mathematical scheme of how decisions are taken, using the point of view of psychological and cognitive sciences, without touching physiological aspects. The basic principles of how intelligence acts are discussed. The human brain processes involved in decisions are argued to be principally different from straightforward computer operations. The difference lies in the conscious-subconscious duality of the decision making process and the role of emotions that compete with utility optimization. The most general approach for characterizing the process of decision making, taking into account the conscious-subconscious duality, uses the framework of functional analysis in Hilbert spaces, similarly to that used in the quantum theory of measurements. This does not imply that the brain is a quantum system, but just allows for the simplest and most general extension of classical decision theory. The resulting theory of quantum decision making, based on the rules of quantum measurements, solves all paradoxes of classical decision making, allowing for quantitative predictions that are in excellent agreement with experiments. Finally, we provide a novel application by comparing the predictions of QDT with experiments on the prisoner dilemma game. The developed theory can serve as a guide for creating artificial intelligence acting by quantum rules.

id: 1407.5825
title: Narrow-band single photon emission at room temperature based on a single Nitrogen-vacancy center coupled to an all-fiber-cavity
authors: Roland Albrecht, Alexander Bommer, Christoph Pauly, Frank M¨¹cklich, Andreas W. Schell, Philip Engel, Tim Schr?der, Oliver Benson, Jakob Reichel, Christoph Becher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5825
abstract: We report the realization of a device based on a single Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond coupled to a fiber-cavity for use as single photon source (SPS). The device consists of two concave mirrors each directly fabricated on the facets of two optical fibers and a preselected nanodiamond containing a single NV center deposited onto one of these mirrors. Both, cavity in- and output are directly fiber-coupled and the emission wavelength is easily tunable by variation of the separation of the two mirrors with a piezo-electric crystal. By coupling to the cavity we achieve an increase of the spectral photon rate density by two orders of magnitude compared to free-space emission of the NV center. With this work we establish a simple all-fiber based SPS with promising prospects for the integration into photonic quantum networks.

id: 1407.5857
title: Spectrum of the three dimensional fuzzy well
authors: N Chandra, H W Groenewald, J N Kriel, F G Scholtz, S Vaidya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5857
abstract: We develop the formalism of quantum mechanics on three dimensional fuzzy space and solve the Schr\"odinger equation for a free particle, finite and infinite fuzzy wells. We show that all results reduce to the appropriate commutative limits. A high energy cut-off is found for the free particle spectrum, which also results in the modification of the high energy dispersion relation. An ultra-violet/infra-red duality is manifest in the free particle spectrum. The finite well also has an upper bound on the possible energy eigenvalues. The phase shifts due to scattering around the finite fuzzy potential well have been calculated.

id: 1407.5878
title: A framework for reversible circuit complexity
authors: Mathias Soeken, Nabila Abdessaied, Rolf Drechsler
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted for Int'l Workshop on Boolean Problems 2014
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5878
abstract: Reversible single-target gates are a generalization of Toffoli gates which are a helpful formal representation for the description of synthesis algorithms but are too general for an actual implementation based on some technology. There is an exponential lower bound on the number of Toffoli gates required to implement any reversible function, however, there is also a linear upper bound on the number of single-target gates which can be proven using a constructive proof based on a former presented synthesis algorithm. Since single-target gates can be mapped to a cascade of Toffoli gates, this synthesis algorithm provides an interesting framework for reversible circuit complexity. The paper motivates this framework and illustrates first possible applications based on it.

id: 1407.5883
title: Toward Photon-Efficient Key Distribution over Optical Channels
authors: Yuval Kochman, Ligong Wang, Gregory W. Wornell
comments: In IEEE Transactions on Information Theory; same version except that labels are corrected for Schemes S-1, S-2, and S-3, which appear as S-3, S-4, and S-5 in the Transactions
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 60, No. 8, pp. 4958 - 4972, Aug. 2014
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5883
abstract: This work considers the distribution of a secret key over an optical (bosonic) channel in the regime of high photon efficiency, i.e., when the number of secret key bits generated per detected photon is high. While in principle the photon efficiency is unbounded, there is an inherent tradeoff between this efficiency and the key generation rate (with respect to the channel bandwidth). We derive asymptotic expressions for the optimal generation rates in the photon-efficient limit, and propose schemes that approach these limits up to certain approximations. The schemes are practical, in the sense that they use coherent or temporally-entangled optical states and direct photodetection, all of which are reasonably easy to realize in practice, in conjunction with off-the-shelf classical codes.

id: 1407.6018
title: Low-energy behaviour of strongly-interacting bosons on a flat-banded lattice above the critical filling factor
authors: Lawrence G. Phillips, Gabriele De Chiara, Patrik ?hberg, Manuel Valiente
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 054103 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6018
abstract: Bosons interacting repulsively on a lattice with a flat lowest band energy dispersion may, at sufficiently small filling factors, enter into a Wigner-crystal-like phase. This phase is a consequence of the dispersionless nature of the system, which in turn implies the occurrence of single-particle localised eigenstates. We investigate one of these systems - the sawtooth lattice - filled with strongly repulsive bosons at filling factors infinitesimally above the critical point where the crystal phase is no longer the ground state. We find, the the hard-core limit, that the crystal retains its structure in all but one of its cells, where it is broken. The broken cell corresponds to an exotic kind of repulsively bound state, which becomes delocalised. We investigate the excitation spectrum of the system analytically and find that the bound state behaves as a single particle hopping on an effective lattice with reduced periodicity, and is therefore gapless. Thus, the addition of a single particle to a flat-banded system at critical filling is found to be enough to make kinetic behaviour manifest.

id: 1407.6121
title: Sideband cooling an ion to the quantum ground state in a Penning trap with very low heating rate
authors: J.F. Goodwin, G. Stutter, R.C. Thompson, D.M. Segal
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6121
abstract: We report the laser cooling of a single $^{40}\text{Ca}^+$ ion in a Penning trap to the motional ground state in one dimension. Cooling is performed in the strong binding limit on the 729-nm electric quadrupole $S_{1/2}\leftrightarrow D_{5/2}$ transition, broadened by a quench laser coupling the $D_{5/2}$ and $P_{3/2}$ levels. We find the final phonon number to be $\bar{n}=0.014\pm0.009$. We measure the heating rate of the trap to be very low with $\dot{\bar{n}}=2.5\pm 0.3\textrm{s}^{-1}$ and a scaled spectral noise density of $\omega S_{E}(\omega)\sim1.6^{-8}\textrm{V}^2\textrm{m}^{-2}\textrm{Hz}^{-1}\textrm{s}^{-1}$, which is consistent with the large ion-electrode distance. We perform Rabi oscillations on the sideband-cooled ion and observe a coherence time of $0.7\pm 0.1\textrm{ms}$, noting that the practical performance is currently limited by the intensity noise of the probe laser.

id: 1407.6279
title: Geometric quantum phases from Lorentz symmetry breaking effects in the cosmic string spacetime
authors: H. Belich, K. Bakke
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 025026 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6279
abstract: By starting from the modified Maxwell theory coupled to gravity, the arising of geometric quantum phases in the relativistic and nonrelativistic quantum dynamics of a Dirac neutral particle from the effects of the violation of the Lorentz symmetry in the cosmic string spacetime is investigated. It is shown that the Dirac equation can be written in terms of an effective metric and a relativistic geometric phase stems from the topology of the cosmic string spacetime and the Lorentz symmetry breaking effects. Further, the nonrelativistic limit of the Dirac equation is discussed and it is shown that both Lorentz symmetry breaking effects and the topology of the defect yields a phase shift in the wave function of the nonrelativistic spin-1/2 particle.

id: 1407.6287
title: A Quantum Quasi-Harmonic Nonlinear Oscillator with an Isotonic Term
authors: Manuel F. Ra?ada
comments: two figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, n.8, 082108 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6287
abstract: The properties of a nonlinear oscillator with an additional term $k_g/x^2$, characterizing the isotonic oscillator, are studied. The nonlinearity affects to both the kinetic term and the potential and combines two nonlinearities associated to two parameters, $\kappa$ and $k_g$, in such a way that for $\kappa=0$ all the characteristics of of the standard isotonic system are recovered. The first part is devoted to the classical system and the second part to the quantum system. This is a problem of quantization of a system with position-dependent mass of the form $m(x)=1/(1 - {\kappa} x^2)$, with a $\kappa$-dependent non-polynomial rational potential and with an additional isotonic term. The Schr\"odinger equation is exactly solved and the $(\kappa,k_g)$-dependent wave functions and bound state energies are explicitly obtained for both $\kappa<0$ and $\kappa>0$.

id: 1407.6299
title: Unruh-DeWitt detector response across a Rindler firewall is finite
authors: Jorma Louko
comments: 24 pages. v3: error terms in (3.4) and (3.5) corrected; other minor changes to agree with published version
journal: JHEP 1409 (2014) 142
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6299
abstract: We investigate a two-level Unruh-DeWitt detector coupled to a massless scalar field or its proper time derivative in $(1+1)$-dimensional Minkowski spacetime, in a quantum state whose correlation structure across the Rindler horizon mimics the stationary aspects of a firewall that Almheiri et al have argued to ensue in an evaporating black hole spacetime. Within first-order perturbation theory, we show that the detector's response on falling through the horizon is sudden but finite. The difference from the Minkowski vacuum response is proportional to $\omega^{-2}\ln(|\omega|)$ for the non-derivative detector and to $\ln(|\omega|)$ for the derivative-coupling detector, both in the limit of a large energy gap $\omega$ and in the limit of adiabatic switching. Adding to the quantum state high Rindler temperature excitations behind the horizon increases the detector's response proportionally to the temperature; this situation has been suggested to model the energetic curtain proposal of Braunstein et al. We speculate that the $(1+1)$-dimensional derivative-coupling detector may be a good model for a non-derivative detector that crosses a firewall in $3+1$ dimensions.

id: 1407.6533
title: Rice-Mele model with topological solitons in an optical lattice
authors: Anna Przysiezna, Omjyoti Dutta, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 15pp, 4figs version accepted in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 013018
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6533
abstract: Attractive ultra-cold fermions trapped in a one-dimensional periodically shaken opticla lattices are considered. For an appropriate resonant shaking the system realizes paradigmatic dimes physics described by Rice-Mele model. The important feature of our system is the possible presence of controlled defects. They result in the creation of topologically protected loclaized modes carrying fractional particle number. Their possible experimental signatures are discussed.

id: 1407.6552
title: Advances on Tensor Network Theory: Symmetries, Fermions, Entanglement, and Holography
authors: Roman Orus
comments: Invited Colloquium for EPJB, 31 pages, 13 figures; revised version, accepted for publication
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2014) 87: 280
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6552
abstract: This is a short review on selected theory developments on Tensor Network (TN) states for strongly correlated systems. Specifically, we briefly review the effect of symmetries in TN states, fermionic TNs, the calculation of entanglement Hamiltonians from Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS), and the relation between the Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) and the AdS/CFT or gauge/gravity duality. We stress the role played by entanglement in the emergence of several physical properties and objects through the TN language. Some recent results along these lines are also discussed.

id: 1407.6562
title: From Dicke to Anderson: Interplay of Superradiance and Disorder
authors: Alberto Biella
comments: Master Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6562
abstract: Using a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian approach to open systems, we study the interplay of disorder and superradiance in a one- and three-dimensional Anderson model. Analyzing the complex eigenvalues of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, a transition to a superradiant regime is shown to occur. As an effect of openness the structure of eigenstates undergoes a strong change in the superradiant regime: we show that the sensitivity to disorder of the superradiant and the subradiant subspaces is very different; superradiant states remain delocalized as disorder increases, while subradiant states are sensitive to the degree of disorder.

id: 1407.6833
title: Is String Interaction the Origin of Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Itzhak Bars, Dmitry Rychkov
comments: 15 pages. More discussion in "Outlook" section in v3
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6833
abstract: String theory developed by demanding consistency with quantum mechanics. In this paper we wish to reverse the reasoning. We pretend open string field theory is a fully consistent definition of the theory - it is at least a self consistent sector. Then we find in its structure that the rules of quantum mechanics emerge from the non-commutative nature of the basic string joining/splitting interactions, thus deriving rather than assuming the quantum commutation rules among the usual canonical quantum variables for all physical systems derivable from open string field theory. Morally we would apply such an argument to M-theory to cover all physics. If string or M-theory really underlies all physics, it seems that the door has been opened to an understanding of the origins of quantum mechanics.

id: 1407.6856
title: Patterned Rydberg excitation and ionisation with a spatial light modulator
authors: R. M. W. van Bijnen, C. Ravensbergen, D. J. Bakker, G. J. Dijk, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans, E. J. D. Vredenbregt
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 023045
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6856
abstract: We demonstrate the ability to excite atoms at well-defined, programmable locations in a magneto-optical trap, either to the continuum (ionisation), or to a Rydberg state. To this end, excitation laser light is shaped into arbitrary intensity patterns with a spatial light modulator. These optical patterns are sensitive to aberrations of the phase of the light field, occuring while traversing the optical beamline. These aberrations are characterised and corrected without observing the actual light field in the vacuum chamber.

id: 1407.6918
title: Estimating quantum chromatic numbers
authors: Vern I. Paulsen, Simone Severini, Daniel Stahlke, Ivan G. Todorov, Andreas Winter
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6918
abstract: We develop further the new versions of quantum chromatic numbers of graphs introduced by the first and fourth authors. We prove that the problem of computation of the commuting quantum chromatic number of a graph is solvable by an SDP and describe an hierarchy of variants of the commuting quantum chromatic number which converge to it. We introduce the tracial rank of a graph, a parameter that gives a lower bound for the commuting quantum chromatic number and parallels the projective rank, and prove that it is multiplicative. We describe the tracial rank, the projective rank and the fractional chromatic numbers in a unified manner that clarifies their connection with the commuting quantum chromatic number, the quantum chromatic number and the classical chromatic number, respectively. Finally, we present a new SDP that yields a parameter larger than the Lov\'asz number and is yet a lower bound for the tracial rank of the graph. We determine the precise value of the tracial rank of an odd cycle.

id: 1407.6951
title: Single-molecule study for a graphene-based nano-position sensor
authors: G. Mazzamuto, A. Tabani, S. Pazzagli, S. Rizvi, A. Reserbat-Plantey, K. Sch?dler, G. Navickait¨¦, L. Gaudreau, F. S. Cataliotti, F. Koppens, C. Toninelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6951
abstract: In this study we lay the groundwork for a graphene-based fundamental ruler at the nanoscale. It relies on the efficient energy-transfer mechanism between single quantum emitters and low-doped graphene monolayers. Our experiments, conducted with dibenzoterrylene (DBT) molecules, allow going beyond ensemble analysis due to the emitter photo-stability and brightness. A quantitative characterization of the fluorescence decay-rate modification is presented and compared to a simple model, showing agreement with the $d^{-4}$ dependence, a genuine manifestation of a dipole interacting with a 2D material. With DBT molecules, we can estimate a potential uncertainty in position measurements as low as 5nm in the range below 30nm.

id: 1407.6961
title: Spin as Dynamical Variable or Why Parity is Broken
authors: Gennadiy Golub'
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6961
abstract: There suggested a modification of the Dirac electron theory, eliminating its mathematical incompleteness. The modified Dirac electron, called dual, is described by two waves, one of which is the Dirac wave and the second dynamically restores the symmetry unused in the Dirac theory of the Dirac equation. There has been produced a set of the conserved currents which are generated by equations of the dual electron. It is shown that, although, it consists of the vector, axial and left currents, nevertheless, it has mirror symmetry. It is also shown that if the observed electron follows the dual electron equations it would violate the mirror symmetry. The results of the paper for the first time explain the ways and the reasons of mirror symmetry being created and broken in the nature.

id: 1407.7034
title: Continuous Preparation of a Fractional Chern Insulator
authors: M. Barkeshli, N.Y. Yao, C.R. Laumann
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Version 2: revised presentation of numerical diagnostics
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7034
abstract: We present evidence of a direct, continuous quantum phase transition between a Bose superfluid and the $\nu=1/2$ fractional Chern insulator in a microscopic lattice model. In the process, we develop a detailed field theoretic description of this transition in terms of the low energy vortex dynamics. The theory explicitly accounts for the structure of lattice symmetries and predicts a Landau forbidden transition that is protected by inversion. That the transition is continuous enables the quasi-adiabatic preparation of the fractional Chern insulator in non-equilibrium, quantum optical systems.

id: 1407.7035
title: A Quantum Network of Silicon Qubits using Mid-Infrared Graphene Plasmons
authors: M. J. Gullans, J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, supplemental included
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7035
abstract: We consider a quantum network of mid-infrared, graphene plasmons coupled to the hydrogen-like excited states of group-V donors in silicon. First, we show how to use plasmon-enhanced light-matter interactions to achieve single-shot spin readout of the donor qubits via optical excitation and electrical detection of the emitted plasmons. We then show how plasmons in high mobility graphene nanoribbons can be used to achieve high-fidelity, two-qubit gates and entanglement of distant Si donor qubits. The proposed device is readily compatible with existing technology and fabrication methods.

id: 1407.7075
title: Graphene as a tunable THz reservoir for shaping the Mollow triplet of an artificial atom via plasmonic effects
authors: Ebrahim Forati, George W. Hanson, Stephen Hughes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7075
abstract: Using a realistic quantum master equation we show that the resonance fluorescence spectra of a two-level artificial atom (quantum dot) can be tuned by adjusting its photonic local density of states via biasing of one or more graphene monolayers. The structured photon reservoir is included using a photon Green function theory which fully accounts for the loss and dispersion. The field-driven Mollow triplet spectrum can be actively controlled by the graphene bias in the THz frequency regime. We also consider the effect of a dielectric support environment, and multiple graphene layers, on the emitted fluorescence. Finally, thermal bath effects are considered and shown to be important for low THz frequencies.

id: 1407.7077
title: Localization of low-energy eigenfunctions in Seba billiards
authors: Minjae Lee
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062904 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7077
abstract: We investigate localization of low-energy modes of the Laplacian with a point scatterer on a rectangular plate. We observe that the point scatterer acts as a barrier confining the low-level modes to one side of the plate while assuming the Dirichlet boundary condition at a point does not induce this type of localization. This low-energy phenomenon extends to higher modes as we increase the eccentricity of the plate.

id: 1407.7081
title: Co-existence of states in quantum systems
authors: Yoritaka Iwata
comments: To appear in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (SOTANCP3)
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 569 (2014) 012029
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7081
abstract: Co-existence of different states is a profound concept, which possibly underlies the phase transition and the symmetry breaking. Because of a property inherent to quantum mechanics (cf. uncertainty), the co-existence is expected to appear more naturally in quantum-microscopic systems than in macroscopic systems. In this paper a mathematical theory describing co-existence of states in quantum systems is presented, and the co-existence is classified into 9 types.

id: 1407.7127
title: Adiabatic theorem for a class of quantum stochastic equations
authors: Martin Fraas
comments: Correction of a mistake in Lemma 2, several other minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7127
abstract: We derive an adiabatic theory for a stochastic differential equation, $ \varepsilon\, \mathrm{d} X(s) = L_1(s) X(s)\, \mathrm{d} s + \sqrt{\varepsilon} L_2(s) X(s) \, \mathrm{d} B_s, $ under a condition that instantaneous stationary states of $L_1(s)$ are also stationary states of $L_2(s)$. We use our results to derive the full statistics of tunneling for a driven stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation describing a dephasing process.

id: 1407.7137
title: Isotopically varying spectral features of silicon vacancy in diamond
authors: Andreas Dietrich, Kay D. Jahnke, Jan M. Binder, Tokuyuki Teraji, Junichi Isoya, Lachlan J. Rogers, Fedor Jelezko
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7137
abstract: The silicon-vacancy centre (SiV) in diamond has interesting vibronic features. We demonstrate that the zero phonon line position can be used to reliably identify the silicon isotope present in a single centre. This is of interest for quantum information applications since only the silicon 29 isotope has nuclear spin. In addition, we demonstrate that the 64 meV line is due to a local vibrational mode of the silicon atom. The presence of a local mode suggests a plausible origin of the isotopic shift of the zero phonon line.

id: 1407.7149
title: Self-gravitating Interferometry and Intrinsic Decoherence
authors: Cisco Gooding, William G. Unruh
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. v2: Minor revisions. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 044071 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7149
abstract: To investigate the possibility that intrinsic gravitational decoherence can be theoretically demonstrated within canonical quantum gravity, we develop a model of a self-gravitating interferometer. We search for evidence in the resulting interference pattern that would indicate coherence is fundamentally limited due to general relativistic effects. To eliminate the occurence of gravitational waves, we work in spherical symmetry, and construct the "beam" of the interferometer out of WKB states for an infinitesimally thin shell of matter. For internal consistency, we encode information about the beam optics within the dynamics of the shell itself, by arranging an ideal fluid on the surface of the shell with an equation of state that enforces beam-splitting and reflections. We then determine sufficient conditions for (interferometric) coherence to be fully present even after general relativistic corrections are introduced, test whether or not they can be satisfied, and remark on the implications of the results.

id: 1407.7342
title: From Quantum Query Complexity to State Complexity
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Daowen Qiu
comments: Some typos in references were fixed. To appear in Gruska Festschrift (2014). Comments are welcome. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1402.7254, arXiv:1309.7739
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7342
abstract: State complexity of quantum finite automata is one of the interesting topics in studying the power of quantum finite automata. It is therefore of importance to develop general methods how to show state succinctness results for quantum finite automata. One such method is presented and demonstrated in this paper. In particular, we show that state succinctness results can be derived out of query complexity results.

id: 1407.7370
title: Krylov subspace methods for the Dirac equation
authors: Randolf Beerwerth, Heiko Bauke
comments: 
journal: Computer Physics Communications, vol. 188, pp. 189-197 (2015)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7370
abstract: The Lanczos algorithm is evaluated for solving the time-independent as well as the time-dependent Dirac equation with arbitrary electromagnetic fields. We demonstrate that the Lanczos algorithm can yield very precise eigenenergies and allows very precise time propagation of relativistic wave packets. The unboundedness of the Dirac Hamiltonian does not hinder the applicability of the Lanczos algorithm. As the Lanczos algorithm requires only matrix-vector products and inner products, which both can be efficiently parallelized, it is an ideal method for large-scale calculations. The excellent parallelization capabilities are demonstrated by a parallel implementation of the Dirac Lanczos propagator utilizing the Message Passing Interface standard.

id: 1407.7421
title: Orbital-driven melting of a bosonic Mott insulator in a shaken optical lattice
authors: Christoph Str?ter, Andr¨¦ Eckardt
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7421
abstract: In order to study the interplay between localized and dispersive orbital states in a system of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice, we investigate the possibility to coherently couple the lowest two Bloch bands by means of resonant periodic forcing. Considering bosons in one dimension, it is shown that a strongly interacting Floquet system can be realized, where at every lattice site two (and only two) near-degenerate orbital states are relevant. By smoothly tuning both states into resonance we find that the system can undergo an orbital-driven Mott-insulator-to-superfluid transition. As an intriguing consequence of the kinetic frustration in the system, this transition can be either continuous or first-order, depending on parameters such as lattice depth and filling.

id: 1407.7607
title: Microwave-driven coherent operations of a semiconductor quantum dot charge qubit
authors: Dohun Kim, D. R. Ward, C. B. Simmons, John King Gamble, Robin Blume-Kohout, Erik Nielsen, D. E. Savage, M. G. Lagally, Mark Friesen, S. N. Coppersmith, M. A. Eriksson
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures including supplementary information
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 10 243 to 247 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7607
abstract: A most intuitive realization of a qubit is a single electron charge sitting at two well-defined positions, such as the left and right sides of a double quantum dot. This qubit is not just simple but also has the potential for high-speed operation, because of the strong coupling of electric fields to the electron. However, charge noise also couples strongly to this qubit, resulting in rapid dephasing at nearly all operating points, with the exception of one special 'sweet spot'. Fast dc voltage pulses have been used to manipulate semiconductor charge qubits, but these previous experiments did not achieve high-fidelity control, because dc gating requires excursions away from the sweet spot. Here, by using resonant ac microwave driving, we achieve coherent manipulation of a semiconductor charge qubit, demonstrating a Rabi frequency of up to 2GHz, a value approaching the intrinsic qubit frequency of 4.5GHz. Z-axis rotations of the qubit are well-protected at the sweet spot, and by using ac gating, we demonstrate the same protection for rotations about arbitrary axes in the X-Y plane of the qubit Bloch sphere. We characterize operations on the qubit using two independent tomographic approaches: standard process tomography and a newly developed method known as gate set tomography. Both approaches show that this qubit can be operated with process fidelities greater than 86% with respect to a universal set of unitary single-qubit operations.

id: 1407.7624
title: Chaos due to parametric excitation: phase space symmetry and photon correlations
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, G. H. Hovsepyan, A. R. Shahinyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7624
abstract: We discuss dissipative chaos showing symmetries in the phase space and nonclassical statistics for a parametrically driven nonlinear Kerr resonator (PDNR). In this system an oscillatory mode is created in the process of degenerate down-conversion of photons under interaction with a train of external Gaussian pulses. For chaotic regime we demonstrate, that the Poincar\'e section showing a strange attractor, as well as the resonator mode contour plots of the Wigner functions display two-fold symmetry in the phase space. We show that quantum-to-classical correspondence is strongly violated for some chaotic regimes of the PDNR. Considering the second-order correlation function we show that the high-level of photons correlation leading to squeezing in the regular regime strongly decreases if the system transits to the chaotic regime. Thus, observation of the photon-number correlation allows to extract information about the chaotic regime.

id: 1407.7645
title: Supersymmetric multiplex networks described by coupled Bose and Fermi statistics
authors: Ginestra Bianconi
comments: (9 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012810 (2015)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7645
abstract: Until now, no simple symmetries have been detected in complex networks. Here we show that, in growing multiplex networks the symmetries of multilayer structures can be exploited by their dynamical rules, forming supersymmetric multiplex networks described by coupled Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac quantum statistics. The supersymmetric multiplex is formed by layers which are scale-free networks and can display a Bose-Einstein condensation of the links. To characterize the complexity of the supersymmetric multiplex using quantum information tools, we extend the definition of the network entanglement entropy to the layers of multiplex networks. Interestingly we observe a very simple relation between the entanglement entropies of the layers of the supersymmetric multiplex network and the entropy rate of the same multiplex network. This relation therefore connects the classical non equilibrium growing dynamics of the supersymmetric multiplex network with its quantum information static characteristics.

id: 1407.7678
title: Many-body excitation spectra of trapped bosons with general interaction by linear response
authors: Ofir E. Alon
comments: 11 pages, 2 tables
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 594, 012039 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7678
abstract: The linear-response theory of the multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree for bosons method for computing many-body excitations of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 88}, 023606 (2013)] is implemented for systems with general interparticle interaction. Illustrative numerical examples for repulsive and attractive bosons are provided. The many-body linear-response theory identifies the excitations not unraveled within Bogoliubov--de Gennes equations. The theory is herewith benchmarked against the exactly-solvable one-dimensional harmonic-interaction model. As a complementary result, we represent the theory in a compact block-diagonal form, opening up thereby an avenue for treating larger systems.

id: 1407.7684
title: CB-norm estimates for maps between noncommutative $L_p$-spaces and quantum channel theory
authors: Marius Junge, Carlos Palazuelos
comments: 1 Figure. Comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7684
abstract: In the first part of this work we show how certain techniques from quantum information theory can be used in order to obtain very sharp embeddings between noncommutative $L_p$-spaces. Then, we use these estimates to study the classical capacity with restricted assisted entanglement of the quantum erasure channel and the quantum depolarizing channel. In particular, we exactly compute the capacity of the first one and we show that certain nonmultiplicative results hold for the second one.

id: 1407.7773
title: Semionic resonating valence bond states
authors: Mohsin Iqbal, Didier Poilblanc, Norbert Schuch
comments: 14 pages, 21 figures. v2: minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115129 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7773
abstract: The nature of the kagome Heisenberg antiferromagnet (HAFM) is under ongoing debate. While recent evidence points towards a Z_2 topological spin liquid, the exact nature of the topological phase is still unclear. In this paper, we introduce semionic Resonating Valence Bond (RVB) states, this is, Resonating Valence Bond states which are in the Z_2 ordered double-semion phase, and study them using Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS). We investigate their physics and study their suitability as an ansatz for the HAFM, as compared to a conventional RVB state which is in the Toric Code Z_2 topological phase. In particular, we find that a suitably optimized "semionic simplex RVB" outperforms the equally optimized conventional "simplex RVB" state, and that the entanglement spectrum (ES) of the semionic RVB behaves very differently from the ES of the conventional RVB, which suggests to use the ES to discriminate the two phases. Finally, we also discuss the possible relevance of space group symmetry breaking in valence bond wavefunctions with double-semion topological order.

id: 1407.7810
title: Models and Feedback Stabilization of Open Quantum Systems
authors: Pierre Rouchon
comments: Extended version of the paper attached to an invited conference for the International Congress of Mathematicians in Seoul, August 13 - 21, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7810
abstract: At the quantum level, feedback-loops have to take into account measurement back-action. We present here the structure of the Markovian models including such back-action and sketch two stabilization methods: measurement-based feedback where an open quantum system is stabilized by a classical controller; coherent or autonomous feedback where a quantum system is stabilized by a quantum controller with decoherence (reservoir engineering). We begin to explain these models and methods for the photon box experiments realized in the group of Serge Haroche (Nobel Prize 2012). We present then these models and methods for general open quantum systems.

id: 1407.7816
title: Renyi entropy, stationarity, and entanglement of the conformal scalar
authors: Jeongseog Lee, Aitor Lewkowycz, Eric Perlmutter, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.7816
abstract: We extend previous work on the perturbative expansion of the Renyi entropy, $S_q$, around $q=1$ for a spherical entangling surface in a general CFT. Applied to conformal scalar fields in various spacetime dimensions, the results appear to conflict with the known conformal scalar Renyi entropies. On the other hand, the perturbative results agree with known Renyi entropies in a variety of other theories, including theories of free fermions and vector fields and theories with Einstein gravity duals. We propose a resolution stemming from a careful consideration of boundary conditions near the entangling surface. This is equivalent to a proper treatment of total-derivative terms in the definition of the modular Hamiltonian. As a corollary, we are able to resolve an outstanding puzzle in the literature regarding the Renyi entropy of ${\cal N}=4$ super-Yang-Mills near $q=1$. A related puzzle regards the question of stationarity of the renormalized entanglement entropy (REE) across a circle for a (2+1)-dimensional massive scalar field. We point out that the boundary contributions to the modular Hamiltonian shed light on the previously-observed non-stationarity. Moreover, IR divergences appear in perturbation theory about the massless fixed point that inhibit our ability to reliably calculate the REE at small non-zero mass.

id: 1407.8030
title: Quantum defect model of a reactive collision at finite temperature
authors: Krzysztof Jachymski, Micha? Krych, Paul S. Julienne, Zbigniew Idziaszek
comments: followup to arXiv:1301.5857
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042705 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8030
abstract: We consider a general problem of inelastic collision of particles interacting with power-law potentials. Using quantum defect theory we derive an analytical formula for the energy-dependent complex scattering length, valid for arbitrary collision energy, and use it to analyze the elastic and reactive collision rates. Our theory is applicable for both universal and non-universal collisions. The former corresponds to the unit reaction probability at short range, while in the latter case the reaction probability is smaller than one. In the high-energy limit we present a method that allows to incorporate quantum corrections to the classical reaction rate due to the shape resonances and the quantum tunneling.

id: 1407.8058
title: If time is a local observable, then Hawking radiation is unitary
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 11 pages, accepted for publication in Int. J. Quantum Inf. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1101.2744
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 12, 1560001 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8058
abstract: In the usual formulation of quantum theory, time is a global classical evolution parameter, not a local quantum observable. On the other hand, both canonical quantum gravity (which lacks fundamental time-evolution parameter) and the principle of spacetime covariance (which insists that time should be treated on an equal footing with space) suggest that quantum theory should be slightly reformulated, in a manner that promotes time to a local observable. Such a reformulated quantum theory is unitary in a more general sense than the usual quantum theory. In particular, this promotes the non-unitary Hawking radiation to a unitary phenomenon, which avoids the black-hole information paradox.

id: 1407.8064
title: Field operator transformations in Quantum Optics using a novel graphical method with applications to beam splitters and interferometers
authors: Stefan Ataman
comments: 6 pages, 8 figure; to appear in EPJ D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 288
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8064
abstract: In this paper we describe a novel, graphical method, allowing the fast computation of field operator transformations for linear lossless optical devices in Quantum Optics (QO). The advantage of this method grows with the complexity of the considered optical setup. As case studies we examine the field operator transformations for the beam splitter (BS), the Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) and the double MZI. We consider the simple case with monochromatic input light, as well as extensions to the non-monochromatic case.

id: 1407.8130
title: Dipolar atomic spin ensembles in a double-well potential
authors: A. de Paz, B. Naylor, J. Huckans A. Carrance, O. Gorceix, E. Marechal, P. Pedri, B. Laburthe-Tolra, L. Vernac
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8130
abstract: We experimentally study the spin dynamics of mesoscopic ensembles of ultracold magnetic spin-3 atoms located in two separated wells of an optical dipole trap. We use a radio-frequency sweep to selectively flip the spin of the atoms in one of the wells, which produces two separated spin domains of opposite polarization. We observe that these engineered spin domains are metastable with respect to the long-range magnetic dipolar interactions between the two ensembles. The absence of inter-cloud dipolar spin-exchange processes reveals a classical behavior, in contrast to previous results with atoms loaded in an optical lattice. When we merge the two subsystems, we observe spin-exchange dynamics due to contact interactions which enable the first determination of the s-wave scattering length of 52Cr atoms in the S=0 molecular channel a_0=13.5^{+11}_{-10.5}a_B (where a_B is the Bohr radius).

id: 1407.8203
title: Renormalization group constructions of topological quantum liquids and beyond
authors: Brian Swingle, John McGreevy
comments: 91 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8203
abstract: We give a detailed physical argument for the area law for entanglement entropy in gapped phases of matter arising from local Hamiltonians. Our approach is based on renormalization group (RG) ideas and takes a resource oriented perspective. We report four main results. First, we argue for the "weak area law": any gapped phase with a unique ground state on every closed manifold obeys the area law. Second, we introduce an RG based classification scheme and give a detailed argument that all phases within the classification scheme obey the area law. Third, we define a special sub-class of gapped phases, \textit{topological quantum liquids}, which captures all examples of current physical relevance, and we rigorously show that TQLs obey an area law. Fourth, we show that all topological quantum liquids have MERA representations which achieve unit overlap with the ground state in the thermodynamic limit and which have a bond dimension scaling with system size $L$ as $e^{c \log^{d(1+\delta)}(L)}$ for all $\delta >0$. For example, we show that chiral phases in $d=2$ dimensions have an approximate MERA with bond dimension $e^{c \log^{2(1+\delta)}(L)}$. We discuss extensively a number of subsidiary ideas and results necessary to make the main arguments, including field theory constructions. While our argument for the general area law rests on physically-motived assumptions (which we make explicit) and is therefore not rigorous, we may conclude that "conventional" gapped phases obey the area law and that any gapped phase which violates the area law must be a dragon.

id: 1407.8262
title: Primordial quantum nonequilibrium and large-scale cosmic anomalies
authors: Samuel Colin, Antony Valentini
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8262
abstract: We study incomplete relaxation to quantum equilibrium at long wavelengths, during a pre-inflationary phase, as a possible explanation for the reported large-scale anomalies in the cosmic microwave background (CMB). Our scenario makes use of the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave formulation of quantum theory, in which the Born probability rule has a dynamical origin. The large-scale power deficit could arise from incomplete relaxation for the amplitudes of the primordial perturbations. We show, by numerical simulations for a spectator scalar field, that if the pre-inflationary era is radiation dominated then the deficit in the emerging power spectrum will have a characteristic shape (an inverse-tangent dependence on wavenumber k, with oscillations). It is found that our scenario is able to produce a power deficit in the observed region and of the observed (approximate) magnitude for an appropriate choice of cosmological parameters. We also discuss the large-scale anisotropy, which could arise from incomplete relaxation for the phases of the primordial perturbations. We present numerical simulations for phase relaxation, and we show how to define characteristic scales for amplitude and phase nonequilibrium. The extent to which the data might support our scenario is left as a question for future work. Our results suggest that we have a potentially viable model that might explain two apparently independent cosmic anomalies by means of a single mechanism.

id: 1407.8272
title: Study of highly-charged Ag-like and In-like ions for the development of atomic clocks and search for $¦Á$-variation
authors: M. S. Safronova, V. A. Dzuba, V. V. Flambaum, U. I. Safronova, S. G. Porsev, M. G. Kozlov
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8272
abstract: We carried out detailed high-precision study of Ag-like Nd$^{13+}$, Sm$^{15+}$ and In-like Ce$^{9+}$, Pr$^{10+}$, Nd$^{11+}$, Sm$^{13+}$, Eu$^{14+}$ highly-charged ions. These ions were identified to be of particular interest to the development of ultra-accurate atomic clocks, search for variation of the fine-structure constant $\alpha$, and quantum information [Safronova et. al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 030801 (2014)]. Relativistic linearized coupled-cluster method was used for Ag-like ion calculations, and a hybrid approach that combines configuration interaction and a variant of the coupled-cluster method was used for the In-like ion calculations. Breit and QED corrections were included. Energies, transition wavelengths, electric-dipole, electric-quadrupole, electric-octupole, magnetic-dipole, magnetic-quadrupole, magnetic-octupole reduced matrix elements, lifetimes, and sensitivity coefficients to $\alpha$-variation were calculated. Detailed study of various contributions was carried out to evaluate uncertainties of the final results. Energies for several similar "reference" ions, where the experimental values are available were calculated and compared with experiment for further tests of the accuracy.

id: 1407.8340
title: Maximizing the purity of a qubit evolving in an anisotropic environment
authors: X. J. Wang, Stefano Chesi, W. A. Coish
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8340
abstract: We provide a general method to calculate the purity of a qubit interacting with an anisotropic non-Markovian environment. Counter to intuition, we find that the purity is often maximized by preparing and storing the qubit in a \emph{superposition} of non-interacting eigenstates. For a model relevant to decoherence of a heavy-hole spin qubit in a quantum dot, we show that preparation of the qubit in the Zeeman ground state can actually be the \emph{worst} choice to maximize purity. We further give analytical results for spin-echo envelope modulations of arbitrary spin components of a hole spin in a quantum dot, going beyond a standard secular approximation. Finally, we account for general dynamics in the presence of a pure-dephasing process and identify a crossover timescale at which it is again advantageous to initialize the qubit in the non-interacting ground state.

id: 1407.8420
title: Protected subspace Ramsey spectroscopy
authors: Laurin Ostermann, David Plankensteiner, Helmut Ritsch, Claudiu Genes
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053823 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8420
abstract: We study a modified Ramsey spectroscopy technique employing slowly decaying states for quantum metrology applications using dense ensembles. While closely positioned atoms exhibit superradiant collective decay and dipole-dipole induced frequency shifts, recent results [Ostermann, Ritsch and Genes, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{111}, 123601 (2013)] suggest the possibility to suppress such detrimental effects and achieve an even better scaling of the frequency sensitivity with interrogation time than for noninteracting particles. Here we present an in-depth analysis of this 'protected subspace Ramsey technique' using improved analytical modeling and numerical simulations including larger 3D samples. Surprisingly we find that using sub-radiant states of $N$ particles to encode the atomic coherence yields a scaling of the optimal sensitivity better than $1/\sqrt{N}$. Applied to ultracold atoms in 3D optical lattices we predict a precision beyond the single atom linewidth.

id: 1407.8455
title: Measurement of the spin-dipolar part of the tensor polarizability of $^{87}$Rb
authors: Yehonatan Dallal, Roee Ozeri
comments: 5 pages, 3 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8455
abstract: We report on the measurement of the contribution of the magnetic-dipole hyperfine interaction to the tensor polarizability of the electronic ground-state in $^{87}$Rb. This contribution was isolated by measuring the differential shift of the clock transition frequency in $^{87}$Rb atoms that were optically trapped in the focus of an intense CO$_2$ laser beam. By comparing to previous tensor polarizability measurements in $^{87}$Rb, the contribution of the interaction with the nuclear electric-quadrupole moment was isolated as well. Our measurement will enable better estimation of black-body shifts in Rb atomic clocks. The methods reported here are applicable for future spectroscopic studies of atoms and molecules under strong quasi-static fields.

id: 1407.8480
title: Constructing local integrals of motion in the many-body localized phase
authors: Anushya Chandran, Isaac H. Kim, Guifre Vidal, Dmitry A. Abanin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 085425 (2015)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.8480
abstract: Many-body localization provides a generic mechanism of ergodicity breaking in quantum systems. In contrast to conventional ergodic systems, many-body localized (MBL) systems are characterized by extensively many local integrals of motion (LIOM), which underlie the absence of transport and thermalization in these systems. Here we report a physically motivated construction of local integrals of motion in the MBL phase. We show that any local operator (e.g., a local particle number or a spin flip operator), evolved with the system's Hamiltonian and averaged over time, becomes a LIOM in the MBL phase. Such operators have a clear physical meaning, describing the response of the MBL system to a local perturbation. In particular, when a local operator represents a density of some globally conserved quantity, the corresponding LIOM describes how this conserved quantity propagates through the MBL phase. Being uniquely defined and experimentally measurable, these LIOMs provide a natural tool for characterizing the properties of the MBL phase, both in experiments and numerical simulations. We demonstrate the latter by numerically constructing an extensive set of LIOMs in the MBL phase of a disordered spin chain model. We show that the resulting LIOMs are quasi-local, and use their decay to extract the localization length and establish the location of the transition between the MBL and ergodic phases.

id: 1407.3212
title: High-fidelity rapid ground-state loading of an ultracold gas into an optical lattice
authors: Shumpei Masuda, Katsuhiro Nakamura, Adolfo del Campo
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 063003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3212
abstract: A protocol is proposed for the rapid coherent loading of a Bose-Einstein condensate into the ground state of an optical lattice, without residual excitation associated with the breakdown of adiabaticity. The driving potential required to assist the rapid loading is derived using the fast forward technique, and generates the ground state in any desired short time. We propose an experimentally feasible loading scheme using a bichromatic lattice potential, which approximates the fast-forward driving potential with high fidelity.

id: 1407.3456
title: From conformal to volume-law for the entanglement entropy in exponentially deformed critical spin 1/2 chains
authors: Giovanni Ram¨ªrez, Javier Rodr¨ªguez-Laguna, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: Accepted for the Special Issue: Quantum Entanglement in Condensed Matter Physics. 11 pages, 9 figures (with enhanced size to focus on the details) and new references
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P10004
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3456
abstract: An exponential deformation of 1D critical Hamiltonians gives rise to ground states whose entanglement entropy satisfies a volume-law. This effect is exemplified in the XX and Heisenberg models. In the XX case we characterize the crossover between the critical and the maximally entangled ground state in terms of the entanglement entropy and the entanglement spectrum.

id: 1407.1381
title: Quantum engineering of atomic phase-shifts in optical clocks
authors: T. Zanon-Willette, S. Almonacil, E. de Clercq, A.D. Ludlow, E. Arimondo
comments: accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 90, 053427 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.1381
abstract: Quantum engineering of time-separated Raman laser pulses in three-level systems is presented to produce an ultra-narrow optical transition in bosonic alkali-earth clocks free from light shifts and with a significantly reduced sensitivity to laser parameter fluctuations. Based on a quantum artificial complex-wave-function analytical model, and supported by a full density matrix simulation including a possible residual effect of spontaneous emission from the intermediate state, atomic phase-shifts associated to Ramsey and Hyper-Ramsey two-photon spectroscopy in optical clocks are derived. Various common-mode Raman frequency detunings are found where the frequency shifts from off-resonant states are canceled, while strongly reducing their uncertainties at the 10$^{-18}$ level of accuracy.

id: 1407.3199
title: J=0, J=J_{max} and quadrupole pairing
authors: Larry Zamick, Daniel Hertz-Kintish
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 351, 655 (2014)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.3199
abstract: We consider 2 neutrons and 2 protons in the g_{9/2} shell.Wave functions and energy levels are obtained for various interactions. The wave functions for states with total angular momentum I greater or equal to 10 are not affected by what the pairing interacton (J=0 T=1) is.Other parts of the interaction are therefore of increased importance.

