id: 1408.0048
title: Two-step hyperentanglement purification with the quantum-state-joining method
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fang-Fang Du, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0048
abstract: Hyperentanglement is a promising resource in quantum information processing, especially for increasing the channel capacity of long-distance quantum communication. Hyperentanglement purification is an important method to obtain high-fidelity nonlocal hyperentangled states from mixed hyperentangled states in a long-distance quantum communication process with noisy channels. Here, we present a two-step hyperentanglement purification protocol for nonlocal mixed hyperentangled states with polarization bit-flip errors and spatial-mode phase-flip errors, resorting to polarization-spatial phase-check quantum nondemolition detectors and the quantum-state-joining method (QSJM). With QSJM, the protocol can preserve the states that are discarded in the previous hyperentanglement purification protocols. It has the advantage of a high efficiency, and it is useful for improving the entanglement of photon systems with several degrees of freedom in long-distance high-capacity quantum communication.

id: 1408.0059
title: Measurement of photon correlations with multipixel photon counters
authors: Dmitry Kalashnikov, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: Review of our recent experimental results on using multipixel photon counters (MPPC) for characterization of various quantum states of light
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0059
abstract: Development of reliable photon number resolving detectors (PNRD), devices which are capable to distinguish 1,2,3.. photons, is of a great importance for quantum optics and its applications. A new class of affordable PNRD is based on multipixel photon counters (MPPC). Here we review results of experiments on using MPPCs for direct characterization of squeezed vacuum (SV) states, generated via parametric downconversion (PDC). We use MPPCs to measure the second order normalized intensity correlation function (g^(2)) and directly detect the two-mode squeezing of SV states. We also present a method of calibration of crosstalk probability in MPPCs based on g^(2) measurements of coherent states.

id: 1408.0064
title: Trajectory of motion of an electron in the Coulomb scattering in terms of the Schroedinger wave equation and the Hamilton Jacobi equation
authors: Yoshio Nishiyama, Fumiaki Tajima
comments: 20 pages, 5 eps-figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0064
abstract: The trajectory of motion of a scattering electron in the Coulomb potential from the wave function of the Schroedinger equation is presented in two ways, spherical polar coordinates and Temple coordinates, and is compared with each other and with the corresponding motion of classical mechanics. A good correspondence among dynamics by wave functions and the classical dynamics has been acknowledged by comparing computed examples.Detailed computing examples discriminate the optimal dynamics of the wave function that should be verified by an experiment.

id: 1408.0067
title: Squeezed-light-enhanced atom interferometry below the standard quantum limit
authors: Stuart S. Szigeti, Behnam Tonekaboni, Wing Yung S. Lau, Samantha N. Hood, Simon A. Haine
comments: 20 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063630 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0067
abstract: We investigate the prospect of enhancing the phase sensitivity of atom interferometers in the Mach-Zehnder configuration with squeezed light. Ultimately, this enhancement is achieved by transferring the quantum state of squeezed light to one or more of the atomic input beams, thereby allowing operation below the standard quantum limit. We analyze in detail three specific schemes that utilize (1) single-mode squeezed optical vacuum (i.e. low frequency squeezing), (2) two-mode squeezed optical vacuum (i.e. high frequency squeezing) transferred to both atomic inputs, and (3) two-mode squeezed optical vacuum transferred to a single atomic input. Crucially, our analysis considers incomplete quantum state transfer (QST) between the optical and atomic modes, and the effects of depleting the initially-prepared atomic source. Unsurprisingly, incomplete QST degrades the sensitivity in all three schemes. We show that by measuring the transmitted photons and using information recycling [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 053002 (2013)], the degrading effects of incomplete QST on the sensitivity can be substantially reduced. In particular, information recycling allows scheme (2) to operate at the Heisenberg limit irrespective of the QST efficiency, even when depletion is significant. Although we concentrate on Bose-condensed atomic systems, our scheme is equally applicable to ultracold thermal vapors.

id: 1408.0080
title: Quantum discord and measurement-induced disturbance in the background of dilaton black holes
authors: Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 025032 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0080
abstract: We study the dynamics of classical correlation, quantum discord and measurement-induced disturbance of Dirac fields in the background of a dilaton black hole. We present an alternative physical interpretation of single mode approximation for Dirac fields in black hole spacetimes. We show that the classical and quantum correlations are degraded as the increase of black hole's dilaton. We find that, comparing to the inertial systems, the quantum correlation measured by the one-side measuring discord is always not symmetric with respect to the measured subsystems, while the measurement-induced disturbance is symmetric. The symmetry of classical correlation and quantum discord is influenced by gravitation produced by the dilaton of the black hole.

id: 1408.0099
title: Chemical bond and entanglement of electrons in the hydrogen molecule
authors: Nikos Iliopoulos, Andreas F. Terzis
comments: 4 figures, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0099
abstract: We theoretically investigate the quantum correlations (in terms of concurrence of indistinguishable electrons) in a prototype molecular system (hydrogen molecule). With the assistance of the standard approximations of the linear combination of atomic orbitals and the con?guration interaction methods we describe the electronic wavefunction of the ground state of the H2 molecule. Moreover, we managed to ?find a rather simple analytic expression for the concurrence (the most used measure of quantum entanglement) of the two electrons when the molecule is in its lowest energy. We have found that concurrence does not really show any relation to the construction of the chemical bond.

id: 1408.0105
title: Floquet control on quantum dissipation in spin chain
authors: Chong Chen, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. P. Sun, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0105
abstract: Controlling the decoherence induced by the interaction of quantum system with its environment is a fundamental challenge in the quantum technology. Utilizing Floquet theory, we explore the constructive role of temporal periodic driving in suppressing decoherence of a spin-1/2 particle coupled to a spin bath. It is revealed that, accompanying the formation of a Floquet bound state in the quasienergy spectrum of the whole system including the system and its environment, the dissipation of the spin system can be inhibited and the system tends to coherently synchronize with the driving field. It can be seen as a close analogy to the bound-state induced decoherence suppression by engineering the spectral density in the static system. Comparing with other decoherence control schemes, our protocol is robust against the fluctuation of control parameters and easy to realize in practice. It suggests a promising perspective of periodic driving in decoherence control.

id: 1408.0158
title: Realizing PT-symmetric non-Hermiticity with ultra-cold atoms and Hermitian multi-well potentials
authors: Manuel Kreibich, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033630 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0158
abstract: We discuss the possibility of realizing a non-Hermitian, i.e. an open two-well system of ultra-cold atoms by enclosing it with additional time-dependent wells that serve as particle reservoirs. With the appropriate design of the additional wells PT-symmetric currents can be induced to and from the inner wells, which support stable solutions. We show that interaction in the mean-field limit does not destroy this property. As a first method we use a simplified variational ansatz leading to a discrete nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. A more accurate and more general variational ansatz is then used to confirm the results.

id: 1408.0179
title: Constructive Interference Between Disordered Couplings Enhances Multiparty Entanglement in Quantum Heisenberg Spin Glass Models
authors: Utkarsh Mishra, Debraj Rakshit, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX 4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0179
abstract: We probe one-dimensional arrays of quantum spin-1/2 particles, governed by the Heisenberg spin glass Hamiltonian with natural or engineered quenched disordered couplings in an external magnetic field. We find that these systems allow the order from disorder phenomenon -- disorder-induced enhancement -- for magnetization, classical correlators, and bipartite as well as multipartite entanglement, wherein a disordered system has a higher value of the quenched averaged physical observable than in the corresponding ordered system. Moreover, the system also harbors parameter ranges where simultaneous application of independent quenched disorders results in order from disorder, while the same is absent with individual application of the same disorders -- we term the phenomenon as constructive interference and the corresponding parameter stretches as the Venus regions. Interestingly, constructive interference has only been observed for multiparty entanglement and is absent for the single- and two-party observables.

id: 1408.0187
title: Relevance of the Eigenstate Thermalization Hypothesis for Thermal Relaxation
authors: Abdellah Khodja, Robin Steinigeweg, Jochen Gemmer
comments: submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012120 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0187
abstract: In this Letter we study the validity of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH) and its role for the occurrence of initial-state independent (ISI) equilibration in closed quantum many-body systems. Using the concept of dynamical typicality, we present an extensive numerical analysis of energy exchange in integrable and nonintegrable spin-$1/2$ systems of large size outside the range of exact diagonalization. In case of nonintegrable systems, our finite-size scaling shows that the ETH becomes valid in the thermodynamic limit and can serve as the underlying mechanism for ISI equilibration. In case of integrable systems, however, we observe ISI equilibration despite the violation of the ETH. We establish a connection between this observation and the need of choosing a proper parameter within the ETH.

id: 1408.0228
title: Real-time phase-reference monitoring of a quasi-optimal coherent-state receiver
authors: Matteo Bina, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Stefano Olivares
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0228
abstract: The Kennedy-like receiver is a quasi-optimal receiver employed in binary phase-shift-keyed communication schemes with coherent states. It is based on the interference of the two signals encoding the message with a reference local oscillator and on/off photodetection. We show both theoretically and experimentally that it is possible to extract useful information about the phase reference by Bayesian processing of the very same data sample used to discriminate the signals shot by shot. We demonstrate that the minimum uncertainty in phase estimation, given by the inverse of the Fisher information associated with the statistics of the collected data, can be achieved. We also numerically and experimentally investigate the performances of our phase-estimation method in the presence of phase noise, when either on/off or photon-number resolving detectors are employed.

id: 1408.0231
title: One dimensional scattering from two-piece rising potentials: a new avenue of resonances
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Shashin Pavaskar, Lakshmi Prakash
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0231
abstract: We study scattering from potentials that rise monotonically on one side; this is generally avoided. We report that resonant states are absent in such potentials when they are smooth and single-piece having less than three real turning points (like in the cases of Morse oscillator, exponential and linear potentials). But when these potentials are made two-piece, resonances can occur. We further show that rising potentials next to a well/step/barrier are rich models of multiple resonances (Gamow's decaying states) in one- dimension. We use linear, parabolic and exponential profiles as rising part and find complex-energy poles, ${\cal E}_n=E_n-i\Gamma_n/2$ $(\Gamma_n > 0)$, in the reflection amplitude (s-matrix). The appearance of peaks in Wigner's (reflection) time-delay at $E=\epsilon_n$ (close to $E_n$) and spatial catastrophe in the eigenfunction confirm the existence of resonances and meta-stable states in these systems. PACS Nos.: 03.65.-w, 03.65.Nk

id: 1408.0234
title: Transfer of Spatial Reference Frame Using Singlet States and Classical Communication
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0234
abstract: A simple protocol is described for transferring spatial direction from Alice to Bob (two spatially separated observers) up to inversion. The two observers are assumed to share quantum singlet states and classical communication. The protocol assumes that Alice and Bob have complete free will (measurement independence) and is based on maximizing the Shannon mutual information between Alice and Bob's measurement outcomes. Repeated use of this protocol for each spatial axis of Alice allows transfer of a complete 3-dimensional reference frame, up to inversion of each of the axes. The technological complexity of this protocol is similar to that needed for BB84 quantum key distribution, and hence is much simpler to implement than recently proposed schemes for transmission of reference frames. A second protocol based on a Bayesian formalism is also presented.

id: 1408.0257
title: Efficiencies of Quantum Optical Detectors
authors: Daniel Hogg, Dominic W. Berry, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 90(5), 053846 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0257
abstract: We propose a definition for the efficiency that can be universally applied to all classes of quantum optical detectors. This definition is based on the maximum amount of optical loss that a physically plausible device can experience while still replicating the properties of a given detector. We prove that detector efficiency cannot be increased using linear optical processing. That is, given a set of detectors, as well as arbitrary linear optical elements and ancillary light sources, it is impossible to construct detection devices that would exhibit higher efficiencies than the initial set.

id: 1408.0297
title: Optically controlled waveplate at a telecom wavelength using a ladder transition in Rb atoms for all-optical switching and high speed Stokesmetric Imaging
authors: Subramanian Krishnamurthy, Y. Tu, Y. Wang, S. Tseng, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0297
abstract: We demonstrate an optically controlled waveplate at ~1323 nm using the 5S1/2-5P1/2-6S1/2 ladder transition in a Rb vapor cell. The lower leg of the transitions represents the control beam, while the upper leg represents the signal beam. We show that we can place the signal beam in any arbitrary polarization state with a suitable choice of polarization of the control beam. Specifically, we demonstrate a differential phase retardance of ~180 degrees between the two circularly polarized components of a linearly polarized signal beam. We also demonstrate that the system can act as a Quarter Wave plate. The optical activity responsible for the phase retardation process is explained in terms of selection rules involving the Zeeman sublevels. As such, the system can be used to realize a fast Stokesmetric Imaging system with a speed of nearly 5 MHz. When implemented using a tapered nano fiber embedded in a vapor cell, this system can be used to realize an ultra-low power all-optical switch as well as a Quantum Zeno Effect based all-optical logic gate by combining it with an optically controlled polarizer, previously demonstrated by us. We present numerical simulations of the system using a comprehensive model which incorporates all the relevant Zeeman sub-levels in the system, using a novel algorithm recently developed by us for efficient computation of the evolution of an arbitrary large scale quantum system.

id: 1408.0340
title: Macroscopic Body Motion in Terms of Quantum Evolution
authors: A. Yu. Samarin
comments: 5 p
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0340
abstract: Macroscopic body is considered as a system, consisting of an in?nite number of quantum particles. Mechanical motion of the system center of mass in physical space is described, using Feynman's representation of the quantum evolution. It is shown that the center of mass of the system moves accordingly with the minimum action principle if action functional is much higher then Plank's constant.

id: 1408.0363
title: Comment on `Observation of a quantum Cheshire Cat in a matter-wave interferometer experiment', Nature Comm. 5, 4492
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0363
abstract: It is shown that a classical experiment using an ordinary cat can reproduce the same results and it is argued that the quantum nature of the phenomenon could be revealed instead by making an experiment that detects cross-moments.

id: 1408.0380
title: Block Free Optical Quantum Banyan Network based on Quantum State Fusion and Fission
authors: Chang-Hua Zhu, Yan-Hong Meng, Dong-Xiao Quan, Nan Zhao, Chang-Xing Pei
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0380
abstract: Optical switch fabric plays an important role in building multiple-user optical quantum communication networks. Owing to its self-routing property and low complexity, Banyan network is widely used for building switch fabric. While, there is no efficient way to remove internal blocking in Banyan network by classical way. Quantum state fusion, by which the two-dimensional internal quantum state of two photons could be combined into four-dimensional internal state of a single photon, makes it possible to solve this problem. In this paper, we convert the output mode of quantum state fusion from spatial-polarization mode to time-polarization mode. By combining modified quantum state fusion, quantum state fission with quantum Fredkin gate, we propose a practical scheme to build an optical quantum switch unit which is block free. The scheme can be extended to build more complex units, four of which are shown in this paper.

id: 1408.0388
title: Computation of many-particle quantum trajectories with exchange interaction: Application to the simulation of nanoelectronic devices
authors: A. Alarc¨®n, S. Yaro, X. Cartoix¨¤, X. Oriols
comments: 31 pages, 15 figures
journal: J Phys Condens Matter. 2013 Aug 14;25(32):325601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0388
abstract: Following Ref. [Oriols X 2007 Phys. Rev. Lett., 98 066803], an algorithm to deal with the exchange interaction in non-separable quantum systems is presented. The algorithm can be applied to fermions or bosons and, by construction, it exactly ensures that any observable is totally independent from the interchange of particles. It is based on the use of conditional Bohmian wave functions which are solutions of single-particle pseudo-Schr\"odinger equations. The exchange symmetry is directly defined by demanding symmetry properties of the quantum trajectories in the configuration space with a universal algorithm, rather than through a particular exchange-correlation functional introduced into the single-particle pseudo-Schr\"odinger equation. It requires the computation of N^2 conditional wave functions to deal with N identical particles. For separable Hamiltonians, the algorithm reduces to the standard Slater determinant for fermions, or permanent for bosons. A numerical test for a two-particle system, where exact solutions for non-separable Hamiltonians are computationally accessible, is presented. The numerical viability of the algorithm for quantum electron transport (in a far-from equilibrium time-dependent open system) is demonstrated by computing the current and fluctuations in a nano-resistor, with exchange and Coulomb interactions among electrons.

id: 1408.0390
title: Accurate Qubit Control with Single Flux Quantum Pulses
authors: R. McDermott, M.G. Vavilov
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 2, 014007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0390
abstract: We describe the coherent manipulation of harmonic oscillator and qubit modes using resonant trains of single flux quantum pulses in place of microwaves. We show that coherent rotations are obtained for pulse-to-pulse spacing equal to the period of the oscillator. We consider a protocol for preparing bright and dark harmonic oscillator pointer states. Next we analyze rotations of a two-state qubit system. We calculate gate errors due to timing jitter of the single flux quantum pulses and due to weak anharmonicity of the qubit. We show that gate fidelities in excess of 99.9% are achievable for sequence lengths of order 20 ns.

id: 1408.0399
title: A Direct Coupling Coherent Quantum Observer
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A version of this paper will appear in the Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Multi-conference on Systems and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0399
abstract: This paper considers the problem of constructing a direct coupling quantum observer for a closed linear quantum system. The proposed observer is shown to be able to estimate some but not all of the plant variables in a time averaged sense. A simple example and simulations are included to illustrate the properties of the observer.

id: 1408.0473
title: Optimal performance of endoreversible quantum refrigerators
authors: Luis A. Correa, Jos¨¦ P. Palao, Gerardo Adesso, Daniel Alonso
comments: 4+3 pages, 2 figures. Presentation improved and expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0473
abstract: The derivation of general performance benchmarks is important in the design of highly optimized heat engines and refrigerators. To obtain them, one may model phenomenologically the leading sources of irreversibility ending up with results which are model-independent, but limited in scope. Alternatively, one can take a simple physical system realizing a thermodynamic cycle and assess its optimal operation from a complete microscopic description. We follow this approach in order to derive the coefficient of performance at maximum cooling rate for \textit{any} endoreversible quantum refrigerator. At striking variance with the \textit{universality} of the optimal efficiency of heat engines, we find that the cooling performance at maximum power is crucially determined by the details of the specific system-bath interaction mechanism. A closed analytical benchmark is found for endoreversible refrigerators weakly coupled to unstructured bosonic heat baths: an ubiquitous case study in quantum thermodynamics.

id: 1408.0480
title: Demonstration of Entanglement-Enhanced Phase Estimation in Solid
authors: Gang-Qin Liu, Yu-Ran Zhang, Yan-Chun Chang, Jie-Dong Yue, Heng Fan, Xin-Yu Pan
comments: 9 pages including the supplementary material, 6 figures in main text plus 3 figures in supplementary material
journal: Nature Communications 6, 6726 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0480
abstract: Precise parameter estimation plays a central role in science and technology. The statistical error in estimation can be decreased by repeating measurement, leading to that the resultant uncertainty of the estimated parameter is proportional to the square root of the number of repetitions in accordance with the central limit theorem. Quantum parameter estimation, an emerging field of quantum technology, aims to use quantum resources to yield higher statistical precision than classical approaches. Here, we report the first room-temperature implementation of entanglement-enhanced phase estimation in a solid-state system: the nitrogen-vacancy centre in pure diamond. We demonstrate a super-resolving phase measurement with two entangled qubits of different physical realizations: an nitrogen-vacancy centre electron spin and a proximal ${}^{13}$C nuclear spin. The experimental data shows clearly the uncertainty reduction when entanglement resource is used, confirming the theoretical expectation. Our results represent an elemental demonstration of enhancement of quantum metrology against classical procedure.

id: 1408.0492
title: Risk analysis of Trojan-horse attacks on practical quantum key distribution systems
authors: Nitin Jain, Birgit Stiller, Imran Khan, Vadim Makarov, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, and author biographies (closer to the published version)
journal: IEEE J. Sel. Topics Quantum Elect. 21, 3 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0492
abstract: An eavesdropper Eve may probe a quantum key distribution (QKD) system by sending a bright pulse from the quantum channel into the system and analyzing the back-reflected pulses. Such Trojan-horse attacks can breach the security of the QKD system if appropriate safeguards are not installed or if they can be fooled by Eve. We present a risk analysis of such attacks based on extensive spectral measurements, such as transmittance, reflectivity, and detection sensitivity of some critical components used in typical QKD systems. Our results indicate the existence of wavelength regimes where the attacker gains considerable advantage as compared to launching an attack at 1550 nm. We also propose countermeasures to reduce the risk of such attacks.

id: 1408.0515
title: The Effect Of The Phase-Space Noncommutativity On The Nonrelativistic Limit Of The Dirac Equation
authors: Ilyas Haouam
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0515
abstract: In this paper we are interested in the effect of the phase-space noncommutativity on the nonreltivistic limit of the Dirac equation in intereaction with an electromagnetic potential, the nonreltivistic limit is done by the large and small wavefunction components approach, knowing that the nonrelativistic limit gives the Schr\"odinger-pauli equation.

id: 1408.0524
title: Adiabatic tracking of quantum many-body dynamics
authors: Hamed Saberi, Tom¨¢? Opatrn?, Klaus M?lmer, Adolfo del Campo
comments: Slightly improved version as published in Phys. Rev. A Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 060301(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0524
abstract: The nonadiabatic dynamics of a many-body system driven through a quantum critical point can be controlled using counterdiabatic driving, where the formation of excitations is suppressed by assisting the dynamics with auxiliary multiple-body nonlocal interactions. We propose an alternative scheme which circumvents practical challenges to realize shortcuts to adiabaticity in mesoscopic systems by tailoring the functional form of the auxiliary counterdiabatic interactions. A driving scheme resorting in few-body short-range interactions is shown to generate an effectively adiabatic dynamics.

id: 1408.0526
title: Several foundational and information theoretic implications of Bell's theorem
authors: Guruprasad Kar, Manik Banik
comments: 27 pages; This article is a modified version of the tutorial lecture delivered by G. Kar at IPQI, February 17-28, 2014, Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar, India
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0526
abstract: In 1935, Albert Einstein and two colleagues, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen (EPR) developed a thought experiment to demonstrate what they felt was a lack of completeness in quantum mechanics. EPR also postulated the existence of more fundamental theory where physical reality of any system would be completely describe by the variables/states of that fundamental theory. This variable is commonly called hidden variable and the theory is called hidden variable theory (HVT). In 1964, John Bell proposed an empirically verifiable criterion to test for the existence of these HVTs. He derived an inequality, which must be satisfied by any theory that fulfill the conditions of locality and reality} He also showed that quantum mechanics, as it violates this inequality, is incompatible with any local-realistic theory. Later it has been shown that Bell's inequality can be derived from different set of assumptions and it also find applications in useful information theoretic protocols. In this review we will discuss various foundational as well as information theoretic implications of Bell's inequality. We will also discuss about some restricted nonlocal feature of quantum nonlocality and elaborate the role of Uncertainty principle and Complementarity principle in explaining this feature.

id: 1408.0560
title: Tomographic and Lie algebraic significance of generalized symmetric informationally complete measurements
authors: Huangjun Zhu
comments: 6.2 pages, comments and suggestions welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0560
abstract: Generalized symmetric informationally complete (SIC) measurements are SIC measurements that are not necessarily rank one. They are interesting originally because of their connection with rank-one SICs. Here we reveal several merits of generalized SICs in connection with quantum state tomography and Lie algebra that are interesting in their own right. These properties uniquely characterize generalized SICs among minimal IC measurements although, on the face of it, they bear little resemblance to the original definition. In particular, we show that in quantum state tomography generalized SICs are optimal among minimal IC measurements with given average purity of measurement outcomes. Besides its significance to the current study, this result may help understand tomographic efficiencies of minimal IC measurements under the influence of noise. When minimal IC measurements are taken as bases for the Lie algebra of the unitary group, generalized SICs are uniquely characterized by the antisymmetry of the associated structure constants.

id: 1408.0562
title: Quantum key distribution over a 72 dB channel loss using ultralow dark count superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Hiroyuki Shibata, Toshimori Honjo, Kaoru Shimizu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Opt. Lett
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, Issue 17, pp. 5078-5081 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0562
abstract: We report the first Quantum key distribution (QKD) experiment over a 72 dB channel loss using superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SSPD, SNSPD) with the dark count rate (DCR) of 0.01 cps. The DCR of the SSPD, which is dominated by the blackbody radiation at room temperature, is blocked by introducing cold optical bandpass filter. We employ the differential phase shift QKD (DPS-QKD) scheme with a 1 GHz system clock rate. The quantum bit error rate (QBER) below 3 % is achieved when the length of the dispersion shifted fiber (DSF) is 336 km (72 dB loss), which is low enough to generate secure keys.

id: 1408.0563
title: Experimental device-independent verification of quantum steering
authors: Sacha Kocsis, Michael J. W. Hall, Adam J. Bennet, Dylan J. Saunders, G. J. Pryde
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 6:5886 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0563
abstract: Bell nonlocality between distant quantum systems---i.e., joint correlations which violate a Bell inequality---can be verified without trusting the measurement devices used, nor those performing the measurements. This leads to unconditionally secure protocols for quantum information tasks such as cryptographic key distribution. However, complete verification of Bell nonlocality requires high detection efficiencies, and is not robust to the typical transmission losses that occur in long distance applications. In contrast, quantum steering, a weaker form of quantum correlation, can be verified for arbitrarily low detection efficiencies and high losses. The cost is that current steering-verification protocols require complete trust in one of the measurement devices and its operator, allowing only one-sided secure key distribution. We present device-independent steering protocols that remove this need for trust, even when Bell nonlocality is not present. We experimentally demonstrate this principle for singlet states and states that do not violate a Bell inequality.

id: 1408.0565
title: Quantum noise effects with Kerr nonlinearity enhancement in coupled gain-loss waveguides
authors: Bing He, Shu-Bin Yan, Jing Wang, Min Xiao
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 053832 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0565
abstract: It is generally difficult to study the dynamical properties of a quantum system with both inherent quantum noises and non-perturbative nonlinearity. Due to the possibly drastic intensity increase of an input coherent light in the gain-loss waveguide couplers with parity-time (PT) symmetry, the Kerr effect from a nonlinearity added into the systems can be greatly enhanced, and is expected to create the macroscopic entangled states of the output light fields with huge photon numbers. Meanwhile, the quantum noises also coexist with the amplification and dissipation of the light fields. Under the interplay between the quantum noises and nonlinearity, the quantum dynamical behaviors of the systems become rather complicated. However, the important quantum noise effects have been mostly neglected in the previous studies about nonlinear PT-symmetric systems. Here we present a solution to this non-perturbative quantum nonlinear problem, showing the real-time evolution of the system observables. The enhanced Kerr nonlinearity is found to give rise to a previously unknown decoherence effect that is irrelevant to the quantum noises, and imposes a limit on the emergence of macroscopic nonclassicality. In contrast to what happen in the linear systems, the quantum noises exert significant impact on the system dynamics, and can create the nonclassical light field states in conjunction with the enhanced Kerr nonlinearity. This first study on the noise involved quantum nonlinear dynamics of the coupled gain-loss waveguides can help to better understand the quantum noise effects in the broad nonlinear systems.

id: 1408.0592
title: Decoy state measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution based on the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality
authors: Chun-Mei Zhang, Mo Li, Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Dong Wang, Jing-Zheng Huang, Yun-Guang Han, Man-Li Xu, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Patcharapong Treeviriyanupab, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 034302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0592
abstract: The measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol is proposed to remove the detector side channel attacks, while its security relies on the assumption that the encoding systems are perfectly characterized. In contrast, the MDI-QKD protocol based on the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality (CHSH-MDI-QKD) weakens this assumption, which only requires the quantum state to be prepared in the two-dimensional Hilbert space and the devices are independent. In experimental realizations, the weak coherent state, which is always used in QKD systems due to the lack of an ideal single photon source, may be prepared in the high-dimensional space. In this paper, we investigate the decoy-state CHSH-MDI-QKD protocol with $s(3 \le s \le 5)$ intensities, including one signal state and $s-1$ decoy states, and we also consider the finite-size effect on the decoy-state CHSH-MDI-QKD protocol with five intensities. Simulation results show that this scheme is very practical.

id: 1408.0607
title: Locality of the Aharonov-Bohm-Casher effect
authors: Kicheon Kang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0607
abstract: We address the question of the locality versus nonlocality in the Aharonov-Bohm and the Aharonov-Casher effects. For this purpose, we investigate all possible configurations of ideal shielding of the overlap between the electromagnetic fields generated by a charge and by a magnetic flux, and analyze their consequences on the Aharonov-Bohm-Casher interference. In a classical treatment of shielding, the Aharonov-Bohm-Casher effect vanishes regardless of the geometry of shielding, when the local overlap of electromagnetic fields is completely eliminated. On the other hand, the result depends on the configuration of shielding if the charge quantization in the superconducting shield is taken into account. It is shown that our results are fully understood in terms of the fluctuating local-field interaction. Our analysis strongly supports the alternative view on the Aharonov-Bohm-Casher interference that the effects originate from the local action of electromagnetic fields.

id: 1408.0647
title: Spontaneous emission and quantum discord: comparison of Hilbert-Schmidt and trace distance discord
authors: Lech Jakobczyk
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A, vol. 378, p. 3248 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0647
abstract: Hilbert - Schmidt and trace norm geometric quantum discord are compared with regard to their behavior during local time evolution. We consider the system of independent two - level atoms with time evolution given by the dissipative process of spontaneous emission. It is explicitly shown that the Hilbert - Schmidt norm discord has nonphysical properties with respect to such local evolution and cannot serve as a reasonable measure of quantum correlations and the better choice is to use trace norm discord as such a measure.

id: 1408.0745
title: Topos logic in measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Leon Loveridge, Raouf Dridi, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 2015 471: 20140716
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0745
abstract: We report first steps towards elucidating the relationship between contextuality, measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) and the non-classical logic of a topos associated with the computation. We show that, in a class of MBQC, classical universality requires non-classical logic, which is 'consumed' during the course of the computation, thereby pinpointing another potential quantum computational resource.

id: 1408.0783
title: Quantum statistics of four-wave mixing by a non-linear resonant microcavity
authors: Y. Sherkunov, David M. Whittaker, Henning Schomerus, Vladimir Fal'ko
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90 , 033845 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0783
abstract: We analyse the correlation and spectral properties of two-photon states resonantly transmitted by a non-linear optical microcavity. We trace the correlation properties of transmitted two-photon states to the decay spectrum of multi-photon resonances in the non-linear microcavity.

id: 1408.0825
title: Single-Photon Superradiance in Cold Atoms
authors: Rafael A. de Oliveira, Milrian S. Mendes, Weliton S. Martins, Pablo L. Saldanha, Jos¨¦ W. R. Tabosa, Daniel Felinto
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023848 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0825
abstract: The interaction of an ensemble of atoms with common vacuum modes may lead to an enhanced emission into these modes. This phenomenon, known as superradiance, highlights the coherent nature of spontaneous emission, resulting in macroscopic entangled states in mundane situations. The complexity of the typical observations of superradiance, however, masks its quantum nature, allowing alternative classical interpretations. Here we stress how this picture changed with the implementation ten years ago of a new process for single-photon generation from atomic ensembles. We present then the last piece of evidence for the superradiant nature of such process, reporting the observation of an accelerated emission of the photon with a rate that may be tuned by controllably changing the number of atoms in the ensemble. Such investigation paves the way to a new, bottom-up approach to the study of superradiance.

id: 1408.0927
title: Unsuitable use of spin and pseudospin symmetries with a pseudoscalar Cornell potential
authors: L. B. Castro, A. S. de Castro
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Chi. Phys. B
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23 (2014) 090301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0927
abstract: The concepts of spin and pseudospin symmetries has been used as mere rhetorics to decorate the pseudoscalar potential [Chin. Phys. B 22 090301 (2013)]. It is also pointed out that a more complete analysis of the bound states of fermions in a a pseudoscalar Cornell potential has already been published elsewhere.

id: 1408.0934
title: Optimal single shot strategies for discrimination of quantum measurements
authors: Michal Sedlak, Mario Ziman
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0934
abstract: We study discrimination of m quantum measurements in the scenario when the unknown measurement with n outcomes can be used only once. We show that ancilla-assisted discrimination procedures provide a nontrivial advantage over simple (ancilla-free) schemes for perfect distinguishability and we prove that inevitably m <= n. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions of perfect distinguishability of general binary measurements. We show that the optimization of the discrimination of projective qubit measurements and their mixtures with white noise is equivalent to the discrimination of specific quantum states. In particular, the optimal protocol for discrimination of projective qubit measurements with fixed failure rate (exploiting maximally entangled test state) is described. While minimum error discrimination of two projective qubit measurements can be realized without any need of entanglement, we show that discrimination of three projective qubit measurements requires a bipartite probe state. Moreover, when the measurements are not projective, the non-maximally entangled test states can outperform the maximally entangled ones.

id: 1408.0940
title: Optimal entanglement-assisted discrimination of quantum measurements
authors: M. Mikova, M. Sedlak, I. Straka, M. Micuda, M.Ziman, M. Jezek, M. Dusek, J. Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0940
abstract: We investigate optimal discrimination between two projective single-qubit measurements in a scenario where the measurement can be performed only once. We consider general setting involving a tunable fraction of inconclusive outcomes and we prove that the optimal discrimination strategy requires an entangled probe state for any nonzero rate of inconclusive outcomes. We experimentally implement this optimal discrimination strategy for projective measurements on polarization states of single photons. Our setup involves a real-time electrooptical feed-forward loop which allows us to fully harness the benefits of entanglement in discrimination of quantum measurements. The experimental data clearly demonstrate the advantage of entanglement-based discrimination strategy as compared to unentangled single-qubit probes.

id: 1408.0941
title: The intrinsic helicity of the elementary particles and the proof of the spin-statistics theorem
authors: Enrico Santamato, Francesco De Martini
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0941
abstract: The traditional Standard Quantum Mechanics is unable to solve the Spin-Statistics problem, i.e. to justify the utterly important Pauli Exclusion Principle. We show that this is due to the non completeness of the standard theory due to an arguable conception of the spin as a vector characterizing the rotational properties of the elementary particles. The present Article presents a complete and straightforward solution of the Spin-Statistics problem on the basis of the Conformal Quantum Geometrodynamics, a theory that has been proved to reproduce successfully all relevant processes of the Standard Quantum Mechanics based on the Dirac or Schr\"odinger equations, including Heisenberg uncertainty relations and nonlocal EPR correlations. When applied to a system made of many identical particles, an additional property of all elementary particles enters naturally into play: the intrinsic helicity. This property determines the correct Spin-Statistics connection observed in Nature.

id: 1408.0944
title: Magnetic tensor gradiometry using Ramsey interferometry of spinor condensates
authors: A. A. Wood, L. M. Bennie, A. Duong, M. Jasperse, L. D. Turner, R. P. Anderson
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0944
abstract: We have realized a magnetic tensor gradiometer by interferometrically measuring the relative phase between two spatially separated Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). We perform simultaneous Ramsey interferometry of the proximate $^{87}$Rb spin-1 condensates in freefall and infer their relative Larmor phase -- and thus the differential magnetic field strength -- with a common-mode phase noise suppression exceeding $50\,\mathrm{dB}$. By appropriately biasing the magnetic field and separating the BECs along orthogonal directions, we measure the magnetic field gradient tensor of ambient and applied magnetic fields with a nominal precision of $30\,\mathrm{\mu G\,cm^{-1}}$ and a sensor volume of $2\times10^{-5}\,\mathrm{mm}^3$. We predict a spin-projection noise limited magnetic energy resolution of order $\hbar$ for typical Zeeman coherence times of trapped condensates with this scheme, even with the low measurement duty cycle inherent to BEC experiments.

id: 1408.0945
title: What does an experimental test of quantum contextuality prove or disprove?
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: REVTEX4, 9 pages, 57 references; corrected example 7 in v2. To appear in Journal of Physics A, special issue "50 years of Bell's theorem"
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47:424031 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0945
abstract: The possibility to test experimentally the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem is investigated critically, following the demonstrations by Meyer, Kent and Clifton-Kent that the predictions of quantum mechanics are indistinguishable (up to arbitrary precision) from those of a non-contextual model, and the subsequent debate to which extent these models are actually classical or non-contextual. The present analysis starts from a careful consideration these "finite-precision" approximations. A stronger condition for non-contextual models, dubbed <ontological faithfulness>, is exhibited. It is shown that it allows to formulate approximately the constraints in Bell-Kochen-Specker theorems such as to render the usual proofs robust. As a consequence, one can experimentally test to finite precision ontologically faithful non-contextuality, and thus experimentally refute explanations from this smaller class. We include a discussion of the relation of ontological faithfulness to other proposals to overcome the finite precision objection.

id: 1408.0959
title: Passive correction of quantum logical errors in a driven, dissipative system: a blueprint for an analog quantum code fabric
authors: Eliot Kapit, John T. Chalker, Steven H. Simon
comments: 19 pages (with references), 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0959
abstract: A physical realization of self correcting quantum code would be profoundly useful for constructing a quantum computer. In this theoretical work, we provide a partial solution to major challenges preventing self correcting quantum code from being engineered in realistic devices. We consider a variant of Kitaev's toric code coupled to propagating bosons, which induce a long-ranged interaction between anyonic defects. By coupling the primary quantum system to an engineered dissipation source through resonant energy transfer, we demonstrate a "rate barrier" which leads to a potentially enormous increase in the system's quantum state lifetime through purely passive quantum error correction, even when coupled to an infinite temperature bath. While our mechanism is not scalable to infinitely large systems, the maximum effective size can be very large, and it is fully compatible with active error correction schemes. Our model uses only on-site and nearest-neighbor interactions, and could be implemented in superconducting qubits. We sketch one such implementation at the end of this work.

id: 1408.0993
title: Quantum advantage for distributed computing without communication
authors: L. Czekaj, M. Pawlowski, T. Vertesi, A. Grudka, M. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0993
abstract: Understanding the role that quantum entanglement plays as a resource in various information processing tasks is one of the crucial goals of quantum information theory. Here we propose a new perspective for studying quantum entanglement: distributed computation of functions without communication between nodes. To formalize this approach, we propose identity games. Surprisingly, despite of no-signaling, we obtain that non-local quantum strategies beat classical ones in terms of winning probability for identity games originating from certain bipartite and multipartite functions. Moreover we show that, for majority of functions, access to general non-signaling resources boosts success probability two times in comparison to classical ones, for number of outputs large enough.

id: 1408.1008
title: Entanglement dynamics in a quantum-classical hybrid of two q-bits and one oscillator
authors: L. Fratino, A. Lampo, H.-T. Elze
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures; accepted for publication in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. T 163 (2014) 014005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1008
abstract: We investigate new features, especially of entanglement dynamics, which arise in a quantum-classical hybrid. As a model, we study the coupling between two quantum mechanical two-level systems, i.e. two q-bits, and a classical harmonic oscillator. Their interaction is described by a hybrid coupling, in accordance with a recently developed quantum-classical hybrid theory. We discuss various situations in which entanglement of the q-bits does (not) evolve. Furthermore, we point out an experimental application in a hybrid cooling scheme and indicate topics for future study.

id: 1408.1009
title: Gravitational resonance spectroscopy with an oscillating magnetic field gradient in the GRANIT flow through arrangement
authors: G. Pignol, S. Baessler, V. V. Nesvizhevsky, K. Protasov, D. Rebreyend, A. Yu. Voronin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1009
abstract: Gravitational resonance spectroscopy consists in measuring the energy spectrum of bouncing ultracold neutrons above a mirror by inducing resonant transitions between different discrete quantum levels. We discuss how to induce the resonances with a flow through arrangement in the GRANIT spectrometer, excited by an oscillating magnetic field gradient. The spectroscopy could be realized in two distinct modes (so called DC and AC) using the same device to produce the magnetic excitation. We present calculations demonstrating the feasibility of the newly proposed AC mode.

id: 1408.1055
title: Coherent Excitation Transfer in a Spin Chain of Three Rydberg Atoms
authors: Daniel Barredo, Henning Labuhn, Sylvain Ravets, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys, Charles S. Adams
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures + supplementary material ; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 113002 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1055
abstract: We study coherent excitation hopping in a spin chain realized using highly excited individually addressable Rydberg atoms. The dynamics are fully described in terms of an XY spin Hamiltonian with a long range resonant dipole-dipole coupling that scales as the inverse third power of the lattice spacing, $C_3/R^3$. The experimental data demonstrate the importance of next neighbor interactions which are manifest as revivals in the excitation dynamics. The results suggest that arrays of Rydberg atoms are ideally suited to large scale, high-fidelity quantum simulation of spin dynamics.

id: 1408.1142
title: A class of unambiguous state discrimination problems achievable by separable measurements but impossible by local operations and classical communication
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: Version 2 has new title along with an added discussion about using an enlarged Hilbert space and why this is not helpful
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1142
abstract: We consider an infinite class of unambiguous quantum state discrimination problems on multipartite systems, described by Hilbert space $\cal{H}$, of any number of parties. Restricting consideration to measurements that act only on $\cal{H}$, we find the optimal global measurement for each element of this class, achieving the maximum possible success probability of $1/2$ in all cases. This measurement turns out to be both separable and unique, and by our recently discovered necessary condition for local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC), it is easily shown to be impossible by any finite-round LOCC protocol. We also show that, quite generally, if the input state is restricted to lie in $\cal{H}$, then any LOCC measurement on an enlarged Hilbert space is effectively identical to an LOCC measurement on $\cal{H}$. Therefore, our necessary condition for LOCC demonstrates directly that a higher success probability is attainable for each of these problems using general separable measurements as compared to that which is possible with any finite-round LOCC protocol.

id: 1408.1153
title: Continuous-variable dense coding via a general Gaussian state: Monogamy relation
authors: Jaehak Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Jiyong Park, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1153
abstract: We study a continuous variable (CV) dense-coding protocol, originally proposed to employ a two-mode squeezed state, using a general two-mode Gaussian state as a quantum channel. We particularly obtain conditions to manifest quantum advantage by beating two well-known single-mode schemes, namely, the squeezed-state scheme (best Gaussian scheme) and the number-state scheme (optimal scheme achieving the Holevo bound). We then extend our study to a multipartite Gaussian state and investigate the monogamy of operational entanglement measured by the communication capacity under the dense-coding protocol. We show that this operational entanglement represents a strict monogamy relation, by means of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle among different parties, i.e., the quantum advantage for communication can be possible for only one pair of two-mode systems among many parties.

id: 1408.1194
title: A comparison between models of gravity induced decoherence
authors: Sayantani Bera, Sandro Donadi, Kinjalk Lochan, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 26 pages, abstract partly rewritten, Section IV modified slightly, reference added, attribution to earlier work, conclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1194
abstract: It has been suggested in the literature that spatial coherence of the wave function can be dynamically suppressed by fluctuations in the gravity of spacetime. These fluctuations represent the minimal uncertainty that is present when one probes spacetime geometry with a quantum probe. Two similar models have been proposed, one by Di\'osi [D-model] and one by Karolyhazy and collaborators [K-model], based on apparently unrelated minimal spacetime bounds. The two models arrive at somewhat different expressions for the dependence of the localization coherence length on the mass and size of the quantum object. In the present article we compare and contrast the two models from three aspects: (i) comparison of the spacetime bounds, (ii) method of calculating decoherence time, (iii) comparison of noise correlation. We show that under certain conditions the minimal spacetime bounds in the two models can be derived one from the other. We argue that the methods of calculating the decoherence time are equivalent. We re-derive the two-point correlation for the fluctuation potential in the K-model, and confirm the earlier result of Di\'osi and Luk\'acs that it is non-white noise, unlike in the D-model, where the corresponding correlation is white noise in time. This seems to be the origin of the different results in the two models. We derive the non-Markovian master equation for the K-model. We argue that the minimal spacetime bound cannot predict the noise correlation uniquely, and additional criteria are necessary to accurately determine the effects of gravitationally induced decoherence.

id: 1408.1223
title: Communication strength of boxes violating monogamy relations
authors: Waldemar K?obus, Micha? Oszmaniec, Remigiusz Augusiak, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 6 pages (4.5 + appendices), 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1223
abstract: In any theory satisfying the no-signalling principle correlations generated among spatially separated parties in a Bell-type experiment are subject to certain constraints known as monogamy relations. Violation of such a relation implies that correlations arising in the experiment must be signalling, and, as such, they can be used to send classical information between parties. Here, we study the amount of information that can be sent using such correlations. To this aim, we first provide a framework associating them with classical channels whose capacities are then used to quantify the usefulness of these correlations in sending information. Finally, we determine the minimal amount of information that can be sent using signalling correlations violating the monogamy relation associated to the chained Bell inequalities.

id: 1408.1227
title: Purity and entropy evolution speed limits for open quantum systems
authors: Raam Uzdin, Eric Lutz, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1227
abstract: We derive generic upper bounds on the rate of purity change and entropy increase for open quantum systems. These bounds depend solely on the generators of the nonunitary dynamics and are independent of the particular states of the systems. They are thus perfectly suited to investigate dephasing and thermalization processes of arbitrary systems. We apply these results to single and multiple dephasing channels, to a problem of quantum control in the presence of noise, and to cooling.

id: 1408.1250
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Walks
authors: S. D. Freedman, Y. H. Tong, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1250
abstract: Quantum walks are expected to serve important modelling and algorithmic applications in many areas of science and mathematics. Although quantum walks have been successfully implemented physically in recent times, no major efforts have been made to combat the error associated with these physical implementations in a fault-tolerant manner. In this paper, we propose a systematic method to implement fault-tolerant quantum walks in discrete time on arbitrarily complex graphs, using quantum states encoded with the Steane code and a set of universal fault tolerant matrix operations.

id: 1408.1266
title: Generation and detection of a sub-Poissonian atom number distribution in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: J.-B. B¨¦guin, E. Bookjans, S. L. Christensen, H. L. S?rensen, J. H. M¨¹ller, J. Appel, E. S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1266
abstract: We demonstrate preparation and detection of an atom number distribution in a one-dimensional atomic lattice with the variance $-14$ dB below the Poissonian noise level. A mesoscopic ensemble containing a few thousand atoms is trapped in the evanescent field of a nanofiber. The atom number is measured through dual-color homodyne interferometry with a pW-power shot noise limited probe. Strong coupling of the evanescent probe guided by the nanofiber allows for a real-time measurement with a precision of $\pm 8$ atoms on an ensemble of some $10^3$ atoms in a one-dimensional trap. The method is very well suited for generating collective atomic entangled or spin-squeezed states via a quantum non-demolition measurement as well as for tomography of exotic atomic states in a one-dimensional lattice.

id: 1408.1272
title: Environment-assisted quantum control of a solid-state spin via coherent dark states
authors: Jack Hansom, Carsten H. H. Schulte, Claire Le Gall, Clemens Matthiesen, Edmund Clarke, Maxime Hugues, Jacob M. Taylor, Mete Atat¨¹re
comments: Additional data and analysis is available for download in PDF format at the publications section of this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1272
abstract: Understanding the interplay between a quantum system and its environment lies at the heart of quantum science and its applications. To-date most efforts have focused on circumventing decoherence induced by the environment by either protecting the system from the associated noise or by manipulating the environment directly. Recently, parallel efforts using the environment as a resource have emerged, which could enable dissipation-driven quantum computation and coupling of distant quantum bits. Here, we realize the optical control of a semiconductor quantum-dot spin by relying on its interaction with an adiabatically evolving spin environment. The emergence of hyperfine-induced, quasi-static optical selection rules enables the optical generation of coherent spin dark states without an external magnetic field. We show that the phase and amplitude of the lasers implement multi-axis manipulation of the basis spanned by the dark and bright states, enabling control via projection into a spin-superposition state. Our approach can be extended, within the scope of quantum control and feedback, to other systems interacting with an adiabatically evolving environment.

id: 1408.1273
title: General Non-Markovian structure of Gaussian Master and Stochastic Schr?dinger Equations
authors: Lajos Di¨®si, Luca Ferialdi
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 113 (2014) 200403-(5)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1273
abstract: General open quantum systems display memory features, their master equations are non-Markovian. We show that the subclass of Gaussian non-Markovian open system dynamics is tractable in a depth similar to the Markovian class. The structure of master equations exhibits a transparent generalization of the Lindblad structure. We find and parametrize the class of stochastic Schr\"odinger equations that unravel a given master equation, such class was before known for Markovian systems only. We show that particular non-Markovian unravellings known in the literature are special cases of our class.

id: 1408.1321
title: Liquid-nitrogen cooled, free-running single-photon sensitive detector at telecommunication wavelengths
authors: M. Covi, B. Pressl, T. G¨¹nthner, K. Laiho, S. Krapick, C. Silberhorn, G. Weihs
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures. The final publication is available at Springer via this http URL
journal: Applied Physics B 118, 489-495 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1321
abstract: The measurement of light characteristics at the single- and few photon level plays a key role in many quantum optics applications. Often photodetection is preceded with the transmission of quantum light over long distances in optical fibers with their low loss window near 1550nm. Nonetheless, the detection of the photonic states at telecommunication wavelengths via avalanche photodetectors has long been facing severe restrictions. Only recently, demonstrations of the first free-running detector techniques in the telecommunication band have lifted the demand of synchronizing the signal with the detector. Moreover, moderate cooling is required to gain single-photon sensitivity with these detectors. Here we implement a liquid-nitrogen cooled negative-feedback avalanche diode (NFAD) at telecommunication wavelengths and investigate the properties of this highly flexible, free-running single-photon sensitive detector. Our realization of cooling provides a large range of stable operating temperatures and has advantages over the relatively bulky commercial refrigerators that have been used before. We determine the region of NFAD working parameters most suitable for single-photon sensitive detection enabling a direct plug-in of our detector to a true photon counting task.

id: 1408.1330
title: Bose-Hubbard Model: Relation Between Driven-Dissipative Steady-States and Equilibrium Quantum Phases
authors: Alexandre Le Boit¨¦, Giuliano Orso, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1330
abstract: We present analytical solutions for the mean-field master equation of the driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard model for cavity photons, in the limit of both weak pumping and weak dissipation. Instead of pure Mott insulator states, we find statistical mixtures with the same second-order coherence as a Fock state with n photons, but a mean photon number of n/2. These mixed states occur when n pump photons have the same energy as n interacting photons inside the nonlinear cavity and survive up to a critical tunneling coupling strength, above which a crossover to classical coherent state takes place. We also explain the origin of both antibunching and superbunching predicted by P-representation mean-field theory at higher pumping and dissipation. In particular, we show that the strongly correlated region of the associated phase diagram cannot be described within the semiclassical Gross-Pitaevski approach.

id: 1408.1395
title: Acceleration-assisted entanglement harvesting and rangefinding
authors: Grant Salton, Robert B. Mann, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. Version 2 updated to address referee comments and minor corrections
journal: New J. Phys. 17 035001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1395
abstract: We study entanglement harvested from a quantum field through local interaction with Unruh-DeWitt detectors undergoing linear acceleration. The interactions allow entanglement to be swapped locally from the field to the detectors. We find an enhancement in the entanglement harvesting by two detectors with anti-parallel acceleration over those with inertial motion. This enhancement is characterized by the presence of entanglement between two detectors that would otherwise maintain a separable state in the absence of relativistic motion (with the same distance of closest approach in both cases). We also find that entanglement harvesting is degraded for two detectors undergoing parallel acceleration in the same way as for two static, comoving detectors in a de Sitter universe. This degradation is known to be different from that of two inertial detectors in a thermal bath. We comment on the physical origin of the harvested entanglement and present three methods for determining distance between two detectors using properties of the harvested entanglement. Information about the separation is stored nonlocally in the joint state of the accelerated detectors after the interaction; a single detector alone contains none. We also find an example of entanglement sudden death exhibited in parameter space.

id: 1408.1464
title: The process matrix framework for a single-party system
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1464
abstract: The process matrix framework [O. Oreshkov, F. Costa, and C. Brukner, Nature Communications {\bf3}, 1092 (2012)] can describe general physical theory where locally operations are described by completely-positive maps but globally no fixed causal structure is assumed. In this framework, two parties who perform measurements on each single-qubit system can violate a "causal inequality", which is not violated if the global fixed causal structure exists. Since the standard quantum physics assumes a fixed global causal structure, the process matrix framework can describe more general physical theory than the standard quantum physics. In this paper, we show that for a single-party system the process matrix framework is reduced to the standard quantum physics, and therefore no exotic effect beyond the standard quantum physics can be observed. This result is analogous to the well known fact in the Bell inequality violation: a single-party system can be described by a local hidden variable theory, whereas more than two parties can violate the Bell inequality.

id: 1408.1475
title: Exact non-Markovian master equations for multiple qubit systems: quantum trajectory approach
authors: Yusui Chen, J. Q. You, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052104 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1475
abstract: A wide class of exact master equations for a multiple qubit system can be explicitly constructed by using the corresponding exact non-Markovian quantum state diffusion equations. These exact master equations arise naturally from the quantum decoherence dynamics of qubit system as a quantum memory coupled to a collective colored noisy source. The exact master equations are also important in optimal quantum control, quantum dissipation and quantum thermodynamics. In this paper, we show that the exact non-Markovian master equation for a dissipative N-qubit system can be derived explicitly from the statistical average of the corresponding non-Markovian quantum trajectories. We illustrated our general formulation by an explicit construction of a three-qubit system coupled to a non-Markovian bosonic environment. This multiple qubit master equation offers an accurate time evolution of quantum systems in various domains, and paves a way to investigate the memory effect of an open system in a non-Markovian regime without any approximation.

id: 1408.1477
title: The Unruh effect interpreted as a quantum noise channel
authors: S. Omkar, Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth, Ashutosh Kumar Alok
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1477
abstract: We derive the operator-sum representation for the noise channel that acts on a mode of a free Dirac field, as seen by a relativistically accelerated observer. A modal qubit thus appears as if subjected to quantum noise that degrades quantum information, as observed in the accelerated reference frame. We compare and contrast this noise channel, which arises from the Unruh effect, from a conventional noise due to environmental decoherence. We show that the Unruh channel produces an amplitude damping like effect, associated with zero temperature, even though the Unruh effect is associated with a non-zero temperature. Asymptotically, the Bloch sphere subjected to the channel does not converge to a point, as would be expected by fluctuation-dissipation arguments, but contracts by a finite factor. We note that turning off the drive that generates the acceleration corresponds to a non-completely-positive (NCP) map.

id: 1408.1502
title: Control of single-photon transport in a one-dimensional waveguide by another single photon
authors: Wei-Bin Yan, Heng Fan
comments: Coments are welcome! 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053807 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1502
abstract: We study the controllable single-photon transport in a one-dimensional (1D) waveguide with nonlinear dispersion relation coupled to a three-level emitter in cascade configuration. An extra cavity field was introduced to drive one of the level transitions of the emitter. In the resonance case, when the extra cavity does not contain photons, the input single photon will be reflected, and when the cavity contains one photon, the full transmission of the input single photon can be obtained. In the off-resonance case, the single-photon transport can also be controlled by the parameters of the cavity. Therefore, we have shown that the single-photon transport can be controlled by an extra cavity field.

id: 1408.1539
title: A New Method of Classification of Pure Tripartite Quantum States
authors: Jyoti Faujdar, Anoopa Joshi, Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1539
abstract: The classification of the multipartite entanglement is an important problem in quantum information theory. We propose a class of two qubit mixed states $\sigma_{AB}= p|\chi_{1}\rangle\langle\chi_{1}|\otimes\rho_{1}+(1-p)|\chi_{2}\rangle\langle\chi_{2}|\otimes\rho_{2}$, where $|\chi_{1}\rangle=\alpha|0\rangle+\beta|1\rangle$, $|\chi_{2}\rangle=\beta|0\rangle+(-1)^{n}\alpha|1\rangle$. We have shown that the state $\sigma_{AB}$ represent a classical state when $n$ is odd while it represent a non-classical state when $n$ is even. The purification of the state $\sigma_{AB}$ is studied and found that the purification is possible if the spectral decomposition of the density matrices $\rho_{1}$ and $\rho_{2}$ represent pure states. We have established a relationship between three tangle, which measures the amount of entanglement in three qubit system and the quantity $\langle\chi_{1}|\chi_{2}\rangle$, which identifies whether the two qubit mixed state is classical or non-classical. The three qubit purified state is then classified as a separable or biseparable or W-type or GHZ-type state using the quantum correlation, measured by geometric discord, of its reduced two qubit density matrix.

id: 1408.1540
title: Quantum Byzantine Agreement via Hardy correlations and entanglement swapping
authors: Ramij Rahaman, Marcin Wie?niak, Marek ?ukowski
comments: The protocol presented here is a solution of the original Byzantine agreement problem and not its sub-problem like detectable Byzantine agreement. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1540
abstract: We present a device-independent quantum scheme for the {\em Byzantine Generals} problem. The protocol is for three parties. Party $C$ is to send two identical one bit messages to parties $A$ and $B$. The receivers $A$ and $B$ may exchange two one bit messages informing the other party on the message received from $C$. A bit flipping error in one of the transmissions, does not allow the receiving parties to establish what was the message of $C$. Our quantum scheme has the feature that if the messages of the Byzantine protocol are readable (that is give an unambiguous bit value for any of the receivers), then any error by $C$ (cheating by one of the commanding general) is impossible. $A$ and $B$ do not have to exchange protocol messages to be sure of this.

id: 1408.1550
title: Three-Slit Ghost Interference and Nonlocal Duality
authors: Mohd Asad Siddiqui
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf., Vol. 13, No. 3 (2015) 1550022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1550
abstract: A three-slit ghost interference experiment with entangled photons is theoretically analyzed using wave-packet dynamics. A non-local duality relation is derived which connects the path distinguishability of one photon to the interference visibility of the other.

id: 1408.1556
title: Robust manipulation of superconducting qubits in the presence of fluctuations
authors: Daoyi Dong, Chunlin Chen, Bo Qi, Ian R. Petersen, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1556
abstract: Superconducting quantum systems are promising candidates for quantum information processing due to their scalability and design flexibility. However, the existence of defects, fluctuations, and inaccuracies is unavoidable for practical superconducting quantum circuits. In this paper, a sampling-based learning control (SLC) method is used to guide the design of control fields for manipulating superconducting quantum systems. Numerical results for one-qubit systems and coupled two-qubit systems show that the "smart" fields learned using the SLC method can achieve robust manipulation of superconducting qubits even in the presence of large fluctuations and inaccuracies.

id: 1408.1562
title: Overcoming ambiguities in classical and quantum correlation measures
authors: F. M. Paula, A. Saguia, Thiago R. de Oliveira, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: Minor corrections. Published version
journal: EPL 108, 10003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1562
abstract: We identify ambiguities in the available frameworks for defining quantum, classical, and total correlations as measured by discordlike quantifiers. More specifically, we determine situations for which either classical or quantum correlations are not uniquely defined due to degeneracies arising from the optimization procedure over the state space. In order to remove such degeneracies, we introduce a general approach where correlations are independently defined, escaping therefore from a degenerate subspace. As an illustration, we analyze the trace-norm geometric quantum discord for two-qubit Bell-diagonal states.

id: 1408.1612
title: OptQC: An optimised parallel quantum compiler
authors: T. Loke, J. B. Wang
comments: to appear in Computer Physics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1612
abstract: The software package \emph{Qcompiler} (CPC, 184 (2013) 853) provides a general quantum compilation framework, which maps any given unitary operation into a quantum circuit consisting of a sequential set of elementary quantum gates. In this paper, we present an extended software \emph{OptQC}, which finds permutation matrices $P$ and $Q$ for a given unitary matrix $U$ such that the number of gates in the quantum circuit of $U = Q^TP^TU'PQ$ is significantly reduced, where $U'$ is equivalent to $U$ up to a permutation and the quantum circuit implementation of each matrix component is considered separately. We extend further this software package to make use of high-performance computers with a multiprocessor architecture using MPI. We demonstrate its effectiveness in reducing the total number of quantum gates required for various unitary operators.

id: 1408.1616
title: Complexity analysis of quantum walk based search algorithms
authors: B. L. Douglas, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1616
abstract: We present several families of graphs that allow both efficient quantum walk implementations and efficient quantum walk based search algorithms. For these graphs, we construct quantum circuits that explicitly implement the full quantum walk search algorithm, without reference to a `black box' oracle. These circuits provide a practically implementable method to explore quantum walk based search algorithms with the aim of eventual real-world applications. We also provide a numerical analysis of a quantum walk based search along a twisted toroid family of graphs, which requires O($\sqrt{n}$ log($n$)) elementary 2-qubit quantum gate operations to find a marked node.

id: 1408.1622
title: Cavity-output-field control via interference effects
authors: Viorel Ciornea, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043837 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1622
abstract: We show how interference effects are responsible for manipulating the output electromagnetic field of an optical micro-resonator in the good-cavity limit. The system of interest consists in a moderately strongly pumped two-level emitter embedded in the optical cavity. When an additional weaker laser of the same frequency is pumping the combined system through one of the resonator's mirrors then the output cavity electromagnetic field can be almost completely suppressed or enhanced. This is due to the interference among the scattered light by the strongly pumped atom into the cavity mode and the incident weaker laser field. The result applies to photonic crystal environments as well.

id: 1408.1623
title: A new method for analyzing the time evolution of quantum mechanical systems
authors: Chyi-Lung Lin, Tsin-Fu Jiang
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1623
abstract: We show a new method for analyzing the time evolution of the Schrodinger wave function phi(x,t). We propose the decomposition of the Hamiltonian as: H(t)=Hp(t)+Hc(t), where Hp(t)is the operator which does not change the state and therefore phi(x,t) is its eigenfunction, and Hc(t)is the operator that changes the state. With this decomposition, the time evolution of a wave function can be understood more clearly via the operator Hc(t). We illustrate this method by exactly solving the system of driven harmonic oscillator. We show that nonspreading wave packets exist in this system in addition to historically known paradigms. This method can be applied to analyze the time evolution of general Hamiltonian systems as well.

id: 1408.1626
title: Testing macroscopic realism through high-mass interferometry
authors: Clive Emary, J. P. Cotter, Markus Arndt
comments: 5 pages; 4 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042114 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1626
abstract: We define a quantum witness for high-mass matter-wave interferometers that allows us to test fundamental assumptions of macroscopic realism. We propose an experimental realisation using absorptive laser gratings and show that such systems can strongly violate a macrorealistic quantum-witness equality. The measurement of the witness can therefore provide clear evidence of physics beyond macrorealism for macromolecules and nanoparticles.

id: 1408.1638
title: Efficient heralding of O-band passively spatial-multiplexed photons for noise-tolerant quantum key distribution
authors: Mao Tong Liu, Han Chuen Lim
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1638
abstract: When implementing O-band quantum key distribution on optical fiber transmission lines carrying C-band data traffic, noise photons that arise from spontaneous Raman scattering or insufficient filtering of the classical data channels could cause the quantum bit-error rate to exceed the security threshold. In this case, a photon heralding scheme may be used to reject the uncorrelated noise photons in order to restore the quantum bit-error rate to a low level. However, the secure key rate would suffer unless one uses a heralded photon source with sufficiently high heralding rate and heralding efficiency. In this work we demonstrate a heralded photon source that has a heralding efficiency that is as high as 74.5%. One disadvantage of a typical heralded photon source is that the long deadtime of the heralding detector results in a significant drop in the heralding rate. To counter this problem, we propose a passively spatial-multiplexed configuration at the heralding arm. Using two heralding detectors in this configuration, we obtain an increase in the heralding rate by 37% and a corresponding increase in the heralded photon detection rate by 16%. We transmitted the O-band photons over 10 km of noisy optical fiber to observe the relation between quantum bit-error rate and noise-degraded second-order correlation function of the transmitted photons. The effects of afterpulsing when we shorten the deadtime of the heralding detectors are also observed and discussed.

id: 1408.1651
title: Comment on: Maximal violation of Bell inequalities by position measurements
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Sheldon Goldstein, Tim Maudlin, Robin Schlenga, Daniel V. Tausk, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1651
abstract: In an article published in 2010, Kiukas and Werner claim to have shown that Bohmian Mechanics does not make the same empirical predictions as ordinary Quantum Mechanics. We explain that such claim is wrong.

id: 1408.1657
title: Power law violation of the area law in quantum spin chains
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Peter W. Shor
comments: v2: 39 pages, 11 figures. In v2 a new section was added to include a model with no boundary terms (open and closed chain). The model in presence of an external field is discussed. Asymptotic technique is improved. v1:37 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1657
abstract: The sub-volume scaling of the entanglement entropy with the system's size, $n$, has been a subject of vigorous study in the last decade [1]. The area law provably holds for gapped one dimensional systems [2] and it was believed to be violated by at most a factor of $\log\left(n\right)$ in physically reasonable models such as critical systems. In this paper, we generalize the spin$-1$ model of Bravyi et al [3] to all integer spin-$s$ chains, whereby we introduce a class of exactly solvable models that are physical and exhibit signatures of criticality, yet violate the area law by a power law. The proposed Hamiltonian is local and translationally invariant in the bulk. We prove that it is frustration free and has a unique ground state. Moreover, we prove that the energy gap scales as $n^{-c}$, where using the theory of Brownian excursions, we prove $c\ge2$. This rules out the possibility of these models being described by a conformal field theory. We analytically show that the Schmidt rank grows exponentially with $n$ and that the half-chain entanglement entropy to the leading order scales as $\sqrt{n}$ (Eq. 16). Geometrically, the ground state is seen as a uniform superposition of all $s-$colored Motzkin walks. Lastly, we introduce an external field which allows us to remove the boundary terms yet retain the desired properties of the model. Our techniques for obtaining the asymptotic form of the entanglement entropy, the gap upper bound and the self-contained expositions of the combinatorial techniques, more akin to lattice paths, may be of independent interest.

id: 1408.1677
title: Protocol using kicked Ising dynamics for generating states with maximal multipartite entanglement
authors: Sunil K. Mishra, Arul Lakshminarayan, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91 022318 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1677
abstract: We present a solvable model of iterating cluster state protocols that lead to entanglement production, between contiguous blocks, of 1 ebit per iteration. This continues till the blocks are maximally entangled at which stage an unravelling begins at the same rate till the blocks are unentangled. The model is a variant of the transverse field Ising model and can be implemented with CNOT and single qubit gates. The inter qubit entanglement as measured by the concurrence is shown to be zero for periodic chain realizations while for open boundaries there are very specific instances at which these can develop. Thus we introduce a class of simply produced states with very large multipartite entanglement content of potential use in measurement based quantum computing.

id: 1408.1720
title: Fault-tolerant logical gates in quantum error-correcting codes
authors: Fernando Pastawski, Beni Yoshida
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012305 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1720
abstract: Recently, Bravyi and K\"onig have shown that there is a tradeoff between fault-tolerantly implementable logical gates and geometric locality of stabilizer codes. They consider locality-preserving operations which are implemented by a constant depth geometrically local circuit and are thus fault-tolerant by construction. In particular, they shown that, for local stabilizer codes in D spatial dimensions, locality preserving gates are restricted to a set of unitary gates known as the D-th level of the Clifford hierarchy. In this paper, we elaborate this idea and provide several extensions and applications of their characterization in various directions. First, we present a new no-go theorem for self-correcting quantum memory. Namely, we prove that a three-dimensional stabilizer Hamiltonian with a locality-preserving implementation of a non-Clifford gate cannot have a macroscopic energy barrier. Second, we prove that the code distance of a D-dimensional local stabilizer code with non-trivial locality-preserving m-th level Clifford logical gate is upper bounded by $O(L^{D+1-m})$. For codes with non-Clifford gates (m>2), this improves the previous best bound by Bravyi and Terhal. Third we prove that a qubit loss threshold of codes with non-trivial transversal m-th level Clifford logical gate is upper bounded by 1/m. As such, no family of fault-tolerant codes with transversal gates in increasing level of the Clifford hierarchy may exist. This result applies to arbitrary stabilizer and subsystem codes, and is not restricted to geometrically-local codes. Fourth we extend the result of Bravyi and K\"onig to subsystem codes. A technical difficulty is that, unlike stabilizer codes, the so-called union lemma does not apply to subsystem codes. This problem is avoided by assuming the presence of error threshold in a subsystem code, and the same conclusion as Bravyi-K\"onig is recovered.

id: 1408.1721
title: Statistical approach to quantum mechanics II: Nonrelativistic spin
authors: G.H. Goedecke
comments: 24 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1721
abstract: In this second paper in a series, we show that the the general statistical approach to nonrelativistic quantum mechanics developed in the first paper yields a representation of quantum spin and magnetic moments based on classical nonrelativistic spinning top models, using Euler angle coordinates. The models allow half-odd-integer spin and predict supraluminal speeds only for electrons and other leptons, which must be treated relativistically. The spin operators in the space-fixed frame satisfy the usual commutation rules, while those in the rotating body-fixed frame satisfy "left-handed" rules. The commutation rules are independent of the structure of the top, so all nonrelativistic rigidly rotating objects must have integer or odd-half-integer spin. Physical boundary conditions restrict all mixed spin states to involve only half-odd-integer or only integer spin eigenstates. For spin 1/2, the theory automatically yields a modified Pauli-Schr\"odinger equation. The Hamiltonian operator in this equation contains a rigid rotator term and a term involving the square of the magmetic field, as well as an interaction term having the usual form in spherically symmetric and some cylindrically symmetric models, valid for any magnetogyric ratio.

id: 1408.1722
title: Statistical approach to quantum mechanics I: General nonrelativistic theory
authors: G.H. Goedecke
comments: 34 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1722
abstract: In this initial paper in a series, we first discuss why classical motions of small particles should be treated statistically. Then we show that any attempted statistical description of any nonrelativistic classical system inevitably yields the multi-coordinate Schr\"odinger equation, with its usual boundary conditions, as an essential statistical equation for the system. We derive the general "canonical quantization" rule, that the Hamiltonian operator must be the classical Hamiltonian in the $N$-dimensional metric configuration space defined by the classical kinetic energy of the system, with the classical conjugate momentum $N$-vector replaced by $-i\hbar$ times the vector gradient operator in that space. We obtain these results by using conservation of probability, general tensor calculus, the Madelung transform, the Ehrenfest theorem and/or the Hamilton-Jacobi equation, and comparison with results for the charged harmonic oscillator in stochastic electrodynamics. We also provide two illustrative examples and a discussion of how coordinate trajectories could be compatible with wave properties such as interference, diffraction, and tunneling.

id: 1408.1757
title: Macroscopic Quantum Entanglement of a Kondo Cloud at Finite Temperature
authors: S.-S. B. Lee, Jinhong Park, H.-S. Sim
comments: Supplementary Material included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 057203 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1757
abstract: We propose a variational approach for computing the macroscopic entanglement in a many-body mixed state, based on entanglement witness operators, and compute the entanglement of formation (EoF), a mixed-state generalization of the entanglement entropy, in single- and two-channel Kondo systems at finite temperature. The thermal suppression of the EoF obeys power-law scaling at low temperature. The scaling exponent is halved from the single- to the two-channel system, which is attributed, using a bosonization method, to the non-Fermi liquid behavior of a Majorana fermion, a "half" of a complex fermion, emerging in the two-channel system. Moreover, the EoF characterizes the size and power-law tail of the Kondo screening cloud of the single-channel system.

id: 1408.1760
title: Tunable-Cavity QED with Phase Qubits
authors: J. D. Whittaker, F. C. S. da Silva, M. S. Allman, F. Lecocq, K. Cicak, A. J. Sirois, J. D. Teufel, J. Aumentado, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review B 90, 024513 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1760
abstract: We describe a tunable-cavity QED architecture with an rf SQUID phase qubit inductively coupled to a single-mode, resonant cavity with a tunable frequency that allows for both microwave readout of tunneling and dispersive measurements of the qubit. Dispersive measurement is well characterized by a three-level model, strongly dependent on qubit anharmonicity, qubit-cavity coupling and detuning. A tunable cavity frequency provides a way to strongly vary both the qubit-cavity detuning and coupling strength, which can reduce Purcell losses, cavity-induced dephasing of the qubit, and residual bus coupling for a system with multiple qubits. With our qubit-cavity system, we show that dynamic control over the cavity frequency enables one to avoid Purcell losses during coherent qubit evolutions and optimize state readout during qubit measurements. The maximum qubit decay time $T_1$ = 1.5 $\mu$s is found to be limited by surface dielectric losses from a design geometry similar to planar transmon qubits.

id: 1408.1769
title: Quantum vampire: collapse-free action at a distance by the photon annihilation operator
authors: Ilya A. Fedorov, Alexander E. Ulanov, Yury V. Kurochkin, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optica 2, 112 - 115 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1769
abstract: A nonclassical state of light is distributed, via a beam splitter, between two remote parties. One of the parties applies the photon annihilation operator to its portion of the state. Surprisingly, this local intervention removes a photon from the entire initial state, leaving its mode as well as the spatial and temporal structure undisturbed. In this way, nonlocal quantum action-at-a-distance occurs without local state collapse by either party. This leads to curious consequences, such as the absence of a shadow when the annihilation operator is applied to a part of the spatial cross-section of the initial optical mode. In the experiment, we subtract a single photon from a part of an optical mode initially prepared in the one- or two-photon Fock state. Subsequent homodyne tomography reveals that the whole mode has jumped to the next lower Fock state, with no change in the mode shape.

id: 1408.1792
title: Non-Markovianity degree for random unitary evolution
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Filip A. Wudarski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012104 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1792
abstract: We analyze the non-Markovianity degree for random unitary evolution of d-level quantum systems. It is shown how non-Markovianity degree is characterized in terms of local decoherence rates. In particular we derive a su?cient condition for vanishing of the back ow of information.

id: 1408.1803
title: Deterministic coupling of a single silicon-vacancy color center to a photonic crystal cavity in diamond
authors: Janine Riedrich-M?ller, Carsten Arend, Christoph Pauly, Frank M¨¹cklich, Martin Fischer, Stefan Gsell, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 
journal: Nano Letters 14, 5281-5287 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1803
abstract: Deterministic coupling of single solid-state emitters to nanocavities is the key for integrated quantum information devices. We here fabricate a photonic crystal cavity around a preselected single silicon-vacancy color center in diamond and demonstrate modification of the emitters internal population dynamics and radiative quantum efficiency. The controlled, room-temperature cavity coupling gives rise to a resonant Purcell enhancement of the zero-phonon transition by a factor of 19, coming along with a 2.5-fold reduction of the emitter's lifetime.

id: 1408.1816
title: Quantum pattern matching fast on average
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures; v2: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1816
abstract: The $d$-dimensional pattern matching problem is to find an occurrence of a pattern of length $m \times \dots \times m$ within a text of length $n \times \dots \times n$, with $n \ge m$. This task models various problems in text and image processing, among other application areas. This work describes a quantum algorithm which solves the pattern matching problem for random patterns and texts in time $\widetilde{O}((n/m)^{d/2} 2^{O(d^{3/2}\sqrt{\log m})})$. For large $m$ this is super-polynomially faster than the best possible classical algorithm, which requires time $\widetilde{\Omega}( (n/m)^d + n^{d/2} )$. The algorithm is based on the use of a quantum subroutine for finding hidden shifts in $d$ dimensions, which is a variant of algorithms proposed by Kuperberg.

id: 1408.1826
title: What Bell Did
authors: Tim Maudlin
comments: 28 pages. There is a response to the paper by Reinhard Werner, and my reply is available. To appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.47 424010, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1826
abstract: On the 50th anniversary of Bell's monumental 1964 paper, there is still widespread misunderstanding about exactly what Bell proved. This misunderstanding derives in turn from a failure to appreciate the earlier arguments of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen. I retrace the history and logical structure of these arguments in order to clarify the proper conclusion, namely that any world that displays violations of Bell's inequality for experiments done far from one another must be non-local. Since the world we happen to live in displays such violations, actual physics is non-local.

id: 1408.1828
title: Reply to Werner
authors: Tim Maudlin
comments: 8 pages. To appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.47 424012, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1828
abstract: Reinhard Werner authored a comment on my paper "What Bell Did", disputing the conclusion and argumentation of the paper. This is my reply.

id: 1408.1837
title: Demonstrating genuine multipartite entanglement and nonseparability without shared reference frames
authors: Celal Furkan Senel, Thomas Lawson, Marc Kaplan, Damian Markham, Eleni Diamanti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1837
abstract: Multipartite nonlocality is of great fundamental interest and constitutes a useful resource for many quantum information protocols. However, demonstrating it in practice, by violating a Bell inequality, can be difficult. In particular, standard experimental setups require the alignment of distant parties' reference frames, which can be challenging or impossible in practice. In this work we study the violation of certain Bell inequalities, namely the Mermin, Mermin-Klyshko and Svetlichny inequalities, without shared reference frames, when parties share a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state. Furthermore, we analyse how these violations demonstrate genuine multipartite features of entanglement and nonlocality. For 3, 4 and 5 parties, we show that it is possible to violate these inequalities with high probability, when the parties choose their measurements from the three Pauli operators, defined only with respect to their local frames. Moreover, the probability of violation, and the amount of violation, are increased when each party chooses their measurements from the four operators describing the vertices of a tetrahedron. We also consider how many randomly chosen measurement directions are needed to violate the Bell inequalities with high probability. We see that the obtained levels of violation are sufficient to also demonstrate genuine multipartite entanglement and nonseparability. Finally, we show analytically that choosing from two measurement settings per party is sufficient to demonstrate the maximum degree of genuine multipartite entanglement and nonseparability with certainty when the parties' reference frames are aligned in one direction so that they differ only in rotations around one axis.

id: 1408.1855
title: On the Quasi-Balanceable Class of Linear Quantum Stochastic Systems
authors: Onvaree Techakesari, Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: 12 pages. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1855
abstract: This paper concerns the recently proposed quasi-balanced truncation model reduction method for linear quantum stochastic systems. It has previously been shown that the quasi-balanceable class of systems (i.e. systems that can be truncated via the quasi-balanced method) includes the class of completely passive systems. In this work, we refine the previously established characterization of quasi-balanceable systems and show that the class of quasi-balanceable systems is strictly larger than the class of completely passive systems. In particular, we derive a novel characterization of completely passive linear quantum stochastic systems solely in terms of the controllability Gramian of such systems. Exploiting this result, we prove that all linear quantum stochastic systems with a pure Gaussian steady-state (active systems included) are all quasi-balanceable, and establish a new complete parameterization for this important class of systems. Examples are provided to illustrate our results.

id: 1408.1878
title: The Interspersed Spin Boson Lattice Model
authors: A. Kurcz, J.J. Garcia-Ripoll, A. Bermudez
comments: Submitted to EPJ ST issue on "Novel Quantum Phases and Mesoscopic Physics in Quantum Gases"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1878
abstract: We describe a family of lattice models that support a new class of quantum magnetism characterized by correlated spin and bosonic ordering [Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 180405 (2014)]. We explore the full phase diagram of the model using Matrix-Product-State methods. Guided by these numerical results, we describe a modified variational ansatz to improve our analytic description of the groundstate at low boson frequencies. Additionally, we introduce an experimental protocol capable of inferring the low-energy excitations of the system by means of Fano scattering spectroscopy. Finally, we discuss the implementation and characterization of this model with current circuit-QED technology.

id: 1408.1916
title: Short cycle pulse sequence for dynamical decoupling of local fields and dipole-dipole interactions
authors: S. A. Moiseev, V. A. Skrebnev
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022329 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1916
abstract: We propose a new pulse sequence for dynamical averaging of the dipole-dipole interactions and inhomogeneities of the magnetic fields in the nuclear spin system. The sequence contains a short cycle of the periodic resonant pulse excitation that offers new possibilities for implementing the long-lived multi-qubit quantum memory on the condensed spin ensembles that are so important for construction of universal quantum computer and long-distance quantum communications.

id: 1408.1919
title: Weak value amplification: a view from quantum estimation theory that highlights what it is and what isn't
authors: Juan P. Torres, Luis Jose Salazar-Serrano
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1919
abstract: Weak value amplification, a 25 five years old technique used in metrology applications, has proved to be highly successful for measuring extremely tiny changes of a variable of interest. In spite of this, in what sense the technique is useful is still a question of debate. Here we show, making use of simple ideas taken from quantum estimation theory, what is the main contribution of the concept of weak value amplification to metrology. On the one hand, since the technique makes use of linear-optics unitary operations, it cannot modify the statistics of photons involved, and therefore, its capabilities are still fundamentally limited by the quantum nature of the light used. On the other hand, in certain scenarios weak value amplification can effectively enhance the sensitivity of real non-ideal detection schemes that might be limited by many other things apart from the specific characteristics of the light, i.e. technical noise. Importantly, it can do that in a straightforward and easily accessible manner.

id: 1408.1939
title: Adiabatic quantum state transfer in tight-binding chains using periodic driving fields
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, to appeer in EuroPhysics Letters
journal: EPL, 107 (2014) 50003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1939
abstract: A method for high-fidelity coherent adiabatic transport in a zig-zag tight-binding chain, based on application of two external periodic driving fields, is theoretically proposed. The method turns out to be robust against imperfections and disorder of the static lattice Hamiltonian, is tolerant to next-nearest neighborhood interactions, and enables coherent transport in long chains without the need for a local control and timing of the trapping potential.

id: 1408.1968
title: More period finding with adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Richard H. Warren
comments: 5 pages, 20 references, 1 table, 2 Hamiltonian matrices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1968
abstract: We extend the work of Hen for the Bernstein-Vazirani problem and Simon's problem on an adiabatic quantum computer. Our results are based on the Ising objective function for quantum annealing. For each problem we determine its objective function, describe its Hamiltonian matrix, and show the Hamiltonian matrix for a small problem. Following the pattern of Hen, we discuss factoring of integers, particularly Shor's factoring algorithm in an adiabatic quantum computing environment.

id: 1408.1978
title: Tm$^{3+}$:Y$_3$Ga$_5$O$_{12}$ materials for spectrally multiplexed quantum memories
authors: Charles W. Thiel, Neil Sinclair, Wolfgang Tittel, Rufus L. Cone
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1978
abstract: We investigate the relevant spectroscopic properties of the 795 nm $^3$H$_6$$\leftrightarrow$$^3$H$_4$ transition in 1% Tm$^{3+}$:Y$_3$Ga$_5$O$_{12}$ at temperatures as low as 1.2 K for optical quantum memories based on persistent spectral tailoring of narrow absorption features. Our measurements reveal that this transition has uniform coherence properties over a 56 GHz bandwidth, and a simple hyperfine structure split by $\pm$44 MHz/T with lifetimes of up to hours. Furthermore, we find a $^3$F$_4$ population lifetime of 64 ms -- one of the longest lifetimes observed for an electronic level in a solid --, and an exceptionally long coherence lifetime of 490 $\mu$s -- the longest ever observed for optical transitions of Tm$^{3+}$ ions in a crystal. Our results suggest that this material allows realizing broadband quantum memories that enable spectrally multiplexed quantum repeaters.

id: 1408.1990
title: Time-dependent exchange and tunneling: detection at the same place of two electrons emitted simultaneously from different sources
authors: D. Marian, E. Colom¨¦s, X. Oriols
comments: 31 pages 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1990
abstract: Two-particle scattering probabilities in tunneling scenarios with exchange interaction are analyzed with quasi-particle wave packets. Two initial wave packets (with opposite central momentums) are spatially localized at each side of a barrier. After impinging upon a tunneling barrier, each wave packet splits into transmitted and reflected components. Contrarily to what is claimed in the literature, it is shown that the probability of detecting two (identically injected) electrons at the same side of the barrier is different from zero in very common (single or double barrier) scenarios for any type of (normalizable) state. In some particular scenarios, the transmitted and reflected components become orthogonal and the mentioned probabilities reproduce those values associated to distinguishable particles. These unexpected non-zero probabilities are still present when Coulomb interaction, non-symmetrical potential or a large number of electrons with low phase-space density are considered. On the other hand, for initial wave packets close to Hamiltonian eigenstates or high phase-space density of electrons, the usual zero probability for electrons at the same side of the barrier found in the literature is recovered. The consequences of these non-zero probabilities in the accurate evaluation of quantum noise in mesoscopic systems are briefly indicated.

id: 1408.2087
title: Coherent control of multipartite entanglement
authors: S. M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012313 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2087
abstract: Quantum entanglement between an arbitrary number of remote qubits is examined analytically. We show that there is a non-probabilistic way to address in one context the management of entanglement of an arbitrary number of mixed-state qubits by engaging quantitative measures of entanglement and a specific external control mechanism. Both all-party entanglement and weak inseparability are considered. We show that for $N\ge4$, the death of all-party entanglement is permanent after an initial collapse. In contrast, weak inseparability can be deterministically managed for an arbitrarily large number of qubits almost indefinitely. Our result suggests a picture of the path that the system traverses in the Hilbert space.

id: 1408.2093
title: Why Current Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics are Deficient
authors: Elliott Tammaro
comments: 16 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2093
abstract: Quantum mechanics under the Copenhagen interpretation is one of the most experimentally well verified formalisms. However, it is known that the interpretation makes explicit reference to external observation or "measurement." One says that the Copenhagen interpretation suffers from the measurement problem. This deficiency of the interpretation excludes it as a viable fundamental formalism and prevents the use of standard quantum mechanics in discussions of quantum cosmology. Numerous alternative interpretations have been developed with the goals of reproducing its predictive success while obviating the measurement problem. While several interpretations make distinct, falsifiable, predictions, many claim to precisely reproduce the results of standard quantum mechanics. The sheer number of interpretations raises several issues. If the experimental predictions are identical, how are they to be assessed? On what grounds can an interpretation be said to trump another? Without recourse to experimental findings, one may continue to assess an interpretation on its logical structure, self-consistency, and simplicity (number and plausibility of its assumptions). We argue, and where possible, demonstrate, that all common interpretations have unresolved deficiencies. Among these deficiencies are failures to resolve the measurement problem, fine-tuning problems, logical/mathematical inconsistencies, disagreement with experiment, and others. Shortcomings as severe as these call into question the viability of any of the common interpretations. When appropriate, we indicate where future work may resolve some of these issues.

id: 1408.2104
title: New orderings for effective mass Hamiltonians and associated wavefunction matching conditions at abrupt heterojunctions
authors: Mercel Vubangsi, Martin Tchoffo, Lukong Cornelius Fai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2104
abstract: We show that for a given setting of the Von Roos ambiguity parameters, it is not required that the Morrow and Brownstein condition be satisfied to achieve physically acceptable transport properties at abrupt heterojunctions. We have derived two such settings and corresponding envelope function matching conditions.

id: 1408.2162
title: Uhrig Dynamical Control of a Three-Level System Via Non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion
authors: Wenchong Shu, Xinyu Zhao, Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 175504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2162
abstract: In this paper, we use the quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation to implement the Uhrig dynamical decoupling (UDD) to a three-level quantum system coupled to a non-Markovian reservoir comprising of infinite numbers of degrees of freedom. For this purpose, we first reformulate the non-Markovian QSD to incorporate the effect of the external control fields. With this stochastic QSD approach, we demonstrate that an unknown state of the three-level quantum system can be universally protected against both colored phase and amplitude noises when the control-pulse sequences and control operators are properly designed. The advantage of using non-Markovian quantum state diffusion equations is that the control dynamics of open quantum systems can be treated exactly without using Trotter product formula and be efficiently simulated even when the environment comprise of infinite numbers of degrees of freedom. We also show how the control efficacy depends on the environment memory time and the designed time points of applied control pulses.

id: 1408.2168
title: Fast universal quantum gates on microwave photons with all-resonance operations in circuit QED
authors: Ming Hua, Ming-Jie Tao, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 9274 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2168
abstract: Stark shift on a superconducting qubit in circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) has been used to construct universal quantum entangling gates on superconducting resonators in previous works. It is a second-order coupling effect between the resonator and the qubit in the dispersive regime, which leads to a slow state-selective rotation on the qubit. Here, we present two proposals to construct the fast universal quantum gates on superconducting resonators in a microwave-photon quantum processor composed of multiple superconducting resonators coupled to a superconducting transmon qutrit, that is, the controlled-phase (c-phase) gate on two microwave-photon resonators and the controlled-controlled phase (cc-phase) gates on three resonators, resorting to quantum resonance operations, without any drive field. Compared with previous works, our universal quantum gates have the higher fidelities and shorter operation times in theory. The numerical simulation shows that the fidelity of our c-phase gate is 99.57% within about 38.1 ns and that of our cc-phase gate is 99.25% within about 73.3 ns.

id: 1408.2211
title: Effective Hamiltonians for Complexes of Unstable Particles
authors: K. Urbanowski
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, vol. 20, No 3, 1340008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2211
abstract: Effective Hamiltonians governing the time evolution in a subspace of unstable states can be found using more or less accurate approximations. A convenient tool for deriving them is the evolution equation for a subspace of state space sometime called the Krolikowski-Rzewuski (KR) equation. KR equation results from the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the total system under considerations. We will discuss properties of approximate effective Hamiltonians derived using KR equation for $n$--particle, two particle and for one particle subspaces. In a general case these affective Hamiltonians depend on time $t$. We show that at times much longer than times at which the exponential decay take place the real part of the exact effective Hamiltonian for the one particle subsystem (that is the instantaneous energy) tends to the minimal energy of the total system when $t \rightarrow \infty$ whereas the imaginary part of this effective Hamiltonian tends to the zero as $t\rightarrow \infty$.

id: 1408.2251
title: Mode folding in systems with local interaction: unitary and non-unitary transformations using tensor states
authors: Jose Reslen
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 175301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2251
abstract: An approach to the simulation of locally interacting systems is demonstrated and assayed. The proposal is built upon the concept of folding of bosonic modes previously introduced in the context of linear dynamics and can be seen as an alternative to Trotter-Susuki expansion in studies of quantum propagation based on tensor states. It is shown that evolution as well as ground state computations can be implemented and that test simulations deliver comparatively accurate results. The whole analysis provides insight into the way well-known quantum precursors affect mean values and fluctuations in realistic setups.

id: 1408.2272
title: Optimal Pointers for Weak von Neumann Measurements and Consecutive Violations of Bell's Inequality
authors: Ralph Silva, Nicolas Gisin, Yelena Guryanova, Sandu Popescu
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2272
abstract: We investigate the trade-off between information gain and disturbance for a class of weak von Neumann measurements on spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ particles, and derive the unusual measurement pointer state that saturates this trade-off. We then consider the fundamental question of sharing the non-locality of a single particle of an entangled pair among multiple observers, and demonstrate that by exploiting the information gain disturbance trade-off, one can obtain an arbitrarily long sequence of consecutive and independent violations of the CHSH-Bell inequality.

id: 1408.2290
title: Preparation of Pure Gaussian States via Cascaded Quantum Systems
authors: Shan Ma, Matthew J. Woolley, Ian R. Petersen, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: A version of this paper will appear in the Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Multi-conference on Systems and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2290
abstract: This paper provides an alternative approach to the problem of preparing pure Gaussian states in a linear quantum system. It is shown that any pure Gaussian state can be generated by a cascade of one-dimensional open quantum harmonic oscillators, without any direct interaction Hamiltonians between these oscillators. This is physically advantageous from an experimental point of view. An example on the preparation of two-mode squeezed states is given to illustrate the theory.

id: 1408.2304
title: Quantum phase transition in a multi-connected superconducting Jaynes-Cummings lattice
authors: Kangjun Seo, Lin Tian
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; several references are added, and some corrections are made in the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2304
abstract: The connectivity and tunability of superconducting qubits and resonators provide us with an appealing platform to study the many-body physics of microwave excitations. Here we present a multi-connected Jaynes-Cummings lattice model which is symmetric with respect to the nonlocal qubit-resonator couplings. Our calculation shows that this model exhibits a Mott insulator-superfluid-Mott insulator phase transition, featured by a reentry to the Mott insulator phase, at commensurate filling. The phase diagrams in the grand canonical ensemble are also derived, which confirm the incompressibility of the Mott insulator phase. Different from a general-purposed quantum computer, it only requires two operations to demonstrate this phase transition: the preparation and the detection of the commensurate many-body ground state. We discuss the realization of these operations in a superconducting circuit.

id: 1408.2316
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and four-wave mixing in a cold atomic ensemble with large optical depth
authors: J. Geng, G. T. Campbell, J. Bernu, D. Higginbottom, B. M. Sparkes, S. M. Assad, W. P. Zhang, N. P. Robins, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2316
abstract: We report on the delay of optical pulses using electromagnetically induced transparency in an ensemble of cold atoms with an optical depth exceeding 500. To identify the regimes in which four-wave mixing impacts on EIT behaviour, we conduct the experiment in both rubidium 85 and rubidium 87. Comparison with theory shows excellent agreement in both isotopes. In rubidium 87, negligible four-wave mixing was observed and we obtained one pulse-width of delay with 50% efficiency. In rubidium 85, four-wave-mixing contributes to the output. In this regime we achieve a delay-bandwidth product of 3.7 at 50% efficiency, allowing temporally multimode delay, which we demonstrate by compressing two pulses into the memory medium.

id: 1408.2330
title: Field Test of Measurement-Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Yan-Lin Tang, Hua-Lei Yin, Si-Jing Chen, Yang Liu, Wei-Jun Zhang, Xiao Jiang, Lu Zhang, Jian Wang, Li-Xing You, Jian-Yu Guan, Dong-Xu Yang, Zhen Wang, Hao Liang, Zhen Zhang, Nan Zhou, Xiongfeng Ma, Teng-Yun Chen, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE J. Sel. T. Quantum Electron. 21, 6600407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2330
abstract: A main type of obstacles of practical applications of quantum key distribution (QKD) network is various attacks on detection. Measurement-device-independent QKD (MDIQKD) protocol is immune to all these attacks and thus a strong candidate for network security. Recently, several proof-of-principle demonstrations of MDIQKD have been performed. Although novel, those experiments are implemented in the laboratory with secure key rates less than 0.1 bps. Besides, they need manual calibration frequently to maintain the system performance. These aspects render these demonstrations far from practicability. Thus, justification is extremely crucial for practical deployment into the field environment. Here, by developing an automatic feedback MDIQKD system operated at a high clock rate, we perform a field test via deployed fiber network of 30 km total length, achieving a 16.9 bps secure key rate. The result lays the foundation for a global quantum network which can shield from all the detection-side attacks.

id: 1408.2331
title: Time Resolved Phase Space Tomography of an Optomechanical Cavity
authors: Oren Suchoi, Keren Shlomi, Lior Ella, Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 043829 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2331
abstract: We experimentally study the phase space distribution (PSD) of a mechanical resonator that is simultaneously coupled to two electromagnetic cavities. The first one, operating in the microwave band, is employed for inducing either cooling or self-excited oscillation, whereas the second one, operating in the optical band, is used for displacement detection. A tomography technique is employed for extracting the PSD from the signal reflected by the optical cavity. Measurements of PSD are performed in steady state near the threshold of self-excited oscillation while sweeping the microwave cavity detuning. In addition, we monitor the time evolution of the transitions from an optomechanically cooled state to a state of self excited oscillation. This transition is induced by abruptly switching the microwave driving frequency from the red-detuned region to the blue-detuned one. The experimental results are compared with theoretical predictions that are obtained by solving the Fokker-Planck equation. The feasibility of generating quantum superposition states in the system under study is briefly discussed.

id: 1408.2340
title: Quantum channels with polytopic images and image additivity
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Ion Nechita, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2340
abstract: We study quantum channels with respect to their image, i.e., the image of the set of density operators under the action of the channel. We first characterize the set of quantum channels having polytopic images and show that additivity of the minimal output entropy can be violated in this class. We then provide a complete characterization of quantum channels $T$ that are universally image additive in the sense that for any quantum channel $S$, the image of $T \otimes S$ is the convex hull of the tensor product of the images of $T$ and $S$. These channels turn out to form a strict subset of entanglement breaking channels with polytopic images and a strict superset of classical-quantum channels.

id: 1408.2367
title: Non-catastrophic resonant states in one dimensional scattering from a rising exponential potential
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Lakshmi Prakash, Shashin Pavaskar
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2367
abstract: Investigation of scattering from rising potentials has just begun, these unorthodox potentials have earlier gone unexplored. Here, we obtain reflection amplitude ($r(E)$) for scattering from a two-piece rising exponential potential: $V(x\le 0)=V_1[1-e^{-2x/a}], V(x > 0)=V_2[e^{2x/b}-1]$, where $V_{1,2}>0$. This potential is repulsive and rising for $x>0$; it is attractive and diverging (to $-\infty$) for $x<0$. The complex energy poles (${\cal E}_n= E_n-i\Gamma_n/2, \Gamma_n>0$) of $r(E)$ manifest as resonances. Wigner's reflection time-delay displays peaks at energies $E(\approx E_n$) but the eigenstates do not show spatial catastrophe for $E={\cal E}_n$.

id: 1408.2388
title: Construction of Arbitrary Robust One-Qubit Operations Using Planar Geometry
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Jefferson G. Filgueiras, Masamitsu Bando, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara, Dieter Suter
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052330 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2388
abstract: We show how to construct an arbitrary robust one-qubit unitary operation with a control Hamiltonian of $A_x(t) \sigma_x + A_y(t) \sigma_y$, where $\sigma_i$ is a Pauli matrix and $A_i(t)$ is piecewise constant. Our method, based on planar geometry, admits a simple and intuitive interpretation. Furthermore, the total execution time and the number of elementary gates of the obtained sequence are comparable to those of the shortest known concatenated composite pulses.

id: 1408.2409
title: Transmission of Photonic Quantum Polarization Entanglement in a Nanoscale Hybrid Plasmonic Waveguide
authors: Ming Li, Chang-Ling Zou, Xi-Feng Ren, Xiao Xiong, Yong-Jing Cai, Guo-Ping Guo, Li-Min Tong, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nano Lett. 15, 2380-2384 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2409
abstract: Photonic quantum technologies have been extensively studied in quantum information science, owing to the high-speed transmission and outstanding low-noise properties of photons. However, applications based on photonic entanglement are restricted due to the diffraction limit. In this work, we demonstrate for the first time the maintaining of quantum polarization entanglement in a nanoscale hybrid plasmonic waveguide composed of a fiber taper and a silver nanowire. The transmitted state throughout the waveguide has a fidelity of 0.932 with the maximally polarization entangled state {\Phi}+. Furthermore, the Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt (CHSH) inequality test performed, resulting in value of 2.495+/-0.147 > 2, demonstrates the violation of the hidden variable model. Because the plasmonic waveguide confines the effective mode area to subwavelength scale, it can bridge nanophotonics and quantum optics and may be used as near-field quantum probe in a quantum near-field micro/nanoscope, which can realize high spatial resolution, ultrasensitive, fiber-integrated, and plasmon-enhanced detection.

id: 1408.2427
title: Quantum Boolean Image Denoising
authors: Mario Mastriani
comments: 27 pages, 19 figures, 4 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1406.5121; and text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0402085, arXiv:1301.0011 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2427
abstract: A quantum Boolean image processing methodology is presented in this work, with special emphasis in image denoising. A new approach for internal image representation is outlined together with two new interfaces: classical-to-quantum and quantum-to-classical. The new quantum-Boolean image denoising called quantum Boolean mean filter (QBMF) works with computational basis states (CBS), exclusively. To achieve this, we first decompose the image into its three color components, i.e., red, green and blue. Then, we get the bitplanes for each color, e.g., 8 bits-per-pixel, i.e., 8 bitplanes-per-color. From now on, we will work with the bitplane corresponding to the most significant bit (MSB) of each color, exclusive manner. After a classical-to-quantum interface (which includes a classical inverter), we have a quantum Boolean version of the image within the quantum machine. This methodology allows us to avoid the problem of quantum measurement, which alters the results of the measured except in the case of CBS. Said so far is extended to quantum algorithms outside image processing too. After filtering of the inverted version of MSB (inside quantum machine) the result passes through a quantum-classical interface (which involves another classical inverter) and then proceeds to reassemble each color component and finally the ending filtered image. Finally, we discuss the more appropriate metrics for image denoising in a set of experimental results.

id: 1408.2465
title: Quantum brachistochrone curves as geodesics: obtaining accurate control protocols for time-optimal quantum gates
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Michele Allegra, Kurt Jacobs, Seth Lloyd, Cosmo Lupo, Masoud Mohseni
comments: 5 pages, 8 pages of supplemental material, 1 figure, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2465
abstract: Most methods of optimal control cannot obtain accurate time-optimal protocols. The quantum brachistochrone equation is an exception, and has the potential to provide accurate time-optimal protocols for essentially any quantum control problem. So far this potential has not been realized, however, due to the inadequacy of conventional numerical methods to solve it. Here, using differential geometry, we reformulate the quantum brachistochrone curves as geodesics on the unitary group. With this identification we are able to obtain a numerical method that efficiently solves the brachistochrone problem. We apply it to two examples demonstrating its power.

id: 1408.2477
title: Quantum pigeonhole effect, Cheshire cat and contextuality
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: The last example is replaced by GHZ paradoxes from qudit graphs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2477
abstract: A kind of paradoxical effects has been demonstrated that the pigeonhole principle, i.e., if three pigeons are put in two pigeonholes then at least two pigeons must stay in the same hole, fails in certain quantum mechanical scenario. Here we shall show how to associate a proof of Kochen-Specker theorem with a quantum pigeonhole effect and vise versa, e.g., from state-independent proofs of Kochen-Specker theorem some kind of state-independent quantum pigeonhole effects can be demonstrated. In particular, a state-independent version of the quantum Cheshire cat, which can be rendered as a kind of quantum pigeonhole effect about the trouble of putting two pigeons in two or more pigeonholes, arises from Peres-Mermin's magic square proof of contextuality.

id: 1408.2570
title: On the Area Law for Disordered Free Fermions
authors: L. Pastur, V. Slavin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 150404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2570
abstract: We study theoretically and numerically the entanglement entropy of the $d$-dimensional free fermions whose one body Hamiltonian is the Anderson model. Using basic facts of the exponential Anderson localization, we show first that the disorder averaged entanglement entropy $\langle S_\Lambda \rangle$ of the $d$ dimension cube $\Lambda$ of side length $l$ admits the area law scaling $\langle S_\Lambda \rangle \sim l^{(d-1)}, \ l \gg 1$ even in the gapless case, thereby manifesting the area law in the mean for our model. For $d=1$ and $l\gg 1$ we obtain then asymptotic bounds for the entanglement entropy of typical realizations of disorder and use them to show that the entanglement entropy is not selfaveraging, i.e., has non vanishing random fluctuations even if $l \gg 1$.

id: 1408.2658
title: A microwave chip-based beam splitter for low-energy guided electrons
authors: Jakob Hammer, Sebastian Thomas, Philipp Weber, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2658
abstract: We demonstrate the splitting of a low-energy electron beam by means of a microwave pseudopotential formed above a planar chip substrate. Beam splitting arises from smoothly transforming the transverse guiding potential for an electron beam from a single-well harmonic confinement into a double-well, thereby generating two separated output beams with $5\,$mm lateral spacing. Efficient beam splitting is observed for electron kinetic energies up to $3\,$eV, in excellent agreement with particle tracking simulations. We discuss prospects of this novel beam splitter approach for electron-based quantum matter-wave optics experiments.

id: 1408.2697
title: Can many-valued logic help to comprehend quantum phenomena?
authors: Jaros?aw Pykacz
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2697
abstract: Following {\L}ukasiewicz, we argue that future non-certain events should be described with the use of many-valued, not 2-valued logic. The Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger `paradox' is shown to be an artifact caused by unjustified use of 2-valued logic while considering results of future non-certain events. Description of properties of quantum objects before they are measured should be performed with the use of propositional functions that form a particular model of infinitely-valued {\L}ukasiewicz logic. This model is distinguished by specific operations of negation, conjunction, and disjunction that are used in it.

id: 1408.2716
title: Copenhagen Quantum Mechanics Emerges from a Deterministic Schroedinger Theory in 11 Dimensional Spacetime Including Weak Field Gravitation
authors: Gerold Doyen, Deiana Drakova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2716
abstract: We construct a world model consisting of a matter field living in 4 dimensional spacetime and a gravitational field living in 11 dimensional spacetime. The seven hidden dimensions are compactified within a radius estimated by reproducing the particle - wave characteristic of diffraction experiments. In the presence of matter fields the gravitational field develops localized modes with elementary excitations called gravonons which are induced by the sources (massive particles). The final world model treated here contains only gravonons and a scalar matter field. The solution of the Schroedinger equation for the world model yields matter fields which are localized in the 4 dimensional subspace. The localization has the following properties: (i) There is a chooser mechanism for the selection of the localization site. (ii) The chooser selects one site on the basis of minor energy differences and differences in the gravonon structure between the sites, which appear statistical. (iii) The changes from one localization site to a neighbouring one take place in a telegraph-signal like manner. (iv) The times at which telegraph like jumps occur dependent on subtleties of the gravonon structure which appear statistical. (v) The fact that the dynamical law acts in the configuration space of fields living in 11 dimensional spacetime lets the events observed in 4 dimensional spacetime appear non-local. In this way the phenomenology of Copenhagen quantum mechanics is obtained without the need of introducing the process of collapse and a probabilistic interpretation of the wave function. Operators defining observables need not be introduced. All experimental findings are explained in a deterministic way as a consequence of the time development of the wave function in configuration space according to Schroedinger's equation.

id: 1408.2738
title: Odd orders in Shor's factoring algorithm
authors: Thomas Lawson
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 1570-0755, 1, (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2738
abstract: Shor's factoring algorithm (SFA) finds the prime factors of a number, $N=p_1 p_2$, exponentially faster than the best known classical algorithm. Responsible for the speed-up is a subroutine called the quantum order finding algorithm (QOFA) which calculates the order -- the smallest integer, $r$, satisfying $a^r \mod N =1$, where $a$ is a randomly chosen integer coprime to $N$ (meaning their greatest common divisor is one, $\gcd(a, N) =1$). Given $r$, and with probability not less than $1/2$, the factors are given by $p_1 = \gcd (a^{\frac{r}{2}} - 1, N)$ and $p_2 = \gcd (a^{\frac{r}{2}} + 1, N)$. For odd $r$ it is assumed the factors cannot be found (since $a^{\frac{r}{2}}$ is not generally integer) and the QOFA is relaunched with a different value of $a$. But a recent paper [E. Martin-Lopez: Nat Photon {\bf 6}, 773 (2012)] noted that the factors can sometimes be found from odd orders if the coprime is square. This raises the question of improving SFA's success probability by considering odd orders. We show that an improvement is possible, though it is small. We present two techniques for retrieving the order from apparently useless runs of the QOFA: not discarding odd orders; and looking out for new order finding relations in the case of failure. In terms of efficiency, using our techniques is equivalent to avoiding square coprimes and disregarding odd orders, which is simpler in practice. Even still, our techniques may be useful in the near future, while demonstrations are restricted to factoring small numbers. The most convincing demonstrations of the QOFA are those that return a non-power-of-two order, making odd orders that lead to the factors attractive to experimentalists.

id: 1408.2749
title: Phase-modulated decoupling and error suppression in qubit-oscillator systems
authors: T. J. Green, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related manuscripts available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2749
abstract: We present a scheme designed to suppress the dominant source of infidelity in entangling gates between quantum systems coupled through intermediate bosonic oscillator modes. Such systems are particularly susceptible to residual qubit-oscillator entanglement at the conclusion of a gate period which reduces the fidelity of the target entangling operation. We demonstrate how the exclusive use of discrete phase shifts in the field moderating the qubit-oscillator interaction - easily implemented with modern synthesizers - is sufficient to both ensure multiple oscillator modes are decoupled and to suppress the effects of fluctuations in the driving field. This approach is amenable to a wide variety of technical implementations including geometric phase gates in superconducting qubits and the Molmer-Sorensen gate for trapped ions. We present detailed example protocols tailored to trapped-ion experiments and demonstrate that our approach allows multiqubit gate implementation with a significant reduction in technical complexity relative to previously demonstrated protocols.

id: 1408.2793
title: The emission of electromagnetic radiation from a quantum system interacting with an external noise: A general result
authors: S. Donadi, A. Bassi
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX
journal: Journ. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48, 035305 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2793
abstract: We compute the spectrum of emitted radiation by a generic quantum system interacting with an external classic noise. Our motivation is to understand this phenomenon within the framework of collapse models. However the computation is general and applies practically to any situation where a quantum system interacts with a noise. The computation is carried out at a perturbative level. This poses problems concerning the correct way of performing the analysis, as repeatedly discussed in the literature. We will clarify also this issue.

id: 1408.2836
title: Quantum interview
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 21 pages, "Elegance and Enigma: The Quantum Interviews", ed. M. Schlosshauer (Springer, 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2836
abstract: This paper collects into one place my replies to the questions posed by Maximilian Schlosshauer in his interview volume about the foundations of quantum mechanics, "Elegance and Enigma: The Quantum Interviews" (Springer, 2011).

id: 1408.2838
title: Relaxation of isolated quantum systems beyond chaos
authors: Ignacio Garc¨ªa-Mata, Augusto J. Roncaglia, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figs. Closest to published version
journal: Physical Review E 91, 010902(R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2838
abstract: In classical statistical mechanics there is a clear correlation between relaxation to equilibrium and chaos. In contrast, for isolated quantum systems this relation is -- to say the least -- fuzzy. In this work we try to unveil the intricate relation between the relaxation process and the transition from integrability to chaos. We study the approach to equilibrium in two different many body quantum systems that can be parametrically tuned from regular to chaotic. We show that a universal relation between relaxation and delocalization of the initial state in the perturbed basis can be established regardless of the chaotic nature of system.

id: 1408.2884
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with all-photonic adaptive Bell measurement
authors: Koji Azuma, Kiyoshi Tamaki, William J. Munro
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2884
abstract: The time-reversed version of entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD), called measurement-device-independent QKD (mdiQKD), was originally introduced to close arbitrary security loopholes of measurement devices. Here we show that the mdiQKD has another advantage which should be distinguished from the entanglement-based QKD. In particular, an all-photonic adaptive Bell measurement, based on the concept of quantum repeaters, can be installed solely in the mdiQKD, which leads to a square root improvement in the key rate. This Bell measurement also provides a similar improvement in the single-photon-based entanglement generation of quantum repeaters.

id: 1408.2892
title: Determinisitic Writing and Control of the Dark Exciton Spin using Short Single Optical Pulses
authors: I. Schwartz, E. R. Schmidgall, L. Gantz, D. Cogan, E. Bordo, Y. Don, M. Zielinski, D. Gershoni
comments: Added two authors, minor edits to figure captions, expanded discussion of dark exciton eigenstates
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 011009 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2892
abstract: We demonstrate that the quantum dot-confined dark exciton forms a long-lived integer spin solid state qubit which can be deterministically on-demand initiated in a pure state by one optical pulse. Moreover, we show that this qubit can be fully controlled using short optical pulses, which are several orders of magnitude shorter than the life and coherence times of the qubit. Our demonstrations do not require an externally applied magnetic field and they establish that the quantum dot-confined dark exciton forms an excellent solid state matter qubit with some advantages over the half-integer spin qubits such as the confined electron and hole, separately. Since quantum dots are semiconductor nanostructures that allow integration of electronic and photonic components, the dark exciton may have important implications on implementations of quantum technologies consisting of semiconductor qubits.

id: 1408.2900
title: Reply to "Maximal violation of Bell inequalities by position measurements"
authors: Daniel V. Tausk
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2900
abstract: In a recent article, Kiukas and Werner claim to have shown that Bohmian Mechanics does not make the same empirical predictions as ordinary Quantum Mechanics. More precisely, they have shown that ordinary Quantum Mechanics predicts maximal violations of the CHSH-Bell inequality for a certain experiment in which only position measurements are performed on two noninteracting entangled free non-relativistic particles. Kiukas and Werner claim that Bohmian Mechanics doesn't predict a violation of the CHSH-Bell inequality for that experiment. We explain that such claim is wrong and that the argument supporting their claim neglects the fact that Bohmian Mechanics does not satisfy all the assumptions needed to prove the CHSH-Bell inequality. We also clear up another few misconceptions about Bohmian Mechanics appearing in their article.

id: 1408.2905
title: High Cooperativity Cavity QED with Magnons at Microwave Frequencies
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Warrick G. Farr, Daniel L. Creedon, Yaohui Fan, Mikhail Kostylev, Michael E. Tobar
comments: appears in Phys. Rev. Applied (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 2, 054002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2905
abstract: Using a sub-millimetre sized YIG (Yttrium Iron Garnet) sphere mounted in a magnetic field-focusing cavity, we demonstrate an ultra-high cooperativity of $10^5$ between magnon and photon modes at millikelvin temperatures and microwave frequencies. The cavity is designed to act as a magnetic dipole by using a novel multiple-post approach, effectively focusing the cavity magnetic field within the YIG crystal with a filling factor of 3%. Coupling strength (normal-mode splitting) of 2 GHz, (equivalent to 76 cavity linewidths or $0.3$ Hz per spin), is achieved for a bright cavity mode that constitutes about 10% of the photon energy and shows that ultra-strong coupling is possible in spin systems at microwave frequencies. With straight forward optimisations we demonstrate that with that this system has the potential to reach cooperativities of $10^7$, corresponding to a normal mode splitting of 5.2 GHz and a coupling per spin approaching 1 Hz. We also observe a three-mode strong coupling regime between a dark cavity mode and a magnon mode doublet pair, where the photon-magnon and magnon-magnon couplings (normal-mode splittings) are 143 MHz and 12.5 MHz respectively, with HWHM bandwidth of about 0.5 MHz.

id: 1408.2961
title: Probing few-excitation eigenstates of interacting atoms on a lattice by observing their collective light emission in the far field
authors: P. Longo, J. Evers
comments: 28 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063834 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2961
abstract: The collective emission from a one-dimensional chain of interacting two-level atoms coupled to a common electromagnetic reservoir is investigated. We derive the system's dissipative few-excitation eigenstates, and analyze their static properties, including the collective dipole moments and branching ratios between different eigenstates. Next, we study the dynamics, and characterize the light emitted or scattered by such a system via different far-field observables. Throughout the analysis, we consider spontaneous emission from an excited state as well as two different pump field setups, and contrast the two extreme cases of non-interacting and strongly interacting atoms. For the latter case, the two-excitation submanifold contains a two-body bound state, and we find that the two cases lead to different dynamics and far-field signatures. Finally we exploit these signatures to characterize the wavefunctions of the collective eigenstates. For this, we identify a direct relation between the collective branching ratio and the momentum distribution of the collective eigenstates' wavefunction. This provides a method to proof the existence of certain collective eigenstates and to access their wave function without the need to individually address and/or manipulate single atoms.

id: 1408.2965
title: Entanglement, quantum statistics and squeezing of two $¦®$-type three-level atoms interacting nonlinearly with a single-mode field
authors: H R Baghshahi, M K Tavassoly
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Scr.89(2014) 075101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2965
abstract: The interaction between two $\Xi$-type three-level atoms and a single-mode cavity field in the intensity dependent coupling regime has been studied. Exact analytical solution of the wave function for the considered atoms-field system has been obtained by using the Laplace transform technique when the atoms are initially prepared in the excited state and the field is in a coherent state. The presented structure has the potential ability to generate various new classes of entangled states depending on the chosen nonlinearity function. Two forms of intensity-dependent coupling as well as constant coupling are considered. Some important physical properties such as quantum entanglement, quantum statistics and quadrature squeezing of the corresponding states are investigated, numerically, by which the nonclassicality features of the produced entangled state are well-established. In particular, the effect of intensity-dependent coupling on the degree of entanglement between different bipartite partitions of the system (that is, "atom$+$atom"-field and "field$+$atom"-atom) using the linear entropy is investigated. At the same time, by paying attention to the negativity as a useful measure, the entanglement between the two atoms is studied in detail.

id: 1408.2968
title: Dynamics of entropy and nonclassicality features of the interaction between a $\diamondsuit$-type four-level atom and a single-mode field in the presence of intensity-dependent coupling and Kerr nonlinearity
authors: H R Baghshahi, M K Tavassoly, A Behjat
comments: To be appeared in Commun. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2968
abstract: The interaction between a $\diamondsuit$-type four-level atom and a single-mode field in the presence of Kerr medium with intensity-dependent coupling involving multi-photon processes has been studied. Using the generalized (nonlinear) Jaynes-Cummings model, the exact analytical solution of the wave function for the considered system under particular condition, has been obtained when the atom is initially excited to the topmost level and the field is in a coherent state. Some physical properties of the atom-field entangled state such as linear entropy showing the entanglement degree, Mandel parameter, mean photon number and normal squeezing of the resultant state have been calculated. The effects of Kerr medium, detuning and the intensity-dependent coupling on the temporal behavior of the latter mentioned nonclassical properties have been investigated. It is shown that by appropriately choosing the evolved parameters in the interaction process, each of the above nonclassicality features, which are of special interest in quantum optics as well as quantum information processing, can be revealed.

id: 1408.2975
title: Entropy squeezing and atomic inversion in the $k$-photon Jaynes-Cummings model in the presence of Stark shift and Kerr medium: full nonlinear approach
authors: H R Baghshahi, M K Tavassoly, A Behjat
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23 (2014) 074203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2975
abstract: In this paper the interaction between a two-level atom and a single-mode field in the $k$-photon Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) in the presence of Stark shift and Kerr medium is studied. All terms in the respected Hamiltonian, such as the single-mode field, its interaction with the atom, the contribution of the Stark shift and the Kerr medium effects are considered to be $f$-deformed. In particular, the effect of the initial state of radiation field on the dynamical evolution of some physical properties such as atomic inversion and entropy squeezing are investigated by considering different initial field states. To achieve this purpose, coherent, squeezed and thermal states as initial field states are considered.

id: 1408.2996
title: Optimal control of the signal to noise ratio per unit time for a spin 1/2 particle
authors: M. Lapert, E. Ass¨¦mat, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023411 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2996
abstract: We investigate the maximum signal to noise ratio per unit time that can be achieved for a spin 1/2 particle subjected to a periodic pulse sequence. Optimal control techniques are applied to design the control field and the position of the steady state, leading to the best signal to noise performance. A complete geometric description of the optimal control problem is given in the unbounded case. We show the optimality of the well-known Ernst angle solution, which is widely used in spectroscopic and medical imaging applications, over a large control space allowing use of shaped pulses.

id: 1408.3010
title: Engineering decoherence for two-qubit systems interacting with a classical environment
authors: Matteo Rossi, Claudia Benedetti, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 12, 1560003 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3010
abstract: We address the dynamics of a two-qubit system interacting with a classical dephasing environment driven by a Gaussian stochastic process. Upon introducing the concept of entanglement-preserving time, we compare the degrading effects of different environments, e.g. those described by Ornstein-Uhlenbeck or fractional noise. In particular, we consider pure Bell states and mixtures of Bell states and study the typical values of the entanglement-preserving time for both independent and common environments. We found that engineering environments towards fractional Gaussian noise is useful to preserve entanglement as well as to improve its robustness against noise. We also address entanglement sudden death by studying the entanglement-survival time as a function of the initial negativity. We found that: i) the survival time is bounded from below by an increasing function of the initial negativity, ii) the survival time depends only slightly on the process used to describe the environment and exhibits typicality. Overall, our results show that engineering the environment has only a slight influence over the entanglement-survival time, i.e. the occurence of entanglement sudden-death, while it represents a valuable resource to increase the entanglement-preserving time, i.e. to maintain entanglement closer to the initial level for a longer interaction time.

id: 1408.3037
title: Information Dimension of Dissipative Quantum Walks
authors: P. Schijven, O. Muelken
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3037
abstract: We study the temporal growth of the von Neumann entropy for dissipative quantum walks on networks. By using a phenomenological quantum master equation, the quantum stochastic walk (QSW), we are able to parametrically scan the crossover from purely coherent quantum walks to purely diffusive random walks. In the latter limit the entropy shows a logarithmic growth, which is proportional to the information dimension of the random walk on the network. Here we present results for the von Neumann entropy based on the reduced density operator of the QSW. It shows a similar logarithmic growth for a wide range of parameter values and networks. As a consequence, we propose the logarithmic growth rate of the von Neumann entropy to be a natural extension of the information dimension to dissipative quantum systems. We corroborate our results by comparing to numerically exact simulations.

id: 1408.3056
title: Surprising Interactions of Markovian noise and Coherent Driving
authors: Shai Machnes, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3056
abstract: We derive the explicit commutation relations for the generators of quantum dynamical semigroup - Markovian superoperator evolution, allowing the extension of Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff-type relations to general Lindblad-type evolutions. This provides a novel tool for exploring the interaction of time-dependent coherent and Markovian evolutions - a surprisingly rich set of behaviors which include deformation by coherent driving of Markovian terms, generation of new Lindblad terms from time-dependent noise and even a coherent driving term generated by the interaction of time-separated Markovian noises. Finally, we consider the Lindblad superoperators as vectors in a higher space, allowing us to extract the infinitely divisible subspace of a given channel and to recover its Lindblad form.

id: 1408.3073
title: A comment on "Tripartite entanglement versus tripartite nonlocality in 3-qubit GHZ-class states"
authors: Vibhu Gupta
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3073
abstract: The paper titled "Tripartite entanglement versus tripartite nonlocality in 3-qubit GHZ-class states", (Physical Review Letters 102, 250404 (2009)), does very important work on studying the nature of Svetlichny Inequalities (which are Bell-type inequalities) and sheds light on some important properties and relationship between Svetlichny inequality and tripartite entanglement. It derives a result for the maximum expectation value of Svetlichny operator for GGHZ and MS states. In this comment, it is put forth that there is probably a mistake in the central result derived in the paper.

id: 1408.3078
title: The Higgs oscillator on the hyperbolic plane and Light-Front Holography
authors: A. Pallares-Rivera, M. Kirchbach
comments: revised version, presentation restructured, discussion improved, no statement changes
journal: Advanced Studies in Theoretical Physics, 9, 2015, 13-36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3078
abstract: The Light Front Holographic (LFH) wave equation, which is the conformal scalar equation on the plane, is revisited from the perspective of the supersymmetric quantum mechanics, and attention is drawn to the fact that it naturally emerges in the small hyperbolic angle approximation to the "curved" Higgs oscillator on the hyperbolic plane, i.e. on the upper part of the two-dimensional hyperboloid of two sheets, a space of constant negative curvature. Such occurs because the particle dynamics under consideration reduces to the one dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with the second hyperbolic P\"oschl-Teller potential, whose flat-space (small-angle) limit reduces to the conformally invariant inverse square distance plus harmonic oscillator interaction, on which LFH is based. In consequence, energies and wave functions of the LFH spectrum can be approached by the solutions of the Higgs oscillator on the hyperbolic plane in employing its curvature and the potential strength as fitting parameters. Also the proton electric charge form factor is well reproduced within this scheme by means of a Fourier-Helgason hyperbolic wave transform of the charge density. In conclusion, in the small angle approximation, the Higgs oscillator on the hyperbolic plane is demonstrated to satisfactory parallel essential outcomes of the Light Front Holographic QCD. The findings are suggestive of associating the hyperboloid curvature of the with a second scale in LFH, which then could be employed in the definition of a chemical potential.

id: 1408.3088
title: Dynamical properties of an exactly solvable coupled quantum double-well system: The evolution speed and entanglement
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures; arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1403.0543; accepted in Physica E with minor revisions
journal: Physica E 66 (2015) 321
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3088
abstract: We have studied dynamical properties of an exactly solvable quantum coupled double-well (DW) systems with Razavy's hyperbolic potential. With the use of four kinds of initial wavepackets, the correlation function $\Gamma(t)$ and the concurrence $C(t)$ which is a typical measure of the entanglement in two qubits, are calculated. We obtain the orthogonality time $\tau$ which signifies a time interval for an initial state to evolve to its orthogonal state, and the temporal average of $C(t)$, $C_{av}$ $(=\sqrt{\langle C(t)^2 \rangle})$. The coupling dependence of $\tau$ and the concurrence [$C_{av}$ or $C(0)$], and the relation between $\tau$ and the concurrence are investigated. Our calculations have shown that the evolution speed measured by $\tau^{-1}$ is not necessarily increased with increasing the concurrence in coupled DW systems.

id: 1408.3091
title: Dynamic stabilization of an optomechanical oscillator
authors: H. Seok, E. M. Wright, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043840 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3091
abstract: Quantum optomechanics offers the potential to investigate quantum effects in macroscopic quantum systems in extremely well controlled experiments. In this paper we discuss one such situation, the dynamic stabilization of a mechanical system such as an inverted pendulum. The specific example that we study is a "membrane in the middle" mechanical oscillator coupled to a cavity field via a quadratic optomechanical interaction, with cavity damping the dominant source of dissipation. We show that the mechanical oscillator can be dynamically stabilized by a temporal modulation of the radiation pressure force. We investigate the system both in the classical and quantum regimes highlighting similarities and differences.

id: 1408.3097
title: Collapses and Avoiding Wave Function Spreading
authors: Aharon Casher, Shmuel Nussinov, Jeffrey Tollaksen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3097
abstract: We address the impossibility of achieving exact time reversal in a system with many degrees of freedom. This is a particular example of the difficult task of "aiming" an initial classical state so as to become a specific final state. We also comment on the classical-to-quantum transition in any non-separable closed system of $n \geq 2$ degrees of freedom. Even if the system is initially in a well defined WKB, semi-classical state, quantum evolution and, in particular, multiple reflections at classical turning points make it completely quantum mechanical with each particle smeared almost uniformly over all the configuration space. The argument, which is presented in the context of $n$ hard discs, is quite general. Finally, we briefly address more complex quantum systems with many degrees of freedom and ask when can they provide an appropriate environment to the above simpler systems so that quantum spreading is avoided by continuously leaving "imprints" in the environment. We also discuss the possible connections with the pointer systems that are needed in the quantum-to-classical "collapse" transitions.

id: 1408.3100
title: A Bayesian Probability Calculus for Density Matrices
authors: Manfred K. Warmuth, Dima Kuzmin
comments: Appears in Proceedings of the Twenty-Second Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3100
abstract: One of the main concepts in quantum physics is a density matrix, which is a symmetric positive definite matrix of trace one. Finite probability distributions are a special case where the density matrix is restricted to be diagonal. Density matrices are mixtures of dyads, where a dyad has the form uu' for any any unit column vector u. These unit vectors are the elementary events of the generalized probability space. Perhaps the simplest case to see that something unusual is going on is the case of uniform density matrix, i.e. 1/n times identity. This matrix assigns probability 1/n to every unit vector, but of course there are infinitely many of them. The new normalization rule thus says that sum of probabilities over any orthonormal basis of directions is one. We develop a probability calculus based on these more general distributions that includes definitions of joints, conditionals and formulas that relate these, i.e. analogs of the theorem of total probability, various Bayes rules for the calculation of posterior density matrices, etc. The resulting calculus parallels the familiar 'classical' probability calculus and always retains the latter as a special case when all matrices are diagonal. Whereas the classical Bayesian methods maintain uncertainty about which model is 'best', the generalization maintains uncertainty about which unit direction has the largest variance. Surprisingly the bounds also generalize: as in the classical setting we bound the negative log likelihood of the data by the negative log likelihood of the MAP estimator.

id: 1408.3106
title: Quantum algorithms for topological and geometric analysis of big data
authors: Seth Lloyd, Silvano Garnerone, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 16 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3106
abstract: Extracting useful information from large data sets can be a daunting task. Topological methods for analyzing data sets provide a powerful technique for extracting such information. Persistent homology is a sophisticated tool for identifying such topological features -- connected components, holes, or voids -- and for determining how such features persist as the data is viewed at different scales. This paper provides quantum algorithms for calculating Betti numbers in persistent homology, and for finding eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the combinatorial Laplacian. The algorithms provide an exponential speedup over classical algorithms for topological data analysis.

id: 1408.3112
title: Possible generation of $¦Ã$-ray laser by electrons wiggling in a background laser
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 9 pages,3 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B24 (2015) 054208
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3112
abstract: The possibility of $\gamma-$ray laser generation by the radiation of wiggling electrons in an usual background laser is discussed.

id: 1408.3121
title: Practical Witness for Electronic Coherences
authors: Allan S. Johnson, Joel Yuen-Zhou, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Jacob J. Krich
comments: 8 pages + 4 pages appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3121
abstract: The origin of the coherences in two-dimensional spectroscopy of photosynthetic complexes remains disputed. Recently it has been shown that in the ultrashort-pulse limit, oscillations in a frequency-integrated pump-probe signal correspond exclusively to electronic coherences, and thus such experiments can be used to form a test for electronic vs. vibrational oscillations in such systems. Here we demonstrate a method for practically implementing such a test, whereby pump-probe signals are taken at several different pulse durations and used to extrapolate to the ultrashort-pulse limit. We present analytic and numerical results determining requirements for pulse durations and the optimal choice of pulse central frequency, which can be determined from an absorption spectrum. Our results suggest that for numerous systems the required experiment could be implemented by many ultrafast spectroscopy laboratories using pulses of tens of femtoseconds in duration. Such experiments could resolve the standing debate over the nature of coherences in photosynthetic complexes.

id: 1408.3125
title: Stronger-than-quantum bipartite correlations violate relativistic causality in the classical limit
authors: Daniel Rohrlich
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1407.8530
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3125
abstract: Superquantum ("PR-box") correlations, though designed to respect relativistic causality, violate relativistic causality in the classical limit. Generalizing to all stronger-than-quantum bipartite correlations, I derive Tsirelson's bound from the axioms of nonlocality, relativistic causality and the existence of a classical limit. This derivation of Tsirelson's bound does not assume quantum mechanics yet suggests how Hilbert space is implicit in quantum correlations.

id: 1408.3128
title: Duality of reduced density matrices and their eigenvalues
authors: Christian Schilling, Rolf Schilling
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 415305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3128
abstract: For states of quantum systems of $N$ particles with harmonic interactions we prove that each reduced density matrix $\rho$ obeys a duality condition. This condition implies duality relations for the eigenvalues $\lambda_k$ of $\rho$ and relates a harmonic model with length scales $l_1,l_2, \ldots, l_N $ with another one with inverse lengths $1/l_1, 1/l_2,\ldots, 1/l_N$. Entanglement entropies and correlation functions inherit duality from $\rho$. Self-duality can only occur for noninteracting particles in an isotropic harmonic trap.

id: 1408.3176
title: Linear-algebraic bath transformation for simulating complex open quantum systems
authors: Joonsuk Huh, Sarah Mostame, Takatoshi Fujita, Man-Hong Yung, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3176
abstract: In studying open quantum systems, the environment is often approximated as a collection of non-interacting harmonic oscillators, a configuration also known as the star-bath model. It is also well known that the star-bath can be transformed into a nearest-neighbor interacting chain of oscillators. The chain-bath model has been widely used in renormalization group approaches. The transformation can be obtained by recursion relations or orthogonal polynomials. Based on a simple linear algebraic approach, we propose a bath partition strategy to reduce the system-bath coupling strength. As a result, the non-interacting star-bath is transformed into a set of weakly-coupled multiple parallel chains. The transformed bath model allows complex problems to be practically implemented on quantum simulators, and it can also be employed in various numerical simulations of open quantum dynamics.

id: 1408.3193
title: Quantum lower bound for inverting a permutation with advice
authors: Aran Nayebi, Scott Aaronson, Aleksandrs Belovs, Luca Trevisan
comments: To appear in Quantum Information & Computation. Revised version based on referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3193
abstract: Given a random permutation $f: [N] \to [N]$ as a black box and $y \in [N]$, we want to output $x = f^{-1}(y)$. Supplementary to our input, we are given classical advice in the form of a pre-computed data structure; this advice can depend on the permutation but \emph{not} on the input $y$. Classically, there is a data structure of size $\tilde{O}(S)$ and an algorithm that with the help of the data structure, given $f(x)$, can invert $f$ in time $\tilde{O}(T)$, for every choice of parameters $S$, $T$, such that $S\cdot T \ge N$. We prove a quantum lower bound of $T^2\cdot S \ge \tilde{\Omega}(\epsilon N)$ for quantum algorithms that invert a random permutation $f$ on an $\epsilon$ fraction of inputs, where $T$ is the number of queries to $f$ and $S$ is the amount of advice. This answers an open question of De et al. We also give a $\Omega(\sqrt{N/m})$ quantum lower bound for the simpler but related Yao's box problem, which is the problem of recovering a bit $x_j$, given the ability to query an $N$-bit string $x$ at any index except the $j$-th, and also given $m$ bits of advice that depend on $x$ but not on $j$.

id: 1408.3194
title: Quantum coherence and correlations in quantum system
authors: Zhengjun Xi, Yongming Li, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, comments welcome. v3:many minor technical errors also corrected., updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3194
abstract: Criteria of measure quantifying quantum coherence, a unique property of quantum system, are proposed recently. In this paper, we firstly give an uncertainty-like expression relating the coherence and the entropy of quantum system. Then, we obtain three trade-offs among the coherence, the discord and the deficit in the bipartite quantum system.As a consequence, we obtain that the relative entropy of coherence satisfies the super-additivity. Finally, we discuss the relations between the entanglement and the coherence.

id: 1408.3210
title: Coherent state path integrals in the continuum
authors: G. Kordas, S.I. Mistakidis, A.I. Karanikas
comments: To appear in "Physical Review A"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3210
abstract: We discuss the time-continuous path integration in the coherent states basis in a way that is free from inconsistencies. Employing this notion we reproduce known and exact results working directly in the continuum. Such a formalism can set the basis to develop perturbative and non-perturbative approximations already known in the quantum field theory community. These techniques can be proven useful in a great variety of problems where bosonic Hamiltonians are used.

id: 1408.3255
title: Coding theorems for hybrid channels. II
authors: A. A. Kuznetsova, A. S. Holevo
comments: 15 pages, one figure
journal: Theory of Probab. and Appl. 58:1 (2014), 73-88
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3255
abstract: The present work continues investigation of the capacities of measurement (quantum-classical) channels in the most general setting, initiated in~\cite{HCT}. The proof of coding theorems is given for the classical capacity and entanglement-assisted classical capacity of the measurement channel with arbitrary output alphabet, without assuming that the channel is given by a bounded operator-valued density.

id: 1408.3265
title: Twisting tensor and spin squeezing
authors: Tom¨¢? Opatrn?
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3265
abstract: A unified tensor description of quadratic spin squeezing interactions is proposed, covering the single- and two-axis twisting as special cases of a general scheme. A closed set of equations of motion of the first moments and variances is derived in Gaussian approximation and their solutions are discussed from the prospect of fastest squeezing generation. It turns out that the optimum rate of squeezing generation is governed by the difference between the largest and the smallest eigenvalues of the twisting tensor. A cascaded optical interferometer with Kerr nonlinear media is proposed as one of possible realizations of the general scheme.

id: 1408.3266
title: Optimization of periodic single-photon sources
authors: Peter Adam, Matyas Mechler, Imre Santa, M¨¢ty¨¢s Koniorczyk
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053834 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3266
abstract: We introduce a theoretical framework which is suitable for the description of all spatial and time-multiplexed periodic single-photon sources realized or proposed thus far. Our model takes into account all possibly relevant loss mechanisms. This statistical analysis of the known schemes shows that multiplexing systems can be optimized in order to produce maximal single-photon probability for various sets of loss parameters by the appropriate choice of the number of multiplexed units of spatial multiplexers or multiplexed time intervals and the input mean photon pair number, and reveals the physical reasons of the existence of the optimum. We propose a novel time-multiplexed scheme to be realized in bulk optics, which, according to the present analysis, would have promising performance when experimentally realized. It could provide a single-photon probability of 85\% with a choice of experimental parameters which are feasible according to the experiments known from the literature.

id: 1408.3281
title: Nonlocality and conflicting interest games
authors: Anna Pappa, Niraj Kumar, Thomas Lawson, Miklos Santha, Shengyu Zhang, Eleni Diamanti, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 020401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3281
abstract: Nonlocality enables two parties to win specific games with probabilities strictly higher than allowed by any classical theory. Nevertheless, all known such examples consider games where the two parties have a common interest, since they jointly win or lose the game. The main question we ask here is whether the nonlocal feature of quantum mechanics can offer an advantage in a scenario where the two parties have conflicting interests. We answer this in the affirmative by presenting a simple conflicting interest game, where quantum strategies outperform classical ones. Moreover, we show that our game has a fair quantum equilibrium with higher payoffs for both players than in any fair classical equilibrium. Finally, we play the game using a commercial entangled photon source and demonstrate experimentally the quantum advantage.

id: 1408.3288
title: Two channel scattering Problem with Arbitrary coupling
authors: Diwaker, Anirudhha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3288
abstract: The present work deals with the calculation of transition probability between two diabatic potentials coupled by any arbitrary coupling. The method presented in the manuscript is applicable to any type of coupling but for numerical caluclations we have assumed the arbitrary coupling as Gaussian coupling. This arbitrary coupling is expresses as a collection of Dirac Delta functions and by the use of transfer matrix technique the transition probability from one diabatic potential to another diabatic potential is calulated. We examine our approach by considering the case of two constant potentials coupled by Gaussain coupling as an arbitrary coupling.

id: 1408.3290
title: Three state scattering problem: Exact analytical solution approach
authors: Diwaker, Anirudhha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3290
abstract: Using Dirac Delta function couplings we have proposed a simple analytical approach to find exact analytical solution to scattering problems where the interatcing states can be two, three or even n in number. The analytical method presented here requires the knowledge of six boundary conditions and with the use of these the transition probability form one diabatic potential to another diabatic potential is calculated by a simple analytical formula.

id: 1408.3324
title: Universal entanglement decay in atmospheric turbulence
authors: Nina D. Leonhard, Vyacheslav N. Shatokhin, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3324
abstract: We consider the propagation of two photonic qubits, initially maximally entangled in their orbital angular momenta (OAM), across a turbulent atmosphere. By introducing the {\it phase correlation length} of an OAM beam, we show that the entanglement of OAM photons exhibits a universal exponential decay under turbulence.

id: 1408.3373
title: Strong converse exponents for a quantum channel discrimination problem and quantum-feedback-assisted communication
authors: Tom Cooney, Mil¨¢n Mosonyi, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v2: 34 pages, 4 figures, new results and improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3373
abstract: This paper studies the difficulty of discriminating between an arbitrary quantum channel and a "replacer" channel that discards its input and replaces it with a fixed state. The results obtained here generalize those known in the theory of quantum hypothesis testing for binary state discrimination. We show that, in this particular setting, the most general adaptive discrimination strategies provide no asymptotic advantage over non-adaptive tensor-power strategies. This conclusion follows by proving a quantum Stein's lemma for this channel discrimination setting, showing that a constant bound on the Type I error leads to the Type II error decreasing to zero exponentially quickly at a rate determined by the maximum relative entropy registered between the channels. The strong converse part of the lemma states that any attempt to make the Type II error decay to zero at a rate faster than the channel relative entropy implies that the Type I error necessarily converges to one. We then refine this latter result by identifying the optimal strong converse exponent for this task. As a consequence of these results, we can establish a strong converse theorem for the quantum-feedback-assisted capacity of a channel, sharpening a result due to Bowen. Furthermore, our channel discrimination result demonstrates the asymptotic optimality of a non-adaptive tensor-power strategy in the setting of quantum illumination, as was used in prior work on the topic. The sandwiched Renyi relative entropy is a key tool in our analysis. Finally, by combining our results with recent results of Hayashi and Tomamichel, we find a novel operational of the mutual information of a quantum channel N as the optimal type II error exponent when discriminating between a large number of independent instances of N and an arbitrary "worst-case" replacer channel chosen from the set of all replacer channels.

id: 1408.3379
title: Reduced Space-Time and Time Costs Using Dislocation Codes and Arbitrary Ancillas
authors: M. B. Hastings, A. Geller
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures; v2 fixed typo in proof; v3 fixed some numerical data
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3379
abstract: We propose two distinct methods of improving quantum computing protocols based on surface codes. First, we analyze the use of dislocations instead of holes to produce logical qubits, potentially reducing spacetime volume required. Dislocations induce defects which, in many respects, behave like Majorana quasi-particles. We construct circuits to implement these codes and present fault-tolerant measurement methods for these and other defects which may reduce spatial overhead. One advantage of these codes is that Hadamard gates take exactly $0$ time to implement. We numerically study the performance of these codes using a minimum weight and a greedy decoder using finite-size scaling. Second, we consider state injection of arbitrary ancillas to produce arbitrary rotations. This avoids the logarithmic (in precision) overhead in online cost required if $T$ gates are used to synthesize arbitrary rotations. While this has been considered before, we consider also the parallel performance of this protocol. Arbitrary ancilla injection leads to a probabilistic protocol in which there is a constant chance of success on each round; we use an amortized analysis to show that even in a parallel setting this leads to only a constant factor slowdown as opposed to the logarithmic slowdown that might be expected naively.

id: 1408.3415
title: Symmetry-protected adiabatic quantum transistors
authors: Dominic J. Williamson, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 11 pages + 9 page appendix, 12 figures, comments welcome; v2 published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 053019 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3415
abstract: Adiabatic quantum transistors allow quantum logic gates to be performed by applying a large field to a quantum many-body system prepared in its ground state, without the need for local control. The basic operation of such a device can be viewed as driving a spin chain from a symmetry protected phase to a trivial phase, and this perspective offers an avenue to generalise the adiabatic quantum transistor and to design several improvements. The performance of quantum logic gates is shown to depend only on universal symmetry properties of a symmetry-protected phase rather than fine tuned parent Hamiltonians, and it is possible to implement a universal set of logic gates in this way by combining several different types of symmetry protected matter. Such symmetry-protected adiabatic quantum transistors are argued to be robust to a range of relevant noise processes.

id: 1408.3420
title: Entanglement in curved spacetimes and cosmology
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures. Accepted in Classical and Quantum Gravity. Currently in press. (Special Issue focused on the topic of "Entanglement and Quantum Gravity")
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31, 214001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3420
abstract: We review recent results regarding entanglement in quantum fields in cosmological spacetimes and related phenomena in flat spacetime such as the Unruh effect. We being with a summary of important results about field entanglement and the mathematics of Bogoliubov transformations that is very often used to describe it. We then discuss the Unruh-DeWitt detector model, which is a useful model of a generic local particle detector. This detector model has been successfully used as a tool to obtain many important results. In this context we discuss two specific types of these detectors: a qubit and a harmonic oscillator. The latter has recently been shown to have important applications when one wants to probe nonperturbative physics of detectors interacting with quantum fields. We then detail several recent advances in the study and application of these ideas, including echoes of the early universe, entanglement harvesting, and a nascent proposal for quantum seismology.

id: 1408.3423
title: Entangling the motion of two optically trapped objects via time-modulated driving fields
authors: Mehdi Abdi, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013056 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3423
abstract: We study entanglement of the motional degrees of freedom of two tethered and optically trapped microdisks inside a single cavity. By properly choosing the position of the trapped objects in the optical cavity and driving proper modes of the cavity it is possible to equip the system with linear and quadratic optomechanical couplings. We show that a parametric coupling between the fundamental vibrational modes of two tethered mircodiscs can be generated via a time modulated input laser. For a proper choice of the modulation frequency, this mechanism can drive the motion of the microdisks into an inseparable state in the long time limit via a two-mode squeezing process. We numerically confirm the performance of our scheme for current technology and briefly discuss an experimental setup which can be employed for detecting this entanglement by employing the quadratic coupling. We also comment on the perspectives for generating such entanglement between the oscillations of optically levitated nanospheres.

id: 1408.3459
title: On the NP-completeness of the Hartree-Fock method for translationally invariant systems
authors: James D. Whitfield, Zolt¨¢n Zimbor¨¢s
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 234103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3459
abstract: The self-consistent field method utilized for solving the Hartree-Fock (HF) problem and the closely related Kohn-Sham problem, is typically thought of as one of the cheapest methods available to quantum chemists. This intuition has been developed from the numerous applications of the self-consistent field method to a large variety of molecular systems. However, as characterized by its worst-case behavior, the HF problem is NP-complete. In this work, we map out boundaries of the NP-completeness by investigating restricted instances of HF. We have constructed two new NP-complete variants of the problem. The first is a set of Hamiltonians whose translationally invariant Hartree-Fock solutions are trivial, but whose broken symmetry solutions are NP-complete. Second, we demonstrate how to embed instances of spin glasses into translationally invariant Hartree-Fock instances and provide a numerical example. These findings are the first steps towards understanding in which cases the self-consistent field method is computationally feasible and when it is not.

id: 1408.3462
title: Quantum Fidelities, Their Duals, And Convex Analysis
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3462
abstract: We study tree kinds of quantum fidelity. Usual Uhlmann's fidelity, minus of f-divergence when $f(x)=-\sqrt{x}$, and the one introduced by the author via reverse test. All of them are quantum extensions of classical fidelity, where the first one is the largest and the third one is the smallest. We characterize them in terms of convex optimization, and introduce their 'dual' quantity, or the polar of the minus of the fidelity. They turned out to be monotone increasing by unital completely positive maps, concave, and linked to its classical version via optimization about classical-to-quantum maps and quantum-to-classical maps.

id: 1408.3463
title: Convertibility of Observables
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3463
abstract: Some problems of quantum information, cloning, estimation and testing of states, universal coding etc., are special example of the following `state convertibility' problem. In this paper, we consider the dual of this problem, 'observable conversion problem'. Given families of operators $\{L_\theta}\}_{\theta\in\Theta}$ and $\{M_\theta}\}_{\theta\in\Theta}$ , we ask whether there is a completely positive (sub) unital map which sends $\{L_\theta}\}$ to $\{M_\theta}\}$ for each {\theta}. We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the convertibility in some special cases.

id: 1408.3502
title: L¨¹ders' and quantum Jeffrey's rules as entropic projections
authors: Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3502
abstract: We prove that the standard quantum mechanical description of a quantum state change due to measurement, given by Lueders' rules, is a special case of the constrained maximisation of a quantum relative entropy functional. This result is a quantum analogue of the derivation of the Bayes--Laplace rule as a special case of the constrained maximisation of relative entropy. The proof is provided for the Umegaki relative entropy of density operators over a Hilbert space as well as for the Araki relative entropy of normal states over a W*-algebra. We also introduce a quantum analogue of Jeffrey's rule, derive it in the same way as above, and discuss the meaning of these results for quantum bayesianism.

id: 1408.3535
title: Analysis of quantum-mechanical states of the Mie-type ring shaped model via the Fisher's information entropy
authors: B. J. Falaye, K. J. Oyewumi, S. M. Ikhdair, M. Hamzavi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3535
abstract: In the recent years, information theory of quantum-mechanical systems have aroused the interest of many Theoretical Physicist. This due to the fact that it provides a deeper insight into the internal structure of the systems. Also, It is the strongest support of the modern quantum computation and information, which is basic for numerous technological developments. This study report the any $\ell-$state solution of the radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the Mie-type ring shaped diatomic molecular potential. Rotational-vibration of some few selected diatomic molecules are given. The probability distribution density of the system which gives the probability density for observing the electron in the state characterized by the quantum numbers $(n, l, m)$ in the Mie-type ring shaped diatomic molecular potential is obtained. Finally, we analyze this distribution via a complementary information measures of a probability distribution called as the Fisher's information entropy.

id: 1408.3582
title: Tuning quantum fluctuations with an external magnetic field: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a graphene sheet
authors: T. Cysne, W. J. M. Kort-Kamp, D. Oliver, F. A. Pinheiro, F. S. S. Rosa, C. Farina
comments: The first two authors listed contributed equally to this work and are joint first authors. 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3582
abstract: We investigate the dispersive Casimir-Polder interaction between a Rubidium atom and a suspended graphene sheet subjected to an external magnetic field B. We demonstrate that this concrete physical system allows for an unprecedented control of dispersive interactions at micro and nanoscales. Indeed, we show that the application of an external magnetic field can induce a 80% reduction of the Casimir-Polder energy relative to its value without the field. We also show that sharp discontinuities emerge in the Casimir-Polder interaction energy for certain values of the applied magnetic field at low temperatures. Moreover, for sufficiently large distances these discontinuities show up as a plateau-like pattern with a quantized Casimir-Polder interaction energy, in a phenomenon that can be explained in terms of the quantum Hall effect. In addition, we point out the importance of thermal effects in the Casimir-Polder interaction, which we show that must be taken into account even for considerably short distances. In this case, the discontinuities in the atom-graphene dispersive interaction do not occur, which by no means prevents the tuning of the interaction in ~50% by the application of the external magnetic field.

id: 1408.3666
title: Volumes of conditioned bipartite state spaces
authors: Simon Milz, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3666
abstract: We analyse the metric properties of $\textit{conditioned}$ quantum state spaces $\mathcal{M}^{(n\times m)}_{\eta}$. These spaces are the convex sets of $nm \times nm$ density matrices that, when partially traced over $m$ degrees of freedom, respectively yield the given $n\times n$ density matrix $\eta$. For the case $n=2$, the volume of $\mathcal{M}^{(2\times m)}_{\eta}$ equipped with the Hilbert-Schmidt measure is a simple polynomial of the radius of $\eta$ in the Bloch-Ball. Remarkably, the probability $p_{\mathrm{sep}}^{(2\times m)}(\eta)$ to find a separable state in $\mathcal{M}^{(2\times m)}_{\eta}$ is independent of $\eta$ (except for $\eta$ pure). Both these results are proven analytically for the case of the family of $4\times 4$ $X$-states, and thoroughly numerically investigated for the general case. The important implications of these results for the clarification of open problems in quantum theory are pointed out and discussed.

id: 1408.3667
title: Experimental quantum key distribution with source flaws
authors: Feihu Xu, Kejin Wei, Shihan Sajeed, Sarah Kaiser, Shihai Sun, Zhiyuan Tang, Li Qian, Vadim Makarov, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, updated experiment and theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3667
abstract: Decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) is a standard technique in current quantum cryptographic implementations. Unfortunately, existing experiments have two important drawbacks: the state preparation is assumed to be perfect without errors and the employed security proofs do not fully consider the finite-key effects for general attacks. These two drawbacks mean that existing experiments are not guaranteed to be secure in practice. Here, we perform an experiment that for the first time shows secure QKD with imperfect state preparations over long distances and achieves rigorous finite-key security bounds for decoy-state QKD against coherent attacks in the universally composable framework. We quantify the source flaws experimentally and demonstrate a QKD implementation that is tolerant to channel loss despite the source flaws. Our implementation considers more real-world problems than most previous experiments and our theory can be applied to general QKD systems. These features constitute a step towards secure QKD with imperfect devices.

id: 1408.3701
title: Numerical search for universal entanglers in C3xC4 and C4xC4
authors: F. V. Mendes, R. V. Ramos
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3701
abstract: A universal entangler is quantum gate able to transform any disentangled state in an entangled state. Although universal entanglers are abundant in arbitrary high dimensional spaces, to verify if a quantum gate is a universal entangler is a hard task since it is not known which property of the unitary matrix is responsible for such behavior. In this direction, the present work shows the results of an algorithm based on differential evolution that tests universal entanglers in C3xC4 and C4xC4. We present two good candidates for each cited space and we show that a candidate found in the literature is not a universal entangler.

id: 1408.3712
title: What can quantum optics say about computational complexity theory?
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Austin P. Lund, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 060501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3712
abstract: Considering the problem of sampling from the output photon-counting probability distribution of a linear-optical network for input Gaussian states, we obtain results that are of interest from both quantum theory and the computational complexity theory point of view. We derive a general formula for calculating the output probabilities, and by considering input thermal states, we show that the output probabilities are proportional to permanents of positive-semidefinite Hermitian matrices. It is believed that approximating permanents of complex matrices in general is a #P-hard problem. However, we show that these permanents can be approximated with an algorithm in BPP^NP complexity class, as there exists an efficient classical algorithm for sampling from the output probability distribution. We further consider input squeezed-vacuum states and discuss the complexity of sampling from the probability distribution at the output.

id: 1408.3758
title: Symmetries in open quantum dynamics
authors: Thomas F. Jordan
comments: 27 pages, Reference to second arXiv paper added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3758
abstract: Simple examples are used to introduce and examine a Heisenberg picture of symmetries of open quantum dynamics that can be described by unitary operators. When the symmetries are for Hamiltonian dynamics of an entire system, and the spectrum of the Hamiltonian operator has a lower bound, the symmetry operators commute with the Hamiltonian operator. An example shows that symmetry operators need not commute with the Hamiltonian operator when the spectrum of the Hamiltonian does not have a lower bound. There are many more symmetries that are only for the open dynamics of a subsystem and are described by unitary operators that do not commute with the Hamiltonian for the dynamics of the entire system. Examples show how these symmetries alone can reveal properties of the dynamics and reduce what needs to be done to work out the dynamics. A symmetry of the open dynamics of a subsystem can imply properties of the dynamics for the entire system that are not implied by the symmetries of the dynamics of the entire system. The symmetries are generally not related to constants of the motion for the open dynamics of the subsystem. There are symmetries of the open dynamics of a subsystem that depend only on the dynamics. In the simplest examples, these are also symmetries of the dynamics of the entire system. There are many more symmetries, of a new kind, that also depend on correlations, or absence of correlations, between the subsystem and the rest of the entire system, or on the state of the rest of the entire system. Symmetries that depend on correlations generally cannot be seen in the Schr\"{o}dinger picture as symmetries of dynamical maps of density matrices for the subsystem.

id: 1408.3765
title: Information Transfer Fidelity in Networks of Spins
authors: Edmond Jonckheere, Frank Langbein, Sophie Schirmer
comments: Fixed references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3765
abstract: Networks of spins, or spintronic networks, are given an Information Transfer Fidelity (ITF) derived from an upper bound on the probability of transmission of the excitation from one spin to another. It is shown that this theoretical bound can be reached asymptotically in time under certain conditions. The process of achieving maximum transfer probability is given a dynamical model, the translation on the torus, and the time to reach the maximum probability is estimated using the simultaneous Diophantine approximation computationally implemented using a variant of the Lenstra-Lenstra-Lov\'asz (LLL) algorithm. The ITF induces a prametric on the network. For a ring with homogeneous couplings, it is shown that this prametric satisfies the triangle inequality, opening up the road to an ITF geometry, which turns out to be completely different from the geometry of the physical arrangement of the spin in the spintronic device. It is shown that transfer fidelities and transfer times can be improved by means of simple controls taking the form of strong localized magnetic fields, opening up the possibility for intelligent design of spintronic networks and dynamic routing of information encoded in such networks. The approach is much more flexible than engineering the couplings to favor some transfers.

id: 1408.3782
title: Matrix integrals over unitary groups: An application of Schur-Weyl duality
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: v1: 42 pages, LaTeX, no figures. Any comments are welcome! v2: 52 pages, LaTeX, no figures. A new section added. Appendix is also modified. v3: 53 pages, LaTeX, no figures. A conjecture proposed in the first version is cracked in this version. v4: 61 pages, LaTex, no figures; several examples and new propositions are included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3782
abstract: The integral formulae over the unitary group $\unitary{d}$ are reviewed with new results and new proofs. The normalization and the bi-invariance of the uniform Haar measure play the key role for these computations. These facts are based on Schur-Weyl duality, a powerful tool from representation theory of group.

id: 1408.3785
title: Control of microwave signals using bichromatic electromechanically induced transparency in three-mode circuit electromechanical systems
authors: Cheng Jiang, Yuanshun Cui, Xiaowei Li
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3785
abstract: We theoretically investigate the tunable slowing and advancing of microwave signals based on bichromatic electromechanically induced transparency in a three-mode circuit electromechanical system, where two mechanical oscillators with closely spaced frequencies are independently coupled to a common microwave cavity. In the presence of a strong microwave pump field, we obtain two transparency windows accompanied by steep phase dispersion in the transmitted microwave probe field. The width of the transparency window and the group delay of the probe field can be controlled effectively by the power of the pump field. It is shown that the maximum group delay of 0.12 ms and the advance of 0.27 ms can be obtained in the current experiments.

id: 1408.3787
title: Experimental implementation of adiabatic passage between different topological orders
authors: Xinhua Peng, Zhihuang Luo, Supeng Kou, Dieter Suter, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + Supplementary Materials; Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3787
abstract: Topological orders are exotic phases of matter existing in strongly correlated quantum systems, which are beyond the usual symmetry description and cannot be distinguished by local order parameters. Here we report an experimental quantum simulation of the Wen-plaquette spin model with different topological orders in a nuclear magnetic resonance system, and observe the adiabatic transition between two $Z_2$ topological orders through a spin-polarized phase by measuring the nonlocal closed-string (Wilson loop) operator. Moreover, we also measure the entanglement properties of the topological orders. This work confirms the adiabatic method for preparing topologically ordered states and provides an experimental tool for further studies of complex quantum systems.

id: 1408.3816
title: Integrability vs exact solvability in the quantum Rabi and Dicke models
authors: Murray T. Batchelor, Huan-Qiang Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, some points clarified, unified description of the Rabi and Dicke models, additional and updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 053808 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3816
abstract: The Rabi model describes the simplest interaction between light and matter via a two-level quantum system interacting with a bosonic field. We demonstrate that the fully quantised version of the Rabi model is integrable in the Yang-Baxter sense at two parameter values. The model is argued to be not Yang-Baxter integrable in general. This is in contrast to the claim that the quantum Rabi model is integrable based on a phenomenological criterion of quantum integrability not presupposing the existence of a set of commuting operators. Similar Yang-Baxter integrable points are identified for the generalised Rabi model and the fully quantised Dicke model. The integrable points have particular implications for the level statistics of the Dicke model.

id: 1408.3831
title: Study of controlled dense coding with some discrete tripartite and quadripartite states
authors: Sovik Roy, Biplab Ghosh
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3831
abstract: The paper presents the detailed study of controlled dense coding scheme for different types of $3$ and $4-$ particle states. It consists of GHZ state, GHZ type states, Maximal Slice state, Four particle GHZ state and W class of states. It is shown that GHZ-type states can be used for controlled dense coding in a probabilistic sense. We have shown relations among parameter of GHZ type state, concurrence of the shared bipartite state by two parties with respect to GHZ type and Charlie's measurement angle $\theta$. We have seen that tripartite W state and quadripartite W state cannot be used in controlled dense coding whereas $\vert W_{n}\rangle_{ABC}$ states can be used probabilistically. Finally, we have investigated controlled dense coding scheme for tripartite qutrit states.

id: 1408.3836
title: A General Transfer-Function Approach to Noise Filtering in Open-Loop Quantum Control
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, Lorenza Viola
comments: Paper plus supplementary material. 10 pages, 1 figure. Unnumbered equation between 2 and 3 corrected. Results are unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3836
abstract: We present a general transfer-function approach to noise filtering in open-loop Hamiltonian engineering protocols for open quantum systems. We show how to identify a computationally tractable set of fundamental filter functions, out of which arbitrary transfer filter functions may be assembled up to arbitrary high order in principle. Besides avoiding the infinite recursive hierarchy of filter functions that arises in general control scenarios, this fundamental filter-functions set suffices to characterize the error suppression capabilities of the control protocol in both the time and frequency domain. We prove that the resulting notion of filtering order reveals conceptually distinct, albeit complementary, features of the controlled dynamics as compared to the order of error cancellation, traditionally defined in the Magnus sense. Examples and implications are discussed.

id: 1408.3840
title: Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Local Unitary Equivalence of Multi-qubit States
authors: A. M. Martins
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042308 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3840
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for the LU-equivalence of two general (pure or mixed) $n$-qubit states as well as we determine the local unitary operators connecting them. Almost all relevant information is contained in the $1$-qubit reduced matrices of the multiqubit states under investigation Our technique relies on identifying {\it ab initio} all local symmetries and the corresponding local cyclic unitary operators. To derive the above conditions we use the reference forms of the multiqubit states whose definition requires the diagonalization of the 1-qubit reduced matrices. Based on those conditions we propose a straightforward protocol to decide wether or not two $n$-qubit states are LU-equivalent.

id: 1408.3950
title: Symmetries and transport in site-dependently driven quantum lattices
authors: Thomas Wulf, Christoph Petri, Benno Liebchen, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3950
abstract: We explore the quantum dynamics of particles in a spatiotemporally driven lattice. A powerful numerical scheme is developed, which provides us with the Floquet modes and thus enables a stroboscopic propagation of arbitrary initial states. A detailed symmetry analysis represents the cornerstone for an intricate manipulation of the Floquet spectrum. Specifically, we show how exact crossings can be converted into avoided ones, while the width of these resulting avoided crossings can be engineered by adjusting parameters of the local driving. Asymptotic currents are shown to be controllable over a certain parameter range.

id: 1408.4003
title: Quantum mechanics without potential function
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, M. E. H. Ismail
comments: In this revised version we remove any confusion in terminology with the inverse problem and inverse scattering since in our formulation the potential function has no role to play and is not needed. Moreover, we give more details about bound states and address the issue of resonances in the formalism. 21 pages, 1 table, and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4003
abstract: In the standard formulation of quantum mechanics, one starts by proposing a potential function that models the physical system. The potential is then inserted into the Schr\"odinger equation, which is solved for the wavefunction, bound states energy spectrum and/or scattering phase shift. In this work, however, we do the inverse problem in which the potential function does not appear and has no role to play. We start with the wavefunction, which is written as a bounded infinite sum of elements of a complete basis with polynomial coefficients that are orthogonal on an appropriate domain in the energy space. Using the asymptotic properties of these polynomials, we obtain the scattering phase shift, bound states and resonances. This formulation enables one to handle not only the well-known quantum systems but also previously untreated ones. Illustrative examples are given for systems with continuum scattering states and for others that are confined with only discrete bound states.

id: 1408.4061
title: Critique of Quantum Optical Experimental Refutations of Bohr's Principle of Complementarity, of the Wootters-Zurek Principle of Complementarity, and of the Particle-Wave Duality Relation
authors: P. N. Kaloyerou
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4061
abstract: I argue that quantum optical experiments that purport to refute Bohr's principle of complementarity (BPC) fail in their aim. Some of these experiments try to refute complementarity by refuting the so called particle-wave duality relations, which evolved from the Wootters-Zureck reformulation of BPC (WZPC). I therefore consider it important for my forgoing arguments to first recall the essential tenets of BPC, and to clearly separate BPC from WZPC, which I will argue is a direct contradiction of BPC. This leads to a need to consider the meaning of particle-wave duality relations and to question their fundamental status. I further argue (albeit, in opposition to BPC) that particle and wave complementary concepts are on a different footing than other pairs of complementary concepts.

id: 1408.4094
title: Extracting molecular potentials from insufficient spectroscopic information
authors: Xuan Li, Sourav Dutta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4094
abstract: We extend our recently developed inversion method to extract excited state potentials from fluorescence line positions and line strengths. We consider a previous limitation of the method arising due to insufficient input data in cases where the relatively weaker emission data are not experimentally available. We develop a solution to this problem by "regenerating" these weak transition lines via applying a model potential, e.g. a Morse potential. The result of this procedure, illustrated for the Q-branch emission from the lowest three vibrational levels of the B($^1 \Pi)$ state of LiRb, is shown to have an error of $0.29$ cm$^{-1}$ in the classically allowed region and a global error of $5.67$ cm$^{-1}$ for $V\le E(\nu'=10)$. The robustness of this procedure is also demonstrated by considering the statistical error in the measured line intensities.

id: 1408.4254
title: The dynamics of two entangled qubits exposed to classical noise: role of spatial and temporal noise correlations
authors: P. Sza¨½kowski, M. Trippenbach, ?. Cywi¨½ski, Y. B. Band
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4254
abstract: We investigate the decay of two-qubit entanglement caused by the influence of classical noise. We consider the whole spectrum of cases ranging from independent to fully correlated noise affecting each qubit. We take into account different spatial symmetries of noises, and the regimes of noise autocorrelation time. The latter can be either much shorter than the characteristic qubit decoherence time (Markovian decoherence), or much longer (approaching the quasi-static bath limit). We express the entanglement of two-qubit states in terms of expectation values of spherical tensor operators which allows for transparent insight into the role of the symmetry of both the two-qubit state and the noise for entanglement dynamics.

id: 1408.4320
title: Casimir-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium between dielectric gratings
authors: Antonio Noto, Riccardo Messina, Brahim Guizal, Mauro Antezza
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, accepted on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4320
abstract: We calculate the Casimir-Lifshitz pressure in a system consisting of two different 1D dielectric lamellar gratings having two different temperatures and immersed in an environment having a third temperature. The calculation of the pressure is based on the knowledge of the scattering operators, deduced using the Fourier Modal Method. The behavior of the pressure is characterized in detail as a function of the three temperatures of the system as well as the geometrical parameters of the two gratings. We show that the interplay between non-equilibrium effects and geometrical periodicity offers a rich scenario for the manipulation of the force. In particular, we find regimes where the force can be strongly reduced for large ranges of temperatures. Moreover, a repulsive pressure can be obtained, whose features can be tuned by controlling the degrees of freedom of the system. Remarkably, the transition distance between attraction and repulsion can be decreased with respect to the case of two slabs, implying an experimental interest for the observation of repulsion.

id: 1408.4346
title: Towards the explicit computation of Bohm velocities associated to N-electron wave-functions with arbitrary spin-orientations
authors: A. Alarcon, X. Cartoixa, X. Oriols
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Status Solidi C 7(2010) 11-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4346
abstract: The direct solution of the many-particle Schr\"odinger equation is computationally inaccessible for more than very few electrons. In order to surpass this limitation, one of the authors [X. Oriols, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2007, 98 (066803)] has recently proposed a new model to study electron-electron correlations from Bohm trajectories associated to time-dependent wave-packets solutions of pseudo single-particle Schr\"odinger equations. In the aforementioned paper only the orbital exchange interaction is considered assuming that all electrons have the same spin orientation. Then, the many-particle wave function is a complex Slater determinant of the single-particle wave-packets. In the present work the previous formalism is extended to study many-particle wave functions where the electrons have different spin orientations.The main difficulty to treat N different electron spin orientations with time-dependent wave-packets is that one must study all the possible N!N! products of permutations among spin states. To overcome this computationally inaccessible problem, in this article the total wave function is treated as a separated product of two many-particle wave functions, the first with spin up and the second with spin down. In order to numerically justify this approximation, the Bohm velocity in different antisymmetric total wave-function scenarios is computed. The computational results confirms the accurate validity of our approximation under a large number of cases.

id: 1408.4357
title: Quantum Spin Dimers from Chiral Dissipation in Cold-Atom Chains
authors: Tom¨¢s Ramos, Hannes Pichler, Andrew J. Daley, Peter Zoller
comments: Replaced by published version (6 pages + 8 pages supplemental material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 237203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4357
abstract: We consider the non-equilibrium dynamics of a driven dissipative spin chain with chiral coupling to a 1D bosonic bath, and its atomic implementation with a two-species mixture of cold quantum gases. The reservoir is represented by a spin-orbit coupled 1D quasi-condensate of atoms in a magnetized phase, while the spins are identified with motional states of a separate species of atoms in an optical lattice. The chirality of reservoir excitations allows the spins to couple differently to left and right moving modes, which in our atomic setup can be tuned from bidirectional to purely unidirectional. Remarkably, this leads to a pure steady state in which pairs of neighboring spins form dimers that decouple from the remainder of the chain. Our results also apply to current experiments with two-level emitters coupled to photonic waveguides.

id: 1408.4382
title: Quantum annealing correction for random Ising problems
authors: Kristen L. Pudenz, Tameem Albash, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures. v2: updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042302 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4382
abstract: We demonstrate that the performance of a quantum annealer on hard random Ising optimization problems can be substantially improved using quantum annealing correction (QAC). Our error correction strategy is tailored to the D-Wave Two device. We find that QAC provides a statistically significant enhancement in the performance of the device over a classical repetition code, improving as a function of problem size as well as hardness. Moreover, QAC provides a mechanism for overcoming the precision limit of the device, in addition to correcting calibration errors. Performance is robust even to missing qubits. We present evidence for a constructive role played by quantum effects in our experiments by contrasting the experimental results with the predictions of a classical model of the device. Our work demonstrates the importance of error correction in appropriately determining the performance of quantum annealers.

id: 1408.4394
title: Symmetry examples in open quantum dynamics
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, San Ha Seo
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4394
abstract: Dependent symmetries, a new kind of symmetry of the open quantum dynamics of a subsystem, symmetries that depend on the situation of the subsystem in a larger closed system, are explored by looking at simple examples. Each symmetry implies a particular form for the results of the open dynamics. The forms exhibit the symmetries very simply. It is shown directly, without assuming anything about the symmetry, that the dynamics produces the form, but knowing the symmetry and the form it implies can reduce what needs to be done to work out the dynamics; pieces can be deduced from the symmetry rather that calculated from the dynamics. Symmetries can be related to constants of the motion in new ways. A quantity might be a dependent constant of the motion, constant only for particular situations of the subsystem in the larger system. In particular, a generator of dependent symmetries could represent a quantity that is a dependent constant of the motion for the same situations as for the symmetries. The examples present a variety of possibilities. Sometimes a generator of dependent symmetries does represent a dependent constant of the motion. Sometimes it does not. Sometimes no quantity is a dependent constant of the motion. Sometimes every quantity is.

id: 1408.4426
title: The Security of Quantum Key Distribution using a Simplified Trusted Relay
authors: William Stacey, Razieh Annabestani, Xiongfeng Ma, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A. 91 (2015) 012338
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4426
abstract: We propose a QKD protocol for trusted node relays. Our protocol shifts the communication and computational weight of classical post-processing to the end users by reassigning the roles of error correction and privacy amplification, while leaving the exchange of quantum signals untouched. We perform a security analysis for this protocol based on the BB84 protocol on the level of infinite key formulas, taking into account weak coherent implementations involving decoy analysis.

id: 1408.4441
title: Many-Body Quantum Spin Dynamics with Monte Carlo Trajectories on a Discrete Phase Space
authors: Johannes Schachenmayer, Alexander Pikovski, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5 011022 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4441
abstract: Interacting spin systems are of fundamental relevance in different areas of physics, as well as in quantum information science, and biology. These spin models represent the simplest, yet not fully understood, manifestation of quantum many-body systems. An important outstanding problem is the efficient numerical computation of dynamics in large spin systems. Here we propose a new semiclassical method to study many-body spin dynamics in generic spin lattice models. The method is based on a discrete Monte Carlo sampling in phase-space in the framework of the so-called truncated Wigner approximation. Comparisons with analytical and numerically exact calculations demonstrate the power of the technique. They show that it correctly reproduces the dynamics of one- and two-point correlations and spin squeezing at short times, thus capturing entanglement. Our results open the possibility to study the quantum dynamics accessible to recent experiments in regimes where other numerical methods are inapplicable.

id: 1408.4447
title: Open Systems Dynamics for Propagating Quantum Fields
authors: Ben Q. Baragiola
comments: PhD thesis. 261 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4447
abstract: In this dissertation, I explore interactions between matter and propagating light. The electromagnetic field is modeled as a reservoir of quantum harmonic oscillators successively streaming past a quantum system. Each weak and fleeting interaction entangles the light and the system, and the light continues its course. Within the framework of open quantum systems, the light is eventually traced out, leaving the reduced quantum state of the system as the primary mathematical subject. Two major results are presented. The first is a master equation approach for a quantum system interacting with a traveling wave packet prepared with a definite number of photons. In contrast to quasi-classical states, such as coherent or thermal fields, these N-photon states possess temporal mode entanglement, and local interactions in time have nonlocal consequences. The second is a model for a three-dimensional light-matter interface for an atomic ensemble interacting with a paraxial laser beam and its application to the generation of QND spin squeezing. Both coherent and incoherent dynamics due to spatially inhomogeneous atom-light coupling across the ensemble are accounted for. Measurement of paraxially scattered light can generate squeezing of an atomic spin wave, while diffusely scattered photons lead to spatially local decoherence.

id: 1408.4477
title: Hellinger distance as a measure of Gaussian discord
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Important revision, more insight. Published version
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 48, 115301 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4477
abstract: Especially investigated in recent years, the Gaussian discord can be quantified by a distance between a given two-mode Gaussian state and the set of all the zero-discord two-mode Gaussian states. However, as this set consists only of product states, such a distance captures all the correlations (quantum and classical) between modes. Therefore it is merely un upper bound for the geometric discord, no matter which is the employed distance. In this work we choose for this purpose the Hellinger metric that is known to have many beneficial properties recommending it as a good measure of quantum behaviour. In general, this metric is determined by affinity, a relative of the Uhlmann fidelity with which it shares many important features. As a first step of our work, the affinity of a pair of $n$-mode Gaussian states is written. Then, in the two-mode case, we succeeded in determining exactly the closest Gaussian product state and computed the Gaussian discord accordingly. The obtained general formula is remarkably simple and becomes still friendlier in the significant case of symmetric two-mode Gaussian states. We then analyze in detail two special classes of two-mode Gaussian states of theoretical and experimental interest as well: the squeezed thermal states and the mode-mixed thermal ones. The former are separable under a well-known threshold of squeezing, while the latter are always separable. It is worth stressing that for symmetric states belonging to either of these classes, we find consistency between their geometric Hellinger discord and the originally defined discord in the Gaussian approach. At the same time, the Gaussian Hellinger discord of such a state turns out to be a reliable measure of the total amount of its cross correlations.

id: 1408.4491
title: Parametric down conversion with a depleted pump as a model for classical information transmission capacity of quantum black holes
authors: Paul M. Alsing
comments: 53 pages, 24 figures; accepted Class. and Quant. Grav (2Feb2015)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4491
abstract: In this paper we extend the investigation of Adami and Ver Steeg [Class. Quantum Grav. \textbf{31}, 075015 (2014)] to treat the process of black hole particle emission effectively as the analogous quantum optical process of parametric down conversion (PDC) with a dynamical (depleted vs. non-depleted) `pump' source mode which models the evaporating black hole (BH) energy degree of freedom. We investigate both the short time (non-depleted pump) and long time (depleted pump) regimes of the quantum state and its impact on the Holevo channel capacity for communicating information from the far past to the far future in the presence of Hawking radiation. The new feature introduced in this work is the coupling of the emitted Hawking radiation modes through the common black hole `source pump' mode which phenomenologically represents a quantized energy degree of freedom of the gravitational field. This (zero-dimensional) model serves as a simplified arena to explore BH particle production/evaporation and back-action effects under an explicitly unitary evolution which enforces quantized energy/particle conservation. Within our analogous quantum optical model we examine the entanglement between two emitted particle/anti-particle and anti-particle/particle pairs coupled via the black hole (BH) evaporating `pump' source. We also analytically and dynamically verify the `Page information time' for our model which refers to the conventionally held belief that the information in the BH radiation becomes significant after the black hole has evaporated half its initial energy into the outgoing radiation. Lastly, we investigate the effect of BH particle production/evaporation on two modes in the exterior region of the BH event horizon that are initially maximally entangled, when one mode falls inward and interacts with the black hole, and the other remains forever outside and non-interacting.

id: 1408.4517
title: Energy shift and Casimir-Polder force for an atom out of thermal equilibrium near a dielectric substrate
authors: Wenting Zhou, Hongwei Yu
comments: 42 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 90, 032501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4517
abstract: We study the energy shift and the Casimir-Polder force of an atom out of thermal equilibrium near the surface of a dielectric substrate. We first generalize, adopting the local source hypothesis, the formalism proposed by Dalibard, Dupont-Roc and Cohen-Tannoudji, which separates the contributions of thermal fluctuations and radiation reaction to the energy shift and allows a distinct treatment to atoms in the ground and excited states, to the case out of thermal equilibrium, and then use the generalized formalism to calculate the energy shift and the Casimir-Polder force of an isotropically polarizable neutral atom. We identify the effects of the thermal fluctuations that originate from the substrate and the environment and discuss in detail how the Casimir-Polder force out of thermal equilibrium behaves in three different distance regions in both the low-temperature limit and the high-temperature limit for both the ground-state and excited-state atoms, with special attention devoted to the new features as opposed to thermal equilibrium. In particular, we recover the new behavior of the atom-wall force out of thermal equilibrium at large distances in the low temperature limit recently found in a different theoretical framework and furthermore we give a concrete region where this behavior holds.

id: 1408.4540
title: Quasithermodynamic Representation of the quantum master equations: its existence , advantages and applications
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4540
abstract: We propose a new representation for several quantum master equations in so-called quasithermodynamic form. This representation (when it exists) let one to write down dynamical equations both for diagonal and non-diagonal elements of density matrix of the quantum system of interest in unified form by means of nonequilibrium potential ("entropy") that is a certain quadratic function depending on all variables describing the state. We prove that above representation exists for the general Pauli master equation and for the Lindblad master equation ( at least in simple cases ) as well. We discuss also advantages of the representation proposed in the study of kinetic properties of open quantum systems particularly of its relaxation to the stationary state.

id: 1408.4561
title: Entanglement-based quantum communication may prevent tracking the message sender
authors: Michael Siomau
comments: 5 pages, 25 references, previous versions contain mistakes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4561
abstract: The possibility of attaining current position of the message sender without person's consent seriously compromises the secrecy of correspondence. Classical communication systems cannot guarantee the security of communication against unwanted location tracking, because the sender must broadcast a signal at the moment of sending the message. The source of the signal could be always located, at least in principle. We show that quantum communication enables sending the message with pre-distributed entangled quantum systems, local weak measurements, time synchronization between the sender and the receiver and classical communication by the message receiver alone, therefore, physically securing the sender's location.

id: 1408.4566
title: Elimination of information leakage in quantum information channels
authors: Christian S. Jacobsen, Lars S. Madsen, Vladyslav C. Usenko, Radim Filip, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4566
abstract: In all lossy communication channels realized to date, information is inevitably leaked to a potential eavesdropper. Here we present a communication protocol that does not allow for any information leakage to a potential eavesdropper. By encoding information into a restricted Gaussian alphabet of squeezed states we show, both theoretically and experimentally, that the Holevo information between the eavesdropper and the intended recipient can be exactly zero in a purely lossy channel while minimized in a noisy channel with a finite number of samples. This result is of fundamental interest but might also have practical implications in extending the distance of secure quantum key distribution.

id: 1408.4568
title: Hypothesis testing with open quantum systems
authors: Klaus Molmer
comments: Accepted version; figures improved, example added with a spin squeezed ensemble
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 040401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4568
abstract: Using a quantum circuit model we derive the maximal ability to distinguish which of several candidate Hamiltonians describe an open quantum system. This theory, in particular, provides the maximum information retrievable from continuous quantum measurement records, available when a quantum system is perturbatively coupled to a broadband quantized environment.

id: 1408.4570
title: Analyses of the transmission of the disorder from a disturbed environment to a spin chain
authors: Lucile Aubourg, David Viennot
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1402.2411
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4570
abstract: We study spin chains submitted to disturbed kick trains described by classical dynamical processes. The spin chains are described by Heisenberg and Ising models. We consider decoherence, entanglement and relaxation processes induced by the kick irregularity in the multipartite system (the spin chain). We show that the different couplings transmit the disorder along the chain differently and also to each spin density matrix with different efficiencies. In order to analyze and to interpret the observed effects we use a semi-classical analysis across the Husimi distribution. It consists to consider the classical spin orientation movements. A possibility of conserving the order into the spin chain is finally analyzed.

id: 1408.4585
title: Quantum chimera states
authors: David Viennot, Lucile Aubourg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4585
abstract: We study a theoretical model of closed quasi-hermitian chain of spins which exhibits quantum analogues of chimera states, i.e. long life classical states for which a part of an oscillator chain presents an ordered dynamics whereas another part presents a disordered chaotic dynamics. For the quantum analogue, the chimera behavior deals with the entanglement between the spins of the chain. We discuss the entanglement properties, quantum chaos, quantum disorder and semi-classical similarity of our quantum chimera system. The quantum chimera concept is novel and induces new perspectives concerning the entanglement of multipartite systems.

id: 1408.4589
title: Violations of the second law of thermodynamics by a non completely positive dynamics
authors: G. Argentieri, F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, M. Pezzutto
comments: 6 pages, LaTex
journal: EPL, 107 (2014) 50007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4589
abstract: We consider a recently proposed model of driven open quantum microcircuit [F. Pellegrini et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060401 (2011)] amenable to experimental investigations. We show that such an open quantum system provides a concrete physical instance where to prove that modeling its time-evolution with a dynamics lacking complete positivity conflicts with the second law of thermodynamics.

id: 1408.4616
title: Exploring quantum phases by driven dissipation
authors: Nicolai Lang, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4616
abstract: Ever since the insight spreaded that tailored dissipation can be employed to control quantum systems and drive them towards pure states, the field of non-equilibrium quantum mechanics gained remarkable momentum. So far research focussed on emergent phenomena caused by the interplay and competition of unitary Hamiltonian and dissipative Markovian dynamics. In this manuscript we zero in on a so far rather understudied aspect of open quantum systems and non-equilibrium physics, namely the utilization of purely dissipative couplings to explore pure quantum phases and non-equilibrium phase transitions. To illustrate this concept, we introduce and scrutinize purely dissipative counterparts of (1) the paradigmatic transverse field Ising model and (2) the considerably more complex $\mathbb{Z}_2$ lattice gauge theory with coupled matter field. We show that, in mean field approximation, the non-equilibrium phase diagrams parallel the (thermal) phase diagrams of the Hamiltonian "blue print" theories qualitatively.

id: 1408.4730
title: Stochastic quantization weakening and quantum entanglement decoherence
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1406.0595
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4730
abstract: The paper investigates the non-local property of quantum mechanics in the quantum hydrodynamic analogy (QHA) given by Madelung. The role of the quantum potential in generating the non-local dynamics of quantum mechanics is analyzed. The work shows how in presence of noise the non-local properties as well as the quantization of the action are perturbed. The resulting stochastic QHA dynamics much depend by the strength of the interaction: Strongly bounded systems (such as linear ones) lead to quantum entangled stochastic behavior, while weakly bounded ones may be not able to maintain the quantum superposition of states on large distances and may loose their macro-scale quantum coherence acquiring the classical stochastic evolution . The work shows that in the frame of the stochastic approach it is possible to have freedom between quantum weakly bounded systems. The stochastic QHA model shows that the wave-function collapse to an eigenstates (deriving by interaction of a quantum microscopic system with a classical (macroscopic) one) can be described by the model itself as a kinetic quantum (relaxation) process to a stationary state. Since the time of the wave function decay to the eigenstate represents the minimum duration time of a measurement, the minimum uncertainty principle is shown to be compatible with the relativistic postulate about the light speed as the maximum velocity of transmission of interaction. About this topic, the paper shows that the Lorenz invariance of the relativistic quantum potential (coming from the Dirac equation) enforces the hypothesis that the superluminal transmission of information are not present in measurements on quantum entangled state.

id: 1408.4764
title: Many-particle Sudarshan-Lindblad equation: mean-field approximation, nonlinearity and dissipation in a spin system
authors: G. A. Prataviera, S. S. Mizrahi
comments: revised version, published in "Revista Brasileira de Ensino de Fisica"
journal: Revista Brasileira de Ensino de Fisica, v. 36, n. 4, 4303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4764
abstract: A system of $N$ spin-1/2 particles interacting with a thermal reservoir is used as a pedagogical example for advanced undergraduate and graduate students. We introduce and illustrate some methods, approximations, and phenomena related to dissipation and nonlinearity in many-particle physics. We start our analysis from the dynamical Sudarshan-Lindblad quantum master equation for the density operator of a system $\mathcal{S}$ interacting with a thermal reservoir $\mathcal{R}$. We derive the quantum version of the so-called Bogoliubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon (BBGKY) equations such that the master equation can be decomposed in a hierarchical set of $N-1$ equations ($N>1$). The hierarchy is broken by introducing the mean-field approximation and reducing the problem to a nonlinear single particle system. In this scenario, the Hamiltonian is nonlinear (i.e., it depends on the state of $\mathcal{S}$), although the superoperator responsible for the dissipation and decoherence of $\mathcal{S}$ remains unaffected. To provide a useful tool to students: (1) we discuss the physical approximations involved, (2) we derive the analytical solution to the mean values equations of motion resulting from the Hamiltonian, (3) we solve analytically the master equation in the stationary regime, (4) we obtain and discuss the solution of the nonlinear master equation, numerically, and finally, (5) we discuss the master equation beyond the mean-field approximation and show how to introduce higher order quantum correlations that have been previously neglected.

id: 1408.4780
title: Simple explanation on why QKD keys have not been proved secure
authors: Horace Yuen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4780
abstract: A simple counter-example is given on the prevalent interpretation of the trace distance criterion as failure probability in quantum key distribution protocols. A summary of its ramifications is listed.

id: 1408.4838
title: Quantum Sequence States
authors: F. V. Mendes, R. V. Ramos
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4838
abstract: In a recent paper it has been shown how to create a quantum state related to the prime number sequence using Grover's algorithm. Moreover, its multiqubit entanglement was analyzed. In the present work, we compare the multiqubit entanglement of several quantum sequence states as well we study the feasibility of producing such states using Grover's algorithm.

id: 1408.4843
title: Lowest-order relativistic corrections to the fundamental limits of nonlinear-optical coefficients
authors: Nathan J. Dawson
comments: 9 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4843
abstract: The effects of small relativistic corrections to the off-resonant polarizability, hyperpolarizability, and second hyperpolarizability are investigated. Corrections to linear and nonlinear optical coefficients are demonstrated in the three-level ansatz, which includes corrections to the Kuzyk limits when scaled to semi-relativistic energies. It is also shown that the maximum value of the hyperpolarizability is more sensitive than the maximum polarizability or second hyperpolarizability to lowest-order relativistic corrections. These corrections illustrate how the intrinsic nonlinear-optical response is affected at semi-relativistic energies.

id: 1408.4904
title: Preparation of three-dimensional entanglement for distant atoms in coupled cavities via atomic spontaneous emission and cavity decay
authors: Shi-Lei Su, Xiao-Qiang Shao, Hong-Fu Wang, Shou Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Scientific Reports vol 4, 7566 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4904
abstract: We propose a dissipative scheme to prepare a three-dimensional entangled state for two atoms trapped in separate coupled cavities. Our work shows that both atomic spontaneous emission and cavity decay, which are two typical obstacles in unitary-dynamics-based schemes, could be utilized as resources for high-dimensional entangled state preparation without specifying initial state and controlling time precisely. Final numerical simulation with one group of experimental parameters indicates that the performance of our scheme is better than the unitary-dynamics-based scheme.

id: 1408.5012
title: Teleportation-Based Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: F. S. Luiz, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, two-column, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5012
abstract: We show a continuous variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme based on the CV quantum teleportation of coherent states that yields a raw secret key made up of discrete variables for both Alice and Bob. This protocol preserves the efficient detection schemes of current CV technology (no single-photon detection techniques) and, at the same time, has efficient error correction and privacy amplification schemes due to its binary discrete key. In particular, it is secure for any value of the transmission efficiency of the optical line used by Alice to share entangled two-mode squeezed states with Bob (no 3 dB or 50% loss limitation characteristic of beam splitting attacks). The present CVQKD protocol works deterministically (no postselection needed) with efficient direct reconciliation techniques (no reverse reconciliation) in order to generate a secure key, even at the surprisingly 100% loss case.

id: 1408.5056
title: Unifying time evolution and optimization with matrix product states
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Christian Lubich, Ivan Oseledets, Bart Vandereycken, Frank Verstraete
comments: 5 pages + 5 pages supplementary material (6 figures) (updated example, small corrections)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5056
abstract: We show that the time-dependent variational principle provides a unifying framework for time-evolution methods and optimisation methods in the context of matrix product states. In particular, we introduce a new integration scheme for studying time-evolution, which can cope with arbitrary Hamiltonians, including those with long-range interactions. Rather than a Suzuki-Trotter splitting of the Hamiltonian, which is the idea behind the adaptive time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method or time-evolving block decimation, our method is based on splitting the projector onto the matrix product state tangent space as it appears in the Dirac-Frenkel time-dependent variational principle. We discuss how the resulting algorithm resembles the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) algorithm for finding ground states so closely that it can be implemented by changing just a few lines of code and it inherits the same stability and efficiency. In particular, our method is compatible with any Hamiltonian for which DMRG can be implemented efficiently and DMRG is obtained as a special case of imaginary time evolution with infinite time step.

id: 1408.5062
title: Entropy production in Gaussian bosonic transformations using the replica method: application to quantum optics
authors: C. N. Gagatsos, A. I. Karanikas, G. Kordas, N. J. Cerf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5062
abstract: In spite of their simple description in terms of rotations or symplectic transformations in phase space, quadratic Hamiltonians such as those modeling the most common Gaussian operations on bosonic modes remain poorly understood in terms of entropy production. For instance, determining the von Neumann entropy produced by a Bogoliubov transformation is notably a hard problem, with generally no known analytical solution. Here, we overcome this difficulty by using the replica method, a tool borrowed from statistical physics and quantum field theory. We exhibit a first application of this method to the field of quantum optics, where it enables accessing entropies in a two-mode squeezer or optical parametric amplifier. As an illustration, we determine the entropy generated by amplifying a binary superposition of the vacuum and an arbitrary Fock state, which yields a surprisingly simple, yet unknown analytical expression.

id: 1408.5105
title: Lamb Shift of Energy Levels in Quantum Rings
authors: G. Yu. Kryuchkyan, O. Kyriienko, I. A. Shelykh
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48, 025401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5105
abstract: We study the vacuum radiative corrections to energy levels of a confined electron in quantum rings. The calculations are provided for the Lamb shift of energy levels in low-momentum region of virtual photons and for both one-dimensional and two-dimensional quantum rings. We show that contrary to the well known case of a hydrogen atom the value of the Lamb shift increases with the magnetic momentum quantum number m. We also investigate the dependence of the Lamb shift on magnetic flux piercing the ring and demonstrate a presence of magnetic-flux-dependent oscillations. For one-dimensional ring the value of the shift strongly depends on the radius of the ring. It is extremely small for semiconductor rings but can attain measurable quantities in natural organic ring-shape molecules, such as benzene, cycloalcanes and porphyrins.

id: 1408.5115
title: Unbounded number of channel uses are required to see quantum capacity
authors: Toby Cubitt, David Elkouss, William Matthews, Maris Ozols, David Perez-Garcia, Sergii Strelchuk
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nat. Commun. 6, 7739 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5115
abstract: Transmitting data reliably over noisy communication channels is one of the most important applications of information theory, and well understood when the channel is accurately modelled by classical physics. However, when quantum effects are involved, we do not know how to compute channel capacities. The capacity to transmit quantum information is essential to quantum cryptography and computing, but the formula involves maximising the coherent information over arbitrarily many channel uses. This is because entanglement across channel uses can increase the coherent information, even from zero to non-zero! However, in all known examples, at least to detect whether the capacity is non-zero, two channel uses already suffice. Maybe a finite number of channel uses is always sufficient? Here, we show this is emphatically not the case: for any n, there are channels for which the coherent information is zero for n uses, but which nonetheless have capacity. This may be a first indication that the quantum capacity is uncomputable.

id: 1408.5140
title: Transfer Matrices and Excitations with Matrix Product States
authors: V. Zauner, D. Draxler, L. Vanderstraeten, M. Degroote, J. Haegeman, M.M. Rams, V. Stojevic, N. Schuch, F. Verstraete
comments: 39 pages (+8 pages appendix), 14 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 053002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5140
abstract: We investigate the relation between static correlation functions in the ground state of local quantum many-body Hamiltonians and the dispersion relations of the corresponding low energy excitations using the formalism of tensor network states. In particular, we show that the Matrix Product State Transfer Matrix (MPS-TM) - a central object in the computation of static correlation functions - provides important information about the location and magnitude of the minima of the low energy dispersion relation(s) and present supporting numerical data for one-dimensional lattice and continuum models as well as two-dimensional lattice models on a cylinder. We elaborate on the peculiar structure of the MPS-TM's eigenspectrum and give several arguments for the close relation between the structure of the low energy spectrum of the system and the form of static correlation functions. Finally, we discuss how the MPS-TM connects to the exact Quantum Transfer Matrix (QTM) of the model at zero temperature. We present a renormalization group argument for obtaining finite bond dimension approximations of MPS, which allows to reinterpret variational MPS techniques (such as the Density Matrix Renormalization Group) as an application of Wilson's Numerical Renormalization Group along the virtual (imaginary time) dimension of the system.

id: 1408.5148
title: Quantum many-body systems out of equilibrium
authors: J. Eisert, M. Friesdorf, C. Gogolin
comments: 7 pages, brief review and perspectives article
journal: Nature Physics 11, 124 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5148
abstract: Closed quantum many-body systems out of equilibrium pose several long-standing problems in physics. Recent years have seen a tremendous progress in approaching these questions, not least due to experiments with cold atoms and trapped ions in instances of quantum simulations. This article provides an overview on the progress in understanding dynamical equilibration and thermalisation of closed quantum many-body systems out of equilibrium due to quenches, ramps and periodic driving. It also addresses topics such as the eigenstate thermalisation hypothesis, typicality, transport, many-body localisation, universality near phase transitions, and prospects for quantum simulations.

id: 1408.5160
title: Optical Manipulation of Quantum Dot Electron Spin Qubits Using Microcavity Quantum Well Exciton-Polaritons
authors: Shruti Puri, Peter L. McMahon, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5160
abstract: In this paper, we develop and analyze a hardware platform for a scalable quantum computer based on semiconductor quantum dot (QD) electron spin qubits and their Coulomb exchange interaction with microcavity quantum well (QW) exciton-polaritons. This approach is based on the framework of the previously proposed QuDOS architecture (Quantum Dots with Optically Controlled Spins) for surface code quantum computation. Despite the developments in techniques for implementing quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement and nearest-neighbor gates in the QD electron spin system, achieving the resource requirements for fault-tolerance still remains a challenge. In order to overcome this, our scheme relies on the indirect optical control of QD spins, resulting from the long-ranged Coulomb exchange interaction between the spin qubits and optically excited, spin-polarized, QW exciton-polaritons. We develop schemes for implementing a fast, high-fidelity, single qubit gate, a two-qubit geometric phase gate and single-shot QND measurement. The control mechanism, namely, the exchange interaction, enables the optical manipulation of single electron spin in Faraday geometry. Furthermore, we investigate various decoherence mechanisms critical for the robustness of the gate operations. This paper, introduces the first plausible polariton-based on-chip hardware platform that could support universal, fault-tolerant operations for implementing large-scale quantum algorithms.

id: 1408.5166
title: One-Dimensional Coinless Quantum Walks
authors: Renato Portugal, Stefan Boettcher, Stefan Falkner
comments: 16 pages, 6 figs, added a reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5166
abstract: A coinless, discrete-time quantum walk possesses a Hilbert space whose dimension is smaller compared to the widely-studied coined walk. Coined walks require the direct product of the site basis with the coin space, coinless walks operate purely in the site basis, which is clearly minimal. These coinless quantum walks have received considerable attention recently because they have evolution operators that can be obtained by a graphical method based on lattice tessellations and they have been shown to be as efficient as the best known coined walks when used as a quantum search algorithm. We argue that both formulations in their most general form are equivalent. In particular, we demonstrate how to transform the one-dimensional version of the coinless quantum walk into an equivalent extended coined version for a specific family of evolution operators. We present some of its basic, asymptotic features for the one-dimensional lattice with some examples of tessellations, and analyze the mixing time and limiting probability distributions on cycles.

id: 1408.5171
title: Energy transport between two pure-dephasing reservoirs
authors: T. Werlang, D. Valente
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012143 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5171
abstract: A pure-dephasing reservoir acting on an individual quantum system induces loss of coherence without energy exchange. When acting on composite quantum systems, dephasing reservoirs can lead to a radically different behavior. Transport of energy between two pure-dephasing markovian reservoirs is predicted in this work. They are connected through a chain of coupled sites. The baths are kept in thermal equilibrium at distinct temperatures. Quantum coherence between sites is generated in the steady-state regime and results in the underlying mechanism sustaining the effect. A quantum model for the reservoirs is a necessary condition for the existence of stationary energy transport. A microscopic derivation of the non-unitary system-bath interaction is employed, valid in the ultrastrong inter-site coupling regime. The model assumes that each site-reservoir coupling is local.

id: 1408.5190
title: Experimental observation of entanglement duality for identical particles
authors: J.-J. Ma, X.-X. Yuan, C. Zu, X.-Y. Chang, P.-Y. Hou, L.-M. Duan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 2014 New J. Phys. 16 083011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5190
abstract: It was shown recently that entanglement of identical particles has a feature called dualism [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 140404 (2013)], which is fundamentally connected with quantum indistinguishability. Here we report an experiment that observes the entanglement duality for the fi?rst time with two identical photons, which manifest polarization entanglement when labeled by diff?erent paths or path entanglement when labeled by polarization states. By adjusting the mismatch in frequency or arrival time of the entangled photons, we tune the photon indistinguishability from quantum to classical limit and observe that the entanglement duality disappears under emergence of classical distinguishability, con?rming it as a characteristic feature of quantum indistinguishable particles.

id: 1408.5203
title: Phase-dependent optical response properties in an optomechanical system by coherently driving the mechanical resonator
authors: W. Z. Jia, L. F. Wei, Yong Li, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5203
abstract: We explore theoretically the optical response properties in an optomechanical system under electromagnetically induced transparency condition but with the mechanical resonator being driven by an additional coherent field. In this configuration, more complex quantum coherent and interference phenomena occur. In particular, we find that the probe transmission spectra depend on the total phase of the applied fields. Our study also provides an efficient way to control propagation of a probe field from perfect absorption to remarkable amplification.

id: 1408.5300
title: Thermodynamics of N-dimensional quantum walks
authors: Alejandro Romanelli, Raul Donangelo, Renato Portugal, Franklin L. Marquezino
comments: 10 pages, 4 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5300
abstract: The entanglement between the position and coin state of a $N$-dimensional quantum walker is shown to lead to a thermodynamic theory. The entropy, in this thermodynamics, is associated to the reduced density operator for the evolution of chirality, taking a partial trace over positions. From the asymptotic reduced density matrix it is possible to define thermodynamic quantities, such as the asymptotic entanglement entropy, temperature, Helmholz free energy, etc. We study in detail the case of a $2$-dimensional quantum walk, in the case of two different initial conditions: a non-separable coin-position initial state, and a separable one. The resulting entanglement temperature is presented as function of the parameters of the system and those of the initial conditions.

id: 1408.5305
title: Optomechanical Ramsey Interferometry
authors: Kenan Qu, Chunhua Dong, Hailin Wang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: PhysRevA.90.053809 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5305
abstract: We adopt the Ramsey's method of separated oscillatory fields to study coherences of the mechanical system in an optomechanical resonator. The high resolution Ramsey fringes are observed in the emission optical field, when two pulses separated in time are applied. We develop a theory to describe the transient optomechanical behavior underlying the Ramsey fringes. We also perform the experimental demonstration using a silica microresonator. The method is versatile and can be adopted to different types of mechanical resonators, electromechanical resonators.

id: 1408.5308
title: Analogue of the quantum total probability rule from Paraconsistent bayesian probability theory
authors: R. Salazar, C. Jara-Figueroa, A. Delgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5308
abstract: We derive an analogue of the quantum total probability rule by constructing a probability theory based on paraconsistent logic. Bayesian probability theory is constructed upon classical logic and a desiderata, that is, a set of desired properties that the theory must obey. We construct a new probability theory following the desiderata of Bayesian probability theory but replacing the classical logic by paraconsistent logic. This class of logic has been conceived to handle eventual inconsistencies or contradictions among logical propositions without leading to the trivialisation of the theory. Within this Paraconsistent bayesian probability theory it is possible to deduce a new total probability rule which depends on the probabilities assigned to the inconsistencies. Certain assignments of values for these probabilities lead to expressions identical to those of Quantum mechanics, in particular to the quantum total probability rule obtained via symmetric informationally complete positive- operator valued measure.

id: 1408.5310
title: A nonlocal polarization interferometer for entanglement detection
authors: Brian P. Williams, Travis S. Humble, Warren P. Grice
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5310
abstract: We report a nonlocal interferometer capable of detecting entanglement and identifying Bell states statistically. This is possible due to the interferometer's unique correlation dependence on the anti-diagonal elements of the density matrix, which have distinct bounds for separable states and unique values for the four Bell states. The interferometer consists of two spatially separated balanced Mach-Zehnder or Sagnac interferometers that share a polarization entangled source. Correlations between these interferometers exhibit non-local interference, while single photon interference is suppressed. This interferometer also allows for a unique version of the CHSH-Bell test where the local reality is the photon polarization. We present the relevant theory and experimental results.

id: 1408.5328
title: Second-order coding rates for pure-loss bosonic channels
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Joseph M. Renes, Saikat Guha
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures; v3: final version accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5328
abstract: A pure-loss bosonic channel is a simple model for communication over free-space or fiber-optic links. More generally, phase-insensitive bosonic channels model other kinds of noise, such as thermalizing or amplifying processes. Recent work has established the classical capacity of all of these channels, and furthermore, it is now known that a strong converse theorem holds for the classical capacity of these channels under a particular photon number constraint. The goal of the present paper is to initiate the study of second-order coding rates for these channels, by beginning with the simplest one, the pure-loss bosonic channel. In a second-order analysis of communication, one fixes the tolerable error probability and seeks to understand the back-off from capacity for a sufficiently large yet finite number of channel uses. We find a lower bound on the maximum achievable code size for the pure-loss bosonic channel, in terms of the known expression for its capacity and a quantity called channel dispersion. We accomplish this by proving a general "one-shot" coding theorem for channels with classical inputs and pure-state quantum outputs which reside in a separable Hilbert space. The theorem leads to an optimal second-order characterization when the channel output is finite-dimensional, and it remains an open question to determine whether the characterization is optimal for the pure-loss bosonic channel.

id: 1408.5341
title: Exact Diagonalization of Heisenberg SU(N) models
authors: Pierre Nataf, Frederic Mila
comments: To be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5341
abstract: Building on advanced results on permutations, we show that it is possible to construct, for each irreducible representation of SU(N), an orthonormal basis labelled by the set of {\it standard Young tableaux} in which the matrix of the Heisenberg SU(N) model (the quantum permutation of N-color objects) takes an explicit and extremely simple form. Since the relative dimension of the full Hilbert space to that of the singlet space on $n$ sites increases very fast with N, this formulation allows to extend exact diagonalizations of finite clusters to much larger values of N than accessible so far. Using this method, we show that, on the square lattice, there is long-range color order for SU(5), spontaneous dimerization for SU(8), and evidence in favor of a quantum liquid for SU(10).

id: 1408.5451
title: Diamond Nanophotonics
authors: Igor Aharonovich, Elke Neu
comments: Advanced Optical Materials (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5451
abstract: The burgeoning field of nanophotonics has grown to be a major research area, primarily because of the ability to control and manipulate single quantum systems (emitters) and single photons on demand. For many years studying nanophotonic phenomena was limited to traditional semiconductors (including silicon and GaAs) and experiments were carried out predominantly at cryogenic temperatures. In the last decade, however, diamond has emerged as a new contender to study photonic phenomena at the nanoscale. Offering plethora of quantum emitters that are optically active at room temperature and ambient conditions, diamond has been exploited to demonstrate super-resolution microscopy and realize entanglement, Purcell enhancement and other quantum and classical nanophotonic effects. Elucidating the importance of diamond as a material, this review will highlight the recent achievements in the field of diamond nanophotonics, and convey a roadmap for future experiments and technological advancements.

id: 1408.5593
title: Event-by-event simulation of a quantum delayed-choice experiment
authors: Hylke C. Donker, Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Computer Physics Communications 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5593
abstract: The quantum delayed-choice experiment of Tang et al. [Nature Photonics 6 (2012) 600] is simulated on the level of individual events without making reference to concepts of quantum theory or without solving a wave equation. The simulation results are in excellent agreement with the quantum theoretical predictions of this experiment. The implication of the work presented in the present paper is that the experiment of Tang et al. can be explained in terms of cause-and-effect processes in an event-by-event manner.

id: 1408.5611
title: Analytical study of bound states in graphene nano-ribbons and carbon nanotubes: The variable phase method and the relativistic Levinson theorem
authors: D. S. Miserev
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5611
abstract: The problem of localized states in 1D systems with the relativistic spectrum, namely, graphene stripes and carbon nanotubes, has been analytically studied. The bound state as a superposition of two chiral states is completely described by their relative phase. The criteria of bound states appearance have been obtained based on the variable phase method (VPM) and the relativistic Levinson theorem developed via the VPM. The problem of bound states is reduced to the analysis of singularities of some vector field where the Levinson theorem appears as the Poincare indices theorem for closed trajectories of this field. The reduction of the VPM equation to the non-relativistic and semi-classical limits has been done. The limit of the small momentum p_y of the transverse quantization is applicable to arbitrary integrable potential. In this case the only confined mode is predicted.

id: 1408.5651
title: Hierarchical monogamy relations for the squared entanglement of formation in multipartite systems
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Yuan-Fei Xu, Z. D. Wang
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062343 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5651
abstract: We show exactly that the squared entanglement of formation (SEF) obeys a set of hierarchical monogamy relations for an arbitrary $N$-qubit mixed state. Based on this set of monogamy relations, we are able to construct the set of hierarchical multipartite entanglement indicators for $N$-qubit states, which still work well even when the concurrence-based indicators lose efficacy. As a by-product, an intriguing analytical relation between the entanglement of formation (EOF) and squared concurrence (SC) for an arbitrary mixed state of $2\otimes d$ systems is derived, making the concurrence calculable via the corresponding EOF. Furthermore, we analyze the multipartite entanglement dynamics in composite cavity-reservoir systems with the present set of hierarchical indicators. Moreover, for multilevel systems, it is illustrated that the SEF can be monogamous even if the SC is polygamous.

id: 1408.5653
title: An experimental proposal to observe non-abelian statistics of Majorana-Shockley fermions in an optical lattice
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Sheng-Tao Wang, Kai Sun, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 094513 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5653
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to observe non-abelian statistics with cold atoms in a two dimensional optical lattice. We show that the Majorana-Schockley modes associated with line defects obey non-abelian statistics and can be created, braided, and fused, all through adiabatic shift of the local chemical potentials. The detection of the topological qubit is transformed to local measurement of the atom number on a single lattice site. We demonstrate the robustness of the braiding operation by incorporating noise and experiential imperfections in numerical simulations, and show that the requirement fits well with the current experimental technology.

id: 1408.5680
title: Moyal's Characteristic Function, the Density Matrix and von Neumann's Idempotent
authors: Basil J. Hiley
comments: 12
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5680
abstract: In the Wigner-Moyal approach to quantum mechanics, we show that Moyal's starting point, the characteristic function $M(\tau,\theta)=\int \psi^{*}(x)e^{i(\tau {\hat p}+\theta{\hat x})}\psi(x)dx$, is essentially the primitive idempotent used by von Neumann in his classic paper "Die Eindeutigkeit der Schr\"odingerschen Operatoren". This paper provides the original proof of the Stone-von Neumann equation. Thus the mathematical structure Moyal develops is simply a re-expression of what is at the heart of quantum mechanics and reproduces exactly the results of the quantum formalism. The "distribution function" $F(X,P,t)$ is simply the quantum mechanical density matrix expressed in an $( X,P)$-representation, where $X$ and $P$ are the mean co-ordinates of a cell structure in phase space. The whole approach therefore clearly has little to do with classical statistical theories but is a consequence of a non-commutative nature of the theory.

id: 1408.5685
title: Weak Measurement and its Experimental Realisation
authors: R. Flack, B. J. Hiley
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5685
abstract: The relationship between the real part of the weak value of the momentum operator at a post selected position is discussed and the meaning of the experimentally determined stream-lines in the Toronto experiment of Kocsis {\em et al} is re-examined. We argue against interpreting the energy flow lines as photon trajectories. The possibility of performing an analogous experiment using atoms is proposed in order that a direct comparison can be made with the trajectories calculated by Philippidis, Dewdney and Hiley using the Bohm approach.

id: 1408.5689
title: Composable security proof for continuous-variable quantum key distribution with coherent states
authors: Anthony Leverrier
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure. v2: added a version of the AEP valid for conditional states
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 070501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5689
abstract: We give the first composable security proof for continuous-variable quantum key distribution with coherent states against collective attacks. Crucially, in the limit of large blocks the secret key rate converges to the usual value computed from the Holevo bound. Combining our proof with either the de Finetti theorem or the Postselection technique then shows the security of the protocol against general attacks, thereby confirming the long-standing conjecture that Gaussian attacks are optimal asymptotically in the composable security framework. We expect that our parameter estimation procedure, which does not rely on any assumption, will find applications elsewhere, for instance for the reliable quantification of continuous-variable entanglement in finite-size settings.

id: 1408.5697
title: Quantum Mechanics: Harbinger of a Non-Commutative Probability Theory?
authors: Basil J. Hiley
comments: 20 pages, one figure. Invited paper
journal: Quantum Interaction, Seventh International Conference, Leicester, ed., Atmanspacher, H., Haven, E., Kitto, K., and Raine, D., pp. 6-21, Springer, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5697
abstract: In this paper we discuss the relevance of the algebraic approach to quantum phenomena first introduced by von Neumann before he confessed to Birkoff that he no longer believed in Hilbert space. This approach is more general and allows us to see the structure of quantum processes in terms of non-commutative probability theory, a non-Boolean structure of the implicate order which contains Boolean sub-structures which accommodates the explicate classical world. We move away from mechanical `waves' and `particles' and take as basic what Bohm called a {\em structure process}. This enables us to learn new lessons that can have a wider application in the way we think of structures in language and thought itself.

id: 1408.5712
title: Tunneling dynamics in multiphoton ionization and attoclock calibration
authors: M. Klaiber, K.Z. Hatsagortsyan, C.H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5712
abstract: The intermediate domain of strong-field ionization between the tunneling and the multiphoton regimes is investigated using the strong field approximation and the imaginary-time method. An intuitive model for the dynamics is developed which describes the ionization process within a nonadiabatic tunneling picture with a coordinate dependent electron energy during the under-the-barrier motion. The nonadiabatic effects in the elliptically polarized laser field induce a transversal momentum shift of the tunneled electron wave packet at the tunnel exit, a delayed appearance in the continuum as well as a shift of the tunneling exit towards the ionic core. The latter significantly modifies the Coulomb focusing during the electron excursion in the laser field after exiting the ionization tunnel. We show that nonadiabatic effects are especially large when the Coulomb field of the ionic core is taken into account during the under-the-barrier motion. The simpleman model modified with these nonadiabatic corrections provides an intuitive background for exact theories and has direct implications for the calibration of the attoclock technique which is used for the measurement of the tunneling delay time.

id: 1408.5775
title: A pair of oscillators interacting with a common heat bath
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 89,054101(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5775
abstract: Here the problem considered is that of a pair of oscillators coupled to a common heat bath. Many, if not most, discussions of a single operator coupled to a bath have used the independent oscillator model of the bath. However, that model has no notion of separation, so the question of phenomena when the oscillators are near one another compared with when they are widely separated cannot be addressed. Here the Lamb model of an oscillator attached to a stretched string is generalized to illustrate some of these questions. The coupled Langevin equations for a pair of oscillators attached to the string at different points are derived and their limits for large and small separations obtained. Finally, as an illustration of a different phenomenon, the fluctuation force between a pair of masses attached to the string is calculated, with closed form expressions for the force at small and large separations.

id: 1408.5798
title: Photo-activated biological processes as quantum measurements
authors: Atac Imamoglu, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5798
abstract: We outline a framework for describing photo-activated biological reactions as generalized quantum measurements of external fields, for which the biological system takes on the role of a quantum meter. By using general arguments regarding the Hamiltonian that describes the measurement interaction, we identify the cases where it is essential for a complex chemical or biological system to exhibit non-equilibrium quantum coherent dynamics in order to achieve the requisite functionality. We illustrate the analysis by considering measurement of the solar radiation field in photosynthesis and measurement of the earth's magnetic field in avian magnetoreception.

id: 1408.5821
title: Resolvendo a equa??o de Schr?dinger atrav¨¦s da substitui??o direta da s¨¦rie de pot¨ºncias
authors: Fabio E. R. Campolim
comments: Portuguese, 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5821
abstract: This work presents a direct and highly accurate method to solve ordinary differential equations, in particular the Schr\"odinger equation in one dimension, through the direct substitution of a power series solution to obtain a purely algebraical system containing the recurrence relations among the series coefficients. With these recurrence relations at hand it is possible to build an extremely simple routine using only basic arithmetic operations to find solutions of very high accuracy at a very low cost of machine resources. For the Schr\"odinger equation the energy eigenvalues may be estimated by a very simple method, an this estimate may be easily refined using the recurrence relations until the specified tolerance has been reached, which allows one to find high accuracy wavefunctions even for states with very high quantum numbers. ----- Este trabalho apresenta um m\'etodo direto e de alta acur\'acia para resolver equa\c{c}\~oes diferenciais ordin\'arias, em particular a equa\c{c}\~ao de Schr\"odinger em uma dimens\~ao, atrav\'es da substitui\c{c}\~ao direta de uma solu\c{c}\~ao em s\'erie de pot\^encias para obter um sistema puramente alg\'ebrico contendo as rela\c{c}\~oes de recorr\^encia entre os coeficientes da s\'erie. De posse dessas rela\c{c}\~oes de recorr\^encia \'e poss\'ivel construir uma rotina extremamente simples, usando somente opera\c{c}\~oes aritm\'eticas b\'asicas, para encontrar solu\c{c}\~oes de alt\'issima acur\'acia a um custo muito reduzido de recursos de m\'aquina. Para a equa\c{c}\~ao de Schr\"odinger, os autovalores de energia podem ser estimados por um m\'etodo simples, e a estimativa pode ser facilmente refinada com o uso das rela\c{c}\~oes de recorr\^encia at\'e que se alcance a toler\^ancia especificada, o que permite encontrar fun\c{c}\~oes de onda de alta acur\'acia mesmo para estados com n\'umero qu\^antico alto.

id: 1408.5844
title: Coherent control of non-Markovian photon-resonator dynamics
authors: Anthony F. J. Levi, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Tameem Albash, Stephan Haas
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5844
abstract: We study the unitary time evolution of photons interacting with a dielectric resonator using coherent control pulses. We show that non-Markovianity of transient photon dynamics in the resonator subsystem may be controlled to within a photon-resonator transit time. In general, appropriate use of coherent pulses and choice of spatial subregion may be used to create and control a wide range of non-Markovian transient dynamics in photon resonator systems.

id: 1408.5871
title: How to Measure Magnetic Flux with a Single Position Measurement?
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Fixed minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5871
abstract: Current methods for measuring magnetic flux are based on performing many measurements over a large ensemble of electrons. We propose a novel method for measuring the flux modulo hc/e using only a single electron. Furthermore, we show, for the first time, how to understand this result on geometric grounds when utilizing only the quantization of angular momentum. A transformation to a rotating frame of reference reveals the nonlocal effect of magnetic flux on the electron, without the need of solving the Schrodinger equation. This provides a new intuition for understanding the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect.

id: 1408.5874
title: Cavity-Modified Collective Rayleigh Scattering of Two Atoms
authors: Ren¨¦ Reimann, Wolfgang Alt, Tobias Kampschulte, Tobias Macha, Lothar Ratschbacher, Natalie Thau, Seokchan Yoon, Dieter Meschede
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 023601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5874
abstract: We report on the observation of cooperative radiation of exactly two neutral atoms strongly coupled to the single mode field of an optical cavity, which is close to the lossless-cavity limit. Monitoring the cavity output power, we observe constructive and destructive interference of collective Rayleigh scattering for certain relative distances between the two atoms. Because of cavity backaction onto the atoms, the cavity output power for the constructive two-atom case ($N=2$) is almost equal to the single-emitter case ($N=1$), which is in contrast to free-space where one would expect an $N^2$ scaling of the power. These effects are quantitatively explained by a classical model as well as by a quantum mechanical model based on Dicke states. We extract information on the relative phases of the light fields at the atom positions and employ advanced cooling to reduce the jump rate between the constructive and destructive atom configurations. Thereby we improve the control over the system to a level where the implementation of two-atom entanglement schemes involving optical cavities becomes realistic.

id: 1408.5881
title: Perturbative gadgets without strong interactions
authors: Yudong Cao, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5881
abstract: Perturbative gadgets are used to construct a quantum Hamiltonian whose low-energy subspace approximates a given quantum $k$-body Hamiltonian up to an absolute error $\epsilon$. Typically, gadget constructions involve terms with large interaction strengths of order $\text{poly}(\epsilon^{-1})$. Here we present a 2-body gadget construction and prove that it approximates a target many-body Hamiltonian of interaction strength $\gamma = O(1)$ up to absolute error $\epsilon\ll\gamma$ using interactions of strength $O(\epsilon)$ instead of the usual inverse polynomial in $\epsilon$. A key component in our proof is a new condition for the convergence of the perturbation series, allowing our gadget construction to be applied in parallel on multiple many-body terms. We also show how to apply this gadget construction for approximating 3- and $k$-body Hamiltonians. The price we pay for using much weaker interactions is a large overhead in the number of ancillary qubits, and the number of interaction terms per particle, both of which scale as $O(\text{poly}(\epsilon^{-1}))$. Our strong-from-weak gadgets have their primary application in complexity theory (QMA hardness of restricted Hamiltonians, a generalized area law counterexample, gap amplification), but could also motivate practical implementations with many weak interactions simulating a much stronger quantum many-body interaction.

id: 1408.5972
title: Solid state optical interconnect between distant superconducting quantum chips
authors: Keyu Xia, Jason Twamley
comments: 5 figures, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5972
abstract: We propose a design for a quantum interface exploiting the electron spins in crystals to swap the quantum states between the optical and microwave. Using sideband driving of a superconducting flux qubit and a combined cavity/solid-state spin ensemble Raman transition, we demonstrate how a stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP)-type operation can swap the quantum state between a superconducting flux qubit and an optical cavity mode with a fidelity higher than $90\%$. We further consider two distant superconducting qubits with their respective interfaces joined by an optical fiber and show a quantum transfer fidelity exceeding $90\%$ between the two distant qubits.

id: 1408.5994
title: Attenuation of excitation decay rate due to collective effect
authors: B. A. Tay
comments: To appear in Physical Review E
journal: Physical Review E, Vol. 90, 022142 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5994
abstract: We study a series of $N$ oscillators each coupled to its nearest neighbours, and linearly to a phonon field through the oscillator's number operator. We show that the Hamiltonian of a pair of adjacent oscillators, or a dimer, within the series of oscillators can be transformed to a form in which they are collectively coupled to the phonon field as a composite unit. In the weak coupling and rotating-wave approximation, the system behaves effectively like the trilinear boson model in the one excitation subspace of the dimer subsystem. The reduced dynamics of the one excitation subspace of the dimer subsystem coupled weakly to a phonon bath is similar to that of a two-level system, with a metastable state against the vacuum. The decay constant of the subsystem is proportional to the dephasing rate of the individual oscillator in a phonon bath, attenuated by a factor that depends on site asymmetry, intersite coupling and the resonance frequency between the transformed oscillator modes, or excitons. As a result of the collective effect, the excitation relaxation lifetime is prolonged over the dephasing lifetime of an individual oscillator coupled to the same bath.

id: 1408.6018
title: Channel purification via continuous-variable quantum teleportation with Gaussian post-selection
authors: R¨¦mi Blandino, Nathan Walk, Austin P. Lund, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 5+7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6018
abstract: We present a protocol based on continuous-variable quantum teleportation and Gaussian post- selection that can be used to correct errors introduced by a lossy channel. We first show that the global transformation enacted by the protocol is equivalent to an effective system composed of a noiseless amplification (or attenuation), and an effective quantum channel, which can in theory have no loss and an amount of thermal noise arbitrarily small, hence tending to an identity channel. An application of our protocol is the probabilistic purification of quantum non-Gaussian states using only Gaussian operations.

id: 1408.6023
title: A new class of time-dependent Bell inequalities in Wigner form
authors: N. Nikitin, V. Sotnikov, K. Toms
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042124, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6023
abstract: We derive a new class of time-dependent Bell inequalities in Wigner form under the assumption of locality in the framework of Kolmogorov's probability theory. We consider violation of the obtained inequalities for three cases: spin correlations in an external magnetic field; oscillations of neutral pseudoscalar mesons; and decays of a pseudoscalar into a fermion-antifermion pair.

id: 1408.6086
title: Optimal Control of Quantum Measurement
authors: Daniel J. Egger, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6086
abstract: Pulses to steer the time evolution of quantum systems can be designed with optimal control theory. In most cases it is the coherent processes that can be controlled and one optimizes the time evolution towards a target unitary process, sometimes also in the presence of non-controllable incoherent processes. Here we show how to extend the GRAPE algorithm in the case where the incoherent processes are controllable and the target time evolution is a non-unitary quantum channel. We perform a gradient search on a fidelity measure based on Choi matrices. We illustrate our algorithm by optimizing a phase qubit measurement pulse. We show how this technique can lead to large measurement contrast close to 99%. We also show, within the validity of our model, that this algorithm can produce short 1.4 ns pulses with 98.2% contrast.

id: 1408.6090
title: POVM Quantization
authors: Jean Pierre Gazeau, Barbara Heller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6090
abstract: We present a general formalism for giving a measure space paired with a separable Hilbert space a quantum version based on normalized positive operator-valued measure. The latter are built from families of density operators labelled by points of the measure space. We specially focus on various probabilistic aspects of these constructions. Simple or more elaborate examples illustrate the procedure: circle, 2-sphere, plane, half-plane. Links with POVM quantum measurement and quantum statistical inference are sketched.

id: 1408.6115
title: Dissipative extension of the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber model
authors: Andrea Smirne, Bassano Vacchini, Angelo Bassi
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures; v2: close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062135 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6115
abstract: In this paper we present an extension of the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber model for the spontaneous collapse of the wavefunction. Through the inclusion of dissipation, we avoid the divergence of the energy on the long time scale, which affects the original model. In particular, we define new jump operators, which depend on the momentum of the system and lead to an exponential relaxation of the energy to a finite value. The finite asymptotic energy is naturally associated to a collapse noise with a finite temperature, which is a basic realistic feature of our extended model. Remarkably, even in the presence of a low temperature noise, the collapse model is effective. The action of the new jump operators still localizes the wavefunction and the relevance of the localization increases with the size of the system, according to the so-called amplification mechanism, which guarantees a unified description of the evolution of microscopic and macroscopic systems. We study in detail the features of our model, both at the level of the trajectories in the Hilbert space and at the level of the master equation for the average state of the system. In addition, we show that the dissipative Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber model, as well as the original one, can be fully characterized in a compact way by means of a proper stochastic differential equation.

id: 1408.6139
title: Estimation of mass spectra and size of heavy quarkonium using N-dimensional Schr?dinger equation with Killingbeck potential model via Laplace transform approach
authors: Tapas Das
comments: 12 pages,3 tables, No figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6139
abstract: The second order N-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with Killingbeck potential, namely V (r) = ar^2 + br -c/r ; a > 0 is examined via Laplace transform approach.The stationary states are determined by good behavior of eigenfunctions at the origin and at infinity. Energy eigenvalue equation has been used to determine the mass spectra of heavy quarkonium system, specially for lower dimension N = 3. The eigenfunctions are used to determine the radii of the bound states.The present results suggest that the bound states 1P; 2S; 3S of (\Upsilon(b\bar{b}),\psi(c\bar{c})) are more tightly bound than they are supposed in non relativistic hadronic study.

id: 1408.6172
title: Information-theoretic constraints on correlations with indefinite causal order
authors: Issam Ibnouhsein, Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6172
abstract: Reconstructions of quantum theory usually implicitly assume that experimental events are ordered within a global causal structure. Using a generalization of the 'process matrix' framework, which accommodates quantum correlations that violate an inequality verified by all causally ordered correlations, we propose three principles constraining bipartite correlations to the quantum bound. We find a promising avenue for an information-theoretic reconstruction of causal structures in quantum theory by choosing a measure of dependence different from mutual information.

id: 1408.6192
title: Complementarity, quantum erasure and delayed choice with modified Mach-Zehnder interferometers
authors: Stefan Ataman
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; to appear in EPJ D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 68 10 (2014) 317
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6192
abstract: Often cited dictums in Quantum Mechanics include "observation disturbance causes loss of interference" and "ignorance is interference". In this paper we propose and describe a series of experiments with modified Mach-Zehnder interferometers showing that one has to be careful when applying such dictums. We are able to show that without interacting in any way with the light quantum (or quanta) expected to behave "wave-like", interference fringes can be lost by simply gaining (or having the potential to gain) the which-path knowledge. Erasing this information may revive the interference fringes. Delayed choice can be added, arriving to an experiment in line with Wheeler's original proposal. We also show that ignorance is not always synonym with having the interference fringes. The often-invoked "collapse of the wavefunction" is found to be a non-necessary ingredient to describe our experiments.

id: 1408.6202
title: The exact synthesis of 1- and 2-qubit Clifford+T circuits
authors: Travis Russell
comments: Honour's thesis, Dalhousie University, 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6202
abstract: We describe a new method for the decomposition of an arbitrary $n$ qubit operator with entries in $\mathbb{Z}[i,\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}]$, i.e., of the form $(a+b\sqrt{2}+i(c+d\sqrt{2}))/{\sqrt{2}^{k}}$, into Clifford+$T$ operators where $n\le 2$. This method achieves a bound of $O(k)$ gates using at most one ancilla using decomposition into $1$- and $2$-level matrices which was first proposed by Giles and Selinger.

id: 1408.6204
title: Generators and relations for the group $U_4(\mathbb{Z}[1/\sqrt{2},i])$
authors: Seth Eveson Murray Greylyn
comments: M.Sc. Thesis, Dalhousie University, 60 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6204
abstract: We give a presentation by generators and relations of the group $U_4(\mathbb{Z}[1/\sqrt{2},i])$ of unitary $4\times 4$ matrices with entries in the ring $\mathbb{Z}[1/\sqrt{2},i]$. This is motivated by the problem of exact synthesis for the Clifford+T gate set in quantum computation.

id: 1408.6237
title: Generalized Cluster States Based on Finite Groups
authors: Courtney G. Brell
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 023029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6237
abstract: We define generalized cluster states based on finite group algebras in analogy to the generalization of the toric code to the Kitaev quantum double models. We do this by showing a general correspondence between systems with CSS structure and finite group algebras, and applying this to the cluster states to derive their generalization. We then investigate properties of these states including their PEPS representations, global symmetries, and relationship to the Kitaev quantum double models. We also discuss possible applications of these states.

id: 1408.6238
title: Generalized Color Codes Supporting Non-Abelian Anyons
authors: Courtney G. Brell
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures; references added, typos removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042333 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6238
abstract: We propose a generalization of the color codes based on finite groups $G$. For non-abelian groups, the resulting model supports non-abelian anyonic quasiparticles and topological order. We examine the properties of these models such as their relationship to Kitaev quantum double models, quasiparticle spectrum, and boundary structure.

id: 1408.6266
title: Enhanced Quantum Interface with Collective Ion-Cavity Coupling
authors: B. Casabone, K. Friebe, B. Brandst?tter, K. Sch¨¹ppert, R. Blatt, T. E. Northup
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 114.2 (2015): 023602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6266
abstract: We prepare a maximally entangled state of two ions and couple both ions to the mode of an optical cavity. The phase of the entangled state determines the collective interaction of the ions with the cavity mode, that is, whether the emission of a single photon into the cavity is suppressed or enhanced. By adjusting this phase, we tune the ion--cavity system from sub- to superradiance. We then encode a single qubit in the two-ion superradiant state and show that this encoding enhances the transfer of quantum information onto a photon.

id: 1408.6338
title: On the Dynamics of XY Spin Chains with Impurities
authors: Giuseppe Genovese
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6338
abstract: We provide a theoretical set up for studying the dynamics in quantum spin chain models with inhomogeneous two-body interaction. We frame in our formalism models that can be mapped into a fermion system with a quadratic Hamiltonian. Local and global existence results of the dynamics are discussed.

id: 1408.6352
title: Different types of open quantum systems evolving in a Markovian regime
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 19 pages, 2 appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6352
abstract: The interaction between an open quantum system and its environment induces generally memory effects generated by the fact that the response of the system to the environment is not instantaneous. Different physical reasons can be at the origin of an absence of time retardation. We present here a study of systems for which instantaneouness is realized although they do not necessarily follow established Markovian criteria.

id: 1408.6398
title: Random Variation of Detector Efficiency: A Countermeasure against Detector Blinding Attacks for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Charles Ci Wen Lim, Nino Walenta, Matthieu Legre, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: Invited paper: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, IEEE Journal of , vol.21, no.3, pp.1,5, May-June 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6398
abstract: In the recent decade, it has been discovered that QKD systems are extremely vulnerable to side-channel attacks. In particular, by exploiting the internal working knowledge of practical detectors, it is possible to bring them to an operating region whereby only certain target detectors are sensitive to detections. Crucially, the adversary can use this loophole to learn everything about the secret key without introducing any error to the quantum channel. In this work, as a step towards overcoming detector blinding attacks, we focus on an experimentally convenient countermeasure, where the efficiency of the detectors is randomly varied.

id: 1408.6406
title: Noiseless conditional teleportation of a single photon
authors: Maria Fuwa, Shunsuke Toba, Shuntaro Takeda, Petr Marek, Ladislav Mi?ta Jr., Radim Filip, Peter van Loock, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 223602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6406
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the noiseless teleportation of a single photon by conditioning on quadrature Bell measurement results near the origin in phase space and thereby circumventing the photon loss that otherwise occurs even in optimal gain-tuned continuous-variable quantum teleportation. In general, thanks to this loss suppression, the noiseless conditional teleportation can preserve the negativity of the Wigner function for an arbitrary pure input state and an arbitrary pure entangled resource state. In our experiment, the positive value of the Wigner function at the origin for the unconditional output state, W(0,0) = 0.015 $\pm$ 0.001, becomes clearly negative after conditioning, W(0,0) = $-$0.025 $\pm$ 0.005, illustrating the advantage of noiseless conditional teleportation.

id: 1408.6407
title: Low-noise macroscopic twin beams
authors: Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Vladyslav C. Usenko, Radim Filip, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6407
abstract: Applying a multiphoton-subtraction technique to two-color macroscopic squeezed vacuum state of light generated via high-gain parametric down conversion we conditionally prepare a new state of light: bright multi-mode low-noise twin beams. The obtained results demonstrate up to 8-fold suppression of noise in each beam while preserving and even moderately improving the nonclassical photon number correlations between the beams. The prepared low-noise macroscopic state, containing up to 2000 photons per mode, is not among the states achievable through nonlinear optical processes. The proposed technique substantially improves the usefulness of twin beams for quantum technologies.

id: 1408.6410
title: The multi-mode quantum Entropy Power Inequality
authors: Giacomo De Palma, Andrea Mari, Seth Lloyd, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032320 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6410
abstract: The quantum version of a fundamental entropic data-processing inequality is presented. It establishes a lower bound for the entropy that can be generated in the output channels of a scattering process, which involves a collection of independent input bosonic modes (e.g., the modes of the electromagnetic field). The impact of this inequality in quantum information theory is potentially large and some relevant implications are considered in this work.

id: 1408.6428
title: Analytical expression of Genuine Tripartite Quantum Discord for Symmetrical X-states
authors: Andrea Beggi, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. v3: Added some references and corrected some typos
journal: Quantum Inf. Proc. 14(2), 573 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6428
abstract: The study of classical and quantum correlations in bipartite and multipartite systems is crucial for the development of quantum information theory. Among the quantifiers adopted in tripartite systems, the genuine tripartite quantum discord (GTQD), estimating the amount of quantum correlations shared among all the subsystems, plays a key role since it represents the natural extension of quantum discord used in bipartite systems. In this paper, we derive an analytical expression of GTQD for three-qubit systems characterized by a subclass of symmetrical X-states. Our approach has been tested on both GHZ and maximally mixed states reproducing the expected results. Furthermore, we believe that the procedure here developed constitutes a valid guideline to investigate quantum correlations in form of discord in more general multipartite systems.

id: 1408.6446
title: Toward an energy-conserving model of spontaneous wavefunction collapse
authors: Andrea Smirne, Angelo Bassi
comments: 11+11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6446
abstract: Collapse models explain the absence of quantum superpositions at the macroscopic scale, while giving practically the same predictions as quantum mechanics for microscopic systems. A well-known problem of the original models is the steady and unlimited increase of the energy induced by the collapse noise. Here we define the first collapse model which, besides applying also to (non-relativistic) identical particles, guarantees a finite energy during the entire system's evolution, thus making a crucial step toward a realistic energy-conserving collapse model. This is achieved by introducing a proper non-linear stochastic modification of the Schr\"odinger equation, which represents the action of a dissipative finite-temperature collapse noise.

id: 1408.6460
title: Gravity and the Collapse of the Wave Function: a Probe into Di¨®si-Penrose model
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Andrea Smirne, Angelo Bassi
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6460
abstract: We investigate the Di\'osi-Penrose (DP) proposal for connecting the collapse of the wave function to gravity. The DP model needs a free parameter, acting as a cut-off to regularize the dynamics, and the predictions of the model highly depend on the value of this cut-off. The Compton wavelength of a nucleon seems to be the most reasonable cut-off value since it justifies the non-relativistic approach. However, with this value, the DP model predicts an unrealistic high rate of energy increase. Thus, one either is forced to choose a much larger cut-off, which is not physically justified and totally arbitrary, or one needs to include dissipative effects in order to tame the energy increase. Taking the analogy with dissipative collisional decoherence seriously, we develop a dissipative generalization of the DP model. We show that even with dissipative effects, the DP model contradicts known physical facts, unless either the cut-off is kept artificially large, or one limits the applicability of the model to massive systems. We also provide an estimation for the mass range of this applicability.

id: 1408.6492
title: Collapses and revivals of matter waves
authors: Hagar Veksler, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6492
abstract: Quantum collapses and revivals are fascinating manifestations of interference. Of particular interest in recent years are macroscopic quantum interference effects in Bose-Einstein condensates. In this letter such effects will be studied for the two site Bose-Hubbard model that is a standard model for exploration of Bose-Einstein condensates. An analytic expression that is valid in the weak coupling limit for the difference in the occupation of the two sites is developed and tested numerically. It describes correctly the collapses and revivals. Moreover, it is demonstrated that a calculation to the first order in the interparticle interaction is required for the prediction of the collapse and revival times while the second order is required for the evaluation of the shape of the revival peaks. We believe that the result is relevant for a variety of situations where collapses and revivals are found.

id: 1408.6493
title: Adaptive Quadrature Detection for Multicarrier Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 38 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6493
abstract: We propose the adaptive quadrature detection for multicarrier continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD). A multicarrier CVQKD scheme uses Gaussian subcarrier continuous variables for the information conveying and Gaussian sub-channels for the transmission. The proposed multicarrier detection scheme dynamically adapts to the sub-channel conditions using a corresponding statistics which is provided by our sophisticated sub-channel estimation procedure. The sub-channel estimation phase determines the transmittance coefficients of the sub-channels, which information are used further in the adaptive quadrature decoding process. We define the technique called subcarrier spreading to estimate the transmittance conditions of the sub-channels with a theoretical error-minimum in the presence of a Gaussian noise. We introduce the terms of single and collective adaptive quadrature detection. We also extend the results for a multiuser multicarrier CVQKD scenario. We prove the achievable error probabilities, the signal-to-noise ratios, and quantify the attributes of the framework. The adaptive detection scheme allows to utilize the extra resources of multicarrier CVQKD and to maximize the amount of transmittable valuable information in diverse measurement and transmission conditions. The framework is particularly convenient for experimental CVQKD scenarios.

id: 1408.6505
title: Exploring the complexity of quantum control optimization trajectories
authors: Arun Nanduri, Ofer M. Shir, Ashley Donovan, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6505
abstract: The control of quantum system dynamics is generally performed by seeking a suitable applied field. The physical objective as a functional of the field forms the quantum control landscape, whose topology, under certain conditions, has been shown to contain no critical point suboptimal traps, thereby enabling effective searches for fields that give the global maximum of the objective. This paper addresses the structure of the landscape as a complement to topological critical point features. Recent work showed that landscape structure is highly favorable for optimization of state-to-state transition probabilities, in that gradient-based control trajectories to the global maximum value are nearly straight paths. The landscape structure is codified in the metric $R\geq 1.0$, defined as the ratio of the length of the control trajectory to the Euclidean distance between the initial and optimal controls. A value of $R=1$ would indicate an exactly straight trajectory to the optimal observable value. This paper extends the state-to-state transition probability results to the quantum ensemble and unitary transformation control landscapes. Again, nearly straight trajectories predominate, and we demonstrate that $R$ can take values approaching 1.0 with high precision. However, the interplay of optimization trajectories with critical saddle submanifolds is found to influence landscape structure. A fundamental relationship necessary for perfectly straight gradient-based control trajectories is derived wherein the gradient on the quantum control landscape must be an eigenfunction of the Hessian. This relation is an indicator of landscape structure and may provide a means to identify physical conditions when control trajectories can achieve perfect linearity. The collective favorable landscape topology and structure provide a foundation to understand why optimal quantum control can be readily achieved.

id: 1408.6593
title: Quantum gambling based on Nash-equilibrium
authors: Pei Zhang, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Yun-Long Wang, Peter J. Shadbolt, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Hong Gao, Fu-Li Li, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6593
abstract: A fair gambling is hard to be made between two spatially separated parties without introducing a trusted third party. Here we propose a novel gambling protocol, which enables fair gambling between two distant parties without the help of a third party. By incorporating the key concepts and methods of game theory, our protocol will force the two parties to move their strategies to a Nash-equilibrium point which guarantees the fairness through the physical laws of quantum mechanics. Furthermore, we show that our protocol can be easily adapted to a biased version, which would find applications in lottery, casino, etc. A proof-of-principle optical demonstration of this protocol is reported as well.

id: 1408.6603
title: Tunneling of Polymer Particles
authors: A. Mart¨ªn-Ruiz, E. Chan-L¨®pez, A. Carbajal-Dom¨ªnguez, J. Bernal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6603
abstract: In this paper we study the tunneling using a background independent (polymer) quantization scheme. We show that at low energies, for the tunneling through a single potential barrier, the polymer transmission coefficient and the polymer tunneling time converge to its quantum-mechanical counterparts in a clear fashion. As the energy approaches the maximum these polymer quantities abruptly decrease to zero. We use the transfer matrix method to study the tunneling through a series of identical potential barriers. We obtain that the transmission coefficients (polymer and quantum-mechanical) behave qualitatively in a similar manner, as expected. Finally we show that the polymer tunneling time exhibits anomalous peaks compared with the standard result. Numerical results are also presented.

id: 1408.6647
title: Driven Quantum Walks
authors: Craig S. Hamilton, Regina Kruse, Linda Sansoni, Christine Silberhorn, Igor Jex
comments: 5 pages + 4 pages supp. info
journal: Phys. Rev Lett. 113, 083602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6647
abstract: In this letter we introduce the concept of a driven quantum walk. This work is motivated by recent theoretical and experimental progress that combines quantum walks and parametric down- conversion, leading to fundamentally different phenomena. We compare these striking differences by relating the driven quantum walks to the original quantum walk. Next, we illustrate typical dynamics of such systems and show these walks can be controlled by various pump configurations and phase matchings. Finally, we end by proposing an application of this process based on a quantum search algorithm that performs faster than a classical search.

id: 1408.6649
title: Newtonian Self-Gravitation in the Neutral Meson System
authors: Andr¨¦ Gro?ardt, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 064056 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6649
abstract: We derive the effect of the Schr\"odinger--Newton equation, which can be considered as a non-relativistic limit of classical gravity, for a composite quantum system in the regime of high energies. Such meson-antimeson systems exhibit very unique properties, e.g. distinct masses due to strong and electroweak interactions. We find conceptually different physical scenarios due to lacking of a clear physical guiding principle which mass is the relevant one and due to the fact that it is not clear how the flavor wave-function relates to the spatial wave-function. There seems to be no principal contradiction. However, a nonlinear extension of the Schr\"odinger equation in this manner strongly depends on the relation between the flavor wave-function and spatial wave-function and its particular shape. In opposition to the Continuous Spontaneous Localization collapse models we find a change in the oscillating behavior and not in the damping of the flavor oscillation.

id: 1408.6653
title: Wigner-Yanase skew information and entanglement generation in quantum measurement
authors: Manik Banik, Prasenjit Deb, Samyadeb Bhattacharya
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6653
abstract: The first step of quantum measurement procedure is known as \emph{premeasurement}, during when correlation between measuring system and measurement apparatus is established. One compelling non-classical correlation is entanglement, a useful resource for various quantum information theoretic protocols. Quantifying the amount of entanglement in the premeasurement state, therefore, seeks importance from practical ground and this is the central issue of the present paper. Interestingly, for a two-label quantum system we obtain that the amount of entanglement, measured in term of \emph{negativity}, generated in premeasurement process is actually quantified by two factors: \emph{skew information} between system's initial state and the measurement direction, which quantifies the amount of information on the values of observables not commuting with the conserved quantity of the system, and \emph{mixedness parameter} of the system's initial state.

id: 1408.6659
title: Quantum Computation under Micromotion in a Planar Ion Crystal
authors: Sheng-Tao Wang, Chao Shen, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, including Supplemental Material
journal: Sci. Rep. 5, 8555 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6659
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize scalable quantum computation in a planar ion crystal confined by a Paul trap. We show that the inevitable in-plane micromotion affects the gate design via three separate effects: renormalization of the equilibrium positions, coupling to the transverse motional modes, and amplitude modulation in the addressing beam. We demonstrate that all of these effects can be taken into account and high-fidelity gates are possible in the presence of micromotion. This proposal opens the prospect to realize large-scale fault-tolerant quantum computation within a single Paul trap.

id: 1408.6672
title: Three-level ¦«-type atomic systems with a Pseudo-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian
authors: Amarendra K. Sarma, Balla Prannay
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6672
abstract: We have studied a three-level {\Lambda}-type atomic system with all the energy levels exhibiting decay. The system is described by a pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian and subject to certain conditions, the Hamiltonian shows parity-time (PT) symmetry. The probability amplitudes of various atomic levels both below and above the PT-theshold is worked out.

id: 1408.6696
title: Microwave degenerate parametric down-conversion with a single cyclic three-level system in circuit QED
authors: Z. H. Wang, C. P. Sun, Yong Li
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 043801 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6696
abstract: With the assistance of a single cyclic three-level system, which can be realized by a superconducting flux qubit, we study theoretically the degenerate microwave parametric down-conversion (PDC) in a superconducting transmission line resonator with the fundamental and second harmonic modes involved. By adiabatically eliminating the excited states of the three-level system, we obtain an effective microwave PDC Hamiltonian for the two resonator modes in such a circuit QED system. The corresponding PDC efficiency in our model can be much larger than that in the similar circuit QED system based on a single two-level superconducting qubit [K. Moon and S. M. Girvin, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 140504 (2005)]. Furthermore, we consider the squeezing and bunching behavior of the fundamental mode resulting from the coherent drive to the second harmonic one.

id: 1408.6697
title: Constructing SU(2) x U(1) orbit space for qutrit mixed states
authors: Vladimir Gerdt, Arsen Khvedelidze, Yuri Palii
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6697
abstract: The orbit space $\mathfrak{P}(\mathbb{R}^8)/\mathrm{G}$, of the group $\mathrm{G}:=\mathrm{SU(2)\times U(1)}\subset\mathrm{U(3)}$ acting adjointly on the state space $\mathfrak{P}(\mathbb{R}^8)$ of a 3-level quantum system is discussed. The semi-algebraic structure of $\mathfrak{P}(\mathbb{R}^8) /\mathrm{G}$, is determined within the Procesi-Schwarz method. Using the integrity basis for the ring of G-invariant polynomials, $\mathbb{R}[\mathfrak{P}(\mathbb{R}^8)]^{\mathrm{G}}$, the set of constraints on the Casimir invariants of $\mathrm{U}(3)$ group coming from the positivity requirement of Procesi-Schwarz gradient matrix, $\mathrm{Grad}(z)\geqslant 0$, is analyzed in details.

id: 1408.6735
title: Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequality for fermions
authors: G¨¢bor S¨¢rosi, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6735
abstract: We derive an inequality for three fermions with six single particle states which reduces to the sum of the famous Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequalities when an embedded three qubit system is considered. We identify the quantities which are playing the role of the concurrence, the three-tangle and the invariant $\det \rho_A+\det \rho_B+\det \rho_C$ for this tripartite system. We show that this latter one is almost interchangeable with the von Neumann entropy and conjecture that it measures the entanglement of one fermion with the rest of the system. We prove that the vanishing of the fermionic "concurrence" implies that the two particle reduced density matrix is a mixture of separable states. Also the vanishing of this quantitiy is only possible in the GHZ class, where some genuie tripartite entanglement is present and in the separable class. Based on this we conjecture that this "concurrence" measures the amount of entanglement between pairs of fermions. We identify the well-known "spin-flipped" density matrix in the fermionic context as the reduced density matrix of a special particle-hole dual state. We show that in general this dual state is always canonically defined by the Hermitian inner product of the fermionic Fock space and that it can be used to calculate SLOCC covariants. We show that Fierz identities known from the theory of spinors relate SLOCC covariants with reduced density matrix elements of the state and its "spin-flipped" dual.

id: 1408.6742
title: Discrete phase-space approach to mutually orthogonal Latin squares
authors: Mario Gaeta, Olivia Di Matteo, Andrei B. Klimov, Hubert de Guise
comments: 
journal: Published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 435303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6742
abstract: We show there is a natural connection between Latin squares and commutative sets of monomials defining geometric structures in finite phase-space of prime power dimensions. A complete set of such monomials defines a mutually unbiased basis (MUB) and may be associated with a complete set of mutually orthogonal Latin squares (MOLS). We translate some possible operations on the monomial sets into isomorphisms of Latin squares, and find a general form of permutations that map between Latin squares corresponding to unitarily equivalent mutually unbiased sets. We extend this result to a conjecture: MOLS associated to unitarily equivalent MUBs will always be isomorphic, and MOLS associated to unitarily inequivalent MUBs will be non-isomorphic.

id: 1408.6763
title: Experimental observation of Hardy-like quantum contextuality
authors: Breno Marques, Johan Ahrens, Mohamed Nawareg, Adan Cabello, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 250403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6763
abstract: Contextuality is a fundamental property of quantum theory and a critical resource for quantum computation. Here, we experimentally observe the arguably cleanest form of contextuality in quantum theory [A. Cabello \emph{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{111}, 180404 (2013)] by implementing a novel method for performing two sequential measurements on heralded photons. This method opens the door to a variety of fundamental experiments and applications.

id: 1408.6808
title: How to account for quantum non-locality: ontic structural realism and the primitive ontology of quantum physics
authors: Michael Esfeld
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1406.0732
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6808
abstract: The paper has two aims: (1) it sets out to show that it is well motivated to seek for an account of quantum non-locality in the framework of ontic structural realism (OSR), which integrates the notions of holism and non-separability that have been employed since the 1980s to achieve such an account. However, recent research shows that OSR on its own cannot provide such an account. Against this background, the paper argues that by applying OSR to the primitive ontology theories of quantum physics, one can accomplish that task. In particular, Bohmian mechanics offers the best prospect for doing so. (2) In general, the paper seeks to bring OSR and the primitive ontology theories of quantum physics together: on the one hand, in order to be applicable to quantum mechanics, OSR has to consider what the quantum ontology of matter distributed in space-time is. On the other hand, as regards the primitive ontology theories, OSR provides the conceptual tools for these theories to answer the question of what the ontological status of the wave-function is.

id: 1408.6829
title: Quantum de Finetti theorem under fully-one-way adaptive measurements
authors: Ke Li, Graeme Smith
comments: V2: minor changes. V3: new title, more discussions added, presentation improved. V4: minor changes, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 160503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6829
abstract: We prove a version of the quantum de Finetti theorem: permutation-invariant quantum states are well approximated as a probabilistic mixture of multi-fold product states. The approximation is measured by distinguishability under fully one-way LOCC (local operations and classical communication) measurements. Our result strengthens Brand\~{a}o and Harrow's de Finetti theorem where a kind of partially one-way LOCC measurements was used for measuring the approximation, with essentially the same error bound. As main applications, we show (i) a quasipolynomial-time algorithm which detects multipartite entanglement with amount larger than an arbitrarily small constant (measured with a variant of the relative entropy of entanglement), and (ii) a proof that in quantum Merlin-Arthur proof systems, polynomially many provers are not more powerful than a single prover when the verifier is restricted to one-way LOCC operations.

id: 1408.6830
title: Dissipative phase transitions: Independent versus collective decay and spin squeezing
authors: Tony E. Lee, Ching-Kit Chan, Susanne F. Yelin
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6830
abstract: We study the XY model with infinite-range interactions (Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model) in the presence of dissipation from spontaneous decay. We show that independent and collective decay lead to qualitatively different phase transitions of the steady state, even though the phase boundary is the same. Independent decay leads to a second-order phase transition to a ferromagnet, while collective decay leads to a first-order transition to a time-dependent oscillatory phase. Then we show that the addition of a drive leads to infinite spin squeezing for collective decay in the thermodynamic limit. Our results can be experimentally seen in trapped-ion and cavity-QED experiments.

id: 1408.6851
title: Complementarity and correlations
authors: Lorenzo Maccone, Dagmar Bruss, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 130401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6851
abstract: We investigate the relation between complementary properties and correlations of composite quantum systems. We introduce three measures of correlations which are based on local measurements in complementary bases. These measures are linked to the mutual information, the Pearson correlation coefficient and the sum of conditional probabilities, respectively. We show that states which have complementary correlations beyond a certain threshold must be entangled. The reverse is not true, however. We also show that, surprisingly, states with non-zero quantum correlations may have less correlations on complementary observables than classically correlated states.

id: 1408.6854
title: Semiclassical wave functions and energy spectra in polygon billiards
authors: Stefan Giller
comments: 34 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6854
abstract: A consistent scheme of semiclassical quantization in polygon billiards by wave function formalism is presented. It is argued that it is in the spirit of the semiclassical wave function formalism to make necessary rationalization of respective quantities accompanied the procedure of the semiclassical quantization in polygon billiards. Unfolding rational polygon billiards (RPB) into corresponding Riemann surfaces (RS) periodic structures of the latter are demonstrated with 2g independent periods on the respective multitori with g as their genuses. However it is the two dimensional real space of the real linear combinations of these periods which is used for quantizing RPB. A class of doubly rational polygon billiards (DRPB) is distinguished for which these real linear relations are rational and their semiclassical quantization by wave function formalism is presented. It is shown that semiclassical quantization of both the classical momenta and the energy spectra are determined completely by periodic structure of the corresponding RS. Each RS is then reduced to elementary polygon patterns (EPP) as its basic periodic elements. Each such EPP can be glued to a torus of genus g. Semiclassical wave functions (SWF) are then constructed on EPP. The SWF for DRPB appear to be exact. They satisfy the Dirichlet, the Neumannn or the mixed boundary conditions. Not every mixing is allowed however and a respective incompleteness of SWF is discussed. Dens families of DRPB are used for approximate semiclassical quantization of RPB. General rational polygons are quantized by approximating them by DRPB. An extension of the formalism to irrational polygons is described as well. The semiclassical approximations constructed in the paper are controlled by general criteria of the eigenvalue theory. A relation between the superscar solutions and SWF constructed in the paper is also discussed.

id: 1408.6857
title: Applying the simplest Kochen-Specker set for quantum information processing
authors: Gustavo Ca?as, Mauricio Arias, Sebasti¨¢n Etcheverry, Esteban S. G¨®mez, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Guilherme B. Xavier, Gustavo Lima
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 (2014) 090404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6857
abstract: Kochen-Specker (KS) sets are key tools for proving some fundamental results in quantum theory and also have potential applications in quantum information processing. However, so far, their intrinsic complexity has prevented experimentalists from using them for any application. The KS set requiring the smallest number of contexts has been recently found. Relying on this simple KS set, here we report an input state-independent experimental technique to certify whether a set of measurements is actually accessing a preestablished quantum six-dimensional space encoded in the transverse momentum of single photons.

id: 1408.6867
title: Berry phase and quantum structure
authors: Holger Lyre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6867
abstract: The paper aims to spell out the relevance of the Berry phase in view of the question what the minimal mathematical structure is that accounts for all observable quantum phenomena. The question is both of conceptual and of ontological interest. While common wisdom tells us that the quantum structure is represented by the structure of the projective Hilbert space, the appropriate structure rich enough to account for the Berry phase is the U(1) bundle over that projective space. The Berry phase is ultimately rooted in the curvature of this quantum bundle, it cannot be traced back to the Hamiltonian dynamics alone. This motivates the ontological claim in the ?nal part of the paper that, if one strives for a realistic understanding of quantum theory including the Berry phase, one should adopt a form of ontic structural realism.

id: 1408.6881
title: Preserving entanglement and nonlocality in solid-state qubits by dynamical decoupling
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Antonio D'Arrigo, Giuseppe Falci, Giuseppe Compagno, Elisabetta Paladino
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 054304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6881
abstract: In this paper we study how to preserve entanglement and nonlocality under dephasing produced by classical noise with large low-frequency components, as $1/f$ noise, by Dynamical Decoupling techniques. We first show that quantifiers of entanglement and nonlocality satisfy a closed relation valid for two independent qubits locally coupled to a generic environment under pure dephasing and starting from a general class of initial states. This result allows to assess the efficiency of pulse-based dynamical decoupling for protecting nonlocal quantum correlations between two qubits subject to pure-dephasing local random telegraph and $1/f$-noise. We investigate the efficiency of an "entanglement memory" element under two-pulse echo and under sequences of periodic, Carr-Purcell and Uhrig dynamical decoupling. The Carr-Purcell sequence is shown to outperform the other sequences in preserving entanglement against both random telegraph and $1/f$ noise. For typical $1/f$ flux-noise figures in superconducting nanocircuits, we show that entanglement and its nonlocal features can be efficiently stored up to times one order of magnitude longer than natural entanglement disappearance times employing pulse timings of current experimental reach.

id: 1408.6885
title: Spin-echo entanglement protection from random telegraph noise
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Antonio D'Arrigo, Giuseppe Falci, Giuseppe Compagno, Elisabetta Paladino
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica Scripta T153, 014043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6885
abstract: We analyze local spin-echo procedures to protect entanglement between two non-interacting qubits, each subject to pure-dephasing random telegraph noise. For superconducting qubits this simple model captures characteristic features of the effect of bistable impurities coupled to the device. An analytic expression for the entanglement dynamics is reported. Peculiar features related to the non-Gaussian nature of the noise already observed in the single qubit dynamics also occur in the entanglement dynamics for proper values of the ratio $g=v/\gamma$, between the qubit-impurity coupling strength and the switching rate of the random telegraph process, and of the separation between the pulses $\Delta t$. We find that the echo procedure may delay the disappearance of entanglement, cancel the dynamical structure of entanglement revivals and dark periods, and induce peculiar plateau-like behaviors of the concurrence.

id: 1408.6887
title: Entanglement dynamics in superconducting qubits affected by local bistable impurities
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Antonio D'Arrigo, Giuseppe Falci, Giuseppe Compagno, Elisabetta Paladino
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica Scripta T147, 014019 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6887
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics for two independent superconducting qubits each affected by a bistable impurity generating random telegraph noise (RTN) at pure dephasing. The relevant parameter is the ratio $g$ between qubit-RTN coupling strength and RTN switching rate, that captures the physics of the crossover between Markovian and non-Markovian features of the dynamics. For identical qubit-RTN subsystems, a threshold value $g_\mathrm{th}$ of the crossover parameter separates exponential decay and onset of revivals; different qualitative behaviors also show up by changing the initial conditions of the RTN. We moreover show that, for different qubit-RTN subsystems, when both qubits are very strongly coupled to the RTN an increase in entanglement revival amplitude may occur during the dynamics.

id: 1408.6894
title: Correlation Detection and an Operational Interpretation of the Renyi Mutual Information
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Marco Tomamichel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6894
abstract: Recently, a variety of new measures of quantum Renyi mutual information and quantum Renyi conditional entropy have been proposed, and some of their mathematical properties explored. Here, we show that the Renyi mutual information attains operational meaning in the context of composite hypothesis testing, when the null hypothesis is a fixed bipartite state and the alternate hypothesis consists of all product states that share one marginal with the null hypothesis. This hypothesis testing problem occurs naturally in channel coding, where it corresponds to testing whether a state is the output of a given quantum channel or of a 'useless' channel whose output is decoupled from the environment. Similarly, we establish an operational interpretation of Renyi conditional entropy by choosing an alternative hypothesis that consists of product states that are maximally mixed on one system. Specialized to classical probability distributions, our results also establish an operational interpretation of Renyi mutual information and Renyi conditional entropy.

id: 1408.6897
title: Investigating Properties of a Family of Quantum Renyi Divergences
authors: Mingyan Simon Lin, Marco Tomamichel
comments: 15 pages, v2: journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6897
abstract: Audenaert and Datta recently introduced a two-parameter family of relative R\'{e}nyi entropies, known as the $\alpha$-$z$-relative R\'{e}nyi entropies. The definition of the $\alpha$-$z$-relative R\'{e}nyi entropy unifies all previously proposed definitions of the quantum R\'{e}nyi divergence of order $\alpha$ under a common framework. Here we will prove that the $\alpha$-$z$-relative R\'{e}nyi entropies are a proper generalization of the quantum relative entropy by computing the limit of the $\alpha$-$z$ divergence as $\alpha$ approaches one and $z$ is an arbitrary function of $\alpha$. We also show that certain operationally relevant families of R\'enyi divergences are differentiable at $\alpha = 1$. Finally, our analysis reveals that the derivative at $\alpha = 1$ evaluates to half the relative entropy variance, a quantity that has attained operational significance in second-order quantum hypothesis testing.

id: 1408.6965
title: Time, (Inverse) Temperature and Cosmological Inflation as Entanglement
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6965
abstract: We present arguments to the effect that time and temperature can be viewed as a form of quantum entanglement. Furthermore, if temperature is thought of as arising from the quantum mechanical tunneling probability this then offers us a way of dynamically "converting" time into temperature based on the entanglement between the transmitted and reflected modes. We then show how similar entanglement-based logic can be applied to the dynamics of cosmological inflation and discuss the possibility of having observable effects of the early gravitational entanglement at the level of the universe.

id: 1408.6967
title: Single-qubit thermometry
authors: Sania Jevtic, David Newman, Terry Rudolph, T. M. Stace
comments: Minor changes to match published version, references updated. 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012331 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6967
abstract: Distinguishing hot from cold is the most primitive form of thermometry. Here we consider how well this task can be performed using a single qubit to distinguish between two different temperatures of a bosonic bath. In this simple setting, we find that letting the qubit equilibrate with the bath is not optimal, and depending on the interaction time it may be advantageous for the qubit to start in a state with some quantum coherence. We also briefly consider the case that the qubit is initially entangled with a second qubit that is not put into contact with the bath, and show that entanglement allows for even better thermometry.

id: 1408.6971
title: Phase sensitivity bounds for two-mode interferometers
authors: Luca Pezz¨¨, Philipp Hyllus, Augusto Smerzi
comments: comments and remarks are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6971
abstract: We provide general bounds of phase estimation sensitivity in linear two-mode interferometers. We consider probe states with a fluctuating total number of particles. With incoherent mixtures of state with different total number of particles, particle entanglement is necessary but not sufficient to overcome the shot noise limit. The highest possible phase estimation sensitivity, the Heisenberg limit, is established under general unbiased properties of the estimator. When coherences can be created, manipulated and detected, a phase sensitivity bound can only be set in the central limit, with a sufficiently large repetition of the interferometric measurement.

id: 1408.6981
title: Limitations on separable measurements by convex optimization
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Alessandro Cosentino, Nathaniel Johnston, Vincent Russo, John Watrous, Nengkun Yu
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6981
abstract: We prove limitations on LOCC and separable measurements in bipartite state discrimination problems using techniques from convex optimization. Specific results that we prove include: an exact formula for the optimal probability of correctly discriminating any set of either three or four Bell states via LOCC or separable measurements when the parties are given an ancillary partially entangled pair of qubits; an easily checkable characterization of when an unextendable product set is perfectly discriminated by separable measurements, along with the first known example of an unextendable product set that cannot be perfectly discriminated by separable measurements; and an optimal bound on the success probability for any LOCC or separable measurement for the recently proposed state discrimination problem of Yu, Duan, and Ying.

id: 1408.6990
title: Entanglement and the Born-Oppenheimer approximation in an exactly solvable quantum many-body system
authors: P.A. Bouvrie, A.P. Majtey, M.C. Tichy, J.S. Dehesa, A.R. Plastino
comments: Accepted in Eur. Phys. J. D (2014)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 68, 346 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6990
abstract: We investigate the correlations between different bipartitions of an exactly solvable one-dimensional many-body Moshinsky model consisting of Nn "nuclei" and Ne "electrons". We study the dependence of entanglement on the inter-particle interaction strength, on the number of particles, and on the particle masses. Consistent with kinematic intuition, the entanglement between two subsystems vanishes when the subsystems have very different masses, while it attains its maximal value for subsystems of comparable mass. We show how this entanglement feature can be inferred by means of the Born-Oppenheimer Ansatz, whose validity and breakdown can be understood from a quantum information point of view.

id: 1408.6991
title: Feedback Network Models for Quantum Transport
authors: John E. Gough
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062109 -Published 3 December 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6991
abstract: Quantum feedback networks have been introduced in quantum optics as a set of rules for constructing arbitrary networks of quantum mechanical systems connected by uni-directional quantum optical fields, and has allowed for a system theoretic approach to open quantum optics systems. Our aim here is to establish a network theory for quantum transport systems where typically the mediating fields between systems are bi-directional. Mathematically this leads us to study quantum feedback networks where fields arrive at ports in input-output pairs, which is then just a specially case of the uni-directional theory. However, it is conceptually important to develop this theory in the context of quantum transport theory, and the resulting theory extends traditional approaches which tends to view the components in quantum transport as scatterers for the various fields, in the process allows us to consider emission and absorption of field quanta by these components. The quantum feedback network theory is applicable to both Bose and Fermi fields, moreover it applies to nonlinear dynamics for the component systems. In this first paper on the subject, we advance the general theory, but study the case of linear passive quantum components in some detail.

id: 1408.6995
title: On the Casimir-Lifshitz Force in a System of Two Parallel Plates in Relative Nonrelativistic Motion
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V. Dedkov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6995
abstract: In this paper we correct a previously obtained expression for the Casimir-Lifshitz attraction force (Dedkov, Kyasov, Surf. Sci., 2010) in a system of two parallel plates in relative nonrelativistic motion, assuming the total thermal equilibrium of the system.

id: 1408.7005
title: The quest for a Quantum Neural Network
authors: M. Schuld, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: Review of Quantum Neural Networks research; 21 pages, 5 figs, 71 Refs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7005
abstract: With the overwhelming success in the field of quantum information in the last decades, the "quest" for a Quantum Neural Network (QNN) model began in order to combine quantum computing with the striking properties of neural computing. This article presents a systematic approach to QNN research, which so far consists of a conglomeration of ideas and proposals. It outlines the challenge of combining the nonlinear, dissipative dynamics of neural computing and the linear, unitary dynamics of quantum computing. It establishes requirements for a meaningful QNN and reviews existing literature against these requirements. It is found that none of the proposals for a potential QNN model fully exploits both the advantages of quantum physics and computing in neural networks. An outlook on possible ways forward is given, emphasizing the idea of Open Quantum Neural Networks based on dissipative quantum computing.

id: 1408.7015
title: High fidelity quantum state transfer in electromechanical systems with intermediate coupling
authors: Jian Zhou, Yong Hu, Zhang-qi Yin, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6237 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7015
abstract: Hybrid quantum systems usually consist of two or more subsystems, which may take the advantages of the different systems. Recently, the hybrid system consisting of circuit electromechanical subsystems have attracted great attention due to its advanced fabrication and scalable integrated photonic circuit techniques. Here, we propose a scheme for high fidelity quantum state transfer between a superconducting qubit and a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond, which are coupled to a superconducting transmission-line resonator with coupling strength $g_1$ and a nanomechanical resonator with coupling strength $g_2$, respectively. Meanwhile, the two resonators are parametrically coupled with coupling strength $J$. The system dynamics, including the decoherence effects, is numerical investigated. It is found that both the small ($J \ll \{g_1, g_2\}$) and large ($J \gg \{g_1, g_2\}$) coupling regimes of this hybrid system can not support high fidelity quantum state transfer before significant technique advances. However, in the intermediate coupling regime ($J \sim g_1 \sim g_2$), in contrast to a conventional wisdom, high fidelity quantum information transfer can be implemented, providing a promising route towards high fidelity quantum state transfer in similar coupled resonators systems.

id: 1408.7017
title: Transferring entangled states through spin chains by boundary-state multiplets
authors: Peter Lorenz, Joachim Stolze
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 044301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7017
abstract: Quantum spin chains may be used to transfer quantum states between elements of a quantum information processing device. A scheme discovered recently \cite{BFR+12} was shown to have favorable transfer properties for ingle-qubit states even in the presence of built-in static disorder caused by manufacturing errors. We extend that scheme in a way suggested already in \cite{BFR+12} and study the transfer of the four Bell states which form a maximally entangled basis in the two-qubit Hilbert space. We show that perfect transfer of all four Bell states separately and of arbitrary linear combinations may be achieved for chains with hundreds of spins. For simplicity we restrict ourselves to systems without disorder.

id: 1408.7027
title: Phonon-assisted robust and deterministic two-photon biexciton preparation in a quantum dot
authors: S. Bounouar, M. M¨¹ller, A. M. Barth, M. Gl?ssl, V. M. Axt, P. Michler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7027
abstract: We investigate both experimentally and theoretically a simple yet more robust and flexible alternative to Rabi oscillation-type biexciton preparation protocols traditionally used for semiconductor quantum dots. The quantum dot is excited by a strong laser pulse positively detuned from the two-photon resonance yielding an on demand initialization of the biexciton state by making use of the phonon-induced thermalization of the photon dressed states. It is shown that for excitation pulses in the picosecond range, a stable and high fidelity of up to $f_{XX}=0.98\pm 0.01$ is reached. Notably, the generated photons show similar coherence properties as measured in the resonant two-photon scheme. This protocol is a powerful tool for the control of complex solid state systems combining radiative cascades, entanglement and resonant cavity modes.

id: 1408.7045
title: Broadband, noise-free optical quantum memory with neutral nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: E. Poem, C. Weinzetl, J. Klatzow, K. T. Kaczmarek, J. H. D. Munns, T. F. M. Champion, D. J. Saunders, J. Nunn, I. A. Walmsley
comments: Revised version. 11 pages, 5 figures, 2 appendices, 22 equations
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 205108 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7045
abstract: It is proposed that the ground-state manifold of the neutral nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond could be used as a quantum two-level system in a solid-state-based implementation of a broadband, noise-free quantum optical memory. The proposal is based on the same-spin $\Lambda$-type three-level system created between the two E orbital ground states and the A$_1$ orbital excited state of the center, and the cross-linear polarization selection rules obtained with the application of transverse electric field or uniaxial stress. Possible decay and decoherence mechanisms of this system are discussed, and it is shown that high-efficiency, noise-free storage of photons as short as a few tens of picoseconds for at least a few nanoseconds could be possible at low temperature.

id: 1408.7056
title: Quantifying Dirac hydrogenic effects via complexity measures
authors: P.A. Bouvrie, S. L¨®pez-Rosa, J.S. Dehesa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012507 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7056
abstract: The primary dynamical Dirac relativistic effects can only be seen in hydrogenic systems without the complications introduced by electron-electron interactions in many-electron systems. They are known to be the contraction-towards-the-origin of the electronic charge in hydrogenic systems and the nodal disapearance (because of the raising of all the non-relativistic minima) in the electron density of the excited states of these systems. In addition we point out the (largely ignored) gradient reduction of the charge density near and far the nucleus. In this work we quantify these effects by means of single (Fisher information) and composite (Fisher-Shannon complexity and plane, LMC complexity) information-theoretic measures. While the Fisher information measures the gradient content of the density, the (dimensionless) composite information-theoretic quantities grasp two-fold facets of the electronic distribution: The Fisher-Shannon complexity measures the combined balance of the gradient content and the total extent of the electronic charge, and the LMC complexity quantifies the disequilibrium jointly with the spreading of the density in the configuration space. Opposite to other complexity notions (e.g., computational and algorithmic complexities), these two quantities describe intrinsic properties of the system because they do not depend on the context but they are functionals of the electron density. Moreover, they are closely related to the intuitive notion of complexity because they are minimum for the two extreme (or least complex) distributions of perfect order and maximum disorder.

id: 1408.7062
title: Equivalence between divisibility and monotonic decrease of information in classical and quantum stochastic processes
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: v2: extensive revision, lot of references added, same results. v1: 5+2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7062
abstract: The crucial feature of a memoryless stochastic process is that any information about its state can only decrease as the system evolves. Here we show that such a decrease of information is equivalent to the underlying stochastic evolution being divisible. The main result, which holds for both classical and quantum stochastic processes, rely on a quantum version of the so-called Blackwell-Sherman-Stein theorem in classical statistics.

id: 1408.7066
title: A microscopic approach to Casimir and Casimir-Polder forces between metallic bodies
authors: Pablo Barcellona, Roberto Passante
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 355, 282 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7066
abstract: We consider the Casimir-Polder interaction energy between a metallic nanoparticle and a metallic plate, as well as the Casimir interaction energy between two macroscopic metal plates, in terms of the many-body dispersion interactions between their constituents. Expressions for two- and three-body dispersion interactions between the microscopic parts of a real metal are first obtained, both in the retarded and non-retarded limits. These expressions are then used to evaluate, a compare each other, the overall two- and three-body contributions to the macroscopic Casimir-Polder and Casimir force, by summing up the contributions from the microscopic constituents of the bodies (metal nanoparticles), for two geometries: metal nanoparticle/half-space and half-space/half-space, where all the materials are assumed perfect conductors. In the case of nanoparticle/half-space, our results fully agree with those that can be extracted from the corresponding macroscopic results, and explicitly show the non-applicability of the pairwise approximation for the geometry considered. In both cases, we find that, while the overall two-body contribution yields an attractive force, the overall three-body contribution is repulsive. Also, they turn out to be of the same order, consistently with the known nonapplicability of the pairwise approximation. The issue of the rapidity of convergence of the many-body expansion is also briefly discussed.

id: 1408.7087
title: An Experimental Test of Envariance
authors: Lydia Vermeyden, Xian Ma, Jonathan Lavoie, Madeleine Bonsma, Urbasi Sinha, Raymond Laflamme, Kevin Resch
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7087
abstract: Envariance, or environment-assisted invariance, is a recently identified symmetry for maximally entangled states in quantum theory with important ramifications for quantum measurement, specifically for understanding Born's rule. We benchmark the degree to which nature respects this symmetry by using entangled photon pairs. Our results show quantum states can be 99.66(4)% envariant as measured using the quantum fidelity, and 99.963(5)% as measured using a modified Bhattacharya Coefficient, as compared with a perfectly envariant system which would be 100% in either measure. The deviations can be understood by the less-than-maximal entanglement in our photon pairs.

id: 1408.7099
title: Entropy-energy inequalities for qudit states
authors: Armando Figueroa, Julio L¨®pez, Octavio Casta?os, Ram¨®n L¨®pez-Pe?a, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7099
abstract: We establish a procedure to find the extremal density matrices for any finite Hamiltonian of a qudit system. These extremal density matrices provide an approximate description of the energy spectra of the Hamiltonian. In the case of restricting the extremal density matrices by pure states, we show that the energy spectra of the Hamiltonian is recovered for $d=2$ and $3$. We conjecture that by means of this approach the energy spectra can be recovered for the Hamiltonian of an arbitrary finite qudit system. For a given qudit system Hamiltonian, we find new inequalities connecting the mean value of the Hamiltonian and the entropy of an arbitrary state. We demonstrate that these inequalities take place for both the considered extremal density matrices and generic ones.

id: 1408.0039
title: Strongly correlated growth of Rydberg aggregates in a vapor cell
authors: A. Urvoy, F. Ripka, I. Lesanovsky, D. Booth, J.P. Shaffer, T. Pfau, R. L?w
comments: 5+3 pages, 3+3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0039
abstract: The observation of strongly interacting many-body phenomena in atomic gases typically requires ultracold samples. Here we show that the strong interaction potentials between Rydberg atoms enable the observation of many-body effects in an atomic vapor, even at room temperature. We excite Rydberg atoms in cesium vapor and observe in real-time an out-of-equilibrium excitation dynamics that is consistent with an aggregation mechanism. The experimental observations show qualitative and quantitative agreement with a microscopic theoretical model. Numerical simulations reveal that the strongly correlated growth of the emerging aggregates is reminiscent of soft-matter type systems.

id: 1408.0051
title: The expressive power of quantum walks in terms of language acceptance
authors: Katie Barr, Viv Kendon
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2012, arXiv:1407.8427
journal: EPTCS 158, 2014, pp. 39-51
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0051
abstract: Discrete time quantum walks are known to be universal for quantum computation. This has been proven by showing that they can simulate a universal quantum gate set. In this paper, we examine computation by quantum walks in terms of language acceptance, and present two ways in which discrete time quantum walks can accept some languages with certainty. These walks can take quantum as well as classical inputs, and we show that when the input is quantum, the walks can also be interpreted as performing the task of quantum state discrimination.

id: 1408.0052
title: Speakable in quantum mechanics: babbling on
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2012, arXiv:1407.8427
journal: EPTCS 158, 2014, pp. 53-64
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0052
abstract: This paper consists of a short version of the derivation of the intuitionistic quantum logic L_QM (which was originally introduced by Caspers, Heunen, Landsman and Spitters). The elaboration consists of extending this logic to a classical logic CL_QM. Some first steps are then taken towards setting up a probabilistic framework based on CL_QM in terms of R\'enyi's conditional probability spaces. Comparisons are then made with the traditional framework for quantum probabilities.

id: 1408.0065
title: Gas-liquid coexistence for the bosons square-well fluid and the $\mbox{}^4$He binodal anomaly
authors: Riccardo Fantoni
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 90, 020102(R) (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0065
abstract: The binodal of a boson square-well fluid is determined as a function of the particle mass through the newly devised quantum Gibbs ensemble Monte Carlo algorithm [R. Fantoni and S. Moroni, {\sl to be published}]. In the infinite mass limit we recover the classical result. As the particle mass decreases the gas-liquid critical point moves at lower temperatures. We explicitely study the case of a quantum delocalization de Boer parameter close to the one of $\mbox{}^4$He. For comparison we also determine the gas-liquid coexistence curve of $\mbox{}^4$He for which we are able to observe the binodal anomaly below the $\lambda$-transition temperature.

id: 1408.0185
title: Landauer-B¨¹ttiker and Thouless conductance
authors: Laurent Bruneau, Vojkan Jaksic, Yoram Last, Claude-Alain Pillet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0185
abstract: In the independent electron approximation, the average (energy/charge/entropy) current flowing through a finite sample S connected to two electronic reservoirs can be computed by scattering theoretic arguments which lead to the famous Landauer-B\"uttiker formula. Another well known formula has been proposed by Thouless on the basis of a scaling argument. The Thouless formula relates the conductance of the sample to the width of the spectral bands of the infinite crystal obtained by periodic juxtaposition of S. In this spirit, we define Landauer-B\"uttiker crystalline currents by extending the Landauer-B\"uttiker formula to a setup where the sample S is replaced by a periodic structure whose unit cell is S. We argue that these crystalline currents are closely related to the Thouless currents. For example, the crystalline heat current is bounded above by the Thouless heat current, and this bound saturates iff the coupling between the reservoirs and the sample is reflectionless. Our analysis leads to a rigorous derivation of the Thouless formula from the first principles of quantum statistical mechanics.

id: 1408.0212
title: Quantization of ¦Â-Fermi-Pasta-Ulam Lattice with Nearest and Next-nearest Neighbour Interactions
authors: Aniruddha Kibey, Rupali Sonone, Bishwajyoti Dey, J. Chris Eilbeck
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures, to appear in Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0212
abstract: We quantize the \beta-Fermi-Pasta-Ulam (FPU) model with nearest and next-nearest neighbour interactions using a number conserving approximation and a numerical exact diagonalization method. Our numerical mean field bi-phonon spectrum shows excellent agreement with the analytic mean field results of Ivi\'{c} and Tsironis ((2006) Physica D 216 200), except for the wave vector at the midpoint of the Brillouin zone. We then relax the mean field approximation and calculate the eigenvalue spectrum of the full Hamiltonian. We show the existence of multi-phonon bound states and analyze the properties of these states as the system parameters vary. From the calculation of the spatial correlation function we then show that these multi-phonon bound states are particle like states with finite spatial correlation. Accordingly we identify these multi-phonon bound states as the quantum equivalent of the breather solutions of the corresponding classical FPU model. The four-phonon spectrum of the system is then obtained and its properties are studied. We then generalize the study to an extended range interaction and consider the quantization of the \beta-FPU model with next-nearest-neighbour interactions. We analyze the effect of the next-nearest-neighbour interactions on the eigenvalue spectrum and the correlation functions of the system.

id: 1408.0226
title: Large gain quantum-limited qubit measurement using a two-mode nonlinear cavity
authors: Saeed Khan, R. Vijay, I. Siddiqi, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 113032 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0226
abstract: We provide a thorough theoretical analysis of qubit state measurement in a setup where a driven, parametrically-coupled cavity system is directly coupled to the qubit, with one of the cavities having a weak Kerr nonlinearity. Such a system could be readily realized using circuit QED architectures. We demonstrate that this setup is capable in the standard linear-response regime of both producing a highly amplified output signal while at the same time achieving near quantum-limited performance: the measurement backaction on the qubit is near the minimal amount required by the uncertainty principle. This setup thus represents a promising route for performing efficient large-gain qubit measurement that is completely on-chip, and that does not rely on the use of circulators or complex non-reciprocal amplifiers.

id: 1408.0312
title: Interpretation of the coherency matrix for three-dimensional polarization states
authors: Jose J. Gil
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0312
abstract: From an appropriate parameterization of the three-dimensional (3D) coherency matrix R, that characterizes the second-order, classical states of polarization, the coherency matrices are classified and interpreted in terms of incoherent decompositions. The relevant physical quantities derived from R, as the intensity, the degree of polarimetric purity, the indices of polarimetric purity, the angular momentum, the degree of directionality and the degree of linear polarization are identified and interpreted on the light of the case study performed. The information provided by R about the direction of propagation is clarified and it is found that coherency matrices with, does not always represent states with a well-defined direction of propagation. Moreover, it is demonstrated the existence of 3D mixed states that cannot be decomposed into a superposition of a pure state, a 2D unpolarized state, and a 3D unpolarized state. Appropriate representation and interpretation for all the different types of 3D coherency matrices is provided through physical consistent criteria. Under the approach proposed, the conventional two-dimensional model arises naturally.

id: 1408.0373
title: Nuclear magnetic resonance inverse spectra of InGaAs quantum dots: Atomistic level structural information
authors: Ceyhun Bulutay, E. A. Chekhovich, A. I. Tartakovskii
comments: Published version, 17 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205425 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0373
abstract: A wealth of atomistic information is contained within a self-assembled quantum dot (QD), associated with its chemical composition and the growth history. In the presence of quadrupolar nuclei, as in InGaAs QDs, much of this is inherited to nuclear spins via the coupling between the strain within the polar lattice and the electric quadrupole moments of the nuclei. Here, we present a computational study of the recently introduced inverse spectra nuclear magnetic resonance technique to assess its suitability for extracting such structural information. We observe marked spectral differences between the compound InAs and alloy InGaAs QDs. These are linked to the local biaxial and shear strains, and the local bonding configurations. The cation-alloying plays a crucial role especially for the arsenic nuclei. The isotopic line profiles also largely differ among nuclear species: While the central transition of the gallium isotopes have a narrow linewidth, those of arsenic and indium are much broader and oppositely skewed with respect to each other. The statistical distributions of electric field gradient (EFG) parameters of the nuclei within the QD are analyzed. The consequences of various EFG axial orientation characteristics are discussed. Finally, the possibility of suppressing the first-order quadrupolar shifts is demonstrated by simply tilting the sample with respect to the static magnetic field.

id: 1408.0507
title: Power dissipation in a single molecule junction: Tracking energy levels
authors: Yaghoob Naimi, Javad Vahedi
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0507
abstract: Motivated by recent work [Lee et al. Nature {\bf 489}, 209 (2013)], on asymmetry features of heat dissipation in the electrodes of molecular junctions, we put forward an idea as a result of heat dissipation in the electrodes. Based on tight-binding model and a generalized Green's function formalism, we describe the conditions under which heat dissipation shows symmetry characteristic and does not depend on the bias polarity. We also show the power dissipated in the junction can be used to detect which energy levels of molecule junction play more or less role in the transmission process. We present this idea by studying a simple toy model and Au-$C_{60}$-Au junction.

id: 1408.0535
title: Testing whether all eigenstates obey the Eigenstate Thermalization Hypothesis
authors: Hyungwon Kim, Tatsuhiko N. Ikeda, David A. Huse
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. Updated references and clarified some arguments
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 052105 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0535
abstract: We ask whether the Eigenstate Thermalization Hypothesis (ETH) is valid in a strong sense: in the limit of an infinite system, {\it every} eigenstate is thermal. We examine expectation values of few-body operators in highly-excited many-body eigenstates and search for `outliers', the eigenstates that deviate the most from ETH. We use exact diagonalization of two one-dimensional nonintegrable models: a quantum Ising chain with transverse and longitudinal fields, and hard-core bosons at half-filling with nearest- and next-nearest-neighbor hopping and interaction. We show that even the most extreme outliers appear to obey ETH as the system size increases, and thus provide numerical evidences that support ETH in this strong sense. Finally, periodically driving the Ising Hamiltonian, we show that the eigenstates of the corresponding Floquet operator obey ETH even more closely. We attribute this better thermalization to removing the constraint of conservation of the total energy.

id: 1408.0637
title: Entanglement Entropy of Disjoint Regions in Excited States : An Operator Method
authors: Noburo Shiba
comments: 22 pages; v2, added Appendix A, added references, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0637
abstract: We develop the computational method of entanglement entropy based on the idea that $Tr\rho_{\Omega}^n$ is written as the expectation value of the local operator, where $\rho_{\Omega}$ is a density matrix of the subsystem $\Omega$. We apply it to consider the mutual Renyi information $I^{(n)}(A,B)=S^{(n)}_A+S^{(n)}_B-S^{(n)}_{A\cup B}$ of disjoint compact spatial regions $A$ and $B$ in the locally excited states defined by acting the local operators at $A$ and $B$ on the vacuum of a $(d+1)$-dimensional field theory, in the limit when the separation $r$ between $A$ and $B$ is much greater than their sizes $R_{A,B}$. For the general QFT which has a mass gap, we compute $I^{(n)}(A,B)$ explicitly and find that this result is interpreted in terms of an entangled state in quantum mechanics. For a free massless sacalar field, we show that for some classes of excited states, $I^{(n)}(A,B)-I^{(n)}(A,B)|_{r \rightarrow \infty} =C^{(n)}_{AB}/r^{\alpha (d-1)}$ where $\alpha=1$ or 2 which is determined by the property of the local operators under the transformation $\phi \rightarrow -\phi$ and $\alpha=2$ for the vacuum state. We give a method to compute $C^{(2)}_{AB}$ systematically.

id: 1408.0662
title: Dynamical preparation of laser-excited anisotropic Rydberg crystals in 2D optical lattices
authors: Beno?t Vermersch, Matthias Punk, Alexander W. Glaetzle, Christian Gross, Peter Zoller
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0662
abstract: We describe the dynamical preparation of anisotropic crystalline phases obtained by laser-exciting ultracold Alkali atoms to Rydberg p-states where they interact via anisotropic van der Waals interactions. We develop a time- dependent variational mean field ansatz to model large, but finite two-dimensional systems in experimentally accessible parameter regimes, and we present numerical simulations to illustrate the dynamical formation of anisotropic Rydberg crystals.

id: 1408.0767
title: On Rotations as Spin Matrix Polynomials
authors: T. L. Curtright, T. S. Van Kortryk
comments: 6 Figures. References updated in v2, along with some editing of text
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0767
abstract: Recent results for rotations expressed as polynomials of spin matrices are derived here by elementary differential equation methods. Structural features of the results are then examined in the framework of biorthogonal systems, to obtain an alternate derivation. The central factorial numbers play key roles in both derivations.

id: 1408.0769
title: Spiral spin textures of bosonic Mott insulator with SU(3) spin-orbit coupling
authors: Tobias Gra?, Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Christine A. Muschik, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 195127 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0769
abstract: We study the Mott phase of three-component bosons, with one particle per site, in an optical lattice by mapping it onto an SU(3) spin model. In the simplest case of full SU(3) symmetry, one obtains a ferromagnetic Heisenberg model. Introducing an SU(3) analog of spin-orbit coupling, additional spin-spin interactions are generated. We first consider the scenario of spin-dependent hopping phases, leading to Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya-type interactions. They result in the formation of spiral spin textures, which in one dimension can be understood by a local unitary transformation. Applying classical Monte Carlo simulations, we extend our study to two-dimensional systems, and systems with "true" spin-orbit coupling, involving spin-changing hoppings.

id: 1408.0823
title: Quantum Dissipation in a Neutrino System Propagating in Vacuum and in Matter
authors: Roberto L. N. Oliveira, Marcelo M. Guzzo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0823
abstract: Considering the neutrinos like an open quantum state, we analyse the evolution of this state when it is propagating in vacuum or in matter. Complete positivity constraint gives us all of the most effectives quantum dissipators and from them we can study decoherence and relaxation effects. We show how decoherence effects can be studied with or without matter effects and, in our approach, avoid ambiguities that arise due to some specific supposition about the quantum dissipative medium. We conclude this analysis discussing an adiabatic approximation in this approach. We show that when the neutrino source is far away from its detection, only relaxation effects rather than decoherence effects can act in neutrino oscillations.

id: 1408.1010
title: Inverted Singlet-Triplet Qubit Coded on a Two-Electron Double Quantum Dot
authors: Sebastian Mehl, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 195424 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1010
abstract: The $s_z=0$ spin configuration of two electrons confined at a double quantum dot (DQD) encodes the singlet-triplet qubit (STQ). We introduce the inverted STQ (ISTQ) that emerges from the setup of two quantum dots (QDs) differing significantly in size and out-of-plane magnetic fields. The strongly confined QD has a two-electron singlet ground state, but the weakly confined QD has a two-electron triplet ground state in the $s_z=0$ subspace. Spin-orbit interactions act nontrivially on the $s_z=0$ subspace and provide universal control of the ISTQ together with electrostatic manipulations of the charge configuration. GaAs and InAs DQDs can be operated as ISTQs under realistic noise conditions.

id: 1408.1024
title: EIT-related phenomena and their mechanical analogs
authors: J. A. Souza, L. A. Cabral, R. R. Oliveira, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 16 pages and 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1024
abstract: Systems of interacting classical harmonic oscillators have received considerable attention in the last years as analog models for describing electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and associated phenomenona. We revisited these models and investigate their validity for a variety of physical systems using two and three coupled harmonic oscillators. From the simplest EIT-$\Lambda$ configuration and two coupled single cavity modes we show that each atomic dipole-allowed transition and a single cavity mode can be represented by a damped harmonic oscillator. In this way, a one-to-one correspondence between the classical and quantum dynamical variables is established. This correspondence is extended to other systems which present EIT-related phenomena such as two and three-level (cavity EIT) atoms interacting with a single mode of an optical cavity, and four-level atoms in a inverted-Y and tripod configurations. The achieved mechanical equivalence for the cavity EIT system, presented for the first time, is corroborated by experimental data. The analysis of the probe response of all these systems also brings to light a physical interpretation for the expectation value of the photon annihilation operator $< a> $. We show it can be directly related to the electric susceptibility of systems which composition includes a driven cavity field mode.

id: 1408.1038
title: Induced topological order at the boundary of 3D topological superconductors
authors: Peter Finch, James de Lisle, Giandomenico Palumbo, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 016801 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1038
abstract: We present tight-binding models of 3D topological superconductors in class DIII that support a variety of winding numbers. We show that gapless Majorana surface states emerge at their boundary in agreement with the bulk-boundary correspondence. At the presence of a Zeeman field the surface states become gapped and the boundary behaves as a 2D superconductor in class D. Importantly, the 2D and 3D winding numbers are in agreement signifying that the topological order of the boundary is induced by the order of the 3D bulk. Hence, the boundary of a 3D topological superconductor in class DIII can be used for the robust realisation of localised Majorana zero modes.

id: 1408.1041
title: Thermalization of strongly interacting bosons after spontaneous emissions in optical lattices
authors: Johannes Schachenmayer, Lode Pollet, Matthias Troyer, Andrew J. Daley
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 2015, 2:1
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1041
abstract: We study the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of bosonic atoms in a 1D optical lattice, after the ground-state is excited by a single spontaneous emission event, i.e. after an absorption and re-emission of a lattice photon. This is an important fundamental source of decoherence for current experiments, and understanding the resulting dynamics and changes in the many-body state is important for controlling heating in quantum simulators. Previously it was found that in the superfluid regime, simple observables relax to values that can be described by a thermal distribution on experimental time-scales, and that this breaks down for strong interactions (in the Mott insulator regime). Here we expand on this result, investigating the relaxation of the momentum distribution as a function of time, and discussing the relationship to eigenstate thermalization. For the strongly interacting limit, we provide an analytical analysis for the behavior of the system, based on an effective low-energy Hamiltonian in which the dynamics can be understood based on correlated doublon-holon pairs.

id: 1408.1061
title: Consistent perturbative treatment of the subohmic spin-boson model yielding arbitrarily small $T_2/T_1$ decoherence time ratios
authors: Kyung-Joo Noh, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 5 pages of RevTex4-1, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 220302(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1061
abstract: We present a perturbative treatment of the subohmic spin-boson model which remedies a crucial flaw in previous treatments. The problem is traced back to the incorrect application of a Markov type approximation to specific terms in the temporal evolution of the reduced density matrix. The modified solution is consistent both with numerical simulations and the exact solution obtained when the bath-coupling spin-space direction is parallel to the qubit energy-basis spin. We therefore demonstrate that %in distinction to previous findings the subohmic spin-boson model is capable of %consistently describing arbitrarily small %(less than two) ratios of the $T_2$ and $T_1$ decoherence times, associated to the decay of the off-diagonal and diagonal reduced density-matrix elements, respectively. An analytical formula for $T_2/T_1$ at the absolute zero of temperature is provided in the limit of a subohmic bath with vanishing spectral power law exponent. Small ratios closely mimic the experimental results for solid state (flux) qubits, which are subject predominantly to low-frequency electromagnetic noise, and we suggest a reanalysis of the corresponding experimental data in terms of a $nonanalytic$ decay of off-diagonal coherence.

id: 1408.1094
title: Boundary-law scaling of entanglement entropy in diffusive metals
authors: Andrew C. Potter
comments: 5+4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1094
abstract: Entanglement structure serves as a powerful way to characterize quantum many-body phases. This is particularly so for gapless quantum liquids, where entanglement-based tools provide one of the only means to systematically characterize these complicated phases. For example, the Fermi-surface structure of Fermi-liquids is revealed in entanglement entropy by a log-correction to the typical boundary-law scaling of simpler quantum ground-states. In this paper, I analyze the entanglement structure of a disordered, but delocalized diffusive metal. Using a combination of analytic arguments and numerical calculations, I show that, despite having the same number of extended gapless excitations as a clean Fermi-liquid, the diffusive metal exhibits only boundary-law entanglement scaling. This result pinpoints the sharp Fermi-surface structure, rather than the finite density of gapless excitations, as the origin of the log-correction in the Fermi-liquid entanglement scaling.

id: 1408.1124
title: Eight-fold signal amplification of a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector using a multiple-avalanche architecture
authors: Qingyuan Zhao, Adam McCaughan, Andrew Dane, Faraz Najafi, Francesco Bellei, Domenico De Fazio, Kristen Sunter, Yachin Ivry, Karl K. Berggren
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1124
abstract: Superconducting nanowire avalanche single-photon detectors (SNAPs) with n parallel nanowires are advantageous over single-nanowire detectors because their output signal amplitude scales linearly with n. However, the SNAP architecture has not been viably demonstrated for n > 4. To increase n for larger signal amplification, we designed a multi-stage, successive-avalanche architecture which used nanowires, connected via choke inductors in a binary-tree layout. We demonstrated an avalanche detector with n = 8 parallel nanowires and achieved eight-fold signal amplification, with a timing jitter of 54 ps.

id: 1408.1128
title: Photon-assisted tunneling with non-classical light
authors: J.-R. Souquet, M.J. Woolley, Julien Gabelli, Pascal Simon, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; Supplementary Information: 12 pages 8 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 5562 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1128
abstract: Among the most exciting recent advances in the field of superconducting quantum circuits is the ability to coherently couple microwave photons in low-loss cavities to quantum electronic conductors (e.g.~semiconductor quantum dots or carbon nanotubes). These hybrid quantum systems hold great promise for quantum information processing applications; even more strikingly, they enable exploration of completely new physical regimes. Here we study theoretically the new physics emerging when a quantum electronic conductor is exposed to non-classical microwaves (e.g.~squeezed states, Fock states). We study this interplay in the experimentally-relevant situation where a superconducting microwave cavity is coupled to a conductor in the tunneling regime. We find the quantum conductor acts as a non-trivial probe of the microwave state; in particular, the emission and absorption of photons by the conductor is characterized by a non-positive definite quasi-probability distribution. This negativity has a direct influence on the conductance of the conductor.

id: 1408.1186
title: Quantum correlations in the 1D spin-1/2 Ising model with added Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: M. R. Soltani, J. Vahedi, S. Mahdavifar
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 416, 321 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1186
abstract: We have considered the 1D spin-1/2 Ising model with added Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction and presence of a uniform magnetic field. Using the mean-field fermionization approach the energy spectrum in an infinite chain is obtained. The quantum discord (QD) and concurrence between nearest neighbor (NN) spins at finite temperature are specified as a function of mean-field order parameters. A comparison between concurrence and QD is done and differences are obtained. The macroscopic thermodynamical witness is also used to detect quantum entanglement region in solids within our model. We believe our results are useful in the field of the quantum information processing.

id: 1408.1226
title: Control of excitation transfer in coupled quantum dots by a nonresonant laser pulse
authors: P.A. Golovinski, V.A. Astapenko, A.V. Yakovets
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1226
abstract: We study theoretically fast transfer of excitons between pairs of coupled quantum dots driven by the optical Stark effect that is produced by a short nonresonant laser pulse. The Schr\"odinger equation, in which the relative position of energy levels of quantum dot subsystems is time-dependent, is solved numerically. Computer simulation shows a way to achieve efficient excitation transfer by the action of a picosecond laser pulse with a rectangular envelope function.

id: 1408.1327
title: State Transitions and Decoherence in the Avian Compass
authors: Vishvendra Singh Poonia, Dipankar Saha, Swaroop Ganguly
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1327
abstract: The radical pair model has been successful in explaining behavioral characteristics of the geomagnetic compass believed to underlie the navigation capability of certain avian species. In this study, the spin dynamics of the radical pair model and decoherence therein are interpreted from a microscopic state transition point of view. This helps to elucidate the interplay between the hyperfine and Zeeman interactions that enables the avian compass, and the distinctive effects of nuclear and environmental decoherence on it. Using a quantum information theoretic quantifier of coherence, we find that nuclear decoherence induces new structure in the spin dynamics without materially affecting the compass action; environmental decoherence, on the other hand, completely disrupts it.

id: 1408.1347
title: Coherent Control of a Single Silicon-29 Nuclear Spin Qubit
authors: Jarryd J. Pla, Fahd A. Mohiyaddin, Kuan Y. Tan, Juan P. Dehollain, Rajib Rahman, Gerhard Klimeck, David N. Jamieson, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 246801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1347
abstract: Magnetic fluctuations caused by the nuclear spins of a host crystal are often the leading source of decoherence for many types of solid-state spin qubit. In group-IV materials, the spin-bearing nuclei are sufficiently rare that it is possible to identify and control individual host nuclear spins. This work presents the first experimental detection and manipulation of a single $^{29}$Si nuclear spin. The quantum non-demolition (QND) single-shot readout of the spin is demonstrated, and a Hahn echo measurement reveals a coherence time of $T_2 = 6.3(7)$ ms - in excellent agreement with bulk experiments. Atomistic modeling combined with extracted experimental parameters provides possible lattice sites for the $^{29}$Si atom under investigation. These results demonstrate that single $^{29}$Si nuclear spins could serve as a valuable resource in a silicon spin-based quantum computer.

id: 1408.1409
title: Probing Dark Energy with Atom Interferometry
authors: Clare Burrage, Edmund J. Copeland, E. A. Hinds
comments: 5 pages plus appendices, 4 figures v2. Error in Appendix C corrected, conclusions of the main text unchanged. This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article published in JCAP. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The Version of Record is available at doi:10.1088/1475-7516/2015/03/042
journal: JCAP 03 (2015) 042
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1409
abstract: Theories of dark energy require a screening mechanism to explain why the associated scalar fields do not mediate observable long range fifth forces. The archetype of this is the chameleon field. Here we show that individual atoms are too small to screen the chameleon field inside a large high-vacuum chamber, and therefore can detect the field with high sensitivity. We derive new limits on the chameleon parameters from existing experiments, and show that most of the remaining chameleon parameter space is readily accessible using atom interferometry.

id: 1408.1412
title: Classical nature of ordered phases: origin of spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: M. Cianciaruso, L. Ferro, S. M. Giampaolo, G. Zonzo, F. Illuminati
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1412
abstract: We investigate the nature of spontaneous symmetry breaking in complex quantum systems by conjecturing that the maximally symmetry breaking quantum ground states are the most classical ones corresponding to an ordered phase. We make this argument quantitatively precise by showing that the ground states which realize the maximum breaking of the Hamiltonian symmetries are the only ones that: I) are always locally convertible, i.e. can be obtained from all other ground states by local operations and classical communication, while the reverse is never possible; II) minimize the monogamy inequality for bipartite entanglement; III) minimize quantum correlations, as measured by the quantum discord, for all pairs of dynamical variables and are the only ground states for which the pairwise quantum correlations vanish asymptotically with the intra-pair distance.

id: 1408.1415
title: Trapped Ion Chain Thermometry and Mass Analysis Through Imaging
authors: V. Rajagopal, J.P. Marler, M.G. Kokish, B.C. Odom
comments: This manuscript has been withdrawn while we work through important issues which were raised in review
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1415
abstract: We demonstrate the temperature measurement of individual laser cooled ions in a linear Coulomb crystal by relating their imaged spatial extent along the linear Paul trap axis to the normal modes of vibration of coupled oscillators in a harmonic potential. We also use the thermal spatial spread of `bright' ions in the case of a two-species mixed chain to measure the secular resonance frequency of vibration of the center-of-mass mode of the entire chain and infer the molecular composition of the co-trapped `dark' ions. These techniques create new possibilities for better understanding of sympathetic cooling in mixed-ion chains and under conditions of non-uniform heat load, improving few-ion mass spectrometry, and making in-situ temperature measurements of individual trapped ions without requiring a scan over the Doppler cooling parameters.

id: 1408.1544
title: Regular and irregular dynamics of Dirac-Weyl wavepackets in a mesoscopic quantum dot at the edge of topological insulator
authors: D.V. Khomitsky, A.A. Chubanov, A.A. Konakov
comments: Revised version, 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1544
abstract: The dynamics of Dirac-Weyl spin-polarized wavepackets driven by periodic electric field is considered for the electrons in a mesoscopic quantum dot formed at the edge of two-dimensional HgTe/CdTe topological insulator with Dirac-Weyl massless energy spectra, where the motion of carriers is less sensitive to disorder and impurity potentials. It is found that the interplay of strongly coupled spin and charge degrees of freedom creates the regimes of both regular and irregular dynamics with certain universal properties manifested both in the clean limit and in the presence of the moderate disorder. The disorder influence is predicted to enhance the in-plane spin relaxation, leading to possibility of establishing novel types of driven evolution in nanostructures formed in the topological insulators.

id: 1408.1561
title: Light transport in PT-invariant photonic structures with hidden symmetries
authors: M.H. Teimourpour, R. El-Ganainy, A. Eisfeld, A. Szameit, D.N Christodoulides
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1561
abstract: We introduce a recursive bosonic quantization technique for generating classical PT photonic structures that possess hidden symmetries and higher order exceptional points. We study light transport in these geometries and we demonstrate that perfect state transfer is possible only for certain initial conditions. Moreover, we show that for the same propagation direction, left and right coherent transports are not symmetric with field amplitudes following two different trajectories. A general scheme for identifying the conservation laws in such PT-symmetric photonic networks is also presented.

id: 1408.1610
title: The $BC_{1}$ Elliptic model: algebraic forms, hidden algebra $sl(2)$, polynomial eigenfunctions
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 10 pages, some references added, introduction extended
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1610
abstract: The potential of the $BC_1$ quantum elliptic model is a superposition of two Weierstrass functions with doubling of both periods (two coupling constants). The $BC_1$ elliptic model degenerates to $A_1$ elliptic model characterized by the Lam\'e Hamiltonian. It is shown that in the space of $BC_1$ elliptic invariant, the potential becomes a rational function, while the flat space metric becomes a polynomial. The model possesses the hidden $sl(2)$ algebra for arbitrary coupling constants: it is equivalent to $sl(2)$-quantum top in three different magnetic fields. It is shown that there exist three one-parametric families of coupling constants for which a finite number of polynomial eigenfunctions (up to a factor) occur.

id: 1408.1666
title: Spin relaxation in a Si quantum dot due to spin-valley mixing
authors: Peihao Huang, Xuedong Hu
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 235315 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1666
abstract: We study the relaxation of an electron spin qubit in a Si quantum dot due to electrical noise. In particular, we clarify how the presence of conduction-band valleys influences spin relaxation. In single-valley semiconductor quantum dots, spin relaxation is through the mixing of spin and envelope orbital states via spin-orbit interaction. In Si, the relaxation could also be through the mixing of spin and valley states. We find that the additional spin relaxation channel, via spin-valley mixing and electrical noise, is indeed important for an electron spin in a Si quantum dot. By considering both spin-valley and intravalley spin-orbit mixings and Johnson noise in a Si device, we find that the spin relaxation rate peaks at the hot spot, where the Zeeman splitting matches the valley splitting. Furthermore, because of a weaker field dependence, the spin relaxation rate due to Johnson noise could dominate over phonon noise at low magnetic fields, which fits well with recent experiments.

id: 1408.1668
title: Real-Time Transport in Open Quantum Systems From $\mathcal{PT}$-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Justin E. Elenewski, Hanning Chen
comments: 44 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 085104 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1668
abstract: Nanoscale electronic transport is of intense technological interest, with applications ranging from semiconducting devices and molecular junctions to charge migration in biological systems. Most explicit theoretical approaches treat transport using a combination of density functional theory (DFT) and non-equilibrium Green's functions. This is a static formalism, with dynamic response properties accommodated only through complicated extensions. To circumvent this limitation, the carrier density may be propagated using real-time time-dependent DFT (RT-TDDFT), with boundary conditions corresponding to an open quantum system. Complex absorbing potentials can emulate outgoing particles at the simulation boundary, although these do not account for introduction of charge density. It is demonstrated that the desired positive particle flux is afforded by a class of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric generating potentials that are characterized by anisotropic transmission resonances. These potentials add density every time a particle traverses the cell boundary, and may be used to engineer a continuous pulse train for incident packets. This is a first step toward developing a complete transport formalism unique to RT-TDDFT.

id: 1408.1676
title: $U(1)\times U(1)$ Symmetry Protected Topological Order in Gutzwiller Wave Functions
authors: Zheng-Xin Liu, Jia-Wei Mei, Peng Ye, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 235146 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1676
abstract: Gutzwiller projection is a way to construct many-body wave functions that could carry topological order or symmetry protected topological (SPT) order. However, an important issue is to determine whether or not a given Gutzwiller-projected wave functions (GWF) carries a non-trivial SPT order, and which SPT order is carried by the wavefunction. In this paper, we numerically study the SPT order in a spin $S = 1$ GWF on the Kagome lattice. Using the standard Monte Carlo method, we directly confirm that the GWF has (1) gapped bulk with short-range correlations, (2) a trivial topological order via nondegenerate ground state, and zero topological entanglement entropy, (3) a non-trivial $U(1)\times U(1)$ SPT order via the Hall conductances of the protecting $U(1)\times U(1)$ symmetry, and (4) symmetry protected gapless boundary. This represents numerical evidence of continuous symmetry protected topological order in two-dimensional bosonic lattice systems.

id: 1408.1716
title: Entanglement of a alternating bipartition in spin chains: Relation with classical integrable models
authors: Raul A. Santos
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1716
abstract: We study entanglement properties of a class of ground states defined by matrix product states, which are generalizations of the valence bond solid state in one dimension. Is it shown that the transfer matrix of this states can be related with representations of the Temperley Lieb algebra, allowing exact computation of Reyni entropy on different cases. For an alternating bipartition, we find that the Reyni entropy can be mapped to an eight vertex model partition function on a rotated lattice. We also find that for the valence bond solid state, the Reyni entropy of the alternating partition is described by a critical field theory with central charge $c = 1$, despite being a non critical model.

id: 1408.1796
title: New Anomalous Lieb-Robinson Bounds in Quasi-Periodic XY Chains
authors: David Damanik, Marius Lemm, Milivoje Lukic, William Yessen
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 127202 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1796
abstract: We announce and sketch the rigorous proof of a new kind of anomalous (or sub-ballistic) Lieb-Robinson bound for an isotropic XY chain in a quasi-periodic transversal magnetic field. By "anomalous", we mean that the usual effective light cone defined by $|x|\leq v|t|$ is replaced by the region $|x|\leq v|t|^\alpha$ for some $0<\alpha<1$. In fact, we can characterize exactly the values of $\alpha$ for which this holds as those exceeding the upper transport exponent $\alpha_u^+$ of an appropriate one-body discrete Schr\"odinger operator. Previous study has produced a good amount of quantitative information on $\alpha_u^+$. The result is obtained by mapping to free fermions, obtaining good dynamical bounds on the one-body level by adapting techniques developed by Damanik, Gorodetski, Tcheremchantsev, and Yessen and then "pulling back" these bounds through the non-local Jordan-Wigner transformation, following an idea of Hamza, Sims, and Stolz. To our knowledge, this is the first rigorous derivation of anomalous many-body transport. We also explain why our method does not extend to yield anomalous LR bounds of power-law type if one replaces the quasi-periodic field by a random dimer field.

id: 1408.1864
title: Ultrafast electronic read-out of diamond NV centers coupled to graphene
authors: Andreas Brenneis, Louis Gaudreau, Max Seifert, Helmut Karl, Martin S. Brandt, Hans Huebl, Jose A. Garrido, Frank H.L. Koppens, Alexander W. Holleitner
comments: 
journal: http://www.nature.com/nnano/journal/v10/n2/full/nnano.2014.276.html
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1864
abstract: Nonradiative transfer processes are often regarded as loss channels for an optical emitter1, since they are inherently difficult to be experimentally accessed. Recently, it has been shown that emitters, such as fluorophores and nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond, can exhibit a strong nonradiative energy transfer to graphene. So far, the energy of the transferred electronic excitations has been considered to be lost within the electron bath of the graphene. Here, we demonstrate that the trans-ferred excitations can be read-out by detecting corresponding currents with picosecond time resolution. We electrically detect the spin of nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond electronically and con-trol the nonradiative transfer to graphene by electron spin resonance. Our results open the avenue for incorporating nitrogen vacancy centers as spin qubits into ultrafast electronic circuits and for harvesting non-radiative transfer processes electronically.

id: 1408.1895
title: Which resonances in small metallic nanoparticles are plasmonic?
authors: Emily Townsend, Garnett W Bryant
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, submitted to IOPs Journal of Optics Special Issue on Light-Matter Interactions on the Nanoscale
journal: J. Opt. 16 (2014) 114022
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1895
abstract: We use time-dependent density functional theory to examine the character of various resonances corresponding to peaks in the optical response of small metallic nanoparticles. Each resonance has both "sloshing" and "inversion" character. The sloshing mode is an oscillation in the occupation of the shells nearest the Fermi energy, transferring charge back and forth from below the Fermi level to above it. It results in oscillation in charge density near the surface of the particle. Inversions monotonically move charge from occupied to unoccupied states, and result in oscillation in charge density in the core of the particle. We also discuss the dependence of the optical response on the size of the simulation grid, noting that the character of resonances appears stable with respect to changes in simulation size, even though the details of the spectrum change. This makes a reliable characterization possible. We consider what characteristics are important in deciding that a resonance is plasmonic.

id: 1408.1896
title: Spin-compatible construction of a consistent quantum gravity model from minimum information
authors: Pierre-Andr¨¦ Mandrin
comments: 9 pages, detailed information in relation to the poster presented at the Symposium "Frontiers of Fundamental Physic" in July 2014. v2: "Tetrad bath" instead of "stress bath"; cleaner notation of boundary integrals; use of Gauss' law and S properly decomposed into generalised Palatini + torsion terms
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1896
abstract: This article shows in detail the computations made for the poster presented at the Symposium "Frontiers of Fundamental Physics" in July 2014. As was shown in a previous publication, a quantum gravity formulation exists on the basis of abstract quantum number conservation, the laws of thermodynamics, unspecific interactions, and locally maximising the ratio of resulting degrees of freedom per imposed degree of freedom of the theory. The first law of thermodynamics was evaluated by imposing boundary conditions on small volumes of optimised dimension (3+1). As a consequence, no explicit microscopic quantum structure was required in order to recover all well established physics as special cases (Quantum Field Theory, QFT, and General Relativity, GR) and compute all measurable quantities. This article presents the generalised action in terms of tetrads and shows how this action may be related to the spin of generalised matter fields, especially for fermionic matter.

id: 1408.1901
title: From local to global ground states in Ising spin glasses
authors: Ilia Zintchenko, Matthew B. Hastings, Matthias Troyer
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures, 5 tables, minor additions and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 024201, 2015
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1901
abstract: We consider whether it is possible to find ground states of frustrated spin systems by solving them locally. Using spin glass physics and Imry-Ma arguments in addition to numerical benchmarks we quantify the power of such local solution methods and show that for the average low-dimensional spin glass problem outside the spin- glass phase the exact ground state can be found in polynomial time. In the second part we present a heuristic, general-purpose hierarchical approach which for spin glasses on chimera graphs and lattices in two and three dimensions outperforms, to our knowledge, any other solver currently around, with significantly better scaling performance than simulated annealing.

id: 1408.1944
title: Does it Make Sense to Speak of Self-Locating Uncertainty in the Universal Wave Function? Remarks on Sebens and Carroll
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Minor expansion of conclusions at request of referee. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 45, 2 (2015), pp 211-217
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1944
abstract: Following a proposal of Vaidman, Sebens and Carroll have argued that in Everettian (i.e. purely unitary) quantum theory, observers are uncertain, before they complete their observation, about which Everettian branch they are on. They argue further that this solves the problem of making sense of probabilities within Everettian quantum theory, even though the theory itself is deterministic. We note some problems with these arguments.

id: 1408.1950
title: Conservation laws for a class of generic Hamiltonians
authors: Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 5+2 pages, 2+1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1950
abstract: Within a strong coupling expansion, we construct local quasi-conserved operators for a class of Hamiltonians that includes both integrable and non-integrable models. We explicitly show that at the lowest orders of perturbation theory the structure of the operators is independent of the system details. Higher order contributions are investigated numerically by means of an ab initio method for computing the time evolution of local operators in the Heisenberg picture. The numerical analysis suggests that the quasi-conserved operators could be approximations of a quasi-local conservation law, even if the model is non-integrable.

id: 1408.1966
title: Scattering matrix approach to the description of quantum electron transport
authors: G.B. Lesovik, I.A. Sadovskyy
comments: 64 pages, 38 figures; minor changes
journal: UFN 181, 1041 (2011) [Phys. Usp. 54, 1007 (2011)]
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1966
abstract: We consider the scattering matrix approach to quantum electron transport in meso- and nano-conductors. This approach is an alternative to the more conventional kinetic equation and Green's function approaches, and often is more efficient for coherent conductors (especially for proving general relations) and typically more transparent. We provide a description of both time-averaged quantities (for example, current-voltage characteristics) and current fluctuations in time -- noise, as well as full counting statistics of charge transport in a finite time. In addition to normal conductors, we consider contacts with superconductors and Josephson junctions.

id: 1408.1972
title: Imaging the dynamics of free-electron Landau states
authors: P. Schattschneider, Th. Schachinger, M. St?ger-Pollach, S. L?ffler, A. Steiger-Thirsfeld, K.Y. Bliokh, F. Nori
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Commun. 5, 4586 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.1972
abstract: Landau levels and states of electrons in a magnetic field are fundamental quantum entities underlying the quantum-Hall and related effects in condensed matter physics. However, the real-space properties and observation of Landau wave functions remain elusive. Here we report the first real-space observation of Landau states and the internal rotational dynamics of free electrons. States with different quantum numbers are produced using nanometer-size electron vortex beams, with a radius chosen to match the waist of the Landau states, in a quasi-uniform magnetic field. Scanning the beams along the propagation direction, we reconstruct the rotational dynamics of the Landau wave functions with angular frequency ~100 GHz. We observe that Landau modes with different azimuthal quantum numbers belong to three classes, which are characterized by rotations with zero, Larmor, and cyclotron frequencies, respectively. This is in sharp contrast to the uniform cyclotron rotation of classical electrons, and in perfect agreement with recent theoretical predictions.

id: 1408.2012
title: Long-range Cooper pair splitter with high entanglement production rate
authors: Wei Chen, D. N. Shi, D. Y. Xing
comments: published version
journal: Sci. Rep. 5, 7607 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2012
abstract: Cooper pairs in the superconductor are a natural source of spin entanglement. The existing proposals of the Cooper pair splitter can only realize a low efficiency of entanglement production, and its size is constrained by the superconducting coherence length. Here we show that a long-range Cooper pair splitter can be implemented in a normal metal-superconductor-normal metal (NSN) junction by driving a supercurrent in the S. The supercurrent results in a band gap modification of the S, which significantly enhances the crossed Andreev reflection (CAR) of the NSN junction and simultaneously quenches its elastic cotunneling. Therefore, a high entanglement production rate close to its saturation value can be achieved by the inverse CAR. Interestingly, in addition to the conventional entangled electron states between opposite energy levels, novel entangled states with equal energy can also be induced in our proposal.

id: 1408.2014
title: Quantum critical benchmark for density functional theory
authors: Paul E. Grabowski, Kieron Burke
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2014
abstract: Two electrons at the threshold of ionization represent a severe test case for electronic structure theory. A pseudospectral method yields a very accurate density of the two-electron ion with nuclear charge close to the critical value. Highly accurate energy components and potentials of Kohn-Sham density functional theory are given, as well as a useful parametrization of the critical density. The challenges for density functional approximations and the strength of correlation are also discussed.

id: 1408.2019
title: A Review of Wave Packet Molecular Dynamics
authors: Paul E. Grabowski
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, published in "Frontiers and Challenges in Warm Dense Matter," edited by F. Graziani, et al. (Springer) (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2019
abstract: Warm dense matter systems created in the laboratory are highly dynamical. In such cases electron dynamics is often needed to accurately simulate the evolution and properties of the system. Large systems force one to make simple approximations enabling computationally feasibility. Wave packet molecular dynamics (WPMD) provides a simple framework for simulating time-dependent quantum plasmas. Here, this method is reviewed. The different variants of WPMD are shown and compared and their validity is discussed.

id: 1408.2070
title: Integrated Quantum Controlled-NOT Gate Based on Dielectric-Loaded Surface Plasmon Polariton Waveguide
authors: S. M. Wang, Q. Q. Cheng, Y. X. Gong, P. Xu, L. Li, T. Li, S. N. Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2070
abstract: It has been proved that surface plasmon polariton (SPP) can well conserve and transmit the quantum nature of entangled photons. Therefore, further utilization and manipulation of such quantum nature of SPP in a plasmonic chip will be the next task for scientists in this field. In quantum logic circuits, the controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate is the key building block. Here, we implement the first plasmonic quantum CNOT gate with several-micrometer footprint by utilizing a single polarization-dependent beam-splitter (PDBS) fabricated on the dielectric-loaded SPP waveguide (DLSPPW). The quantum logic function of the CNOT gate is characterized by the truth table with an average fidelity of. Its entangling ability to transform a separable state into an entangled state is demonstrated with the visibilities of and for non-orthogonal bases. The DLSPPW based CNOT gate is considered to have good integratability and scalability, which will pave a new way for quantum information science.

id: 1408.2164
title: High-Velocity Estimates for Schr?dinger Operators in Two Dimensions: Long-Range Magnetic Potentials and Time-Dependent Inverse Scattering
authors: Miguel Ballesteros, Ricardo Weder
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2164
abstract: We introduce a general class of long-range magnetic potentials and derive high velocity limits for the scattering operators in quantum mechanics, in the case of two dimensions. We analyze the high velocity limits in the presence of an obstacle and we uniquely reconstruct from them the electric potential and the magnetic field outside the obstacle. We also reconstruct the inaccessible magnetic fluxes produced by fields inside the obstacle modulo $2 \pi$. For every magnetic potential $A$ in our class we prove that its behavior at infinity ($A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v}), \hat{\mathbf v} \in \mathbb{S}^1$) can be characterized in a natural way. Under very general assumptions we prove that $A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v}) + A_\infty(- \hat{\mathbf v})$ can be uniquely reconstructed for every $\hat{\mathbf v} \in \mathbb{S}^1$. We characterize properties of the support of the magnetic field outside the obstacle that permit us to uniquely reconstruct $A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v})$ either for all $ \hat{\mathbf v} \in \mathbb{S}^1$ or for $\hat{\mathbf v}$ in a subset of $\mathbb{S}^1$. We also give a wide class of magnetic fields outside the obstacle allowing us to uniquely reconstruct the total magnetic flux (and $A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v})$ for all $ \hat{\mathbf v} \in \mathbb{S}^1$). This is relevant because, as it is well-known, in general the scattering operator (even if is known for all velocities or energies) does not define uniquely the total magnetic flux (and $A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v})$ ). We analyze additionally injectivity (i.e., uniqueness without giving a method for reconstruction) of the high velocity limits of the scattering operator with respect to $A_\infty(\hat{\mathbf v})$. Assuming that the magnetic field outside the obstacle is not identically zero, we provide a class of magnetic potentials for which injectivity is valid.

id: 1408.2184
title: Nuclear spin-dependent interactions: Searches for WIMP, Axion and Topological Defect Dark Matter, and Tests of Fundamental Symmetries
authors: Y. V. Stadnik, V. V. Flambaum
comments: 8 pages. The present work is a significantly extended and improved version of our previous work, and contains many new results
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 75, 110 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2184
abstract: We calculate the proton and neutron spin contributions for nuclei using semi-empirical methods, as well as a novel hybrid \emph{ab initio}/semi-empirical method, for interpretation of experimental data. We demonstrate that core-polarisation corrections to \emph{ab initio} nuclear shell model calculations generally reduce discrepancies in proton and neutron spin expectation values from different calculations. We derive constraints on the spin-dependent P,T-violating interaction of a bound proton with nucleons, which for certain ranges of exchanged pseudoscalar boson masses improve on the most stringent laboratory limits by several orders of magnitude. We derive a limit on the CPT and Lorentz-invariance-violating parameter $|\tilde{b}_{\perp}^p| < 7.6 \times 10^{-33}$ GeV, which improves on the most stringent existing limit by a factor of 8, and demonstrate sensitivities to the parameters $\tilde{d}_{\perp}^p$ and $\tilde{g}_{ D\perp}^p$ at the level $\sim 10^{-29} - 10^{-28}$ GeV, which is a one order of magnitude improvement compared to the corresponding existing sensitivities. We extend previous analysis of nuclear anapole moment data for Cs to obtain new limits on several other CPT and Lorentz-invariance-violating parameters: $\left|b_0^p \right| < 7 \times 10^{-8}$ GeV, $\left|d_{00}^p \right| < 8 \times 10^{-8}$, $\left|b_0^n \right| < 3 \times 10^{-7}$ GeV and $\left|d_{00}^n \right| < 3 \times 10^{-7}$.

id: 1408.2191
title: Probing topological invariants in the bulk of a non-Hermitian optical system
authors: Julia M. Zeuner, Mikael C. Rechtsman, Yonatan Plotnik, Yaakov Lumer, Mark S. Rudner, Mordechai Segev, Alexander Szameit
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2191
abstract: Topological insulators are insulating in the bulk but feature conducting states on their surfaces. Standard methods for probing their topological properties largely involve probing the surface, even though topological invariants are defined via the bulk band structure. Here, we utilize non-hermiticy to experimentally demonstrate a topological transition in an optical system, using bulk behavior only, without recourse to surface properties. This concept is relevant for a wide range of systems beyond optics, where the surface physics is difficult to probe.

id: 1408.2256
title: Localized modes in quasi-2D Bose-Einstein condensates with spin-orbit and Rabi couplings
authors: Luca Salasnich, Wesley B. Cardoso, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures - Physical Review A, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033629 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2256
abstract: We consider a two-component pancake-shaped, i.e., effectively two-dimensional (2D), Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) coupled by the spin-orbit (SO) and Rabi terms. The SO coupling adopted here is of the mixed Rashba-Dresselhaus type. For this configuration, we derive a system of two 2D nonpolynomial Schr\"odinger equations (NPSEs), for both attractive and repulsive interatomic interactions. In the low- and high-density limits, the system amounts to previously known models, namely, the usual 2D Gross-Pitaevskii equation, or the Schr\"odinger equation with the nonlinearity of power 7/3. We present simple approximate localized solutions, obtained by treating the SO and Rabi terms as perturbations. Localized solutions of the full NPSE system are obtained in a numerical form. Remarkably, in the case of the attractive nonlinearity acting in free space (i.e., without any 2D trapping potential), we find parameter regions where the SO and Rabi couplings make 2D fundamental solitons dynamically stable.

id: 1408.2296
title: Effects of Non-idealities and Quantization of the Center of Mass Motion on Symmetric and Asymmetric Collective States in a Collective State Atomic Interferometer
authors: Resham Sarkar, May E. Kim, Renpeng Fang, Yanfei Tu, Selim M. Shahriar
comments: Title, abstract and text edited
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2296
abstract: We investigate the behavior of an ensemble of $N$ non-interacting, identical atoms, excited by a laser. In general, the $i$-th atom sees a Rabi frequency $\Omega_i$, an initial position dependent laser phase $\phi_i$, and a motion induced Doppler shift of $\delta_i$. When $\Omega_i$ or $\delta_i$ is distinct for each atom, the system evolves into a superposition of $2^N$ intercoupled states, of which there are $N+1$ symmetric and $(2^N-(N+1))$ asymmetric collective states. For a collective state atomic interferometer (COSAIN) we recently proposed, it is important to understand the behavior of all the collective states under various conditions. In this paper, we show how to formulate the properties of these states under various non-idealities, and use this formulation to understand the dynamics thereof. We also consider the effect of treating the center of mass degree of freedom of the atoms quantum mechanically on the description of the collective states, illustrating that it is indeed possible to construct a generalized collective state, as needed for the COSAIN, when each atom is assumed to be in a localized wave packet. The analysis presented in this paper is important for understanding the dynamics of the COSAIN, and will help advance the analysis and optimization of spin squeezing in the presence of practically unavoidable non-idealities as well as in the domain where the center of mass motion of the atoms is quantized.

id: 1408.2336
title: Breakdown of the Dipole Approximation in Strong-Field Ionization
authors: A. Ludwig, J. Maurer, B.W. Mayer, C.R. Phillips, L. Gallmann, U. Keller
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 243001 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2336
abstract: We report the breakdown of the electric dipole approximation in the long-wavelength limit in strong-field ionization with linearly polarized few-cycle mid-infrared laser pulses at intensities on the order of 10$^{13}$ W/cm$^2$. Photoelectron momentum distributions were recorded by velocity map imaging and projected onto the beam propagation axis. We observe an increasing shift of the peak of this projection opposite to the beam propagation direction with increasing laser intensities. From a comparison with semi-classical simulations, we identify the combined action of the magnetic field of the laser pulse and the Coulomb potential as origin of our observations.

id: 1408.2338
title: Magneto-optical resonance of electromagnetically induced absorption with high contrast and narrow width in a vapour cell with buffer gas
authors: D.V. Brazhnikov, A.V. Taichenachev, V.I. Yudin
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett., Vol. 11, No. 12, p. 125702 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2338
abstract: The method for observing the high-contrast and narrow-width resonances of electromagnetically induced absorption (EIA) in the Hanle configuration under counterpropagating light waves is proposed. We theoretically analyze the absorption of a probe light wave in presence of counterpropagating one with the same frequency as the function of a static magnetic field applied along the vectors of light waves, propagating in a vapour cell. Here, as an example, we study a "dark" type of atomic dipole transition Fg=1-->Fe=1 in D1 line of 87Rb, where usually the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) can be observed. To obtain the EIA signal one should proper chose the polarizations of light waves and intensities. In contrast of regular schemes for observing EIA signals (in a single travelling light wave in the Hanle configuration or in a bichromatic light field consisted of two travelling waves), the proposed scheme allows one to use buffer gas to significantly enhance properties of the resonance. Also the dramatic influence of atomic transition openness on contrast of the resonance is revealed, that gives great advantage in comparison with cyclic atomic transitions. The obtained results can be interesting in high-resolution spectroscopy, nonlinear and magneto-optics.

id: 1408.2432
title: Infinitely many inequivalent field theories from one Lagrangian
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, Nick E. Mavromatos, Sarben Sarkar
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 231605 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2432
abstract: Logarithmic time-like Liouville quantum field theory has a generalized PT invariance, where T is the time-reversal operator and P stands for an S-duality reflection of the Liouville field $\phi$. In Euclidean space the Lagrangian of such a theory, $L=\frac{1}{2}(\nabla\phi)^2-ig\phi\exp(ia\phi)$, is analyzed using the techniques of PT-symmetric quantum theory. It is shown that L defines an infinite number of unitarily inequivalent sectors of the theory labeled by the integer n. In one-dimensional space (quantum mechanics) the energy spectrum is calculated in the semiclassical limit and the mth energy level in the nth sector is given by $E_{m,n}\sim(m+1/2)^2a^2/(16n^2)$.

id: 1408.2440
title: Signature of existence of a BEC-type state in a dilute gas above the BEC transition temperature
authors: Yinbiao Yang, Wen-ge Wang
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2440
abstract: We study quantum coherence properties of a dilute gas at temperatures above, but not much above the transition temperature of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC). In such a gas, a small proportion of the atoms may possess coherence lengths longer than the mean neighboring-atomic distance, implying the existence of quantum coherence more than that expected for thermal atoms. Conjecturing that a part of this proportion of the atoms may lie in a BEC-type state, some unexplained experimental results [Phys. Rev. A, 71, 043615 (2005)] can be explained.

id: 1408.2453
title: Collective excitation of Rydberg-atom ensembles beyond the $\sqrt{N}$ enhancement
authors: Martin G?rttner, Shannon Whitlock, David W. Sch?nleber, J?rg Evers
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 233002 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2453
abstract: In an ensemble of laser-driven atoms involving strongly interacting Rydberg states, the excitation probability is usually strongly suppressed. In contrast, here we identify a regime in which the steady-state Rydberg excited fraction is enhanced by the interaction. This effect is associated with the build-up of many-body coherences, induced by coherent multi-photon excitations between collective states. The excitation enhancement should be observable under currently-existing experimental conditions, and may serve as a direct probe for the presence of coherent multi-photon dynamics involving collective quantum states.

id: 1408.2509
title: Gaussian and Airy wave packets of massive particles with orbital angular momentum
authors: Dmitry V. Karlovets
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; some additional comments have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013847 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2509
abstract: While wave-packet solutions for relativistic wave equations are oftentimes thought to be approximate (paraxial), we demonstrate that there is a family of such solutions, which are exact, by employing a null-plane (light-cone) variables formalism. A scalar Gaussian wave-packet in transverse plane is generalized so that it acquires a well-defined z-component of the orbital angular momentum (OAM), while may not acquire a typical "doughnut" spatial profile. Such quantum states and beams, in contrast to the Bessel ones, may have an azimuthal-angle-dependent probability density and finite quantum uncertainty of the OAM, which is determined by the packet's width. We construct a well-normalized Airy wave-packet, which can be interpreted as a one-particle state for relativistic massive boson, show that its center moves along the same quasi-classical straight path and, what is more important, spreads with time and distance exactly as a Gaussian wave-packet does, in accordance with the uncertainty principle. It is explained that this fact does not contradict the well-known "non-spreading" feature of the Airy beams. While the effective OAM for such states is zero, its quantum uncertainty (or the beam's OAM bandwidth) is found to be finite, and it depends on the packet's parameters. A link between exact solutions for the Klein-Gordon equation in the null-plane-variables formalism and the approximate ones in the usual approach is indicated, generalizations of these states for a boson in external field of a plane electromagnetic wave are also presented.

id: 1408.2518
title: Absence of a local rest frame in far from equilibrium quantum matter
authors: Peter Arnold, Paul Romatschke, Wilke van der Schee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; v2: fixed typo, v3: added references, matches published version
journal: JHEP10 (2014) 110
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2518
abstract: In a collision of strongly coupled quantum matter we find that the dynamics of the collision produces regions where a local rest frame cannot be defined because the energy-momentum tensor does not have a real time-like eigenvector. This effect is purely quantum mechanical, since for classical systems, a local rest frame can always be defined. We study the relation with the null and weak energy condition, which are violated in even larger regions, and compare with previously known examples. While no pathologies or instabilities arise, it is interesting that regions without a rest frame are possibly present in heavy ion collisions.

id: 1408.2533
title: Characterization of Bose-Hubbard Models with Quantum Non-demolition Measurements
authors: B. Rogers, M. Paternostro, J. F. Sherson, G. De Chiara
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures; published version in PRA, Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043618 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2533
abstract: We propose a scheme for the detection of quantum phase transitions in the 1D Bose-Hubbard (BH) and 1D Extended Bose-Hubbard (EBH) models, using the non-demolition measurement technique of quantum polarization spectroscopy. We use collective measurements of the effective total angular momentum of a particular spatial mode to characterise the Mott insulator to superfluid phase transition in the BH model, and the transition to a density wave state in the EBH model. We extend the application of collective measurements to the ground states at various deformations of a super-lattice potential.

id: 1408.2594
title: Two charges on plane in a magnetic field: III. $He^+$ ion
authors: M.A. Escobar-Ruiz
comments: 25 pages,5 figures, 14 tables (7 in main body and 7 moved in a supplementary material)
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2594
abstract: The $He^+$ ion on a plane subject to a constant magnetic field $B$ perpendicular to the plane is considered taking into account the finite nuclear mass. Factorization of eigenfunctions permits to reduce the four-dimensional problem to three-dimensional one. The ground state energy of the composite system is calculated in a wide range of magnetic fields from $B=0.01$ up to $B=100$ a.u. and center-of-mass Pseudomomentum $K$ from $0$ to $1000$ a.u. using a variational approach. The accuracy of calculations for $B = 0.1 $ a.u. is cross-checked in Lagrange-mesh method and not less than five significant figures are reproduced in energy. Similarly to the case of moving neutral system on the plane a phenomenon of a sharp change of energy behavior as a function of $K$ for a certain critical $K_c$ but a fixed magnetic field occurs.

id: 1408.2655
title: Four dimensional supersymmetric Yang-Mills quantum mechanics with three colors
authors: Zbigniew Ambrozinski
comments: 116 pp, 30 figures, 11 tables, PhD thesis at Jagiellonian University in Krakow, under supervision of prof. Jacek Wosiek and dr Piotr Korcyl (auxiliary)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2655
abstract: The $D=4$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills quantum mechanics with $SU(2)$ and $SU(3)$ gauge symmetry groups is studied. A numerical method to find finite matrix representation of the Hamiltonian is presented in detail. It is used to find spectrum of the theory. In the $SU(2)$ case there are bound states in all channels with definite total number of fermions and angular momentum. For 2,3,4 fermions continuous and discrete spectra coexist in the same range of energies. These results are confirmation of earlier studies. With $SU(3)$ gauge group, the continuous spectrum is moved to sectors with more fermions. Supersymmetry generators are used to identify supermultiplets and determine the level of restoration of supersymmetry for a finite cutoff. For both theories, with $SU(2)$ and $SU(3)$ symmetry, wavefunctions are studied and different behavior of bound and scattering states is observed.

id: 1408.2726
title: Bloch-Redfield equations for modeling light-harvesting complexes
authors: Jan Jeske, David Ing, Martin B. Plenio, Susana F. Huelga, Jared H. Cole
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 142, 064104 (2015)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2726
abstract: We challenge the misconception that Bloch-Redfield equations are a less powerful tool than phenomenological Lindblad equations for modeling exciton transport in photosynthetic complexes. This view predominantly originates from an indiscriminate use of the secular approximation. We provide a detailed description of how to model both coherent oscillations and several types of noise, giving explicit examples. All issues with non-positivity are overcome by a consistent straightforward physical noise model. Herein also lies the strength of the Bloch-Redfield approach because it facilitates the analysis of noise-effects by linking them back to physical parameters of the noise environment. This includes temporal and spatial correlations and the strength and type of interaction between the noise and the system of interest. Finally we analyze a prototypical dimer system as well as a 7-site Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex in regards to spatial correlation length of the noise, noise strength, temperature and their connection to the transfer time and transfer.

id: 1408.2775
title: Dynamically decoupled three-body interactions with applications to interaction-based quantum metrology
authors: K. W. Mahmud, E. Tiesinga, P. R. Johnson
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 90, 041602 (R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2775
abstract: We propose a stroboscopic method to dynamically decouple the effects of two-body atom-atom interactions for ultracold atoms, and realize a system dominated by elastic three-body interactions. Using this method, we show that it is possible to achieve the optimal scaling behavior predicted for interaction-based quantum metrology with three-body interactions. Specifically, we show that for ultracold atoms quenched in an optical lattice, we can measure the three-body interaction strength with a precision proportional to ${\bar n}^{-5/2}$ using homodyne quadrature interferometry, and ${\bar n}^{-7/4}$ using conventional collapse-and-revival techniques, where ${\bar n}$ is the mean number of atoms per lattice site. Both precision scalings surpass the nonlinear scaling of ${\bar n}^{-3/2}$, the best so far achieved or proposed with a physical system. Our method of achieving a decoupled three-body interacting system may also have applications in the creation of exotic three-body states and phases.

id: 1408.2796
title: Classical causal Poisson structures and Deformation Quantization
authors: Jasel Berra-Montiel, Alberto Molgado, C¨¦sar D. Palacios-Garc¨ªa
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2796
abstract: Starting with the well-defined product of quantum fields at two spacetime points, we explore an associated Poisson structure for classical field theories within the deformation quantization formalism. We realize that the induced star-product is naturally related to the standard Moyal product through the causal Green functions connecting points in the space of classical solutions to the equations of motion. Our results resemble the Peierls-DeWitt bracket analyzed in the multisymplectic context. Once our star-product is defined we are able to apply the Wigner-Weyl map in order to introduce a generalized version of Wick's theorem. Finally, we include a couple of examples to explicitly test our method: the real scalar field and the bosonic string. For both models we have encountered causal generalizations of the creation/annihilation relations, and also a causal generalization of the Virasoro algebra in the bosonic string case.

id: 1408.2798
title: Correlated Diskoid-like Electronic States
authors: Artem Baskin, Hossein R. Sadeghpour, Petr Kral
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2798
abstract: We study highly excited diskoid-like electronic states formed in the vicinity of charged and strongly polarizable diskotic nanostructures, such as circular graphene flakes. First, we study the nature of such extended states in a simple two-electron model. The two electrons are attached to a point-like nucleus with a charge 2+, where the material electron is forced to move within a 2D disk area centered at the nucleus, while the extended electron is free to move in 3D. Pronounced and complex correlations are revealed in the diskoid-like states. We also develop semiclassical one-electron models of such diskotic systems and explain how the one-electron and many-electron solutions are related.

id: 1408.2823
title: Switchbacks and the Bridge to Nowhere
authors: Leonard Susskind, Ying Zhao
comments: 36 Pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2823
abstract: This paper is in three parts: Part 1 explains the relevance of Einstein-Rosen bridges for one-sided black holes. Like their two-sided counterparts, one-sided black holes are connected to ERBs whose growth tracks the increasing complexity of the quantum state. Quantitative solutions for one-sided ERBs are presented in the appendix. Part 2 calls attention to the work of Nielsen and collaborators on the geometry of quantum complexity. This geometric formulation of complexity provides a valuable tool for studying the evolution of complexity for systems such as black holes. Part 3 applies the Nielsen approach to geometrize two related black hole quantum phenomena: the rapid mixing of information through fast-scrambling; and the time dependence of the complexity of precursors, in particular the switchback effect.

id: 1408.2935
title: No Laplacian Perfect State Transfer in Trees
authors: Gabriel Coutinho, Henry Liu
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.2935
abstract: We consider a system of qubits coupled via nearest-neighbour interaction governed by the Heisenberg Hamiltonian. We further suppose that all coupling constants are equal to $1$. We are interested in determining which graphs allow for a transfer of quantum state with fidelity equal to $1$. To answer this question, it is enough to consider the action of the Laplacian matrix of the graph in a vector space of suitable dimension. Our main result is that if the underlying graph is a tree with more than two vertices, then perfect state transfer does not happen. We also explore related questions, such as what happens in bipartite graphs and graphs with an odd number of spanning trees. Finally, we consider the model based on the $XY$-Hamiltonian, whose action is equivalent to the action of the adjacency matrix of the graph. In this case, we conjecture that perfect state transfer does not happen in trees with more than three vertices.

id: 1408.3062
title: Non-Paradoxical Loss of Information in Black Hole Evaporation in a Quantum Collapse Model
authors: Sujoy K. Modak, Leonardo Ort¨ªz, Igor Pe?a, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: slightly expanded to improve on clarity and completeness, 11 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review D. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1406.4898
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3062
abstract: We consider a novel approach to address the black hole information paradox (BHIP). The idea is based on adapting, to the situation at hand, the modified versions of quantum theory involving spontaneous stochastic dynamical collapse of quantum states, which have been considered in attempts to deal with shortcomings of the standard Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, in particular, the issue known as "the measurement problem". The new basic hypothesis is that the modified quantum behavior is enhanced in the region of high curvature so that the information encoded in the initial quantum state of the matter fields is rapidly erased as the black hole singularity is approached. We show that in this manner the complete evaporation of the black hole via Hawking radiation can be understood as involving no paradox. Calculations are performed using a modified version of quantum theory known as "Continuous Spontaneous Localization" (CSL), which was originally developed in the context of many particle non-relativistic quantum mechanics. We use a version of CSL tailored to quantum field theory and applied in the context of the two dimensional Callan-Giddings-Harvey-Strominger (CGHS) model. Although the role of quantum gravity in this picture is restricted to the resolution of the singularity, related studies suggest that there might be further connections.

id: 1408.3067
title: Relativistic all-order calculations of Th, Th$^{+}$ and Th$^{2+}$ atomic properties
authors: M. S. Safronova, U. I. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3067
abstract: Excitation energies, term designations, and $g$-factors of Th, Th$^{+}$ and Th$^{2+}$ are determined using a relativistic hybrid configuration interaction (CI) + all-order approach that combines configuration interaction and linearized coupled-cluster methods. The results are compared with other theory and experiment where available. We find some "vanishing" $g$-factors, similar to those known in lanthanide spectra. Reduced matrix elements, oscillator strengths, transition rates, and lifetimes are determined for Th$^{2+}$. To estimate the uncertainties of our results, we compared our values with the available experimental lifetimes for higher $5f7p\ ^3G_{4}$, $7s7p\ ^3P_{0}$, $7s7p\ ^3P_{1}$, and $6d7p\ ^3F_{4}$ levels of Th$^{2+}$. These calculations provide a benchmark test of the CI+all-order method for heavy systems with several valence electrons and yield recommended values for transition rates and lifetimes of Th$^{2+}$.

id: 1408.3133
title: Observation of Dirac Monopoles in a Synthetic Magnetic Field
authors: M. W. Ray, E. Ruokokoski, S. Kandel, M. M?tt?nen, D. S. Hall
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: M. W. Ray, E. Ruokokoski, S. Kandel, M. M\"ott\"onen, and D. S. Hall, Nature 505, 657 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3133
abstract: Magnetic monopoles --- particles that behave as isolated north or south magnetic poles --- have been the subject of speculation since the first detailed observations of magnetism several hundred years ago. Numerous theoretical investigations and hitherto unsuccessful experimental searches have followed Dirac's 1931 development of a theory of monopoles consistent with both quantum mechanics and the gauge invariance of the electromagnetic field. The existence of even a single Dirac magnetic monopole would have far-reaching physical consequences, most famously explaining the quantization of electric charge. Although analogues of magnetic monopoles have been found in exotic spin-ices and other systems, there has been no direct experimental observation of Dirac monopoles within a medium described by a quantum field, such as superfluid helium-3. Here we demonstrate the controlled creation of Dirac monopoles in the synthetic magnetic field produced by a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate. Monopoles are identified, in both experiments and matching numerical simulations, at the termini of vortex lines within the condensate. By directly imaging such a vortex line, the presence of a monopole may be discerned from the experimental data alone. These real-space images provide conclusive and long-awaited experimental evidence of the existence of Dirac monopoles. Our result provides an unprecedented opportunity to observe and manipulate these quantum-mechanical entities in a controlled environment.

id: 1408.3150
title: Achieving atomic resolution magnetic dichroism by controlling the phase symmetry of an electron probe
authors: Jan Rusz, Juan-Carlos Idrobo, Somnath Bhowmick
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3150
abstract: The calculations presented here reveal that an electron probe carrying orbital angular momentum is just a particular case of a wider class of electron beams that can be used to measure electron magnetic circular dichroism (EMCD) with atomic resolution. It is possible to obtain an EMCD signal with atomic resolution by simply breaking the symmetry of the electron probe phase distribution using the aberration-corrected optics of an scanning transmission electron microscope. The required phase distribution of the probe depends on the magnetic symmetry and crystal structure of the sample. The calculations indicate that EMCD signals utilizing the phase of the electron probe are as strong as those obtained by nanodiffraction methods.

id: 1408.3159
title: Accurate and efficient simulation of donors in silicon
authors: John King Gamble, N. Tobias Jacobson, Erik Nielsen, Andrew D. Baczewski, Jonathan E. Moussa, In¨¨s Monta?o, Richard P. Muller
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, 3 supplemental data files
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3159
abstract: For sixty years researchers have studied the electronic structure of donors in silicon using the effective mass approximation. Despite a recent surge of theoretical activity, inconsistent predictions and discrepancies with experiment call into question the extent to which effective mass theory can quantitatively describe donor physics. Earlier this year, Salfi et al. made the first direct measurements of a donor wave function and found extremely good theoretical agreement with atomistic tight-binding simulation. That work motivates the comparison with tight-binding as an essential test of any candidate theory. Here, we apply a modern effective mass theory to the problem of inter-donor tunnel coupling, a critical figure of merit for multi-qubit gates in donor-based quantum computing, and find close agreement with tight-binding. An orders-of-magnitude speedup over atomistic methods, combined with quantitative accuracy, allows us to show conclusively that the tunnel coupling is rapidly oscillatory everywhere. Nonetheless, we identify experimentally accessible regions where donors placed with scanning tunneling microscopy technology achieve large tunnel couplings with $>90\%$ yield.

id: 1408.3242
title: Mixed quantal-semiquantal dynamics with stochastic particles for backreaction
authors: Koji Ando
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3242
abstract: A mixed quantal-semiquantal theory is presented in which the semiquantal squeezed-state wave packet describes the heavy degrees of freedom. We first derive mean-field equations of motion from the time-dependent variational principle. Then, in order to take into account the interparticle correlation, in particular the 'quantum backreaction' beyond the mean-field approximation, we introduce the stochastic particle description for both the quantal and semiquantal parts. A numerical application on a model of O2 scattering from a Pt surface demonstrates that the proposed scheme gives correct asymptotic behavior of the scattering probability, with improvement over the mixed quantum-classical scheme with Bohmian particles, which is comprehended by comparing the Bohmian and the stochastic trajectories.

id: 1408.3262
title: Multivariable Optimization: Quantum Annealing & Computation
authors: Sudip Mukherjee, Bikas K. Chakrabarti
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; EPJ ST: spl. 'Debate & Discussion' issue on "Quantum Annealing: The fastest route to large scale computation?"
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics, 224, 17-24 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3262
abstract: Recent developments in quantum annealing techniques have been indicating potential advantage of quantum annealing for solving NP-hard optimization problems. In this article we briefly indicate and discuss the beneficial features of quantum annealing techniques and compare them with those of simulated annealing techniques. We then briefly discuss the quantum annealing studies of some model spin glass and kinetically constrained systems.

id: 1408.3283
title: Assessment of asymptotically corrected model potential scheme for charge-transfer-like excitations in oligoacenes
authors: Wei-Tao Peng, Jeng-Da Chai
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 16, 21564 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3283
abstract: We examine the performance of the asymptotically corrected model potential scheme on the two lowest singlet excitation energies of acenes with different number of linearly fused benzene rings (up to 5), employing both the real-time time-dependent density functional theory and the frequency-domain formulation of linear-response time-dependent density functional theory. The results are compared with the experimental data and those calculated by long-range corrected hybrid functionals and others. The long-range corrected hybrid scheme is shown to outperform the asymptotically corrected model potential scheme for charge-transfer-like excitations.

id: 1408.3348
title: Finding the quantum thermoelectric with maximal efficiency and minimal entropy production at given power output
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: 20 pages 13 figures. Final version (typos fixed)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 115425 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3348
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear scattering theory for quantum systems with strong Seebeck and Peltier effects, and consider their use as heat-engines and refrigerators with finite power outputs. This article gives detailed derivations of the results summarized in Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130601 (2014). It shows how to use the scattering theory to find (i) the quantum thermoelectric with maximum possible power output, and (ii) the quantum thermoelectric with maximum efficiency at given power output. The latter corresponds to a minimal entropy production at that power output. These quantities are of quantum origin since they depend on system size over electronic wavelength, and so have no analogue in classical thermodynamics. The maximal efficiency coincides with Carnot efficiency at zero power output, but decreases with increasing power output. This gives a fundamental lower bound on entropy production, which means that reversibility (in the thermodynamic sense) is impossible for finite power output. The suppression of efficiency by (nonlinear) phonon and photon effects is addressed in detail; when these effects are strong, maximum efficiency coincides with maximum power. Finally, we show in particular limits (typically without magnetic fields) that relaxation within the quantum system does not allow the system to exceed the bounds derived for relaxation-free systems, however, a general proof of this remains elusive.

id: 1408.3384
title: All-optical coherent control of vacuum Rabi oscillations
authors: Ranojoy Bose, Tao Cai, Kaushik Roy Choudhury, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: Supplement available upon request from R. Bose and E. Waks
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3384
abstract: When an atom strongly couples to a cavity, it can undergo coherent vacuum Rabi oscillations. Controlling these oscillatory dynamics quickly relative to the vacuum Rabi frequency enables remarkable capabilities such as Fock state generation and deterministic synthesis of quantum states of light, as demonstrated using microwave frequency devices. At optical frequencies, however, dynamical control of single-atom vacuum Rabi oscillations remains challenging. Here, we demonstrate coherent transfer of optical frequency excitation between a single quantum dot and a cavity by controlling vacuum Rabi oscillations. We utilize a photonic molecule to simultaneously attain strong coupling and a cavity-enhanced AC Stark shift. The Stark shift modulates the detuning between the two systems on picosecond timescales, faster than the vacuum Rabi frequency. We demonstrate the ability to add and remove excitation from the cavity, and perform coherent control of light-matter states. These results enable ultra-fast control of atom-cavity interactions in a nanophotonic device platform.

id: 1408.3414
title: Engineering the Dynamics of Effective Spin-Chain Models for Strongly Interacting Atomic Gases
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. Petrosyan, M. Valiente, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 10 pages including appendix, 3 figures, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023620 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3414
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional gas of cold atoms with strong contact interactions and construct an effective spin-chain Hamiltonian for a two-component system. The resulting Heisenberg spin model can be engineered by manipulating the shape of the external confining potential of the atomic gas. We find that bosonic atoms offer more flexibility for tuning independently the parameters of the spin Hamiltonian through interatomic (intra-species) interaction which is absent for fermions due to the Pauli exclusion principle. Our formalism can have important implications for control and manipulation of the dynamics of few- and many-body quantum systems; as an illustrative example relevant to quantum computation and communication, we consider state transfer in the simplest non-trivial system of four particles representing exchange-coupled qubits.

id: 1408.3523
title: Formula Method for Bound State Problems
authors: Babatunde J. Falaye, Sameer M. Ikhdair, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3523
abstract: We present a simple formula for finding bound state solution of any quantum wave equation which can be simplified to the form of $\Psi"(s)+\frac{(k_1-k_2s)}{s(1-k_3s)}\Psi'(s)+\frac{(As^2+Bs+C)}{s^2(1-k_3s)^2}\Psi(s)=0$. The two cases where $k_3=0$ and $k_3\neq 0$ are studied. We derive an expression for the energy spectrum and the wave function in terms of generalized hypergeometric functions $_2F_1(\alpha, \beta; \gamma; k_3s)$. In order to show the accuracy of this proposed formula, we resort to obtaining bound state solutions for some existing eigenvalue problems in a rather more simplified way. This method has been shown to be accurate, efficient, reliable and very easy to use particularly when applied to vast number of quantum potential models.

id: 1408.3532
title: Quantum Phases of Soft-Core Dipolar Bosons in Optical Lattices
authors: D. Grimmer, A. Safavi-Naini, B. Capogrosso-Sansone, ?. G. S?yler
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3532
abstract: We study the phase diagram of a system of soft-core dipolar bosons confined to a two-dimensional optical lattice layer. We assume that dipoles are aligned perpendicular to the layer such that the dipolar interactions are purely repulsive and isotropic. We consider the full dipolar interaction and perform Path Integral Quantum Monte Carlo simulations using the Worm Algorithm. Besides a superfluid phase, we find various solid and supersolid phases. We show that, unlike what was found previously for the case of nearest-neighboring interaction, supersolid phases are stabilized not only by doping the solids with particles but with holes as well. We further study the stability of these quantum phases against thermal fluctuations. Finally, we discuss pair formation and the stability of the pair checkerboard phase formed in a bilayer geometry, and suggest experimental conditions under which the pair checkerboard phase can be observed.

id: 1408.3538
title: Doppler Shift of the de Broglie Waves- Some New Results from Very Old Concepts
authors: Sanchari De, Somenath Chakrabarty
comments: Eight pages, no figures, some version will appear in Education Journal, IAPT, Title has been changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3538
abstract: The Doppler shift of de Broglie wave is obtained for fermions and massive bosons using the conventional form of Lorentz transformations for momentum and energy of the particles. A formalism is developed to obtain the variation of wave length for de Broglie waves with temperature for individual particles using the classic idea of Wien in a many body Fermi gas or massive Bose gas.

id: 1408.3574
title: Strain designed Josephson $¦Ð$ junction qubits with topological insulators
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, Added supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3574
abstract: A Josephson qubit is designed via the application of a tensile strain to a topological insulator surface sandwiched between two s-wave superconductors. The strain applied leads to a shift in the Dirac point without changing the pre-existing conducting states, on the surface of a topological insulator. Strain applied can be tuned to form a $\pi$ junction in such a structure. Combining two such junctions in a ring architecture leads to the ground state of the ring being in doubly degenerate state- the "0" and "1" states of a qubit. A qubit designed this way is quite easily controlled via the tunable strain applied. We report on the conditions necessary to design such a qubit. Finally the operating time of a single qubit phase gate is derived.

id: 1408.3625
title: Effective quantum number for axially symmetric problems
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3625
abstract: We generalize the universal effective quantum number introduced earlier for centrally symmetric problems. The proposed number determines the semiclassical quantization condition for axially symmetric potentials.

id: 1408.3652
title: Time Evolution of Superradiance
authors: Colin Rylands, Natan Andrei
comments: 7 pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3652
abstract: The superradiant behaviour of the Dicke model is examined using the Yudson representation. This is achieved by computing the time evolution of the mean photon current density and photon number. Extensions of this model including energy splitting and spatial separation are then investigated using this technique.

id: 1408.3669
title: Topology and Interactions in a Frustrated Slab: Tuning from Weyl Semimetals to C > 1 Fractional Chern Insulators
authors: E.J. Bergholtz, Zhao Liu, M. Trescher, R. Moessner, M. Udagawa
comments: Published. 6+4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 016806 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3669
abstract: We show that, quite generically, a [111] slab of spin-orbit coupled pyrochlore lattice exhibits surface states whose constant energy curves take the shape of Fermi arcs, localized to different surfaces depending on their quasimomentum. Remarkably, these persist independently of the existence of Weyl points in the bulk. Considering interacting electrons in slabs of finite thickness, we find a plethora of known fractional Chern insulating phases, to which we add the discovery of a new higher Chern number state which is likely a generalization of the Moore-Read fermionic fractional quantum Hall state. By contrast, in the three-dimensional limit, we argue for the absence of gapped states of the flat surface band due to a topologically protected coupling of the surface to gapless states in the bulk. We comment on generalizations as well as experimental perspectives in thin slabs of pyrochlore iridates.

id: 1408.3739
title: Self-Inductance and the Mass of Current Carriers in a Circuit
authors: Timothy H. Boyer
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3739
abstract: In this article, the self-inductance of a circular circuit is treated from an untraditional, particle-based point of view. The electromagnetic fields of Faraday induction are calculated explicitly from the point-charge fields derived from the Darwin Lagrangian for particles confined to move in a circular orbit. For a one-particle circuit (or for N non-interacting particles), the induced electromagnetic fields depend upon the mass and charge of the current carriers while energy is transferred to the kinetic energy of the particle (or particles). However, for an interacting multiparticle circuit, the mutual electromagnetic interactions between particles can dominate the behavior so that the mass and charge of the individual particles becomes irrelevant; the induced fields are then comparable to the inducing fields and energy goes into magnetic energy. In addition to providing a deeper understanding of self-inductance, the example suggests that the claims involving hidden mechanical momentum in connection with momentum balance for interacting multiparticle systems are unlikely to be accurate.

id: 1408.3741
title: Interaction of a Magnet and a Point Charge: Unrecognized Internal Electromagnetic Momentum Eliminates the Myth of Hidden Mechanical Momentum
authors: Timothy H. Boyer
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3741
abstract: A model calculation using the Darwin Lagrangian is carried out for a magnet consisting of two current-carrying charges constrained by centripetal forces to move in a circular path in the presence of the electric field from a distant external point charge. In the limit that the magnet's two charges are non-interacting, the calculation recovers the only valid calculation for hidden mechanical momentum. However, if the magnet's charges are mutually interacting, then there is internal electromagnetic linear momentum associated with the perturbed magnet's electrostatic charge distribution and the motion of the magnet's charges. This internal electromagnetic momentum does not seem to be recognized as distinct from the familiar external electromagnetic momentum associated with the electric field of the external charge and the magnetic field of the unperturbed magnet. In the multiparticle limit, the hidden mechanical momentum becomes negligible while the internal electromagnetic momentum provides the compensating linear momentum required by the relativistic conservation law connecting the total linear momentum to motion of the center of energy. Whereas the changes in the external electromagnetic momentum are often associated with magnetic forces of order $1/c^{2},$ changes in the internal electromagnetic momentum are associated with the electrical forces of order $1/c^{2}$. These electrical forces are relevant to the Shockley-James paradox and to the experimentally observed Aharonov-Bohm and Aharonov-Casher phase shifts.

id: 1408.3742
title: Classical Interaction of a Magnet and a Point Charge: The Shockley-James Paradox
authors: Timothy H. Boyer
comments: 25 pages
journal: Phyical Review E 91, 013201(11) (2015)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3742
abstract: It is pointed out that Coleman and Van Vleck make a major blunder in their discussion of the Shockly-James paradox by designating relativistic hidden mechanical momentum as the basis for resolution of the paradox. This blunder has had a wide influence in the current physics literature, including erroneous work on the Shockley-James paradox, on Mansuripur's paradox, on the motion of a magnetic moment, on the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift, and on the Aharonov-Casher phase shift. Although hidden mechanical momentum is indeed dominant for non-interacting particles moving in a closed orbit under the influence of an external electric field, the attention directed toward hidden mechanical momentum represents a fundamental misunderstanding of the classical electromagnetic interaction between a multiparticle magnet and an external point charge. In the interacting multiparticle situation, the external charge induces an electrostatic polarization of the magnet which leads to an internal electromagnetic momentum in the magnet where both the electric and magnetic fields for the momentum are contributed by the magnet particles. This internal electromagnetic momentum for the interacting multiparticle situation is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction compared to the familiar external electromagnetic momentum where the electric field is contributed by the external charged particle and the magnetic field is that due to the magnet. In the present article, the momentum balance of the Shockley-James situation for a system of a magnet and a point charge is calculated in detail for a magnet model consisting of two interacting point charges which are constrained to move in a circular orbit on a frictionless ring with a compensating negative charge at the center.

id: 1408.3744
title: Entanglement dynamics in short and long-range harmonic oscillators
authors: M. Ghasemi Nezhadhaghighi, M. A. Rajabpour
comments: 20 pages, 27 figures, v2: a new figure added and some other minor additions
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205438 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3744
abstract: We study the time evolution of the entanglement entropy in the short and long-range coupled harmonic oscillators that have well-defined continuum limit field theories. We first introduce a method to calculate the entanglement evolution in generic coupled harmonic oscillators after quantum quench. Then we study the entanglement evolution after quantum quench in harmonic systems that the couplings decay effectively as $1/r^{d+\alpha}$ with the distance $r$. After quenching the mass from non-zero value to zero we calculate numerically the time evolution of von Neumann and R\'enyi entropies. We show that for $1<\alpha<2$ we have a linear growth of entanglement and then saturation independent of the initial state. For $0<\alpha<1$ depending on the initial state we can have logarithmic growth or just fluctuation of entanglement. We also calculate the mutual information dynamics of two separated individual harmonic oscillators. Our findings suggest that in our system there is no particular connection between having a linear growth of entanglement after quantum quench and having a maximum group velocity or generalized Lieb-Robinson bound.

id: 1408.3745
title: Classical Interaction of a Magnet and a Point Charge: The Classical Electromagnetic Forces Responsible for the Aharonov-Bohm Phase Shift
authors: Timothy H. Boyer
comments: 39 pages This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a sign error in Eq. (75)
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3745
abstract: A new classical electromagnetic analysis is presented suggesting that the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift is overwhelmingly likely to arise from a classical lag effect based upon classical electromagnetic forces. The analysis makes use of several aspects of classical electromagnetic theory which are unfamiliar to most physicists, including the Darwin Lagrangian, acceleration-based electric fields, internal electromagnetic momentum in a magnet, and a magnet model involving at least three mutually-interacting particles. Only when the acceleration-based electric forces acting on the passing charge are included do we find consistency with all the relativistic conservation laws: energy, linear momentum, angular momentum, and constant center-of-mass velocity. The electric forces on the passing charge lead to a lag effect which accounts quantitatively for the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift. Thus the classical analysis strongly suggests that the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift (observed when electrons pass a long solenoid which corresponds to a line of magnetic dipoles) is the analogue of the Matteucci-Pozzi phase shift (observed when electrons pass a line of electric dipoles). The classical electromagnetic analysis suggests experiments to distinguish the proposed classical-based lag effect from the presently accepted view that the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift is a quantum topological effect arising from magnetic fluxes in the absence of classical electromagnetic forces.

id: 1408.3797
title: The remote Maxwell demon as energy down-converter
authors: S. Hossenfelder
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3797
abstract: It is demonstrated that Maxwell's demon can be used to allow a machine to extract energy from a heat bath by use of information that is processed by the demon at a remote location. The model proposed here effectively replaces transmission of energy by transmission of information. For that we use a feedback protocol that enables a net gain by stimulating emission in selected fluctuations around thermal equilibrium. We estimate the down conversion rate and the efficiency of energy extraction from the heat bath.

id: 1408.3821
title: Limits on Fundamental Limits to Computation
authors: Igor L. Markov
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature 512, 147-154 (14 August 2014)
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3821
abstract: An indispensable part of our lives, computing has also become essential to industries and governments. Steady improvements in computer hardware have been supported by periodic doubling of transistor densities in integrated circuits over the last fifty years. Such Moore scaling now requires increasingly heroic efforts, stimulating research in alternative hardware and stirring controversy. To help evaluate emerging technologies and enrich our understanding of integrated-circuit scaling, we review fundamental limits to computation: in manufacturing, energy, physical space, design and verification effort, and algorithms. To outline what is achievable in principle and in practice, we recall how some limits were circumvented, compare loose and tight limits. We also point out that engineering difficulties encountered by emerging technologies may indicate yet-unknown limits.

id: 1408.3910
title: R¨¦nyi entropy flows from quantum heat engines
authors: Mohammad H. Ansari, Yuli V. Nazarov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 104303 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3910
abstract: We evaluate Renyi entropy flows from generic quantum heat engines (QHE) to a weakly-coupled probe environment kept in thermal equilibrium. We show that the flows are determined not only by heat flow but also by a quantum coherent flow that can be separately measured in experiment apart from the heat flow measurement. The same pertains to Shanon entropy flow. This appeals for a revision of the concept of entropy flows in quantum nonequlibrium thermodynamics.

id: 1408.3932
title: Single-Bubble Sonoluminescence as Dicke Superradiance at Finite Temperature
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, Hernando Quevedo, Nami Fux Svaiter
comments: Final version accepted for publication in Physica A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1011.3075
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3932
abstract: Sonoluminescence is a process in which a strong sound field is used to produce light in liquids. We explain sonoluminescence as a phase transition from ordinary fluorescence to a superradiant phase. We consider a spin-boson model composed of a single bosonic mode and an ensemble of $N$ identical two-level atoms. We assume that the whole system is in thermal equilibrium with a reservoir at temperature $\beta^{-1}$. We show that, in a ultrastrong-coupling regime, between the two-level atoms and the electromagnetic field it is possible to have a cooperative interaction of the molecules of the gas in the interior of the bubble with the field, generating sonoluminescence.

id: 1408.3952
title: Toric Geometry and String Theory Descriptions of Qudit Systems
authors: Adil Belhaj, Hamid Ez-Zahraouy, Moulay Brahim Sedra
comments: 12 pages,latex, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in Journal of Geometry and Physics, JPS(2015)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3952
abstract: In this paper, we propose a new way to approach qudit systems using toric geometry and related topics including the local mirror symmetry used in the string theory compactification. We refer to such systems as (n,d) quantum systems where $n$ and $d$ denote the number of the qudits and the basis states respectively. Concretely, we first relate the (n,d) quantum systems to the holomorphic sections of line bundles on n dimensional projective spaces CP^{n} with degree n(d-1). These sections are in one-to-one correspondence with d^n integral points on a n-dimensional simplex. Then, we explore the local mirror map in the toric geometry language to establish a linkage between the (n,d) quantum systems and type II D-branes placed at singularities of local Calabi-Yau manifolds. (1,d) and (2,d) are analyzed in some details and are found to be related to the mirror of the ALE space with the A_{d-1} singularity and a generalized conifold respectively.

id: 1408.3955
title: Ancilla-free synthesis of large reversible functions using binary decision diagrams
authors: Mathias Soeken, Laura Tague, Gerhard W. Dueck, Rolf Drechsler
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3955
abstract: The synthesis of reversible functions has been an intensively studied research area in the last decade. Since almost all proposed approaches rely on representations of exponential size (such as truth tables and permutations), they cannot be applied efficiently to reversible functions with more than 15 variables. In this paper, we propose an ancilla-free synthesis approach based on Young subgroups using symbolic function representations that can efficiently be implemented with binary decision diagrams (BDDs). As a result, the algorithm not only allows to synthesize large reversible functions without adding extra lines, called ancilla, but also leads to significantly smaller circuits compared to existing approaches.

id: 1408.3957
title: Estimates for compression norms and additivity violation in quantum information
authors: Beno?t Collins, Motohisa Fukuda, Ping Zhong
comments: 18 pages with 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Mathematics Vol. 26, No. 1, 1550002 (2015)
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.3957
abstract: The free contraction norm (or the (t)-norm) was introduced by Belinschi, Collins and Nechita as a tool to compute the typical location of the collection of singular values associated to a random subspace of the tensor product of two Hilbert spaces. In turn, it was used in by them in order to obtain sharp bounds for the violation of the additivity of the minimum output entropy for random quantum channels with Bell states. This free contraction norm, however, is difficult to compute explicitly. The purpose of this note is to give a good estimate for this norm. Our technique is based on results of super convergence in the context of free probability theory. As an application, we give a new, simple and conceptual proof of the violation of the additivity of the minimum output entropy.

id: 1408.4007
title: Optical trap potential control in N-type four level atoms by femtosecond Gaussian pulses
authors: Subhadeep Chakraborty, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4007
abstract: In this work we present a scheme to control the optical dipole trap potential in an N-type four-level atomic system by using chirped femtosecond Gaussian pulses. The spatial size of the trap can be well controlled by tuning the beam waist of the Gaussian pulse and the detuning frequency. The trapping potential splits with increasing Rabi frequency about the center of the trap, a behavior analogous to the one observed experimentally in the context of trapping of nanoparticles with femtosecond pulses. An attempt is made to explain the physics behind this phenomenon by studying the spatial probability distribution of the atomic populations.

id: 1408.4027
title: Floquet edge states in a harmonically driven integer quantum Hall system
authors: Zhenyu Zhou, Indubala I. Satija, Erhai Zhao
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205108, 2014
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4027
abstract: Recent theoretical work on time-periodically kicked Hofstadter model found robust counter-propagating edge modes. It remains unclear how ubiquitously such anomalous modes can appear, and what dictates their robustness against disorder. Here we shed further light on the nature of these modes by analyzing a simple type of periodic driving where the hopping along one spatial direction is modulated sinusoidally with time while the hopping along the other spatial direction is kept constant. We obtain the phase diagram for the quasienergy spectrum at flux 1/3 as the driving frequency $\omega$ and the hopping anisotropy are varied. A series of topologically distinct phases with counter-propagating edge modes appear due to the harmonic driving, similar to the case of a periodically kicked system studied earlier. We analyze the time dependence of the pair of Floquet edge states localized at the same edge, and compare their Fourier components in the frequency domain. In the limit of small modulation, one of the Floquet edge mode within the pair can be viewed as the edge mode originally living in the other energy gap shifted in quasienergy by $\hbar \omega$, i.e., by absorption or emission of a "photon" of frequency $\omega$. Our result suggests that counter-propagating Floquet edge modes are generic features of periodically driven integer quantum Hall systems, and not tied to any particular driving protocol. It also suggests that the Floquet edge modes would remain robust to any static perturbations that do not destroy the chiral edge modes of static quantum Hall states.

id: 1408.4052
title: QCD. What else is needed for the Proton Structure Function?
authors: Y.S.Kim
comments: Latex 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4052
abstract: While QCD can provide corrections to the parton distribution function, it cannot produce the distribution. Where is then the starting point for the proton structure function? The only known source is the quark-model wave function for the proton at rest. The harmonic oscillator is used for the trial wave function. When Lorentz-boosted, this wave function exhibits all the peculiarities of Feynman's parton picture. The time-separation between the quarks plays the key role in the boosting process. This variable is hidden in the present form of quantum mechanics, and the failure to measure it leads to an increase in entropy. This leads to a picture of boiling quarks which become partons in their plasma state.

id: 1408.4297
title: Phenomenology of fully many-body-localized systems
authors: David A. Huse, Rahul Nandkishore, Vadim Oganesyan
comments: 5 pages. Some of this paper has already appeared in: Huse and Oganesyan, arXiv:1305.4915
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 174202 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4297
abstract: We consider fully many-body localized systems, i.e. isolated quantum systems where all the many-body eigenstates of the Hamiltonian are localized. We define a sense in which such systems are integrable, with localized conserved operators. These localized operators are interacting pseudospins, and the Hamiltonian is such that unitary time evolution produces dephasing but not "flips" of these pseudospins. As a result, an initial quantum state of a pseudospin can in principle be recovered via (pseudospin) echo procedures. We discuss how the exponentially decaying interactions between pseudospins lead to logarithmic-in-time spreading of entanglement starting from nonentangled initial states. These systems exhibit multiple different length scales that can be defined from exponential functions of distance; we suggest that some of these decay lengths diverge at the phase transition out of the fully many-body localized phase while others remain finite.

id: 1408.4336
title: From General Relativity to Quantum Gravity
authors: Abhay Ashtekar, Martin Reuter, Carlo Rovelli
comments: To appear in \emph{General Relativity and Gravitation: A Centennial Survey}, commissioned by the International Society for General Relativity and Gravitation and to be published by Cambridge University Press. Abhay Ashtekar served as the `coordinating author' and combined the three contributions
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4336
abstract: In general relativity (GR), spacetime geometry is no longer just a background arena but a physical and dynamical entity with its own degrees of freedom. We present an overview of approaches to quantum gravity in which this central feature of GR is at the forefront. However, the short distance dynamics in the quantum theory are quite different from those of GR and classical spacetimes and gravitons emerge only in a suitable limit. Our emphasis is on communicating the key strategies, the main results and open issues. In the spirit of this volume, we focus on a few avenues that have led to the most significant advances over the past 2-3 decades.

id: 1408.4375
title: Hyperfine Stark effect of shallow donors in silicon
authors: G. Pica, G. Wolfowicz, M. Urdampilleta, M. L. W. Thewalt, H. Riemann, N. V. Abrosimov, P. Becker, H.-J. Pohl, J. J. L. Morton, R. N. Bhatt, S. A. Lyon, B. W. Lovett
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90 195204 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4375
abstract: We present a complete theoretical treatment of Stark effects in doped silicon, whose predictions are supported by experimental measurements. A multi-valley effective mass theory, dealing non-perturbatively with valley-orbit interactions induced by a donor-dependent central cell potential, allows us to obtain a very reliable picture of the donor wave function within a relatively simple framework. Variational optimization of the 1s donor binding energies calculated with a new trial wave function, in a pseudopotential with two fitting parameters, allows an accurate match of the experimentally determined donor energy levels, while the correct limiting behavior for the electronic density, both close to and far from each impurity nucleus, is captured by fitting the measured contact hyperfine coupling between the donor nuclear and electron spin. We go on to include an external uniform electric field in order to model Stark physics: With no extra ad hoc parameters, variational minimization of the complete donor ground energy allows a quantitative description of the field-induced reduction of electronic density at each impurity nucleus. Detailed comparisons with experimental values for the shifts of the contact hyperfine coupling reveal very close agreement for all the donors measured (P, As, Sb and Bi). Finally, we estimate field ionization thresholds for the donor ground states, thus setting upper limits to the gate manipulation times for single qubit operations in Kane-like architectures: the Si:Bi system is shown to allow for A gates as fast as around 10 MHz.

id: 1408.4617
title: An all-optical nanomechanical heat engine
authors: Andreas Dechant, Nikolai Kiesel, Eric Lutz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 183602 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4617
abstract: We propose and theoretically investigate a nanomechanical heat engine. We show how a levitated nanoparticle in a harmonic optical trap inside an optical cavity can be used to realize a Stirling cycle in the underdamped regime. The all-optical approach enables fast and exible control of all the thermodynamical parameters and the effcient optimization of the performance of the engine. We develop a systematic optimization procedure to determine optimal driving protocols. We further perform numerical simulations with realistic parameters and evaluate the maximum power and the corresponding effciency.

id: 1408.4640
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation in an electro-pneumatically transformed quadrupole-Ioffe magnetic trap
authors: Sunil Kumar, Sumit Sarkar, Gunjan Verma, Chetan Vishwakarma, Md. Noaman, Umakant Rapol
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4640
abstract: We report a novel approach for preparing a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) of $^{87}$Rb atoms using electro-pneumatically driven transfer of atoms into a Quadrupole-Ioffe magnetic trap (QUIC Trap). More than 5$\times$$10^{8}$ atoms from a Magneto-optical trap are loaded into a spherical quadrupole trap and then these atoms are transferred into an Ioffe trap by moving the Ioffe coil towards the center of the quadrupole coil, thereby, changing the distance between quadrupole trap center and the Ioffe coil. The transfer efficiency is more than 80 \%. This approach is different from a conventional approach of loading the atoms into a QUIC trap wherein the spherical quadrupole trap is transformed into a QUIC trap by changing the currents in the quadrupole and the Ioffe coils. The phase space density is then increased by forced rf evaporative cooling to achieve the Bose-Einstein condensation having more than $10^{5}$ atoms.

id: 1408.4672
title: Detecting two-site spin-entanglement in many-body systems with local particle-number fluctuations
authors: Leonardo Mazza, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Manuel Endres
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 013015 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4672
abstract: We derive experimentally measurable lower bounds for the two-site entanglement of the spin-degrees of freedom of many-body systems with local particle-number fluctuations. Our method aims at enabling the spatially resolved detection of spin-entanglement in Hubbard systems using high-resolution imaging in optical lattices. A possible application is the observation of entanglement generation and spreading during spin impurity dynamics, for which we provide numerical simulations. More generally, the scheme can simplify the entanglement detection in ion chains, Rydberg atoms, or similar atomic systems.

id: 1408.4706
title: Analytical solution of electronic transport through a benzene molecule using lattice Green's functions
authors: E. J. C. Dias, N. M. R. Peres
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27, 145301 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4706
abstract: Using a Green's function formalism we derive analytical expressions for the electronic transmittance through a benzene ring. To motivate the approach we first solve the resonant level system and then extend the method to the benzene case. These results can be used to validate numerical methods.

id: 1408.4880
title: Rydberg assisted light shift imbalance induced blockade in an atomic ensemble
authors: Yanfei Tu, May E. Kim, Selim M. Shahriar
comments: 12 pages with 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4880
abstract: Previously, we had proposed the technique of light shift imbalance induced blockade which leads to a condition where a collection of non-interacting atoms under laser excitation remains combined to a superposition of the ground and the first excited states, thus realizing a collective state quantum bit which in turn can be used to realize a quantum computer. In this paper, we show first that the light shift imbalance by itself is actually not enough to produce such a blockade, and explain the reason why the limitation of our previous analysis had reached this constraint. We then show that by introducing Rydberg interaction, it is possible to achieve such a blockade for a wide range of parameters. Analytic arguments used to establish these results are confirmed by numerical simulations. The fidelity of coupled quantum gates based on such collective state qubits is highly insensitive to the exact number of atoms in the ensemble. As such, this approach may prove to be viable for scalable quantum computing based on neutral atoms.

id: 1408.4916
title: The two envelopes paradox in non-Bayesian and Bayesian statistics
authors: Shiro Ishikawa
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Statistics (stat.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4916
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to clarify the (non-Bayesian and Bayesian) two-envelope problems in terms of quantum language (or, measurement theory), which was recently proposed as a linguistic turn of quantum mechanics (with the Copenhagen interpretation). The two envelopes paradox is only a kind of high school student's probability puzzle, and it may be exaggerated to say that this is an unsolved problem. However, since we are convinced that quantum language is just statistics of the future, we believe that there is no clear answer without the description by quantum language. In this sense, the readers are to find that quantum language provides the final answer (i.e., the easiest and deepest understanding) to the two envelope-problems in both non-Bayesian and Bayesian statistics. Also, we add the discussion about St. Petersburg two-envelope paradox.

id: 1408.4957
title: The Spinless Relativistic Hulth¨¦n Problem
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, Franz F. Sch?berl
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 29 (2014) 1450181
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4957
abstract: The spinless Salpeter equation can be regarded as the eigenvalue equation of a Hamiltonian that involves the relativistic kinetic energy and therefore is, in general, a nonlocal operator. Accordingly, it is hard to find solutions of this bound-state equation by exclusively analytic means. Nevertheless, a lot of tools enables us to constrain the resulting bound-state spectra rigorously. We illustrate some of these techniques for the example of the Hulth\'en potential.

id: 1408.4961
title: Quantum transport in a driven disordered potential: onset of directed current and noise-induced current reversal
authors: Denis Makarov, Leonid Kon'kov
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal B: Condensed Matter and Complex Systems, V. 87, 281 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4961
abstract: We study motion of a quantum wavepacket in a one-dimensional potential with correlated disorder. Presence of long-range potential correlations allows for existence of both localized and extended states. Weak time-dependent perturbation in the form of a fluctuating plane wave is superimposed onto the potential. This model can be realized in experiments with optically trapped cold atoms. Time-dependent perturbation causes transitions between localized and extended states. Owing to violation of space-time symmetries, there arises atomic current which is codirectional with the wave-like perturbation. However, it is shown that the perturbation can drag atoms only within some limited time interval, and then the current changes its direction. Increasing of the perturbation bandwidth and/or amplitude results in decreasing of the time of current reversal. We argue that onset of the current reversal is associated with inhomogeneity of diffusion in the momentum space.

id: 1408.4989
title: Two-Way Optical Frequency Comparisons Over 100km Telecommunication Network Fibers
authors: Anthony Bercy, Fabio Stefani, Olivier Lopez, Christian Chardonnet, Paul-Eric Pottie, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.4989
abstract: By using two-way frequency transfer, we demonstrate ultra-high resolution comparison of optical frequencies over a telecommunication fiber link of 100 km operating simultaneously digital data transfer. We first propose and experiment a bi-directional scheme using a single fiber. We show that the relative stability at 1 s integration time is 7 10^18 and scales down to 5 10^21. The same level of performance is reached when an optical link is implemented with an active compensation of the fiber noise. We also implement a real-time two-way frequency comparison over a uni-directional telecommunication network using a pair of parallel fibers. The relative frequency stability is 10^15 at 1 s integration time and reaches 2 10^17 at 40 000 s. The fractional uncertainty of the frequency comparisons was evaluated for the best case to 2 10^20. These results open the way to accurate and high resolution frequency comparison of optical clocks over intercontinental fiber networks.

id: 1408.5089
title: High-precision test of Landauer's principle in a feedback trap
authors: Yonggun Jun, Mom?ilo Gavrilov, John Bechhoefer
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 190601 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5089
abstract: We confirm Landauer's 1961 hypothesis that reducing the number of possible macroscopic states in a system by a factor of two requires work of at least kT ln 2. Our experiment uses a colloidal particle in a time-dependent, virtual potential created by a feedback trap to implement Landauer's erasure operation. In a control experiment, similar manipulations that do not reduce the number of system states can be done reversibly. Erasing information thus requires work. In individual cycles, the work to erase can be below the Landauer limit, consistent with the Jarzynski equality.

id: 1408.5258
title: The three-body parameter for Efimov states in lithium-6
authors: Bo Huang, Kenneth M. O'Hara, Rudolf Grimm, Jeremy M. Hutson, Dmitry S. Petrov
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5258
abstract: We present a state-of-the-art reanalysis of experimental results on Efimov resonances in the three-fermion system of $^6$Li. We discuss different definitions of the 3-body parameter (3BP) for Efimov states, and adopt a definition that excludes effects due to deviations from universal scaling for low-lying states. We develop a finite-temperature model for the case of three distinguishable fermions and apply it to the excited-state Efimov resonance to obtain the most accurate determination to date of the 3BP in an atomic three-body system. Our analysis of ground-state Efimov resonances in the same system yields values for the three-body parameter that are consistent with the excited-state result. Recent work has suggested that the reduced 3BP for atomic systems is a near-universal quantity, almost independent of the particular atom involved. However, the value of the 3BP obtained for $^6$Li is significantly ($\sim 20$%) different from that previously obtained from the excited-state resonance in Cs. The difference between these values poses a challenge for theory.

id: 1408.5333
title: Statistical magnitudes and the Klein tunneling in bi-layer graphene: influence of evanescent waves
authors: Jaime Sa?udo, Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1309.3931
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5333
abstract: The problem of the Klein tunneling across a potential barrier in bi-layer graphene is addressed. The electron wave functions are treated as massive chiral particles. This treatment allows us to compute the statistical complexity and Fisher-Shannon information for each angle of incidence. The comparison of these magnitudes with the transmission coefficient through the barrier is performed. The role played by the evanescent waves on these magnitudes is disclosed. Due to the influence of these waves, it is found that the statistical measures take their minimum values not only in the situations of total transparency through the barrier, a phenomenon highly anisotropic for the Klein tunneling in bi-layer graphene.

id: 1408.5385
title: Can Natural Sunlight Induce Coherent Exciton Dynamics?
authors: Jan Ol?ina, Arend G. Dijkstra, Chen Wang, Jianshu Cao
comments: 12 pages, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5385
abstract: Excitation of a model photosynthetic molecular aggregate by incoherent sunlight is systematically examined. For a closed system, the excited state coherence induced by the sunlight oscillates with an average amplitude that is inversely proportional to the excitonic gap, and reaches a stationary amplitude that depends on the temperature and coherence time of the radiation field. For an open system, the light-induced dynamical coherence relaxes to a static coherence determined by the non-canonical thermal distribution resulting from the entanglement with the phonon bath. The decay of the excited state population to the common ground state establishes a non-equilibrium steady-state flux driven by the sunlight, and it defines a time window to observe the transition from dynamical to static coherence. For the parameters relevant to photosynthetic systems, the exciton dynamics initiated by the sunlight exhibits a non-negligible amount of dynamical coherence (quantum beats) on the sub-picosecond timescale; however, this sub-picosecond time-scale is long enough for light-harvesting systems to establish static coherence, which plays a crucial role in efficient energy transfer. Further, a relationship is established between the non-equilibrium steady-state induced by the sunlight and the coherent dynamics initiated from the ground state by a laser $\delta$-pulse, thereby making a direct connection between incoherent sunlight excitation and ultrafast spectroscopy.

id: 1408.5399
title: Cross-correlation spin noise spectroscopy of heterogeneous interacting spin systems
authors: Dibyendu Roy, Luyi Yang, Scott A. Crooker, Nikolai A. Sinitsyn
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5399
abstract: We develop and apply a minimally invasive approach for characterization of inter-species spin interactions by detecting spin fluctuations alone. We consider a heterogeneous two-component spin ensemble in thermal equilibrium that interacts via binary exchange coupling, and we determine cross-correlations between the intrinsic spin fluctuations exhibited by the two species. Our theoretical predictions are experimentally confirmed using `two-color' optical spin noise spectroscopy on a mixture of interacting Rb and Cs alkali vapors. The results allow us to explore the rates of spin exchange and total spin relaxation under conditions of strict thermodynamic equilibrium.

id: 1408.5640
title: Quantum Gibbs ensemble Monte Carlo
authors: Riccardo Fantoni, Saverio Moroni
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 114110 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5640
abstract: We present a path integral Monte Carlo method which is the full quantum analogue of the Gibbs ensemble Monte Carlo method of Panagiotopoulos to study the gas-liquid coexistence line of a classical fluid. Unlike previous extensions of Gibbs ensemble Monte Carlo to include quantum effects, our scheme is viable even for systems with strong quantum delocalization in the degenerate regime of temperature. This is demonstrated by an illustrative application to the gas-superfluid transition of $^4$He in two dimensions.

id: 1408.5686
title: Quantum Stochastic Calculus and Quantum Gaussian Processes
authors: K. R. Parthasarathy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5686
abstract: In this lecture we present a brief outline of boson Fock space stochastic calculus based on the creation, conservation and annihilation operators of free field theory, as given in the 1984 paper of Hudson and Parthasarathy. We show how a part of this architecture yields Gaussian fields stationary under a group action. Then we introduce the notion of semigroups of quasifree completely positive maps on the algebra of all bounded operators in the boson Fock space $\Gamma (\mathbb{C}^n)$ over $\mathbb{C}^n.$ These semigroups are not strongly continuous but their preduals map Gaussian states to Gaussian states. They were first introduced and their generators were shown to be of the Lindblad type by Vanheuverzwijn. They were recently investigated in the context of quantum information theory by Heinosaari, Holevo and Wolf. Here we present the exact noisy Schr\"odinger equation which dilates such a semigroup to a quantum Gaussian Markov process.

id: 1408.5687
title: Atomic delocalisation as a microscopic origin of two-level defects in Josephson junctions
authors: Timothy C. DuBois, Salvy P. Russo, Jared H. Cole
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 17 023017 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5687
abstract: Identifying the microscopic origins of decoherence sources prevalent in Josephson junction based circuits is central to their use as functional quantum devices. Focussing on so called "strongly coupled" two-level defects, we construct a theoretical model using the atomic position of the oxygen which is spatially delocalised in the oxide forming the Josephson junction barrier. Using this model, we investigate which atomic configurations give rise to two-level behaviour of the type seen in experiments. We compute experimentally observable parameters for phase qubits and examine defect response under the effects of applied electric field and strain.

id: 1408.5728
title: Sinkhorn normal form for unitary matrices
authors: Martin Idel, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 7+3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications, Volume 471, 15 April 2015, Pages 76-84
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5728
abstract: Sinkhorn proved that every entry-wise positive matrix can be made doubly stochastic by multiplying with two diagonal matrices. In this note we prove a recently conjectured analogue for unitary matrices: every unitary can be decomposed into two diagonal unitaries and one whose row- and column sums are equal to one. The proof is non-constructive and based on a reformulation in terms of symplectic topology. As a corollary, we obtain a decomposition of unitary matrices into an interlaced product of unitary diagonal matrices and discrete Fourier transformations. This provides a new decomposition of linear optics arrays into phase shifters and canonical multiports described by Fourier transformations.

id: 1408.5914
title: A novel protection layer of superconducting microwave circuits toward a hybrid quantum system
authors: Jongmin Lee, Dong Hun Park
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5914
abstract: We propose a novel multilayer structure based on Bragg layers that can protect a superconducting microwave resonator from photons and blackbody radiation and have little effect on its quality factor. We also discuss a hybrid quantum system exploiting a superconducting microwave circuit and a two-color evanescent field atom trap, where surface-scattered photons and absorption-induced broadband blackbody radiation might deteriorate the system.

id: 1408.5942
title: On-chip generation of indistinguishable photons using cavity quantum-electrodynamics
authors: Kai M¨¹ller, Armand Rundquist, Kevin A. Fischer, Tomas Sarmiento, Konstantinos G. Lagoudakis, Yousif A. Kelaita, Carlos S¨¢nchez Mu?oz, Elena del Valle, Fabrice P. Laussy, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5942
abstract: The on-chip generation of non-classical states of light is a key requirement for future optical quantum hardware. In solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), such non-classical light can be generated from self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) strongly coupled to photonic crystal cavities. Their anharmonic strong light-matter interaction results in large optical nonlinearities at the single photon level, where the admission of a single photon into the cavity may enhance (photon-tunnelling) or diminish (photon-blockade) the probability for a second photon to enter the cavity. Here, we demonstrate that detuning the cavity and QD resonances enables the generation of high-fidelity non-classical light from strongly coupled systems. For specific detunings we show that not only the purity but also the probability of single photon generation increases significantly, making almost-perfect single photon generation by photon-blockade possible with current state-of-the-art samples. Finally, we show that photon-blockade under fully resonant excitation is a promising candidate for the generation of indistinguishable single photons due to a short cavity lifetime that suppresses phonon dephasing.

id: 1408.6058
title: Hyperspherical Treatment of Strongly-Interacting Few-Fermion Systems in One Dimension
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5 pages. Original paper for EPJ ST in connection with the workshop BEC2014 28-31 May 2014 in Levico Terme, Italy
journal: European Physical Journal Special Topics 224, issue 3, 585-590 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6058
abstract: We examine a one-dimensional two-component fermionic system in a trap, assuming that all particles have the same mass and interact through a strong repulsive zero-range force. First we show how a simple system of three strongly interacting particles in a harmonic trap can be treated using the hyperspherical formalism. Next we discuss the behavior of the energy for the N-body system.

id: 1408.6059
title: Ab-initio friction forces on the nanoscale: A DFT study of fcc Cu(111)
authors: Michael Wolloch, Gregor Feldbauer, Peter Mohn, Josef Redinger, Andr¨¢s Vernes
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6059
abstract: While there are a number of models that tackle the problem of calculating friction forces on the atomic level, providing a completely parameter-free approach remains a challenge. Here we present a quasi-static model to obtain an approximation to the nanofrictional response of dry, wearless systems based on quantum mechanical all-electron calculations. We propose a mechanism to allow dissipative sliding, which relies on atomic relaxations. We define two different ways of calculating the mean nanofriction force, both leading to an exponential friction-versus-load behavior for all sliding directions. Since our approach does not impose any limits on lengths and directions of the sliding paths, we investigate arbitrary sliding directions for an fcc Cu(111) interface and detect two periodic paths which form the upper and lower bound of nanofriction. For long aperiodic paths the friction force convergences to a value in between these limits. For low loads we retrieve the Derjaguin generalization of Amontons-Coulomb kinetic friction law which appears to be valid all the way down to the nanoscale. We observe a non-vanishing Derjaguin-offset even for atomically flat surfaces in dry contact.

id: 1408.6092
title: Electronic waiting-time distribution of a quantum-dot spin valve
authors: Bj?rn Sothmann
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155315 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6092
abstract: We discuss the electronic waiting-time distribution of a quantum-dot spin valve, i.e. a single-level quantum dot coupled to two ferromagnetic electrodes with magnetizations that can point in arbitrary directions. We demonstrate that the rich transport physics of this setup such as dynamical channel blockade and spin precession in an interaction-driven exchange field shows up in the waiting-time distribution and analyze the conditions necessary to observe the various effects.

id: 1408.6100
title: Distributions of electron waiting times in quantum-coherent conductors
authors: G¨¦raldine Haack, Mathias Albert, Christian Flindt
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205429 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6100
abstract: The distribution of electron waiting times is useful to characterize quantum transport in mesoscopic structures. Here we consider a generic quantum-coherent conductor consisting of a mesoscopic scatterer in a two-terminal setup. We extend earlier results for single-channel conductors to setups with several (possibly spin-degenerate) conduction channels and we discuss the effect of a finite electronic temperature. We present detailed investigations of the electron waiting times in a quantum point contact as well as in two mesoscopic interferometers with energy-dependent transmissions: a Fabry-P\'erot interferometer and a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. We show that the waiting time distributions allow us to determine characteristic features of the scatterers, for instance the number of resonant levels in the Fabry-P\'erot interferometer that contribute to the electronic transport.

id: 1408.6150
title: On the geometry of the energy operator in quantum mechanics
authors: Carlos Tejero Prieto, Raffaele Vitolo
comments: 18 pages; paper in honour of the 70th birthday of Luigi Mangiarotti and Marco Modugno
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Vol. 11, No. 07 (2014): 1460027
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6150
abstract: We analyze the different ways to define the energy operator in geometric theories of quantum mechanics. In some formulations the operator contains the scalar curvature as a multiplicative term. We show that such term can be canceled or added with an arbitrary constant factor, both in the mainstream Geometric Quantization and in the Covariant Quantum Mechanics, developed by Jadczyk and Modugno with several contributions from many authors.

id: 1408.6330
title: Schr?dinger Models for Solutions of the Bethe-Salpeter Equation in Minkowski Space. II. Fermionic Bound-State Constituents
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 065012 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6330
abstract: In view of the obstacles encountered in any attempts to solve the Minkowski-space Bethe-Salpeter equation for bound states of two fermions, we study the possibility to model the bound-state features, at least at a qualitative level, by a Schr\"odinger description. Such a nonrelativistic potential model can be constructed by applying, to any given Bethe-Salpeter spectral data, "geometric spectral inversion" in its recently extended form, which tolerates also singular potentials. This leads to the adaptation of explicit models that provide an overview accounting for the Bethe-Salpeter formalism's complexities.

id: 1408.6339
title: Nanowaveguides integrated with a mirror as a scalable platform for collective atom-light interaction
authors: Y. Meng, J. Lee, M. Dagenais, S. L. Rolston
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6339
abstract: We have demonstrated a silicon nitride nanowaveguide that has high fiber-to-waveguide coupling efficiencies for both near-infrared wavelengths of 760nm and 1064nm. A carefully designed inverse taper improves the coupling efficiency from around 1% to more than 60%, and is estimated by a propagation loss measurement with multiple waveguides of different lengths. Such dual-color waveguides may be used to confine laser-cooled atoms in the evanescent field, creating a potentially scalable nanophotonic platform for atomic sensor and quantum information applications.

id: 1408.6377
title: Ultracold atoms out of equilibrium
authors: Tim Langen, Remi Geiger, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 6 (2015) 201-217
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6377
abstract: The relaxation of isolated quantum many-body systems is a major unsolved problem connecting statistical and quantum physics. Studying such relaxation processes remains a challenge despite considerable efforts. Experimentally, it requires the creation and manipulation of well-controlled and truly isolated quantum systems. In this context, ultracold neutral atoms provide unique opportunities to understand non-equilibrium phenomena because of the large set of available methods to isolate, manipulate and probe these systems. Here, we give an overview of the rapid experimental progress that has been made in the field over the last years and highlight some of the questions which may be explored in the future.

id: 1408.6404
title: Casimir effect in hemisphere capped tubes
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6404
abstract: In this paper we investigate the vacuum densities for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling in background of a (2+1)-dimensional spacetime corresponding to a cylindrical tube with a hemispherical cap. A complete set of mode functions is constructed and the positive-frequency Wightman function is evaluated for both the cylindrical and hemispherical subspaces. On the base of this, the vacuum expectation values of the field squared and energy-momentum tensor are investigated. The mean field squared and the normal stress are finite on the boundary separating two subspaces, whereas the energy density and the parallel stress diverge as the inverse power of the distance from the boundary. For a conformally coupled field, the vacuum energy density is negative on the cylindrical part of the space. On the hemisphere, it is negative near the top and positive close to the boundary. In the case of minimal coupling the energy density on the cup is negative. On the tube it is positive near the boundary and negative at large distances. Though the geometries of the subspaces are different, the Casimir pressures on the separate sides of the boundary are equal and the net Casimir force vanishes. The results obtained may be applied to capped carbon nanotubes described by an effective field theory in the long-wavelength approximation.

id: 1408.6437
title: Dynamics of a mesoscopic nuclear spin ensemble interacting with an optically driven electron spin
authors: Megan J. Stanley, Clemens Matthiesen, Jack Hansom, Claire Le Gall, Carsten H. H. Schulte, Edmund Clarke, Mete Atat¨¹re
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures. Version 2 similar to published version in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 195305 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6437
abstract: The ability to discriminate between simultaneously occurring noise sources in the local environment of semiconductor InGaAs quantum dots, such as electric and magnetic field fluctuations, is key to understanding their respective dynamics and their effect on quantum dot coherence properties. We present a discriminatory approach to all-optical sensing based on two-color resonance fluorescence of a quantum dot charged with a single electron. Our measurements show that local magnetic field fluctuations due to nuclear spins in the absence of an external magnetic field are described by two correlation times, both in the microsecond regime. The nuclear spin bath dynamics show a strong dependence on the strength of resonant probing, with correlation times increasing by a factor of four as the optical transition is saturated. We interpret the behavior as motional averaging of both the Knight field of the resident electron spin and the hyperfine-mediated nuclear spin-spin interaction due to optically-induced electron spin flips.

id: 1408.6472
title: Experimental Width Shift Distribution: A Test of Nonorthogonality for Local and Global Perturbations
authors: J.-B. Gros, U. Kuhl, O. Legrand, F. Mortessagne, E. Richalot, D. V. Savin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 224101 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6472
abstract: The change of resonance widths in an open system under a perturbation of its interior has been recently introduced by Fyodorov and Savin [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 184101 (2012)] as a sensitive indicator of the nonorthogonality of resonance states. We experimentally study universal statistics of this quantity in weakly open two-dimensional microwave cavities and reverberation chambers realizing scalar and electromagnetic vector fields, respectively. We consider global as well as local perturbations, and also extend the theory to treat the latter case. The influence of the perturbation type on the width shift distribution is more pronounced for many-channel systems. We compare the theory to experimental results for one and two attached antennas and to numerical simulations with higher channel numbers, observing a good agreement in all cases.

id: 1408.6523
title: Molecular-Atomic Transition in the Deuterium Hugoniot with Coupled Electron Ion Monte Carlo
authors: Norm M. Tubman, Elisa Liberatore, Carlo Pierleoni, Markus Holzmann, David M. Ceperley
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6523
abstract: We have performed accurate simulations of the Deuterium Hugoniot using Coupled Electron Ion Monte Carlo (CEIMC). Using highly accurate quantum Monte Carlo methods for the electrons, we study the region of maximum compression along the principal Hugoniot, where the system undergoes a continuous transition from a molecular fluid to a monatomic fluid. We include all relevant physical corrections so that a direct comparison to experiment can be made. Around 50 GPa we found a maximum compression of 4.85, roughly 10% larger than previous theoretical predictions and experimental data but still compatible with the latter because of their large uncertainty.

id: 1408.6578
title: On planar quantum dynamics of a magnetic dipole moment in the presence of electric and magnetic fields
authors: Edilberto O. Silva
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 74, 3112 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6578
abstract: The planar quantum dynamics of a neutral particle with a magnetic dipole moment in the presence of electric and magnetic fields is considered. The criteria to establish the planar dynamics reveal that the resulting nonrelativistic Hamiltonian has a simplified expression without making approximations, and some terms have crucial importance for system dynamics.

id: 1408.6646
title: Classical and Quantum Polyhedra
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 11 pages, 3 figues; comments welcome. Among minor alterations, appendix on the pentahedral volume expressed in terms of Kapovich-Millson variables added. Version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 124080 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6646
abstract: Quantum polyhedra constructed from angular momentum operators are the building blocks of space in its quantum description as advocated by Loop Quantum Gravity. Here we extend previous results on the semiclassical properties of quantum polyhedra. Regarding tetrahedra, we compare the results from a canonical quantization of the classical system with a recent wave function based approach to the large-volume sector of the quantum system. Both methods agree in the leading order of the resulting effective operator (given by an harmonic oscillator), while minor differences occur in higher corrections. Perturbative inclusion of such corrections improves the approximation to the eigenstates. Moreover, the comparison of both methods leads also to a full wave function description of the eigenstates of the (square of the) volume operator at negative eigenvalues of large modulus. For the case of general quantum polyhedra described by discrete angular momentum quantum numbers we formulate a set of quantum operators fulfilling in the semiclassical regime the standard commutation relations between momentum and position. Differently from previous formulations, the position variable here is chosen to have dimension of (Planck) length squared which facilitates the identification of quantum corrections. Finally, we provide expressions for the pentahedral volume in terms of Kapovich-Millson variables.

id: 1408.6743
title: Quench dynamics and statistics of measurements for a line of quantum spins in two dimensions
authors: Jonathan Lux, Achim Rosch
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023617 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6743
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments, we investigate the dynamics of a line of spin-down spins embedded in the ferromagnetic spin-up ground state of a two-dimensional xxz model close to the Ising limit. In a situation where the couplings in x and y direction are different, the quench dynamics of this system is governed by the interplay of one-dimensional excitations (kinks and holes) moving along the line and single-spin excitations evaporating into the two-dimensional background. A semiclassical approximation can be used to calculate the dynamics of this complex quantum system. Recently, it became possible to perform projective quantum measurements on such spin systems, allowing to determine, e.g., the z-component of each individual spin. We predict the statistical properties of such measurements which contain much more information than correlation functions.

id: 1408.6801
title: Optimal control theory with arbitrary superpositions of waveforms
authors: Selina Meister, J¨¹rgen T. Stockburger, Rebecca Schmidt, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 495002
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6801
abstract: Standard optimal control methods perform optimization in the time domain. However, many experimental settings demand the expression of the control signal as a superposition of given waveforms, a case that cannot easily be accommodated using time-local constraints. Previous approaches [1,2] have circumvented this difficulty by performing optimization in a parameter space, using the chain rule to make a connection to the time domain. In this paper, we present an extension to Optimal Control Theory which allows gradient-based optimization for superpositions of arbitrary waveforms directly in a time-domain subspace. Its key is the use of the Moore-Penrose pseudoinverse as an efficient means of transforming between a time-local and waveform-based descriptions. To illustrate this optimization technique, we study the parametrically driven harmonic oscillator as model system and reduce its energy, considering both Hamiltonian dynamics and stochastic dynamics under the influence of a thermal reservoir. We demonstrate the viability and efficiency of the method for these test cases and find significant advantages in the case of waveforms which do not form an orthogonal basis.

id: 1408.6805
title: Vacuum Lightcone Fluctuations in a Dielectric
authors: C. H. G. Bessa, V. A. De Lorenci, L. H. Ford, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6805
abstract: A model for observable effects of electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations is presented. The model involves a probe pulse which traverses a slab of nonlinear optical material with a nonzero second order polarizability. We argue that the pulse interacts with the ambient vacuum fluctuations of other modes of the quantized electric field, and these vacuum fluctuations cause variations in the flight time of the pulse through the material. The geometry of the slab of material defines a sampling function for the quantized electric field, which in turn determines that vacuum modes whose wavelengths are of the order of the thickness of the slab give the dominant contribution. Some numerical estimates are made, which indicate that fractional fluctuations in flight time of the order of $10^{-9}$ are possible in realistic situations. The model presented here is both an illustration of a physical effect of vacuum fluctuations, and an analog model for the lightcone fluctuations predicted by quantum gravity.

id: 1408.6820
title: Emergence of $p+ip$ superconductivity in $2$D strongly correlated Dirac fermions
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Hong-Chen Jiang, G. Baskaran
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6820
abstract: Searching for $p+ip$ superconducting(SC) state has become a fascinating subject in condensed matter physics, as a dream application awaiting in topological quantum computation. In this paper, we report a theoretical discovery of a $p+ip$ SC ground state (coexisting with ferromagnetic order) in honeycomb lattice Hubbard model with infinite repulsive interaction at low doping($\delta< 0.2$), by using both the state-of-art Grassmann tensor product state(GTPS) approach and a quantum field theory approach. Our discovery suggests a new mechanism for $p+ip$ SC state in generic strongly correlated systems and opens a new door towards experimental realization. The $p+ip$ SC state has an instability towards a potential non-Fermi liquid with a large but finite $U$. However, a small Zeeman field term stabilizes the $p+ip$ SC state. Relevant realistic materials are also proposed.

id: 1408.7002
title: Topology of graph configuration spaces and quantum statistics
authors: Adam Sawicki
comments: PhD thesis, Bristol 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7002
abstract: In this thesis we develop a full characterization of abelian quantum statistics on graphs. We explain how the number of anyon phases is related to connectivity. For 2-connected graphs the independence of quantum statistics with respect to the number of particles is proven. For non-planar 3-connected graphs we identify bosons and fermions as the only possible statistics, whereas for planar 3-connected graphs we show that one anyon phase exists. Our approach also yields an alternative proof of the structure theorem for the first homology group of n-particle graph configuration spaces. Finally, we determine the topological gauge potentials for 2-connected graphs. Moreover we present an alternative application of discrete Morse theory for two-particle graph configuration spaces. In contrast to previous constructions, which are based on discrete Morse vector fields, our approach is through Morse functions, which have a nice physical interpretation as two-body potentials constructed from one-body potentials. We also give a brief introduction to discrete Morse theory.

id: 1408.7061
title: Dissipation-sensitive multi-photon excitations of strongly interacting Rydberg atoms
authors: Jing Qian, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7061
abstract: We theoretically investigate the effect of dissipation on multi-photon excitation of Rydberg atoms. The steady states and the dynamics are compared via two types of four-level excitation schemes with different dissipative paths of spontaneous emission. We find that in the case of strong Rydberg-Rydberg interaction, the schemes will settle in several different non-equilibrium steady states. The interesting aspect is that there exists the multi-stable steady states, which reveals the competition between interaction-induced nonlinearity and dissipation caused by spontaneous emission. A numerical simulation on the Rydberg population dynamics in the bistable region exhibits different features existing in the two schemes even with the same initial conditions, which accounts for the influence of the dissipation on the dynamics.

id: 1408.7096
title: Strong-coupling ansatz for the one-dimensional Fermi gas in a harmonic potential
authors: Jesper Levinsen, Pietro Massignan, Georg M. Bruun, Meera M. Parish
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.7096
abstract: The one-dimensional (1D) Fermi gas with repulsive short-range interactions provides an important model of strong correlations and is often amenable to exact methods. However, in the presence of confinement, no exact solution is known for an arbitrary number of strongly interacting fermions. Here, we propose a novel ansatz for generating the lowest-energy wavefunctions of the repulsive 1D Fermi gas in a harmonic potential near the Tonks-Girardeau (TG) limit of infinite interactions. We specialize to the case of a single impurity interacting with $N$ majority particles, where we may derive analytic forms of the approximate wavefunctions. Comparing with exact numerics, we show that the overlap between the wavefunctions from our ansatz and the exact ones in the ground-state manifold exceeds 0.9997 for $N\leq8$. Moreover, the overlap for the ground-state wavefunction extrapolates to 0.9999 as $N\to\infty$. Thus our ansatz is essentially indistinguishable from numerically exact results in both the few- and many-body limits. In the large $N$ limit, we find that the impurity probability density in the ground state is only slightly perturbed by the infinitely repulsive interactions, while the quasiparticle residue vanishes as the many-body limit is approached, reflecting the Anderson orthogonality catastrophe. We derive an effective Heisenberg spin-chain model for the regime near the TG limit, within which our ansatz is exact. Here, we find that the impurity eigenstates in the spin basis correspond to discrete Chebyshev polynomials. The energy of states in excited manifolds is calculated using a dynamical SO(2,1) symmetry, which provides an exact relation between states related by a scaling transformation. We finally show how our results for the wavefunctions and the energy spectrum can be detected in cold atomic gases via collective-mode, tunneling, and radio-frequency experiments.

id: 1408.5239
title: The critical velocity in the BEC-BCS crossover
authors: Wolf Weimer, Kai Morgener, Vijay Pal Singh, Jonas Siegl, Klaus Hueck, Niclas Luick, Ludwig Mathey, Henning Moritz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5239
abstract: We map out the critical velocity in the crossover from Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) to Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer superfluidity with ultracold $^{6}$Li gases. A small attractive potential is dragged along lines of constant column density. The rate of the induced heating increases steeply above a critical velocity $v_c$. In the same samples, we measure the speed of sound $v_s$ by exciting density waves and compare the results to the measured values of $v_c$. We perform numerical simulations in the BEC regime and find very good agreement, validating the approach. In the strongly correlated regime, where theoretical predictions only exist for the speed of sound, our measurements of $v_c$ provide a testing ground for theoretical approaches.

id: 1408.6564
title: Decay Law of Relativistic Particles: Quantum Theory Meets Special Relativity
authors: K. Urbanowski
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters B, 737, 346 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.6564
abstract: Late time properties of moving relativistic particles are studied. Within the proper relativistic treatment of the problem we find decay curves of such particles and we show that late time deviations of the survival probability of these particles from the exponential form of the decay law, that is the transition times region between exponential and non-expo\-nen\-tial form of the survival amplitude, occur much earlier than it follows from the classical standard approach boiled down to replace time $t$ by $t/\gamma_{L}$ (where $\gamma_{L}$ is the relativistic Lorentz factor) in the formula for the survival probability. The consequence is that fluctuations of the corresponding decay curves can appear much earlier and much more unstable particles have a chance to survive up to these times or later. It is also shown that fluctuations of the instantaneous energy of the moving unstable particles has a similar form as the fluctuations in the particle rest frame but they are seen by the observer in his rest system much earlier than one could expect replacing $t$ by $t/\gamma_{L}$ in the corresponding expressions for this energy and that the amplitude of these fluctuations can be even larger than it follows from the standard approach. All these effects seems to be important when interpreting some accelerator experiments with high energy unstable particles and the like (possible connections of these effects with GSI anomaly are analyzed) and some results of astrophysical observations.

id: 1408.0468
title: On anti-de Sitter oscillators and de Sitter anti-oscillators
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.0468
abstract: We revisit the principal arguments for interpreting the free quantum fields on anti-de Sitter or de Sitter spacetimes of any dimensions as oscillators or respectively anti-oscillators. In addition, we point out that there exists a chart on the de Sitter background where the free Dirac field becomes a genuine anti-oscillator in the non-relativistic limit in the sense of special relativity.

