id: 1409.0306
title: Statistics-dependent quantum co-walking of two particles in one-dimensional lattices with nearest-neighbor interactions
authors: Xizhou Qin, Yongguan Ke, Xiwen Guan, Zhibing Li, Natan Andrei, Chaohong Lee
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, an extension with more new results for our unpublished arXiv:1402.3349
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0306
abstract: We investigate continuous-time quantum walks of two indistinguishable particles [bosons, fermions or hard-core bosons (HCBs)] in one-dimensional lattices with nearest-neighbor interactions. The results for two HCBs are well consistent with the recent experimental observation of two-magnon dynamics [Nature 502, 76 (2013)]. The two interacting particles can undergo independent- and/or co-walking depending on both quantum statistics and interaction strength. Two strongly interacting particles may form a bound state and then co-walk like a single composite particle with statistics-dependent walk speed. Analytical solutions for the scattering and bound states, which appear in the two-particle quantum walks, are obtained by solving the eigenvalue problem in the two-particle Hilbert space. In the context of degenerate perturbation theory, an effective single-particle model for the quantum co-walking is analytically derived and the walk seep of bosons is found to be exactly three times of the ones of fermions/HCBs. Our result paves the way for experimentally exploring quantum statistics via two-particle quantum walks.

id: 1409.1273
title: Unraveling the physics of topological phases with random walks of light
authors: Graciana Puentes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1273
abstract: I propose to study the complex physics of topological phases by an all optical implementation of a discrete-time quantum walk. The main novel ingredient is the use of parametric amplifiers in the random network which can in turn be used to emulate intra-atomic interactions and thus analyze many-body effects in topological phases even when using light as the quantum walker. I plan to characterize the intensity probability distribution and the spatial correlations of the output interference pattern for different input states, as well the robustness of localized boundary states characterizing topological insulators to different sources of noise. In particular, I expect to determine whether a non-local order parameter associated with a given topological entanglement measure can be determined in order to characterize topological order, and possible applications in entanglement topological protection. One of the most promising applications of the proposed research includes the study of topological phases in photosynthetic energy transferring processes characterizing biological systems.

id: 1409.2122
title: Discrete-time Quantum Walks in random artificial Gauge Fields
authors: G. Di Molfetta, F. Debbasch
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2122
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks (DTQWs) in random artificial electric and gravitational fields are studied analytically and numerically. The analytical computations are carried by a new method which allows direct exact analytical determination of the equations of motion obeyed by the average density operator. It is found that randomness causes the walks to decohere. Asymptotic diffusion coefficients are computed exactly. The continuous limit is also obtained and discussed.

id: 1409.3437
title: A cavity QED realization of a quasi-random walk for atoms
authors: T. Hinkel, T. Griesser, H. Ritsch, C. Genes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3437
abstract: We consider the time dependent dynamics of an atom in a two-color pumped cavity, longitudinally through a side mirror and transversally via direct driving of the atomic dipole. The beating of the two driving frequencies leads to a time dependent effective optical potential that forces the atom into a non-trivial motion, strongly resembling a discrete random walk behavior between lattice sites. We provide both numerical and analytical analysis of such a quasi-random walk behavior.

id: 1409.4522
title: Quantum-information-theoretic approach to the signalling time of cryptochromes in Arabidopsis thaliana
authors: A. Chia, A. Gorecka, P. Kurzynski, T. Paterek, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4522
abstract: An important problem in the magnetoreception of birds is the identification of a host molecule for a magnetically sensitive chemical reaction known as the radical-pair mechanism. Current experiments and theory suggest cryptochrome (a class of receptor molecules) as a viable candidate. Cryptochrome functions as a signalling molecule, triggering further chemical reactions that lead to a neural signal when it attains a certain population in a particular state. Here we characterise cryptochrome response times by proposing a simple model to describe its radical-pair reaction. A key element of the reaction is the quantum coherent oscillations between singlet and triplet spin states of the radicals. While this is essential for enabling the magnetic sensing of cryptochrome, coherent state transitions can also increase the speed of certain processes. By using the well-known formalism of Kraus maps from quantum information theory we study the influence of decoherence on how quickly cryptochrome can signal. In particular we describe the radical-pair reaction as a quantum random walk with a variable dephasing parameter for the singlet-triplet oscillations. This allows us to study the state transitions of the radical pair subject to different levels of decoherence. We find that for realistic system parameters (transition rates) obtained from the literature, dephasing induces a change in cryptochrome signalling times of only a few percent. We thus argue that the process is essentially robust to dephasing. This change is seen to occur over only a small window of dephasing noise strengths. Artificial (i.e. unrealistic) system parameters are also explored.

id: 1409.5840
title: Perfect State Transfer in Laplacian Quantum Walk
authors: R. Alvir, S. Dever, B Lovitz, J. Myer, C. Tamon, Y. Xu, H. Zhan
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5840
abstract: For a graph $G$ and a related symmetric matrix $M$, the continuous-time quantum walk on $G$ relative to $M$ is defined as the unitary matrix $U(t) = \exp(-itM)$, where $t$ varies over the reals. Perfect state transfer occurs between vertices $u$ and $v$ at time $\tau$ if the $(u,v)$-entry of $U(\tau)$ has unit magnitude. This paper studies quantum walks relative to graph Laplacians. Some main observations include the following closure properties for perfect state transfer: (1) If a $n$-vertex graph has perfect state transfer at time $\tau$ relative to the Laplacian, then so does its complement if $n\tau$ is an integer multiple of $2\pi$. As a corollary, the double cone over any $m$-vertex graph has perfect state transfer relative to the Laplacian if and only if $m \equiv 2 \pmod{4}$. This was previously known for a double cone over a clique (S. Bose, A. Casaccino, S. Mancini, S. Severini, Int. J. Quant. Inf., 7:11, 2009). (2) If a graph $G$ has perfect state transfer at time $\tau$ relative to the normalized Laplacian, then so does the weak product $G \times H$ if for any normalized Laplacian eigenvalues $\lambda$ of $G$ and $\mu$ of $H$, we have $\mu(\lambda-1)\tau$ is an integer multiple of $2\pi$. As a corollary, a weak product of $P_{3}$ with an even clique or an odd cube has perfect state transfer relative to the normalized Laplacian. It was known earlier that a weak product of a circulant with odd integer eigenvalues and an even cube or a Cartesian power of $P_{3}$ has perfect state transfer relative to the adjacency matrix. As for negative results, no path with four vertices or more has antipodal perfect state transfer relative to the normalized Laplacian. This almost matches the state of affairs under the adjacency matrix (C. Godsil, Discrete Math., 312:1, 2011).

id: 1409.5876
title: Connectivity is a Poor Indicator of Fast Quantum Search
authors: David A. Meyer, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures; additional 10 pages of supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 110503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5876
abstract: A randomly walking quantum particle evolving by Schr\"odinger's equation searches on $d$-dimensional cubic lattices in $O(\sqrt{N})$ time when $d \ge 5$, and with progressively slower runtime as $d$ decreases. This suggests that graph connectivity (including vertex, edge, algebraic, and normalized algebraic connectivities) is an indicator of fast quantum search, a belief supported by fast quantum search on complete graphs, strongly regular graphs, and hypercubes, all of which are highly connected. In this paper, we show this intuition to be false by giving two examples of graphs for which the opposite holds true: one with low connectivity but fast search, and one with high connectivity but slow search. The second example is a novel two-stage quantum walk algorithm in which the walking rate must be adjusted to yield high search probability.

id: 1409.6145
title: Decoherence Models for Discrete-Time Quantum Walks and their Application to Neutral Atom Experiments
authors: Andrea Alberti, Wolfgang Alt, Reinhard Werner, Dieter Meschede
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, 1 table, replaced fig. 10 in the new version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 123052 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6145
abstract: We discuss decoherence in discrete-time quantum walks in terms of a phenomenological model that distinguishes spin and spatial decoherence. We identify the dominating mechanisms that affect quantum walk experiments realized with neutral atoms walking in an optical lattice. From the measured spatial distributions, we determine with good precision the amount of decoherence per step, which provides a quantitative indication of the quality of our quantum walks. In particular, we find that spin decoherence is the main mechanism responsible for the loss of coherence in our experiment. We also find that the sole observation of ballistic instead of diffusive expansion in position space is not a good indicator for the range of coherent delocalization. We provide further physical insight by distinguishing the effects of short and long time spin dephasing mechanisms. We introduce the concept of coherence length in the discrete-time quantum walk, which quantifies the range of spatial coherences. Unexpectedly, we find that quasi-stationary dephasing does not modify the local properties of the quantum walk, but instead affects spatial coherences. For a visual representation of decoherence phenomena in phase space, we have developed a formalism based on a discrete analogue of the Wigner function. We show that the effects of spin and spatial decoherence differ dramatically in momentum space.

id: 1409.7745
title: Universal adiabatic quantum computation via the space-time circuit-to-Hamiltonian construction
authors: David Gosset, Barbara M. Terhal, Anna Vershynina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7745
abstract: We show how to perform universal adiabatic quantum computation using a Hamiltonian which describes a set of particles with local interactions on a two-dimensional grid. A single parameter in the Hamiltonian is adiabatically changed as a function of time to simulate the quantum circuit. We bound the eigenvalue gap above the unique groundstate by mapping our model onto the ferromagnetic XXZ chain with kink boundary conditions; the gap of this spin chain was computed exactly by Koma and Nachtergaele using its $q$-deformed version of SU(2) symmetry. We also discuss a related time-independent Hamiltonian which was shown by Janzing to be capable of universal computation. We observe that in the limit of large system size, the time evolution is equivalent to the exactly solvable quantum walk on Young's lattice.

id: 1409.8204
title: A proposal for the experimental detection of CSL induced random walk
authors: Sayantani Bera, Bhawna Motwani, Tejinder P. Singh, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 7664 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8204
abstract: Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) is one possible explanation for dynamically induced collapse of the wave-function during a quantum measurement. The collapse is mediated by a stochastic non-linear modification of the Schrodinger equation. A consequence of the CSL mechanism is an extremely tiny violation of energy-momentum conservation, which can, in principle, be detected in the laboratory via the random diffusion of a particle induced by the stochastic collapse mechanism. In a paper in 2003, Collett and Pearle investigated the translational CSL diffusion of a sphere, and the rotational CSL diffusion of a disc, and showed that this effect dominates over the ambient environmental noise at low temperatures and extremely low pressures (about ten-thousandth of a pico-Torr). In the present paper, we revisit their analysis and argue that this stringent condition on pressure can be relaxed, and that the CSL effect can be seen at the pressure of about a pico-Torr. A similar analysis is provided for diffusion produced by gravity-induced decoherence, where the effect is typically much weaker than CSL. We also discuss the CSL induced random displacement of a quantum oscillator. Lastly, we propose possible experimental set-ups justifying that CSL diffusion is indeed measurable with the current technology.

