id: 1409.0019
title: Quasipinning and its relevance for $N$-Fermion quantum states
authors: Christian Schilling
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022105 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0019
abstract: Fermionic natural occupation numbers (NON) do not only obey Pauli's famous exclusion principle but are even further restricted to a polytope by the generalized Pauli constraints, conditions which follow from the fermionic exchange statistics. Whenever given NON are pinned to the polytope's boundary the corresponding $N$-fermion quantum state $|\Psi_N\rangle$ simplifies due to a selection rule. We show analytically and numerically for the most relevant settings that this rule is stable for NON close to the boundary, if the NON are non-degenerate. In case of degeneracy a modified selection rule is conjectured and its validity is supported. As a consequence the recently found effect of quasipinning is physically relevant in the sense that its occurrence allows to approximately reconstruct $|\Psi_N\rangle$, its entanglement properties and correlations from 1-particle information. Our finding also provides the basis for a generalized Hartree-Fock method by a variational ansatz determined by the selection rule.

id: 1409.0044
title: Semitransparency in interaction-free measurements
authors: Sebastian Thomas, Christoph Kohstall, Pieter Kruit, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0044
abstract: We discuss the effect of semitransparency in a quantum-Zeno-like interaction-free measurement setup, a quantum-physics based approach that might significantly reduce sample damage in imaging and microscopy. With an emphasis on applications in electron microscopy, we simulate the behavior of probe particles in an interaction-free measurement setup with semitransparent samples, and we show that the transparency of a sample can be measured in such a setup. However, such a measurement is not possible without losing (i.e., absorbing or scattering) probe particles in general, which causes sample damage. We show how the amount of lost particles can be minimized by adjusting the number of round trips through the setup, and we explicitly calculate the amount of lost particles in measurements which either aim at distinguishing two transparencies or at measuring an unknown transparency precisely. We also discuss the effect of the sample causing phase shifts in interaction-free measurements. Comparing the resulting loss of probe particles with a classical measurement of transparency, we find that interaction-free measurements only provide a benefit in two cases: first, if two semitransparent samples with a high contrast are to be distinguished, interaction-free measurements lose less particles than classical measurements by a factor that increases with the contrast. This implies that interaction-free measurements with zero loss are possible if one of the samples is perfectly transparent. A second case where interaction-free measurements outperform classical measurements is if three conditions are met: the particle source exhibits Poissonian number statistics, the number of lost particles cannot be measured, and the transparency is larger than approximately 1/2. In all other cases, interaction-free measurements lose as many probe particles as classical measurements or more.

id: 1409.0088
title: Quantum digital-to-analog conversion algorithm using decoherence
authors: Akira SaiToh
comments: 22 pages, no figure, v2: minor revision, style changed, minor changes of proofs in section 2, v3: revision with more detailed explanations, style changed, supplementary material added, v4: minor revision, v5: typos corrected, to appear in QIP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0088
abstract: We consider the problem of mapping digital data encoded on a quantum register to analog amplitudes in parallel. It is shown to be unlikely that a fully unitary polynomial-time quantum algorithm exists for this problem; NP becomes a subset of BQP if it exists. In the practical point of view, we propose a nonunitary linear-time algorithm using quantum decoherence. It tacitly uses an exponentially large physical resource, which is typically a huge number of identical molecules. Quantumness of correlation appearing in the process of the algorithm is also discussed.

id: 1409.0172
title: Dissipation and decoherence induced by collective dephasing in coupled-qubit system with a common bath
authors: Z. H. Wang, Y. J. Ji, Yong Li, D. L. Zhou
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. Comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0172
abstract: The longitudinal coupling of a system to the bath usually induces the pure dephasing of the system. In this paper, we study the collective dephasing induced dissipation and decoherence in a coupled-qubit system with a common bath. It is shown that, compared with the case of the same system with independent baths, the interference between the dephasing processes of different qubits induced by the common bath significantly changes the dissipation of the system. For the system of two coupled qubits, the interference leads to a faster decoherence in the non-single-excitation subspaces and a slower dissipation (and decoherence) in the single-excitation subspace. For the system of multiple coupled qubits, we also find the slower dissipation in the single-excitation subspace and obtain the decay rates of the first excited states for different system sizes numerically. All our results on collective dephasing induced dissipation can be explained based on a simple model with Fermi's golden rule.

id: 1409.0191
title: Continuous quantum measurement in spin environments
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 5pages,5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.2101 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0191
abstract: We derive a formalism of stochastic master equations (SME) which describes the decoherence dynamics of a system in spin environments conditioned on the measurement record. Markovian and non-Markovian nature of environment can be revealed by a spectroscopy method based on weak quantum measurement (weak spectroscopy). On account of that correlated environments can lead to a nonlocal open system which exhibits strong non-Markovian effects although the local dynamics are Markovian, the spectroscopy method can be used to demonstrate that there is correlation between two environments.

id: 1409.0194
title: Pragmatic Interpretation of Quantum Logic
authors: Claudio Garola
comments: 17 pages. Second version: 18 pages. Corrected typos. Sect. 1: split into two sections and enlarged. Sect. 3 (previous Sect. 2): change of symbols and amendments. Sects. 4.2 and 4.3 (previous Sects. 3.2 and 3.3): simplified. Sect. 4.4 (previous Sect. 3.4): proofs improved. Sect. 5 (previous Sect. 4): presentation improved. Basic results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0194
abstract: Scholars have wondered for a long time whether the language of quantum mechanics introduces a quantum notion of truth which is formalized by quantum logic (QL) and is incompatible with the classical (Tarskian) notion. We show that QL can be interpreted as a pragmatic language of assertive formulas which formalize statements about physical systems that are empirically justified or unjustified in the framework of quantum mechanics. According to this interpretation, QL formalizes properties of the metalinguistic notion of empirical justification within quantum mechanics rather than properties of a quantum notion of truth. This conclusion agrees with a general integrationist perspective that interprets nonstandard logics as theories of metalinguistic notions different from truth, thus avoiding incompatibility with classical notions and preserving the globality of logic. By the way, some elucidations of the standard notion of quantum truth are also obtained. Key words: pragmatics, quantum logic, quantum mechanics, justifiability, global pluralism.

id: 1409.0207
title: The Meissner effect in the ground state of free charged Bosons in a constant magnetic field
authors: Walter F. Wreszinski
comments: 41 pages, contains a substantial conceptual and mathematical reformulation of the previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0207
abstract: The model of free charged Bosons in an external constant magnetic field inside a cylinder, one of the few locally gauge covariant systems amenable to analytic treatment, is rigorously investigated in the semiclassical approximation. The model was first studied by Schafroth and is suitable for the description of quasi-bound electron pairs localized in physical space, so-called Schafroth pairs, which occur in certain compounds. Under the assumption of existence of a solution of the semiclassical problem for which the ground state (g.s.) expectation value of the current $<\vec{j}(\vec{x})>$ is of the London form, i.e., $<\vec{j}(\vec{x})> = -c |\phi_{0}(\vec{x})|^{2} \vec{A}(\vec{x})$, where c is a positive constant, $\vec{A}$ the vector potential and $\phi_{0}$ the one-particle g.s. wave-function. as well as some regularity assumptions, the magnetic induction may be proved to decay exponentially from its value on the surface of the cylinder. An important role is played by a theorem on the pointwise monotonicity of the ground state wave-function on the potential.

id: 1409.0213
title: Classical entanglement: Oxymoron or resource?
authors: Andrea Aiello, Falk T?ppel, Christoph Marquardt, Elisabeth Giacobino, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. Version submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0213
abstract: In this work we review and further develop the controversial concept of "classical entanglement" in optical beams. We present a unified theory for different kinds of light beams exhibiting classical entanglement and we indicate several possible extensions of the concept. Our results shed new light upon the physics at the debated border between the classical and the quantum representations of the world.

id: 1409.0234
title: Quantum estimation of the Schwarzschild space-time parameters of the Earth
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Animesh Datta, Rupert Ursin, Timothy C. Ralph, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 11 pages, no figures. Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 124001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0234
abstract: We propose a quantum experiment to measure with high precision the Schwarzschild space-time parameters of the Earth. The scheme can also be applied to measure distances by taking into account the curvature of the Earth's space-time. As a wave-packet of (entangled) light is sent from the Earth to a satellite it is red-shifted and deformed due to the curvature of space-time. Measurements after the propagation enable the estimation of the space-time parameters. We compare our results with the state of the art, which involves classical measurement methods, and discuss what developments are required in space-based quantum experiments to improve on the current measurement of the Schwarzschild radius of the Earth.

id: 1409.0236
title: Unitary approach to the quantum forced harmonic oscillator
authors: D. Velasco-Martinez, V. G. Ibarra-Sierra, J. C. Sandoval-Santana, J.L. Cardoso, A. Kunold
comments: Eleven pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0236
abstract: In this paper we introduce an alternative approach to studying the evolution of a quantum harmonic oscillator subject to an arbitrary time dependent force. With the purpose of finding the evolution operator, certain unitary transformations are applied successively to Schr\"odinger's equation reducing it to its simplest form. Therefore, instead of solving the original Schr\"odinger's partial differential equation in time and space the problem is replaced by a system of ordinary differential equations. From the obtained evolution operator we workout the propagator. Even though we illustrate the use of unitary transformations on the solution of a forced harmonic oscillator, the method presented here might be used to solve more complex systems. The present work addresses many aspects regarding unitary transformations and the dynamics of a forced quantum harmonic oscillator that should be useful for students and tutors of the quantum mechanics courses at the senior undergraduate and graduate level.

id: 1409.0245
title: Is mereology empirical? Composition for fermions
authors: Adam Caulton
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0245
abstract: How best to think about quantum systems under permutation invariance is a question that has received a great deal of attention in the literature. But very little attention has been paid to taking seriously the proposal that permutation invariance reflects a representational redundancy in the formalism. Under such a proposal, it is far from obvious how a constituent quantum system is represented. Consequently, it is also far from obvious how quantum systems compose to form assemblies, i.e. what is the formal structure of their relations of parthood, overlap and fusion. In this paper, I explore one proposal for the case of fermions and their assemblies. According to this proposal, fermionic assemblies which are not entangled -- in some heterodox, but natural sense of 'entangled' -- provide a prima facie counterexample to classical mereology. This result is puzzling; but, I argue, no more intolerable than any other available interpretative option.

id: 1409.0246
title: Physical entanglement in permutation-invariant quantum mechanics
authors: Adam Caulton
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0246
abstract: The purpose of this short article is to build on the work of Ghirardi, Marinatto and Weber (Ghirardi, Marinatto & Weber 2002; Ghirardi & Marinatto 2003, 2004, 2005) and Ladyman, Linnebo and Bigaj (2013), in supporting a redefinition of entanglement for "indistinguishable" systems, particularly fermions. According to the proposal, non-separability of the joint state is insufficient for entanglement. The re-definition is justified by its physical significance, as enshrined in three biconditionals whose analogues hold of "distinguishable" systems.

id: 1409.0247
title: Qualitative individuation in permutation-invariant quantum mechanics
authors: Adam Caulton
comments: 58 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0247
abstract: In this article I expound an understanding of the quantum mechanics of so-called "indistinguishable" systems in which permutation invariance is taken as a symmetry of a special kind, namely the result of representational redundancy. This understanding has heterodox consequences for the understanding of the states of constituent systems in an assembly and for the notion of entanglement. It corrects widespread misconceptions about the inter-theoretic relations between quantum mechanics and both classical particle mechanics and quantum field theory. The most striking of the heterodox consequences are: (i) that fermionic states ought not always to be considered entangled; (ii) it is possible for two fermions or two bosons to be discerned using purely monadic quantities; and that (iii) fermions (but not bosons) may always be so discerned.

id: 1409.0249
title: Discerning "indistinguishable" quantum systems
authors: Adam Caulton
comments: 27 pages. This is a pre-print of an article published in Philosophy of Science
journal: Philosophy of Science 80(1), pp. 49-72 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0249
abstract: In a series of recent papers, Simon Saunders, Fred Muller and Michael Seevinck have collectively argued, against the philosophy of quantum mechanics folklore, that some non-trivial version of Leibniz's principle of the identity of indiscernibles is upheld in quantum mechanics. They argue that all particles -- fermions, paraparticles, anyons, even bosons -- may be weakly discerned by some physical relation. Here I show that their arguments make illegitimate appeal to non-symmetric, i.e. permutation-non-invariant, quantities, and that therefore their conclusions do not go through. However, I show that alternative, symmetric quantities may be found to do the required work. I conclude that the Saunders-Muller-Seevinck heterodoxy can be saved after all.

id: 1409.0260
title: A multiprover interactive proof system for the local Hamiltonian problem
authors: Joseph Fitzsimons, Thomas Vidick
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0260
abstract: We give a quantum interactive proof system for the local Hamiltonian problem on n qubits in which (i) the verifier has a single round of interaction with five entangled provers, (ii) the verifier sends a classical message on O(log n) bits to each prover, who reply with a constant number of qubits, and (iii) completeness and soundness are separated by an inverse polynomial in n. As the same class of proof systems, without entanglement between the provers, is included in QCMA, our result provides the first indication that quantum multiprover interactive proof systems with entangled provers may be strictly more powerful than unentangled-prover interactive proof systems. A distinguishing feature of our protocol is that the completeness property requires honest provers to share a large entangled state, obtained as the encoding of the ground state of the local Hamiltonian via an error-correcting code. Our result can be interpreted as a first step towards a multiprover variant of the quantum PCP conjecture.

id: 1409.0270
title: Multiuser quantum repeater for quantum communication network based on quantum dots embedded in optical microcavities
authors: Tao Li, Guo-Jian Yang, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0270
abstract: We propose an efficient multi-user quantum repeater based on the interface between the circularly-polarized photon and the quantum dot embedded in a double-sided optical microcavity. The faithful entanglement distribution is accomplished by the time-bin encoding and the polarization noise on the photons is totally converted into the ambiguity of the time when the arriving photons are directed into the cavities. The nonlocal maximally entangled electron-spin state can in principle be constructed deterministically by converting the time-bin entanglement. The extension of the entangled quantum channel is performed with an efficient parity-check detector and it works with a nearly unity success probability. We also give an efficient scheme for the entanglement purification on nonlocal electron-spin systems to depress the influence of asymmetric noise from optical-fiber channels on different time bins of photons, and discuss the influence from the practical circularly birefringence on time-bin entanglement. Our protocol extends the limit on the coherence time of the memory unit which tightly constrains the distance of the legitimate users in quantum communication network.

id: 1409.0290
title: Quantum beat spectroscopy: stimulated emission probe of hyperfine quantum beats in the atomic Cs 8p $^{2}P_{3/2}$ level
authors: S.B. Bayram, P. Arndt, O.I. Popov, C. Guney, W.P. Boyle, M.D. Havey, J. McFarland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062510 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0290
abstract: Measurements of hyperfine polarization quantum beats are used determine the magnetic dipole (A) and electric quadrupole (B) coupling constants in the excited atomic Cs 8p level. The experimental approach is a novel combination of pulsed optical pumping and time-delayed stimulated emission probing of the excited level. From the measured evolution of the atomic linear polarization degree as a function of probe delay time, we determine the hyperfine coupling constants A = 7.42(6) MHz and B = 0.14(29) MHz.

id: 1409.0306
title: Statistics-dependent quantum co-walking of two particles in one-dimensional lattices with nearest-neighbor interactions
authors: Xizhou Qin, Yongguan Ke, Xiwen Guan, Zhibing Li, Natan Andrei, Chaohong Lee
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, an extension with more new results for our unpublished arXiv:1402.3349
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0306
abstract: We investigate continuous-time quantum walks of two indistinguishable particles [bosons, fermions or hard-core bosons (HCBs)] in one-dimensional lattices with nearest-neighbor interactions. The results for two HCBs are well consistent with the recent experimental observation of two-magnon dynamics [Nature 502, 76 (2013)]. The two interacting particles can undergo independent- and/or co-walking depending on both quantum statistics and interaction strength. Two strongly interacting particles may form a bound state and then co-walk like a single composite particle with statistics-dependent walk speed. Analytical solutions for the scattering and bound states, which appear in the two-particle quantum walks, are obtained by solving the eigenvalue problem in the two-particle Hilbert space. In the context of degenerate perturbation theory, an effective single-particle model for the quantum co-walking is analytically derived and the walk seep of bosons is found to be exactly three times of the ones of fermions/HCBs. Our result paves the way for experimentally exploring quantum statistics via two-particle quantum walks.

id: 1409.0317
title: Decoherence of Bell states by local interactions with a suddenly quenched spin environment
authors: Pierre Wendenbaum, Bruno G. Taketani, Dragi Karevski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 90, 022125 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0317
abstract: We study the dynamics of disentanglement of two qubits initially prepared in a Bell state and coupled at different sites to an Ising transverse field spin chain (ITF) playing the role of a dynamic spin environment. The initial state of the whole system is prepared into a tensor product state $\rho_{Bell}\otimes \rho_{chain}$ where the state of the chain is taken to be given by the ground state $|G(\lambda_i)\rangle$ of the ITF Hamiltonian $H_E(\lambda_i)$ with an initial field $\lambda_i$. At time $t=0^+$, the strength of the transverse field is suddenly quenched to a new value $\lambda_f$ and the whole system (chain $+$ qubits) undergoes a unitary dynamics generated by the total Hamiltonian $H_{Tot}=H_E(\lambda_f) + H_I$ where $H_I$ describes a local interaction between the qubits and the spin chain. The resulting dynamics leads to a disentanglement of the qubits, which is described through the Wooter's Concurrence, due to there interaction with the non-equilibrium environment. The concurrence is related to the Loschmidt echo which in turn is expressed in terms of the time-dependent covariance matrix associated to the ITF. This permits a precise numerical and analytical analysis of the disentanglement dynamics of the qubits as a function of their distance, bath properties and quench amplitude. In particular we emphasize the special role played by a critical initial environment.

id: 1409.0319
title: Conservation law for Uncertainty relations and quantum correlations
authors: Zhihao Ma, Shengjun Wu, Zhihua Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0319
abstract: Uncertainty principle, a fundamental principle in quantum physics, has been studied intensively via various uncertainty inequalities. Here we derive an uncertainty equality in terms of linear entropy, and show that the sum of uncertainty in complementary local bases is equal to a fixed quantity. We also introduce a measure of correlation in a bipartite state, and show that the sum of correlations revealed in a full set of complementary bases is equal to the total correlation in the bipartite state. The surprising simple equality relations we obtain imply that the study on uncertainty principle and correlations can rely on the use of linear entropy, a simple quantity that is very convenient for calculation.

id: 1409.0341
title: Accessible Information and Informational Power of Quantum 2-designs
authors: Michele Dall'Arno
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, updated references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0341
abstract: The accessible information and the informational power quantify the amount of information extractable from a quantum ensemble and by a quantum measurement, respectively. So-called spherical quantum 2-designs constitute a class of ensembles and measurements relevant in testing entropic uncertainty relations, quantum cryptography, and quantum tomography. We provide lower bounds on the entropy of 2-design ensembles and measurements, from which upper bounds on their accessible information and informational power follow, as a function of the dimension only. We show that the statistics generated by 2-designs, although optimal for the abovementioned protocols, never contains more than one bit of information. Finally, we specialize our results to the relevant cases of symmetric informationally complete (SIC) sets and maximal sets of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), and we generalize them to the arbitrary-rank case.

id: 1409.0346
title: Propagation of nanofiber-guided light through an array of atoms
authors: Fam Le Kien, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 24 pages, 16 figures. Added references. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1406.0108
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063816 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0346
abstract: We study the propagation of nanofiber-guided light through an array of atomic cesium, taking into account the transitions between the hyperfine levels $6S_{1/2}F=4$ and $6P_{3/2}F'=5$ of the $D_2$ line. We derive the coupled-mode propagation equation, the input-output equation, the scattering matrix, the transfer matrix, and the reflection and transmission coefficients for the guided field in the linear, quasistationary, weak-excitation regime. We show that, when the initial distribution of populations of atomic ground-state sublevels is flat, the quasilinear polarizations along the principal axes $x$ and $y$, which are parallel and perpendicular, respectively, to the radial direction of the atomic position, are not coupled to each other in the linear coherent scattering process. When the guided probe field is quasilinearly polarized along the major principal axis $x$, forward and backward scattering have different characteristics. We find that, when the array period is far from the Bragg resonance, the backward scattering is weak. Under the Bragg resonance, most of the guided probe light can be reflected back in a broad region of field detunings even though there is an irreversible decay channel into radiation modes. When the atom number is large enough, two different band gaps may be formed, whose properties depend on the polarization of the guided probe field.

id: 1409.0363
title: Spin entanglement in atoms and molecules
authors: S. Pittalis, F. Troiani, C. A. Rozzi, G. Vignale
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 075109 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0363
abstract: We investigate the effects of inhomogeneities on spin entanglement in many-electron systems from an ab-initio approach. The key quantity in our approach is the local spin entanglement length, which is derived from the local concurrence of the electronic system. Although the concurrence for an interacting systems is a highly nonlocal functional of the density, it does have a simple, albeit approximate expression in terms of Kohn-Sham orbitals. We show that the electron localization function -- well known in quantum chemistry as a descriptor of atomic shells and molecular bonds -- can be reinterpreted in terms of the ratio of the local entanglement length of the inhomogeneous system to the entanglement length of a homogenous system at the same density. We find that the spin entanglement is remarkably enhanced in atomic shells and molecular bonds.

id: 1409.0365
title: Tunable sub-luminal propagation of narrowband x-ray pulses
authors: K. P. Heeg, J. Haber, D. Schumacher, L. Bocklage, H.-C. Wille, K. S. Schulze, R. Loetzsch, I. Uschmann, G. G. Paulus, R. R¨¹ffer, R. R?hlsberger, J. Evers
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0365
abstract: Group velocity control is demonstrated for x-ray photons of 14.4 keV energy via a direct measurement of the temporal delay imposed on spectrally narrow x-ray pulses. Sub-luminal light propagation is achieved by inducing a steep positive linear dispersion in the optical response of ${}^{57}$Fe M\"ossbauer nuclei embedded in a thin film planar x-ray cavity. The direct detection of the temporal pulse delay is enabled by generating frequency-tunable spectrally narrow x-ray pulses from broadband pulsed synchrotron radiation. Our theoretical model is in good agreement with the experimental data.

id: 1409.0420
title: Asymmetric transmission through a flux-controlled non-Hermitian scattering center
authors: X. Q. Li, X. Z. Zhang, G. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032101 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0420
abstract: We study the possibility of asymmetric transmission induced by a non-Hermitian scattering center embedded in a one-dimensional waveguide, motivated by the aim of realizing quantum diode in a non-Hermitian system. It is shown that a $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric non-Hermitian scattering center always has symmetric transmission although the dynamics within the isolated center can be unidirectional, especially at its exceptional point. We propose a concrete scheme based on a flux-controlled non-Hermitian scattering center, which comprises a non-Hermitian triangular ring threaded by an Aharonov-Bohm flux. The analytical solution shows that such a complex scattering center acts as a diode at the resonant energy level of the spectral singularity, exhibiting perfect unidirectionality of the transmission. The connections between the phenomena of the asymmetric transmission and reflectionless absorption are also discussed.

id: 1409.0422
title: Dynamical symmetries and crossovers in a three-spin system with collective dissipation
authors: Simon Pigeon, Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan, Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 015010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0422
abstract: We consider the non-equilibrium dynamics of a simple system consisting of interacting spin-$1/2$ particles subjected to a collective damping. The model is close to situations that can be engineered in hybrid electro/opto-mechanical settings. Making use of large-deviation theory, we find a Gallavotti-Cohen symmetry in the dynamics of the system as well as evidence for the coexistence of two dynamical phases with different activity levels. We show that additional damping processes smoothen out this behavior. Our analytical results are backed up by Monte Carlo simulations that reveal the nature of the trajectories contributing to the different dynamical phases.

id: 1409.0431
title: Anti-Newtonian dynamics and self-induced Bloch oscillations of correlated particles
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 113076
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0431
abstract: We predict that two correlated particles hopping on a one-dimensional Hubbard lattice can show transient self-acceleration and self-induced Bloch oscillations as a result of anti-Newtonian dynamics. Self-propulsion occurs for two particles with opposite effective mass on the lattice and requires long-range particle interaction. A photonic simulator of the two-particle Hubbard model with controllable long-range interaction, where self-propulsion can be observed, is discussed.

id: 1409.0437
title: Violations of entropic Bell inequalities with coarse-grained quadrature measurements for continuous-variable states
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Yao Fu, Yu-Kang Zhao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 022124 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0437
abstract: It is a long-standing belief, as pointed out by Bell in 1986, that it is impossible to use a two-mode Gaussian state possessing a positive-definite Wigner function to demonstrate nonlocality as the Wigner function itself provides a local hidden-variable model. In particular, when one performs continuous-variable (CV) quadrature measurements upon a routinely generated CV entanglement, namely, the two-mode squeezed vacuum (TMSV) state, the resulting Wigner function is positive-definite and as such, the TMSV state cannot violate any Bell inequality using CV quadrature measurements. We show here, however, that a Bell inequality for CV states in terms of entropies can be quantum mechanically violated by the TMSV state with two coarse-grained quadrature measurements per site within experimentally accessible parameter regime. The proposed CV entropic Bell inequality is advantageous for an experimental test, especially for a possible loophole-free test of nonlocality, as the quadrature measurements can be implemented with homodyne detections of nearly 100\% detection efficiency under current technology.

id: 1409.0460
title: Effects of temperature and ground-state coherence decay on enhancement and amplification in a $¦¤$ atomic system
authors: Manukumara Manjappa, Satya Sainadh Undurti, Asha Karigowda, Andal Narayanan, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043859 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0460
abstract: We study phase-sensitive amplification of electromagnetically induced transparency in a warm ${}^{85}$Rb vapor wherein a microwave driving field couples the two lower-energy states of a {\Lambda} energy-level system thereby transforming into a {\Delta} system. Our theoretical description includes effects of ground-state coherence decay and temperature effects. In particular, we demonstrate that driving-field-enhanced electromagnetically induced transparency is robust against significant loss of coherence between ground states. We also show that for specific field intensities, a threshold rate of ground-state coherence decay exists at every temperature. This threshold separates the probe-transmittance behavior into two regimes: probe amplification vs probe attenuation. Thus, electromagnetically induced transparency plus amplification is possible at any temperature in a {\Delta} system.

id: 1409.0475
title: New Minkowski type inequalities and entropic inequalities for quantum states of qudits
authors: V.I. Man'ko, L.A. Markovich
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. It is material of poster at the conference "Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with atoms and photons". It will be sent to International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0475
abstract: The two-parameter Minkowski like inequality written for composite quantum system state is obtained for arbitrary Hermitian nonnegative matrix with trace equal to unity. The inequality can be used as entropic and information inequality for density matrix of noncomposite finite quantum system, e.g., for a single qudit state. The analogs of strong subadditivity condition for the single qudit is discussed in context of obtained Minkowski like inequality.

id: 1409.0510
title: Prediction and retrodiction for a continuously monitored superconducting qubit
authors: D. Tan, S. Weber, I. Siddiqi, K. M?lmer, K. W. Murch
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090403 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0510
abstract: The quantum state of a superconducting transmon qubit inside a three-dimensional cavity is monitored by reflection of a microwave field on the cavity. The information inferred from the measurement record is incorporated in a density matrix $\rho_t$, which is conditioned on probe results until $t$, and in an auxiliary matrix $E_t$, which is conditioned on probe results obtained after $t$. Here, we obtain these matrices from experimental data and we illustrate their application to predict and retrodict the outcome of weak and strong qubit measurements.

id: 1409.0518
title: PT-/non-PT-Symmetric and non-Hermitian Hellmann Potential: Approximate Bound and Scattering States with Any $\ell$-Values
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr. 89, 105204 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0518
abstract: We investigate the approximate bound state solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for the PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non Hermitian Hellmann potential. Exact energy eigenvalues and corresponding normalized wave functions are obtained. Numerical values of energy eigenvalues for the bound states are compared with the ones obtained before. Scattering state solutions are also studied. Phase shifts of the potential are written in terms of the angular momentum quantum number $\ell$.

id: 1409.0535
title: Precision bounds in noisy quantum metrology
authors: Jan Kolodynski
comments: PhD Thesis (defended 22.09.2014). 138 pages, 6 chapters (+10 appendices), 20 figures, 6 tables. Final version containing modifications suggested by the referees: Dariusz Chruscinski and Andrzej Grudka. Incorporates and extends the material of arXiv:1006.0734, arXiv:1201.3940, arXiv:1303.7271 and arXiv:1405.7703
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0535
abstract: In an idealistic setting, quantum metrology protocols allow to sense physical parameters with mean squared error that scales as $1/N^2$ with the number of particles involved---substantially surpassing the $1/N$-scaling characteristic to classical statistics. A natural question arises, whether such an impressive enhancement persists when one takes into account the decoherence effects that are unavoidable in any real-life implementation. In this thesis, we resolve a major part of this issue by describing general techniques that allow to quantify the attainable precision in metrological schemes in the presence of uncorrelated noise. We show that the abstract geometrical structure of a quantum channel describing the noisy evolution of a single particle dictates then critical bounds on the ultimate quantum enhancement. Our results prove that an infinitesimal amount of noise is enough to restrict the precision to scale classically in the asymptotic $N$ limit, and thus constrain the maximal improvement to a constant factor. Although for low numbers of particles the decoherence may be ignored, for large $N$ the presence of noise heavily alters the form of both optimal states and measurements attaining the ultimate resolution. However, the established bounds are then typically achievable with use of techniques natural to current experiments. In this work, we thoroughly introduce the necessary concepts and mathematical tools lying behind metrological tasks, including both frequentist and Bayesian estimation theory frameworks. We provide examples of applications of the methods presented to typical qubit noise models, yet we also discuss in detail the phase estimation tasks in Mach-Zehnder interferometry both in the classical and quantum setting---with particular emphasis given to photonic losses while analysing the impact of decoherence.

id: 1409.0683
title: Dynamical spin squeezing: combining fast one-axis twisting and deep two-axis counter-twisting
authors: Tomas Opatrny
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0683
abstract: Based on the recent twisting-tensor approach [T. Opatrny, ArXiv:1408.3265 (2014)], a specific scenario for fast and deep spin squeezing is proposed. Initially the state is subjected to one-axis twisting under optimum orientation, enabling the maximum squeezing rate allowed by the system nonlinearity. Later on, when for highly squeezed states the one-axis twisting deforms the uncertainty ellipse and deteriorates the squeezing properties, the process is switched to an effective two-axis counter-twisting by a sequence of $\pi/2$ pulses. The squeezing rate then slows to 2/3 of the maximum value, but the process can continue for longer to achieve a very high degree of squeezing.

id: 1409.0712
title: Is vacuum dispersive?
authors: Yves Pomeau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0712
abstract: The question we ask is: does the speed of light {\it{in vacuo}} depend on its frequency? While the answer is NO in the frame of classical physics, we point out that the opposite could be true if one takes into account the polarization of Dirac sea. We estimate the dependence of the index of refraction of vacuum + Dirac sea versus the wavelength of an incoming beam, and suggest a way to test this effect.

id: 1409.0755
title: The logic of the future in the Everett-Wheeler understanding of quantum theory
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: v4: Extensively revised and expanded. v5: Theorem 13 corrected and other minor corrections. 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0755
abstract: I discuss the problems of probability and the future in the Everett-Wheeler understanding of quantum theory. To resolve these, I propose an understanding of probability arising from a form of temporal logic: the probability of a future-tense proposition is identified with its truth value in a many-valued and context-dependent logic. I construct a lattice of tensed propositions, with truth values in the interval $[0,1]$, and derive logical properties of the truth values given by the usual quantum-mechanical formula for the probability of histories.

id: 1409.0769
title: Tunneling in the self-trapped regime of a two-well BEC
authors: Tadeusz Pudlik, Holger Hennig, Dirk Witthaut, David K. Campbell
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0769
abstract: Starting from a mean-field model of the Bose-Einstein condensate dimer, we reintroduce classically forbidden tunneling through a Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization approach. We find closed-form approximations to the tunneling frequency more accurate than those previously obtained using different techniques. We discuss the central role that tunneling in the self-trapped regime plays in a quantitatively accurate model of a dissipative dimer leaking atoms to the environment. Finally, we describe the prospects of experimental observation of tunneling in the self-trapped regime, both with and without dissipation.

id: 1409.0784
title: Selective Vibrational Population Transfer using Combined STIRAP and Counter-Diabatic Fields
authors: Shumpei Masuda, Stuart A. Rice
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0784
abstract: We report studies of state-to-state vibrational energy transfer in an isolated polyatomic molecule driven by combined stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and counter-diabatic fields (CDF), using as vehicles selective population of one of a pair of near degenerate states in SCCl$_2$ and enhancing the yield of HNC in the HCN/HNC isomerization reaction. The efficiency of the population transfer within a subset of states embedded in a dense manifold of states is examined for the cases that the transition dipole moments between the initial and target states are much smaller than and comparable to the transition dipole moments between background states, and for the case that the subset states have large transition dipole moments with the background states. We show that, in a subset of states that is coupled to background states, a combination of STIRAP fields and CDFs that do not individually generate processes that are competitive with the desired population transfer can generate greater population transfer efficiency than can ordinary STIRAP with field strength and/or pulse duration similarly restricted. We also show that the exact CDF for an isolated three level system is a useful approximation to the exact CDF for three and five state systems embedded in background states, and we report a study of the stability of the STIRAP + approximate CDF control protocol to variation of the CDF.

id: 1409.0807
title: Generalized conditional entropy optimization for qudit-qubit states
authors: N. Gigena, R. Rossignoli
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Final published version
journal: Physical Review A 90, 042318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0807
abstract: We derive a general approximate solution to the problem of minimizing the conditional entropy of a qudit-qubit system resulting from a local projective measurement on the qubit, which is valid for general entropic forms and becomes exact in the limit of weak correlations. This entropy measures the average conditional mixedness of the post-measurement state of the qudit, and its minimum among all local measurements represents a generalized entanglement of formation. In the case of the von Neumann entropy, it is directly related to the quantum discord. It is shown that at the lowest non-trivial order, the problem reduces to the minimization of a quadratic form determined by the correlation tensor of the system, the Bloch vector of the qubit and the local concavity of the entropy, requiring just the diagonalization of a $3\times 3$ matrix. A simple geometrical picture in terms of an associated correlation ellipsoid is also derived, which illustrates the link between entropy optimization and correlation access and which is exact for a quadratic entropy. The approach enables a simple estimation of the quantum discord. Illustrative results for two-qubit states are discussed.

id: 1409.0808
title: 'Quantum Cheshire Cat' as Simple Quantum Interference
authors: Raul Corr¨ºa, Marcelo Fran?a Santos, C. H. Monken, Pablo L. Saldanha
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0808
abstract: In a recent work, Aharonov et al. suggested that a photon could be separated from its polarization in an experiment involving pre- and post-selection [New J. Phys 15, 113015 (2013)]. They named the effect 'quantum Cheshire Cat', in a reference to the cat that is separated from its grin in the novel Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Following these ideas, Denkmayr et al. performed a neutron interferometric experiment and interpreted the results suggesting that neutrons were separated from their spin [Nat. Commun. 5, 4492 (2014)]. Here we show that these results can be interpreted as simple quantum interference, with no separation between the quantum particle and its internal degree of freedom. We thus hope to clarify the phenomenon with this work, by removing these apparent paradoxes.

id: 1409.0831
title: Quantum storage of entangled telecom-wavelength photons in an erbium-doped optical fibre
authors: Erhan Saglamyurek, Jeongwan Jin, Varun B. Verma, Matthew D. Shaw, Francesco Marsili, Sae Woo Nam, Daniel Oblak, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 6 pages, 3 Figures + Supplementary Information. The problem with the order of the references is fixed. appears in Nature Photonics (2015)
journal: Nature Photonics 9, 83-87, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0831
abstract: The realization of a future quantum Internet requires processing and storing quantum information at local nodes, and interconnecting distant nodes using free-space and fibre-optic links. Quantum memories for light are key elements of such quantum networks. However, to date, neither an atomic quantum memory for non-classical states of light operating at a wavelength compatible with standard telecom fibre infrastructure, nor a fibre-based implementation of a quantum memory has been reported. Here we demonstrate the storage and faithful recall of the state of a 1532 nm wavelength photon, entangled with a 795 nm photon, in an ensemble of cryogenically cooled erbium ions doped into a 20 meter-long silicate fibre using a photon-echo quantum memory protocol. Despite its currently limited efficiency and storage time, our broadband light-matter interface brings fibre-based quantum networks one step closer to reality. Furthermore, it facilitates novel tests of light-matter interaction and collective atomic effects in unconventional materials.

id: 1409.0833
title: Controlled bidirectional remote state preparation in noisy environment: A generalized view
authors: Vishal Sharma, Chitra Shukla, Subhashish Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0833
abstract: It is shown that a realistic, controlled bidirectional remote state preparation is possible using a large class of entangled quantum states having a particular structure. Existing protocols of probabilistic, deterministic and joint remote state preparation are generalized to obtain the corresponding protocols of controlled bidirectional remote state preparation (CBRSP). A general way of incorporating the effects of two well known noise processes, the amplitude-damping and phase-damping noise, on the probabilistic CBRSP process is studied in detail by considering that noise only affects the travel qubits of the quantum channel used for the probabilistic CBRSP process. Also indicated is how to account for the effect of these noise channels on deterministic and joint remote state CBRSP protocols.

id: 1409.0872
title: Resolving the vacuum fluctuations of an optomechanical system using an artificial atom
authors: F. Lecocq, J. D. Teufel, J. Aumentado, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0872
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle results in one of the strangest quantum behaviors: an oscillator can never truly be at rest. Even in its lowest energy state, at a temperature of absolute zero, its position and momentum are still subject to quantum fluctuations. Resolving these fluctuations using linear position measurements is complicated by the fact that classical noise can masquerade as quantum noise. On the other hand, direct energy detection of the oscillator in its ground state makes it appear motionless. So how can we resolve quantum fluctuations? Here, we parametrically couple a micromechanical oscillator to a microwave cavity to prepare the system in its quantum ground state and then amplify the remaining vacuum fluctuations into real energy quanta. Exploiting a superconducting qubit as an artificial atom, we measure the photon/phonon-number distributions during these optomechanical interactions. This provides an essential non-linear resource to, first, verify the ground state preparation and second, reveal the quantum vacuum fluctuations of the macroscopic oscillator's motion. Our results further demonstrate the ability to control a long-lived mechanical oscillator using a non-Gaussian resource, directly enabling applications in quantum information processing and enhanced detection of displacement and forces.

id: 1409.0885
title: Interactions Between Evanescent Photons and Environment
authors: Moses Fayngold
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0885
abstract: The evanescent waves named as EW1, EW2, EW3 are described in 3 respective experimental setups: 1) total internal reflection; 2) scattering on an inhomogeneous planar target; and 3) propagation along a waveguide. Some interactions are considered between EW2 and the environment. The latter may include a beam of probing particles and/or the screen on which the EW2 are formed. Some new properties of EW are described, such as complex energy eigenvalues in case of a movable screen, and evanescence exchange between the interacting objects. This reveals the connection between evanescent states and the Gamow states of the studied system. The 4-momentum exchange between EW2 and the probe is highly selective and may collapse the superposition of studied EW2- eigenstates to a single EW-eigenstate of the probing particle. Possible imprints of EW2 in the far field are briefly discussed and a simple experiment is suggested for their observation. .

id: 1409.0888
title: On electron channeling and the de Broglie internal clock
authors: M. Bauer
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1403.4580
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0888
abstract: Electron channeling in silicon crystals has brought forward the possibility of having detected the particle's "de Broglie internal clock", as giving rise to the observed resonance peak at the center of the expected transmission probability dip. A classical multiple scattering calculation fails to represent the experimental results unless, surprisingly, the interaction frequency is twice the de Broglie's clock frequency, that is, the "Zitterbewegung" frequency. In the present paper, the observed characteristics of this process are shown to be consistent with a free particle quantum mechanical motion described by Dirac's Hamiltonian.

id: 1409.0889
title: Quantum and classical separability of spin-orbit laser modes
authors: L. J. Pereira, A. Z. Khoury, K. Dechoum
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0889
abstract: In this work we investigate the quantum noise properties of polarization vortices in connection with an intensity based Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for their spin-orbit separability. We evaluate the inequality for different input quantum states and the corresponding intensity fluctuations. The roles played by coherence and photon number squeezing provide a suitable framework for characterizing pure state spin-orbit entanglement. Structural inseparability of the spin-orbit mode requires coherence, an issue concerning either classical or quantum descriptions. In both cases, it can be witnessed by violation of this intensity based CHSH inequality. However, in the quantum domain, entanglement requires both coherence and reduced photon number fluctuations.

id: 1409.0904
title: Complete quantum state selectivity in cold molecular beams using deflection-resistant dark states in a STIRAP configuration
authors: Xuan Li, Asaf Eilam, Moshe Shapiro
comments: 5 pages 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.Chem.Lett. 5 (2014) 3620-3624
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0904
abstract: One of the main goals of chemical dynamics is the creation of molecular beams composed of a single (vibrational, rotational, and magnetic) quantum state of choice. In this paper we show that it is possible to achieve {\it complete} quantum state selectivity by producing resistance to electromagnetically induced deflection (EID) and that the state to be selected can be "dialed in" at will. We illustrate the method by showing in detail how to purify thermal beams of the LiRb and IF molecules to yield molecular beams composed of a variety of pre-chosen single internal quantum states and/or superpositions of such states. We expect that this method will be implemented in all subsequent explorations of the fundamentals of chemical reactions and their control, and the use of cold molecules as a vehicle for studying some of the most profound issues of quantum dynamics.

id: 1409.0907
title: Entanglement of distinguishable quantum memories
authors: G. Vittorini, D. Hucul, I. V. Inlek, C. Crocker, C. Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 040302(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0907
abstract: Time-resolved photon detection can be used to generate entanglement between distinguishable photons. This technique can be extended to entangle quantum memories that emit photons with different frequencies and identical temporal profiles without the loss of entanglement rate or fidelity. We experimentally realize this process using remotely trapped $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ions where heralded entanglement is generated by interfering distinguishable photons. This technique may be necessary for future modular quantum systems and networks that are composed of heterogeneous qubits.

id: 1409.0928
title: Locally inequivalent four qubit hypergraph states
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Lei Wang
comments: 6 pages,2 figures, Accepted by J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 415304 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0928
abstract: Hypergraph states as real equally weighted pure states are important resources for quantum codes of non-local stabilizer. Using local Pauli equivalence and permutational symmetry, we reduce the 32768 four qubit real equally weighted pure states to 28 locally inequivalent hypergraph states and several graph states. The calculation of geometric entanglement supplemented with entanglement entropy confirms that further reduction is impossible for true hypergraph states.

id: 1409.0950
title: Quantum metrology and its application in biology
authors: Michael A. Taylor, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: Submitted review article, comments and suggestions welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0950
abstract: Quantum metrology provides a route to overcome practical limits in sensing devices. It holds particular relevance in biology, where sensitivity and resolution constraints restrict applications both in fundamental biophysics and in medicine. Here, we review quantum metrology from this biological context. The understanding of quantum mechanics developed over the past century has already enabled important applications in biology, including positron emission tomography (PET) with entangled photons, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using nuclear magnetic resonance, and bio-magnetic imaging with superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs). With the birth of quantum information science came the realization that an even greater range of applications arise from the ability to not just understand, but to engineer coherence and correlations in systems at the quantum level. In quantum metrology, quantum coherence and quantum correlations are engineered to enable new approaches to sensing. This review focusses specifically on optical quantum metrology, where states of light that exhibit non-classical photon correlations are used to overcome practical and fundamental constraints, such as the shot-noise and diffraction limits. Recent experiments have demonstrated quantum enhanced sensing of biological systems, and established the potential for quantum metrology in biophysical research. These experiments have achieved capabilities that may be of significant practical benefit, including enhanced sensitivity and resolution, immunity to imaging artifacts, and characterisation of the biological response to light at the single-photon level. New quantum measurement techniques offer even greater promise, raising the prospect for improved multi-photon microscopy and magnetic imaging, among many other possible applications.

id: 1409.0958
title: Past quantum state analysis of the photon number evolution in a cavity
authors: Th¨¦o Rybarczyk, Stefan Gerlich, Bruno Peaudecerf, Mariane Penasa, Brian Julsgaard, Klaus Moelmer, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche, Igor Dotsenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0958
abstract: A quantum system can be monitored through repeated interactions with meters, followed by their detection. The state of the system at time t is thus conditioned on the information obtained until that time. More insight in the state dynamics is provided, however, by the past quantum state (PQS) [S. Gammelmark et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160401 (2013)]. It relies on all aspects of the system evolution which are recorded in the past and in the future of t. Using PQS analysis for the quantum non-demolition photon number counting in a cavity, we can reveal information hidden in the standard approach and resolve a wider range of number states. This experiment demonstrates the strong potential of PQS analysis.

id: 1409.0977
title: Photon statistics of radiation in an incoherently pumped three-level cascade system
authors: Shaik Ahmed, Preethi N. Wasnik, Suneel Singh, P. Anantha Lakshmi
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures (including subfigures, total of 11 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0977
abstract: We study the intensity-intensity correlations of the radiation emitted on probe transition in a three level cascade electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) scheme. By applying an incoherent pump, we also monitor further changes in the characteristics of the emitted radiation. It is found that application of even a very weak incoherent pump can significantly alter the characteristics of the emitted radiation, even though the EIT characteristics remain unaltered. Our study demonstrates that for certain range of parameter values, the two photon correlation function in the probe transition oscillates between classical and non-classical domains.

id: 1409.0992
title: Entanglement of two relativistic particles with discrete momenta
authors: Veiko Palge, Jacob Dunningham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0992
abstract: We study the structure of maps that Lorentz boosts induce on the spin degree of freedom of a system consisting of two massive spin-$1/2$ particles. We consider the case where the spin state is described by the Werner state and the momenta are discrete. Transformations on the spins are systematically investigated in various boost scenarios by calculating the orbit and concurrence of the bipartite spin state with different kinds of product and entangled momenta. We confirm the general conclusion that Lorentz boosts cause non-trivial behavior of bipartite spin entanglement. Visualization of the evolution of the spin state is shown to be valuable in explaining the pattern of concurrence. The idealized model provides a basis of explanation in terms of which phenomena in systems involving continuous momenta can be understood.

id: 1409.0999
title: DARBOUX partners of pseudoscalar Dirac potentials associated with exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: Axel Schulze-Halberg, Barnana Roy
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 349 (2014) 159-170
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0999
abstract: We introduce a method for constructing Darboux (or supersymmetric) pairs of pseudoscalar and scalar Dirac potentials that are associated with exceptional orthogonal polynomials. Properties of the transformed potentials and regularity conditions are discussed. As an application, we consider a pseudoscalar Dirac potential related to the Schroeodinger model for the rationally extended radial oscillator. The pseudoscalar partner potentials are constructed under first- and second-order Darboux transformations.

id: 1409.1021
title: Multipartite quantum and classical correlations in symmetric mixed states
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Steve Campbell
comments: Contribution to a special issue of IJQI based on the proceedings of IPQI-2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1021
abstract: Inspired by the protocol of maximal work extraction from a finite quantum system, we discuss how to calculate genuine multipartite quantum and classical correlations in symmetric, spatially invariant, mixed density matrices. We show that the existence of symmetries greatly reduces the amount of free parameters to be optimized in order to find the optimal measurement that minimizes the conditional entropy in the discord calculation. Beyond the example of the thermodynamic protocol, we also apply the symmetry criterion to a wide class of physically relevant cases of spatially homogeneous noise over multipartite entangled states. Exploiting symmetries we are able to calculate the nonlocal and genuine quantum features of these states and note some interesting properties.

id: 1409.1022
title: Entanglement monogamy relations of qubit systems
authors: Xuena Zhu, Shaoming Fei
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 024304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1022
abstract: We investigate the monogamy relations related to the concurrence and the entanglement of formation. General monogamy inequalities given by the {\alpha}th power of concurrence and entanglement of formation are presented for N-qubit states. The monogamy relation for entanglement of assistance is also established. Based on these general monogamy relations, the residual entanglement of concurrence and entanglement of formation are studied. Some relations among the residual entanglement, entanglement of assistance, and three tangle are also presented.

id: 1409.1032
title: Casimir forces in a Plasma: Possible Connections to Yukawa Potentials
authors: Barry W. Ninham, Mathias Bostr?m, Clas Persson, Iver Brevik, Stefan Y. Buhmann, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1032
abstract: We present theoretical and numerical results for the screened Casimir effect between perfect metal surfaces in a plasma. We show how the Casimir effect in an electron-positron plasma can provide an important contribution to nuclear interactions. Our results suggest that there is a connection between Casimir forces and nucleon forces mediated by mesons. Correct nuclear energies and meson masses appear to emerge naturally from the screened Casimir-Lifshitz effect.

id: 1409.1034
title: Quantum correlations in B and K meson systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Richard MacKenzie
comments: 6 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1034
abstract: The interplay between the various measures of quantum correlations are well known in stable optical and electronic systems. Here, for the first time, we study such foundational issues in unstable quantum systems. Specifically we study meson-antimeson systems, which are produced copiously in meson factories. We use the semigroup formalism to compute the time evolution of several measures of quantum correlations for three meson systems (K-Kbar, Bd-Bdbar and Bs-Bsbar), circumventing difficulties which arise using other methods due to the instability of these particles. We then compare these measures to one another and find that the relations between them can be nontrivially different from those of their stable counterparts such as neutrinos.

id: 1409.1077
title: Feasible quantum engineering of quantum multiphoton superpositions
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures, Special Issue on Macroscopic Quantumness, Opt. Commun. (2014)
journal: Opt. Commun. 337, 83 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1077
abstract: We examine an experimental setup implementing a family of quantum non-Gaussian filters. The filters can be applied to an arbitrary two-mode input state. We assume realistic photodetection in the filtering process and explore two different models of inefficient detection: a beam splitter of a small reflectivity located in front of a perfect detector and a Weierstrass transform applied to the unperturbed measurement outcomes. We explicitly give an operator which describes the coherent action of the filters in the realistic experimental conditions. The filtered states may find applications in quantum metrology, quantum communication and other quantum tasks.

id: 1409.1106
title: Tensor Representation of Spin States
authors: O. Giraud, D. Braun, D. Baguette, T. Bastin, J. Martin
comments: 5 pages + 7 pages of supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 080401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1106
abstract: We propose a generalization of the Bloch sphere representation for arbitrary spin states. It provides a compact and elegant representation of spin density matrices in terms of tensors that share the most important properties of Bloch vectors. Our representation, based on covariant matrices introduced by Weinberg in the context of quantum field theory, allows for a simple parametrization of coherent spin states, and a straightforward transformation of density matrices under local unitary and partial tracing operations. It enables us to provide a criterion for anticoherence, relevant in a broader context such as quantum polarization of light.

id: 1409.1117
title: Theory of high gain cavity-enhanced spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Joanna A. Zieli¨½ska, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 063833 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1117
abstract: We compute the output of multimode cavity-enhanced spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) for sub-threshold, but otherwise arbitrary, gain. We find analytic Bogoliubov transformations that allow us to calculate arbitrary field correlation functions, including the second-order intensity correlation function $G^{(2)}(T)$. The results show evidence of increased coherence due to stimulated SPDC. We extend an earlier model [Lu and Ou, Phys. Rev. A, 62, 033804 (2000)] to arbitrary gain and finesse, and show the extension gives accurate results in most scenarios. The results will allow simple, analytic description of cavity-based nonclassical light sources for quantum networking, quantum-enhanced sensing of atoms and generation of highly non-classical field states

id: 1409.1132
title: Wigner's form of the Leggett-Garg inequality, No-Signalling in Time, and Unsharp Measurements
authors: Debashis Saha, Shiladitya Mal, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, Dipankar Home
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032117 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1132
abstract: Wigner's form of the local realist inequality is used to derive its temporal version for an oscillating two-level system involving two-time joint probabilities. Such an inequality may be regarded as a novel form of the Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) constituting a necessary condition for macrorealism. The robustness of its quantum mechanical (QM) violation against unsharpness of measurement is investigated by using a suitable model of unsharp measurements. It is found that there exists a range of values of the sharpness parameter (characterizing precision of the relevant measurements) for which the usual LGI is satisfied by QM, but Wigner's form of the LGI (WLGI) is violated. This implies that for such unsharp measurements, the QM violation of macrorealism cannot be tested using the usual LGI, but can be tested using WLGI. In showing this, we take into account the general form of the usual LGI involving an arbitrary number of pairs of two-time correlation functions. Another recently proposed necessary condition for macrorealism, called `no-signalling in time', is also probed, showing that its QM violation persists for arbitrarily unsharp measurements.

id: 1409.1149
title: Exceptional points, phase rigidity and nonlinear Schr?dinger equation
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: Sections I and VI.B reformulated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1149
abstract: The natural environment of a localized quantum system is the continuum of scattering wavefunctions into which the system is embedded. It can be changed by external fields, however never be deleted. The control of the system's properties by varying a certain parameter provides us information on the system. It is, in many cases, counterintuitive and points to the same phenomena in different systems in spite of the specific differences between them. In our paper, we use a schematic model in order to simulate the main features of small open quantum systems. At low level density, the system is described well by standard Hermitian quantum physics while fundamental differences appear at high level density due to the non-Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian which cannot be neglected under this condition. The influence of exceptional points, the phase rigidity of the wavefunctions and the nonlinearities in the equations are discussed by means of different numerical and (when possible) analytical results. The transition from a closed system at low level density to an open one at high level density occurs smoothly.

id: 1409.1203
title: Optomechanical photon shuttling between photonic cavities
authors: Huan Li, Mo Li
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Nature Nanotechnology
journal: Nature Nanotech. 9 (2014) 913-919
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1203
abstract: Mechanical motion of photonic devices driven by optical forces provides a profound means of coupling between optical fields. The current focus of these optomechanical effects has been on cavity optomechanics systems in which co-localized optical and mechanical modes interact strongly to enable wave-mixing between photons and phonons and backaction cooling of mechanical modes. Alternatively, extended mechanical modes can also induce strong nonlocal effects on propagating optical fields or multiple localized optical modes at distances. Here, we demonstrate a novel multi-cavity optomechanical device: a "photon see-saw", in which torsional optomechanical motion can shuttle photons between two photonic crystal nanocavities. The resonance frequencies of the two cavities, one on each side of the see-saw, are modulated anti-symmetrically by the device's rotation. Pumping photons into one cavity excites optomechanical self-oscillation which strongly modulates the inter-cavity coupling and shuttles photons to the other empty cavity during every oscillation cycle in a well regulated fashion.

id: 1409.1247
title: Relativistic decoherence: Efficient numerical simulations of spin 1/2 relativistic open quantum systems
authors: Renan Cabrera, Denys I. Bondar, Andre G. Campos, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1247
abstract: We present a flexible ab initio approach for simulating spin 1/2 relativistic open quantum systems undergoing decoherence as well as interaction with an external electromagnetic field. The methodology is illustrated on a variety of examples. We generally find that decoherence does not suppress particle-antiparticle production, whereas it can eliminate zitterbewegung. Our computational approach makes accessible open relativistic simulations previously thought to be prohibitively expensive.

id: 1409.1248
title: Quantum Key Distribution using Continuous-variable non-Gaussian States
authors: L.F.M. Borelli, L.S. Aguiar, J.A. Roversi, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1248
abstract: In this work we present a quantum key distribution protocol using continuous-variable non-Gaussian states, the Photon Added then Subtracted Coherent States, and post-selection. We analyse the protocol's performance by determining the secret key rate transmission when the non-authorized party (Eve) performs a superior channel (beam-splitter) attack. We show that, by using those non-Gaussian states, we may increase the secret key rate, when compared to a similar coherent (Gaussian) state based protocol, which would allow the generation of a secret key through longer distances.

id: 1409.1252
title: Many-body localisation implies that eigenvectors are matrix-product states
authors: M. Friesdorf, A. H. Werner, W. Brown, V. B. Scholz, J. Eisert
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 170505 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1252
abstract: The phenomenon of many-body localisation received a lot of attention recently, both for its implications in condensed-matter physics of allowing systems to be an insulator even at non-zero temperature as well as in the context of the foundations of quantum statistical mechanics, providing examples of systems showing the absence of thermalisation following out-of-equilibrium dynamics. In this work, we establish a novel link between dynamical properties - the absence of a group velocity and transport - with entanglement properties of individual eigenvectors. Using Lieb-Robinson bounds and filter functions, we prove rigorously under simple assumptions on the spectrum that if a system shows strong dynamical localisation, all of its many-body eigenvectors have clustering correlations. In one dimension this implies directly an entanglement area law, hence the eigenvectors can be approximated by matrix-product states. We also show this statement for parts of the spectrum, allowing for the existence of a mobility edge above which transport is possible.

id: 1409.1256
title: Scattering of two photons on a quantum emitter in a one-dimensional waveguide: Exact dynamics and induced correlations
authors: Anders Nysteen, Philip Tr?st Kristensen, Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Per Kaer, Jesper M?rk
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1256
abstract: We develop a wavefunction approach to describe the scattering of two photons on a quantum emitter embedded in a one-dimensional waveguide. Our method allows us to calculate the exact dynamics of the complete system at all times, as well as the transmission properties of the emitter. We show that the non-linearity of the emitter with respect to incoming photons depends strongly on the emitter excitation and the spectral shape of the incoming pulses, resulting in transmission of the photons which depends crucially on their separation and width. In addition, for counter-propagating pulses, we analyze the induced level of quantum correlations in the scattered state, and we show that the emitter behaves as a non-linear beam-splitter when the spectral width of the photon pulses is similar to the emitter decay rate.

id: 1409.1273
title: Unraveling the physics of topological phases with random walks of light
authors: Graciana Puentes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1273
abstract: I propose to study the complex physics of topological phases by an all optical implementation of a discrete-time quantum walk. The main novel ingredient is the use of parametric amplifiers in the random network which can in turn be used to emulate intra-atomic interactions and thus analyze many-body effects in topological phases even when using light as the quantum walker. I plan to characterize the intensity probability distribution and the spatial correlations of the output interference pattern for different input states, as well the robustness of localized boundary states characterizing topological insulators to different sources of noise. In particular, I expect to determine whether a non-local order parameter associated with a given topological entanglement measure can be determined in order to characterize topological order, and possible applications in entanglement topological protection. One of the most promising applications of the proposed research includes the study of topological phases in photosynthetic energy transferring processes characterizing biological systems.

id: 1409.1316
title: Surveying relativistic entanglement of two particles with continuous momenta
authors: Veiko Palge, Jacob Dunningham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1316
abstract: In this paper we explore the entanglement of two relativistic spin-$1/2$ particles with continuous momenta. The spin state is described by the Bell state and the momenta are given by Gaussian distributions of product and entangled form. Transformations of the spins are systematically investigated in different boost scenarios by calculating the orbits and concurrence of the spin degree of freedom. By visualizing the behavior of the spin state we get further insight into how and why the entanglement changes in different boost situations.

id: 1409.1335
title: Effective time-independent analysis for quantum kicked systems
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Tapomoy Guha Sarkar
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 032923 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1335
abstract: We present a mapping of potentially chaotic time-dependent quantum kicked systems to an equivalent effective time-independent scenario, whereby the system is rendered integrable. The time-evolution is factorized into an initial kick, followed by an evolution dictated by a time-independent Hamiltonian and a final kick. This method is applied to the kicked top model. The effective time-independent Hamiltonian thus obtained, does not suffer from spurious divergences encountered if the traditional Baker-Cambell-Hausdorff treatment is used. The quasienergy spectrum of the Floquet operator is found to be in excellent agreement with the energy levels of the effective Hamiltonian for a wide range of system parameters. The density of states for the effective system exhibits sharp peak-like features, pointing towards quantum criticality. The dynamics in the classical limit of the integrable effective Hamiltonian shows remarkable agreement with the non-integrable map corresponding to the actual time-dependent system in the non-chaotic regime. This suggests that the effective Hamiltonian serves as a substitute for the actual system in the non-chaotic regime at both the quantum and classical level.

id: 1409.1353
title: Multiphoton interaction of a qutrit with single-mode quantized field in the ultrastrong and deep strong coupling regimes
authors: H.K. Avetissian, A.K. Avetissian, G.F. Mkrtchian, O.V. Kibis
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1353
abstract: We consider multiphoton dynamics of a quantum system composed of a three-state atom (a qutrit) and a single-mode photonic field in the ultrastrong and deep strong coupling regimes, when the coupling strength is comparable to or larger than the oscillator energy scale. We assume a qutrit to be in a polar-$\Lambda $ configuration in which two lower levels have mean dipole moments. Direct multiphoton resonant transitions revealing generalized Rabi oscillations, collapse, and revivals in atomic excitation probabilities for the ultrastrong couplings are studied. In the deep strong coupling regime particular emphasis is placed on the ground state of considering system which exhibits strictly nonclassical properties.

id: 1409.1394
title: Exploring the limits of multiplexed photon-pair sources for the preparation of pure single-photon states
authors: Robert J. A. Francis-Jones, Peter J. Mosley
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. Equation 18 changed to include power of a half in the binomial factor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1394
abstract: Current sources of heralded single photons based on nonlinear optics operate in a probabilistic manner. In order to build quantum-enhanced devices based around the use of single photons, compact, turn-key and deterministic sources are required. A possible solution is to multiplex a number of sources to increase the single-photon generation probability and in so doing reducing the waiting time to deliver large numbers of photons simultaneously, from independent sources. Previously it has been shown that, in the ideal case, 17 multiplexed sources allow deterministic generation of heralded single photons [Christ and Silberhorn, Phys. Rev. A 85, 023829 (2012)]. Here we extend this analysis to include undesirable effects of detector inefficiency and photon loss on a number of multiplexed sources using a variety of different detectors for heralding. We compare these systems for fixed signal-to-noise ratio to allow a direct comparison of performance for real- world heralded single photon sources.

id: 1409.1452
title: Quantum Error Correcting Codes and the Security Proof of the BB84 Protocol
authors: Ramesh Bhandari
comments: 89 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1452
abstract: We describe the popular BB84 protocol and critically examine its security proof as presented by Shor and Preskill. The proof requires the use of quantum error correcting codes called the Calderbank-Shor-Steanne (CSS) quantum codes. These quantum codes are constructed in the quantum domain from two suitable classical linear codes, one used to correct for bit-flip errors and the other for phase-flip errors. Consequently, as a prelude to the security proof, the report reviews the essential properties of linear codes, especially the concept of cosets, before building the quantum codes that are utilized in the proof. The proof considers a security entanglement-based protocol, which is subsequently reduced to a "Prepare and Measure" protocol similar in structure to the BB84 protocol, thus establishing the security of the BB84 protocol. The proof, however, is not without assumptions, which are also enumerated. The treatment throughout is pedagogical, and this report, therefore, serves a useful tutorial for researchers, practitioners, and students, new to the field of quantum information science, in particular, quantum cryptography, as it develops the proof in a systematic manner, starting from the properties of linear codes, and then advancing to the quantum error correcting codes, which are critical to the understanding of the security proof.

id: 1409.1457
title: Exact Solutions of the Klein-Gordon Equation for q-Deformed Manning-Rosen Potential via Asymptotic Iteration Method
authors: Tapas Das
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1457
abstract: Asymptotic iteration method (AIM) is used to find the exact analytical solutions of the one dimensional Klein-Gordon equation for the q-deformed Manning-Rosen potential with equal Lorentz vector and scalar potential. The bound state eigenfunctions are obtained in terms of the hypergeometric functions. Using the present results energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions of the special cases like Poschl-Teller potential, Rosen-Morse potential and Eckart type potential are derived before concluding the work.

id: 1409.1468
title: Emergence of non-Markovianity in the emission process of an atom in a half-cavity
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, M. S. Kim, Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scrip. T160, 014043 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1468
abstract: We study quantum non-Markovianity in the early stage of the emission process of a two-level atom coupled to a semi-infinite waveguide, where the waveguide termination behaves as a perfect mirror. Specifically, we restrict to the analysis of the process for times shorter than twice the time delay t_d, where t_d is the duration of a round trip along the atom-mirror path. We show the emergence of a threshold in the parameters space separating the Markovian and non-Markovian regions.

id: 1409.1475
title: Quantum correlation and entanglement between an ionizing system and a neighbor atom interacting directly and via a quantized field
authors: Vlasta Pe?inov¨¢, Anton¨ªn Luk?, Jarom¨ªr K?epelka, Jan Pe?ina Jr
comments: 11 pages, 21 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033428 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1475
abstract: Quantum correlations between two neighbor atoms are studied. It is assumed that one atomic system comprises a single auto-ionizing level and the other atom does not contain any auto-ionizing level. The excitation of both atoms is achieved by the interaction with the same mode of the quantized field. It is shown that the long-time behavior of two atoms exhibits quantum correlations even when the atoms do not interact directly. This can be shown using the optical excitation of the neighbor atom. Also a measure of entanglement of two atoms can be applied after reduction of the continuum to two levels.

id: 1409.1482
title: Quantum theory of nuclear spin dynamics in diamond nitrogen-vacancy center
authors: Ping Wang, Jiangfeng Du, Wen Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1482
abstract: We develop a quantum theory for a variety of nuclear spin dynamics such as dephasing, relaxation, squeezing, and narrowing due to the hyperfine interaction with a generic, dissipative electronic system. The first-order result of our theory reproduces and generalizes the nonlinear Hamiltonian for nuclear spin squeezing [M. S. Rudner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 206806 (2011)]. The second-order result of our theory provides a good explanation to the experimentally observed $^{13}$C nuclear spin bath narrowing in diamond nitrogen-vacancy center [E. Togan, Nature 478, 497 (2011)

id: 1409.1505
title: Topological origin of quantum mechanical vacuum transitions and tunneling
authors: Alex E. Bernardini, Mariana Chinaglia
comments: 13 pages and 07 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1505
abstract: The quantum transition between shifted zero-mode wave functions is shown to be induced by the systematic deformation of topological and non-topological defects that support the $1$-dim double-well (DW) potential tunneling dynamics. The topological profile of the zero-mode ground state, $\psi_{0}$, and the first excited state, $\psi_{1}$, of DW potentials is obtained through the analytical technique of topological defect deformation. Deformed defects create two inequivalent topological scenarios connected by a symmetry breaking that support the quantum conversion of a zero-mode stable vacuum into an unstable tachyonic quantum state. Our theoretical findings reveal the topological origin of two-level models where a non-stationary quantum state of unitary evolution, $\psi_{0} + e^{\mbox{$-i E \,t$}}\psi_{1}$, that exhibits a stable tunneling dynamics, is converted into a quantum superposition involving a self-vanishing tachyonic mode, $e^{\mbox{$- E \,t$}}\psi_{0} + \psi_{1}$, that parameterizes a tunneling coherent destruction. The non-classical nature of the symmetry breaking dynamics is recreated in terms of the single particle quantum mechanics of $1$-dim DW potentials.

id: 1409.1521
title: What does monogamy in higher powers of a correlation measure mean?
authors: P. J. Geetha, Sudha, A. R. Usha Devi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, 1 table; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1521
abstract: We examine here the proposition that all multiparty quantum states can be made monogamous by considering positive integral powers of any quantum correlation measure. With Rajagopal-Rendell quantum deficit as the measure of quantum correlations for symmetric 3-qubit pure states, we illustrate that monogamy inequality is satisfied for higher powers of quantum deficit. We discuss the drawbacks of this inequality in quantification of correlations in the state. We also prove a monogamy inequality in higher powers of classical mutual information and bring out the fact that such inequality need not necessarily imply restricted shareability of correlations. We thus disprove the utility of higher powers of any correlation measure in establishing monogamous nature in multiparty quantum states.

id: 1409.1524
title: Quantum Bootstrapping via Compressed Quantum Hamiltonian Learning
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Christopher Granade, David G. Cory
comments: Minor changes to references
journal: New J. Phys. 17 022005 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1524
abstract: Recent work has shown that quantum simulation is a valuable tool for learning empirical models for quantum systems. We build upon these results by showing that a small quantum simulators can be used to characterize and learn control models for larger devices for wide classes of physically realistic Hamiltonians. This leads to a new application for small quantum computers: characterizing and controlling larger quantum computers. Our protocol achieves this by using Bayesian inference in concert with Lieb-Robinson bounds and interactive quantum learning methods to achieve compressed simulations for characterization. Whereas Fisher information analysis shows that current methods which employ short-time evolution are suboptimal, interactive quantum learning allows us to overcome this limitation. We illustrate the efficiency of our bootstrapping protocol by showing numerically that an 8-qubit Ising model simulator can be used to calibrate and control a 50 qubit Ising simulator while using only about 750 kilobits of experimental data.

id: 1409.1535
title: Anomalous Weak Values Are Proofs of Contextuality
authors: Matthew F. Pusey
comments: 4 pages. v2: Some typos fixed and some discussions expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 200401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1535
abstract: The average result of a weak measurement of some observable $A$ can, under post-selection of the measured quantum system, exceed the largest eigenvalue of $A$. The nature of weak measurements, as well as the presence of post-selection and hence possible contribution of measurement-disturbance, has led to a long-running debate about whether or not this is surprising. Here, it is shown that such "anomalous weak values" are non-classical in a precise sense: a sufficiently weak measurement of one constitutes a proof of contextuality. This clarifies, for example, which features must be present (and in an experiment, verified) to demonstrate an effect with no satisfying classical explanation.

id: 1409.1546
title: Pauli effects in uncertainty relations
authors: I.V. Toranzo, P. S¨¢nchez-Morenob, R.O. Esquivel, J.S. Dehesa
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1546
abstract: In this letter we analyze the effect of the spin dimensionality of a physical system in two mathematical formulations of the uncertainty principle: a generalized Heisenberg uncertainty relation valid for all antisymmetric N-fermion wavefunctions, and the Fisher-information- based uncertainty relation valid for all antisymmetric N-fermion wavefunctions of central potentials. The accuracy of these spin-modified uncertainty relations is examined for all atoms from Hydrogen to Lawrencium in a self-consistent framework.

id: 1409.1558
title: Multiparticle correlations in complex scattering and the mesoscopic Boson Sampling problem
authors: Juan-Diego Urbina, Jack Kuipers, Quirin Hummel, Klaus Richter
comments: 5+7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1558
abstract: We consider the many-body scattering of non-interacting identical particles in mesoscopic chaotic cavities. A complete enumeration of all interfering paths allows us to discriminate single-particle effects from many-body interference due to quantum indistinguishability. In the thermodynamic limit of large particle number massive quantum interference results in a macroscopic, coherent manifestation of many-body correlations. We also incorporate mesoscopic dephasing, present even when the particles scatter simultaneously. Under further simplifications characteristic for optical scenarios, our methods can be used to address open issues related to the Boson Sampling problem.

id: 1409.1568
title: Field and long-term demonstration of a wide area quantum key distribution network
authors: Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Hong-Wei Li, De-Yong He, Yu-Hu Li, Zheng Zhou, Xiao-Tian Song, Fang-Yi Li, Dong Wang, Hua Chen, Yun-Guang Han, Jing-Zheng Huang, Jun-Fu Guo, Peng-Lei Hao, Mo Li, Chun-Mei Zhang, Dong Liu, Wen-Ye Liang, Chun-Hua Miao, Ping Wu, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Ref.[65] is updated
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 18, pp. 21739-21756 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1568
abstract: A wide area quantum key distribution (QKD) network deployed on communication infrastructures provided by China Mobile Ltd. is demonstrated. Three cities and two metropolitan area QKD networks were linked up to form the Hefei-Chaohu-Wuhu wide area QKD network with over 150 kilometers coverage area, in which Hefei metropolitan area QKD network was a typical full-mesh core network to offer all-to-all interconnections, and Wuhu metropolitan area QKD network was a representative quantum access network with point-to-multipoint configuration. The whole wide area QKD network ran for more than 5000 hours, from 21 December 2011 to 19 July 2012, and part of the network stopped until last December. To adapt to the complex and volatile field environment, the Faraday-Michelson QKD system with several stability measures was adopted when we designed QKD devices. Through standardized design of QKD devices, resolution of symmetry problem of QKD devices, and seamless switching in dynamic QKD network, we realized the effective integration between point-to-point QKD techniques and networking schemes.

id: 1409.1570
title: Is the quantum state real? An extended review of $¦×$-ontology theorems
authors: M. S. Leifer
comments: 88 pages, 15 figures, and a lot of sleepless nights. v2 is the journal version. Reformatted in journal format, references updated, many typo corrections and other minor updates. TeX source had to be modified slightly to compile using the arXiv autocompiler, so I recommend downloading the journal version from this http URL
journal: Quanta 2014; 3:67--155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1570
abstract: Towards the end of 2011, Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph derived a theorem that aimed to show that the quantum state must be ontic (a state of reality) in a broad class of realist approaches to quantum theory. This result attracted a lot of attention and controversy. The aim of this review article is to review the background to the Pusey--Barrett--Rudolph Theorem, to provide a clear presentation of the theorem itself, and to review related work that has appeared since the publication of the Pusey--Barrett--Rudolph paper. In particular, this review: Explains what it means for the quantum state to be ontic or epistemic (a state of knowledge); Reviews arguments for and against an ontic interpretation of the quantum state as they existed prior to the Pusey--Barrett--Rudolph Theorem; Explains why proving the reality of the quantum state is a very strong constraint on realist theories in that it would imply many of the known no-go theorems, such as Bell's Theorem and the need for an exponentially large ontic state space; Provides a comprehensive presentation of the Pusey--Barrett--Rudolph Theorem itself, along with subsequent improvements and criticisms of its assumptions; Reviews two other arguments for the reality of the quantum state: the first due to Hardy and the second due to Colbeck and Renner, and explains why their assumptions are less compelling than those of the Pusey--Barrett--Rudolph Theorem; Reviews subsequent work aimed at ruling out stronger notions of what it means for the quantum state to be epistemic and points out open questions in this area. The overall aim is not only to provide the background needed for the novice in this area to understand the current status, but also to discuss often overlooked subtleties that should be of interest to the experts.

id: 1409.1575
title: Non-local Weak Measurements via Quantum Erasure
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Eliahu Cohen
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1575
abstract: Non-local observables play an important role in quantum theory, from Bell inequalities to various post-selection paradoxes. Weak measurements provide a way to measure these observables without disturbing the system. However, the possibility of weakly measuring non-local operators has been an open question for over a decade. We present a protocol for performing non-local weak measurements based on erasing the result of a strong non-local measurement. Our protocol can be generalized to any observable that can be measured in a strong measurement. The scheme sheds new light on the interplay between weak values, non-locality, causality, quantum measurement and uncertainty.

id: 1409.1602
title: Coherent spin control of a nanocavity-enhanced qubit in diamond
authors: Luozhou Li, Tim Schr?der, Edward H. Chen, Michael Walsh, Igal Bayn, Jordan Goldstein, Ophir Gaathon, Matthew E. Trusheim, Ming Lu, Jacob Mower, Mircea Cotlet, Matthew L. Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, Dirk Englund
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1602
abstract: A central aim of quantum information processing is the efficient entanglement of multiple stationary quantum memories via photons. Among solid-state systems, the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre in diamond has emerged as an excellent optically addressable memory with second-scale electron spin coherence times. Recently, quantum entanglement and teleportation have been shown between two NV-memories, but scaling to larger networks requires more efficient spin-photon interfaces such as optical resonators. Here, we demonstrate such NV-nanocavity systems with optical quality factors approaching 10,000 and electron spin coherence times exceeding 200 $\mu$s using a silicon hard-mask fabrication process. This spin-photon interface is integrated with on-chip microwave striplines for coherent spin control, providing an efficient quantum memory for quantum networks.

id: 1409.1616
title: Spectral Correlation Measurements at the Hong-Ou-Mandel Interference Dip
authors: Thomas Gerrits, Francesco Marsili, Varun Verma, Lynden Shalm, Matthew Shaw, Richard Mirin, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1616
abstract: We present an efficient tool capable of measuring the spectral correlations between photons emerging from a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer. We show that for our spectrally factorizable spontaneous downconversion source the Hong-Ou-Mandel interference visibility decreases as the photons frequency spread is increased to a maximum of 165 nm. Unfiltered, we obtained a visibility of $92.0 \pm 0.2 \%$. The maximum visibility was $97 \pm 0.2 \%$ after applying filtering. We show that the tool can be useful for the study of spectral correlations that impair high-visibility and high-fidelity multi-source interference applications.

id: 1409.1622
title: Optimal suppression of defect generation during a passage across a quantum critical point
authors: Ning Wu, Arun Nanduri, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. The first two authors contributed equally to this work
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 041115(R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1622
abstract: The dynamics of quantum phase transitions are inevitably accompanied by the formation of defects when crossing a quantum critical point. For a generic class of quantum critical systems, we solve the problem of minimizing the production of defects through the use of a gradient-based deterministic optimal control algorithm. By considering a finite size quantum Ising model with a tunable global transverse field, we show that an optimal power law quench of the transverse field across the Ising critical point works well at minimizing the number of defects, in spite of being drawn from a subset of quench profiles. These power law quenches are shown to be inherently robust against noise. The optimized defect density exhibits a transition at a critical ratio of the quench duration to the system size, which we argue coincides with the intrinsic speed limit for quantum evolution.

id: 1409.1652
title: Elementary analysis of interferometers for wave-particle duality test and the perspective of going beyond the complementarity principle
authors: Zhi-Yuan Li
comments: Revised version, published in Chin. Phys. B. 38 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23, No. 11, 110309 (1-13) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1652
abstract: Wave-particle duality and complementarity principle stand at the conceptual core of quantum theory in its orthodox Copenhagen interpretation. They imply that the wave behavior and particle behavior of quantum objects are mutually exclusive to each other in experimental observation. Here we make a systematic analysis using the elementary methodology of quantum mechanics upon Young`s two-slit interferometer and Mach-Zehnder two-arm interferometer with the focus placed on how to measure the interference pattern (wave nature) and which-way information (particle nature) of quantum objects. We design several schemes to simultaneously acquire the which-way information for an individual quantum object and the high-contrast interference pattern for an ensemble of these quantum objects by placing two sets of measurement instrument that are well separated in space and whose perturbation on each other is negligibly small within the interferometer at the same time. Yet, improper arrangement and cooperation of these two sets of measurement instrument in the interferometer would lead to failure of simultaneous observation of wave and particle behavior. The internal freedoms of quantum object could be harnessed to probe both the which-way information and interference pattern for the center-of-mass motion. That quantum objects can behave beyond the wave-particle duality and complementarity principle would stimulate new conceptual examination and exploration of quantum theory at a deeper level.

id: 1409.1696
title: Efficient preparation and detection of microwave dressed-state qubits and qutrits with trapped ions
authors: J. Randall, S. Weidt, E. D. Standing, K. Lake, S. C. Webster, D. F. Murgia, T. Navickas, K. Roth, W. K. Hensinger
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012322 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1696
abstract: We demonstrate a method for preparing and detecting all eigenstates of a three-level microwave dressed system with a single trapped ion. The method significantly reduces the experimental complexity of gate operations with dressed-state qubits, as well as allowing all three of the dressed-states to be prepared and detected, thereby providing access to a qutrit that is well protected from magnetic field noise. In addition, we demonstrate individual addressing of the clock transitions in two ions using a strong static magnetic field gradient, showing that our method can be used to prepare and detect microwave dressed-states in a string of ions when performing multi-ion quantum operations with microwave and radio frequency fields. The individual addressability of clock transitions could also allow for the control of pairwise interaction strengths between arbitrary ions in a string using lasers.

id: 1409.1703
title: Phase-noise protection in quantum-enhanced differential interferometry
authors: M. Landini, M. Fattori, L. Pezze, A. Smerzi
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, remarks and comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1703
abstract: Differential interferometry (DI) with two coupled sensors is a most powerful approach for precision measurements in presence of strong phase noise. However DI has been studied and implemented only with classical resources. Here we generalize the theory of differential interferometry to the case of entangled probe states. We demonstrate that, for perfectly correlated interferometers and in the presence of arbitrary large phase noise, sub-shot noise sensitivities -- up to the Heisenberg limit -- are still possible with a special class of entangled states in the ideal lossless scenario. These states belong to a decoherence free subspace where entanglement is passively protected. Our work pave the way to the full exploitation of entanglement in precision measurements in presence of strong phase noise.

id: 1409.1770
title: Quantifying Spatial Correlations of General Quantum Dynamics
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Markus M¨¹ller
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1770
abstract: We introduce a rigorous method to quantify the amount of spatial correlations present in the dynamics of open quantum systems. After introducing a suitable quantifier, we characterize the maximally spatially correlated dynamics, and benchmark our method by applying it to the paradigmatic case of two atoms weakly coupled to the electromagnetic radiation field. Moreover, we illustrate the versatility of our approach in the context of quantum computing. In particular, we show how it can be used to detect and assess spatial noise correlations, suggesting strategies to meet the noise characteristics requirements that underlie protocols for fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1409.1785
title: Coherent Tunneling by Adiabatic Passage of an exchange-only spin qubit in a double quantum dot chain
authors: E. Ferraro, M. De Michielis, M. Fanciulli, E. Prati
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physical Review B 91, 075435 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1785
abstract: A scheme based on Coherent Tunneling by Adiabatic Passage (CTAP) of exchange-only spin qubit quantum states in a linearly arranged double quantum dot chain is demonstrated. Logical states for the qubit are defined by adopting the spin state of three electrons confined in a double quantum dot. The possibility to obtain gate operations entirely with electrical manipulations makes this qubit a valuable architecture in the field of quantum computing for the implementation of quantum algorithms. The effect of the external control parameters as well as the effect of the dephasing on the coherent tunneling in the chain is studied. During adiabatic transport, within a constant energy degenerate eigenspace, the states in the double quantum dots internal to the chain are not populated, while transient populations of the mixed states in the external ones are predicted.

id: 1409.1810
title: More Communication with Less Entanglement
authors: P. Agrawal, Satyabrata Adhikari, Sumit Nandi
comments: 7 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1810
abstract: We exhibit the intriguing phenomena of "Less is More" using a set of multipartite entangled states. We consider the quantum communication protocols for the {\em exact} teleportation, superdense coding, and quantum key distribution. We find that sometimes {\em less} entanglement is {\em more} useful. To understand this phenomena we obtain a condition that a resource state must satisfy to communicate a $n$-qubit pure state with $m$ terms. We find that the an appropriate partition of the resource state should have a von-Neumann entropy of ${\rm log}_{2} m$. Furthermore, it is shown that some states may be suitable for exact superdense coding, but not for exact teleportation.

id: 1409.1814
title: Contrast in Multipath Interference and Quantum Coherence
authors: Kai von Prillwitz, ?ukasz Rudnicki, Florian Mintert
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1814
abstract: We present various ways, in which an interference pattern can be used to rigorously describe coherence properties of a quantum state. Experimentally accessible, statistical moments of such pattern permit to characterize the extent of quantum coherence and to bound commonly employed coherence measures. In that context, we develop a smoothing technique improving the analysis of interference patterns with complicated structure. With explicit examples, we demonstrate that the assessment method works reliably even for clearly sub-optimal experimental sampling.

id: 1409.1847
title: On crystal ground state in the Schr?dinger-Poisson model: point ions
authors: A.I. Komech
comments: 10 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1310.3084
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1847
abstract: A space-periodic ground state is shown to exist for lattices of point ions in $\R^3$ coupled to the Schr\"odinger and scalar fields. The coupling requires the renormalization of the selfaction because of the singularity of the Coulomb potential. The ground state is constructed by minimization of the renormalized energy per cell. This energy is bounded from below when the charge of each ion is positive. The elementary cell is necessarily neutral.

id: 1409.1862
title: Generation of spin-motion entanglement in a trapped ion using long-wavelength radiation
authors: K. Lake, S. Weidt, J. Randall, E. Standing, S. C. Webster, W. K. Hensinger
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012319 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1862
abstract: Applying a magnetic field gradient to a trapped ion allows long-wavelength microwave radiation to produce a mechanical force on the ion's motion when internal transitions are driven. We demonstrate such a coupling using a single trapped \Yb{171}~ion, and use it to produce entanglement between the spin and motional state, an essential step towards using such a field gradient to implement multi-qubit operations.

id: 1409.1926
title: Thermal light cannot be represented as a statistical mixture of pulses
authors: Aur¨¦lia Chenu, Agata M. Bra¨½czyk, Gregory D. Scholes, J. E. Sipe
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 2 pages supplementary material. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1926
abstract: We ask whether or not thermal light can be represented as a mixture of single broadband coherent pulses. We find that it cannot. Such a mixture of pulses is simply not rich enough to mimic thermal light; indeed, it cannot even reproduce the first-order correlation function. We show that it is possible to construct a modified mixture of single coherent pulses that does yield the correct first-order correlation function at equal space points. However, as we then demonstrate, such a mixture cannot reproduce the second-order correlation function.

id: 1409.1930
title: Quantum nonlinear optics with polar J-aggregates in microcavities
authors: Felipe Herrera, Borja Peropadre, Leonardo A. Pachon, Semion K. Saikin, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1930
abstract: We show that an ensemble of organic dye molecules with permanent electric dipole moments embedded in a microcavity can lead to strong optical nonlinearities at the single photon level. The strong long-range electrostatic interaction between chromophores due to their permanent dipoles introduces the desired nonlinearity of the light-matter coupling in the microcavity. We obtain the absorption spectra of a weak probe field under the influence of strong exciton-photon coupling with the cavity field. Using realistic parameters, we demonstrate that a single cavity photon can significantly modify the absorptive and dispersive response of the medium to a probe photon at a different frequency. Finally, we show that the system is in the regime of cavity-induced transparency with a broad transparency window for dye dimers. We illustrate our findings using pseudoisocyanine chloride (PIC) J-aggregates in currently-available optical microcavities.

id: 1409.1952
title: Optimized tomography for pure quantum states
authors: Amir Kalev, Itay Hen
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1952
abstract: We describe a simple, optimized, self-correcting procedure for performing quantum pure state tomography. By analyzing the history of measurement outcomes at each step, the procedure returns the `most likely' state after every measurement, as well as a suitable basis for the measurement that is to follow with the aim of maximizing the fidelity between the best guess and the unknown state. We illustrate the success of method by considering in detail the qubit case, and compare it against existing methods.

id: 1409.1993
title: Numerical Computations of Separability Probabilities
authors: Jianjia Fei, Robert Joynt
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1993
abstract: We compute the probability that a bipartite quantum state is separable by Monte Carlo sampling. This is carried out for rebits, qubits and quaterbits. We sampled $5\times 10^{11}$ points for each of these three cases. The results strongly support conjectures for certain rational values of these probabilities that have been found by other methods.

id: 1409.2005
title: Three-level spin system under decoherence-minimizing driving fields: Application to nitrogen-vacancy spin dynamics
authors: Sunil K. Mishra, L. Chotorlishvili, A. R. P. Rau, J. Berakdar
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033817 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2005
abstract: Within the framework of a general three-level problem, the dynamics of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) spin is studied for the case of a special type of external driving consisting of a set of continuous fields with decreasing intensities. Such a set has been proposed for minimizing coherence losses. Each new driving field with smaller intensity is designed to protect against the fluctuations induced by the driving field at the preceding step with larger intensity. We show that indeed this particular type of external driving minimizes the loss of coherence, using purity and entropy as quantifiers for this purpose. As an illustration, we study the coherence loss of an NV spin due to a surrounding spin bath of $^{13}$C nuclei.

id: 1409.2037
title: A Simplified Hierarchical Dynamic Quantum Secret Sharing Protocol with Added Features
authors: Sandeep Mishra, Chitra Shukla, Anirban Pathak, R. Srikanth, Anu Venugopalan
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2037
abstract: Generalizing the notion of dynamic quantum secret sharing (DQSS), a simplified protocol for hierarchical dynamic quantum secret sharing (HDQSS) is proposed and it is shown that the protocol can be implemented using any existing protocol of quantum key distribution, quantum key agreement or secure direct quantum communication. The security of this proposed protocol against eavesdropping and collusion attacks is discussed with specific attention towards the issues related to the composability of the subprotocols that constitute the proposed protocol. The security and qubit efficiency of the proposed protocol is also compared with that of other existing protocols of DQSS. Further, it is shown that it is possible to design a semi-quantum protocol of HDQSS and in principle, the protocols of HDQSS can be implemented using any quantum state. It is also noted that the completely orthogonal-state-based realization of HDQSS protocol is possible and that HDQSS can be experimentally realized using a large number of alternative approaches.

id: 1409.2048
title: Quantum Belief Propagation Algorithm versus Suzuki-Trotter approach in the one-dimensional Heisenberg chains
authors: Farzad Ghafari Jouneghani, Mohammad Babazadeh, Davoud Salami, Hossein Movla
comments: 11 pages- 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2048
abstract: Quantum systems are the future candidates for computers and information processing devices. Information about quantum states and processes may be incomplete and scattered in these systems. We use a quantum version of Belief Propagation(BP) Algorithm to integrate the distributed information. In this algorithm the distributed information, which is in the form of density matrix, can be approximated to local structures. The validity of this algorithm is measured in comparison with Suzuki-Trotter(ST) method, using simulated information. ST in 3-body Heisenberg example gives a more accurate answer, however Quantum Belief Propagation (QBP) runs faster based on complexity. In order to develop it in the future, we should be looking for ways to increase the accuracy of QBP.

id: 1409.2055
title: Zermelo Navigation in the Quantum Brachistochrone
authors: Benjamin Russell, Susan Stepney
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures, final published version in Journal of Physics A, March 2015
journal: Journal of Physics A, 48:115303, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2055
abstract: We analyse the optimal times for implementing unitary quantum gates in a constrained finite dimensional controlled quantum system. The family of constraints studied is that the permitted set of (time dependent) Hamiltonians is the unit ball of a norm induced by an inner product on su(n). We also consider a generalisation of this to arbitrary norms. We construct a Randers metric, by applying a theorem of Shen on Zermelo navigation, the geodesics of which are the time optimal trajectories compatible with the prescribed constraint. We determine all geodesics and the corresponding time optimal Hamiltonian for a specific constraint on the control i.e. k (Tr(Hc(t)^2) = 1 for any given value of k > 0. Some of the results of Carlini et. al. are re-derived using alternative methods. A first order system of differential equations for the optimal Hamiltonian is obtained and shown to be of the form of the Euler Poincare equations. We illustrate that this method can form a methodology for determining which physical substrates are effective at supporting the implementation of fast quantum computation.

id: 1409.2061
title: Quantum Key Distribution without sending a Quantum Signal
authors: T.C. Ralph, N. Walk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2061
abstract: Quantum Key Distribution is a quantum communication technique in which random numbers are encoded on quantum systems, usually photons, and sent from one party, Alice, to another, Bob. Using the data sent via the quantum signals, supplemented by classical communication, it is possible for Alice and Bob to share an unconditionally secure secret key. This is not possible if only classical signals are sent. Whilst this last statement is a long standing result from quantum information theory it turns out only to be true in a non-relativistic setting. If relativistic quantum field theory is considered we show it is possible to distribute an unconditionally secure secret key without sending a quantum signal, instead harnessing the intrinsic entanglement between different regions of space time. The protocol is practical in free space given horizon technology and might be testable in principle in the near term using microwave technology.

id: 1409.2096
title: To freeze or not to: Quantum correlations under local decoherence
authors: Titas Chanda, Amit Kumar Pal, Anindya Biswas, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2096
abstract: We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for freezing of quantum correlations as measured by the quantum discord and the quantum work deficit in the case of bipartite as well as multipartite states subjected to local noisy channels. We recognize that inhomogeneity of the magnetizations of the shared quantum states plays an important role in the freezing phenomena. We show that the frozen value of the quantum correlation and the time interval for freezing follow a complementarity relation. For states which do not exhibit freezing properties, but can be frozen effectively by suitable tuning of the state parameters, we introduce an index -- the freezing index -- to quantify the goodness of freezing. We find that the freezing index can be used to detect quantum phase transitions and discuss the corresponding scaling behavior.

id: 1409.2120
title: Contexts, Systems and Modalities: a new ontology for quantum mechanics
authors: Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Philippe Grangier
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. In v2 extended section VI on EPR, and new section VII on measurements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2120
abstract: In this article we present a possible way to make usual quantum mechanics fully compatible with physical realism, defined as the statement that the goal of physics is to study entities of the natural world, existing independently from any particular observer's perception, and obeying universal and intelligible rules. Rather than elaborating on the quantum formalism itself, we propose to modify the quantum ontology, by requiring that physical properties are attributed jointly to the system, and to the context in which it is embedded. In combination with a quantization principle, this non-classical definition of physical reality sheds new light on counter-intuitive features of quantum mechanics such as the origin of probabilities, non-locality, and the quantum-classical boundary.

id: 1409.2122
title: Discrete-time Quantum Walks in random artificial Gauge Fields
authors: G. Di Molfetta, F. Debbasch
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2122
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks (DTQWs) in random artificial electric and gravitational fields are studied analytically and numerically. The analytical computations are carried by a new method which allows direct exact analytical determination of the equations of motion obeyed by the average density operator. It is found that randomness causes the walks to decohere. Asymptotic diffusion coefficients are computed exactly. The continuous limit is also obtained and discussed.

id: 1409.2137
title: Mesoscopic Mechanical Resonators as Quantum Non-Inertial Reference Frames
authors: B.N. Katz, M.P. Blencowe, K.C. Schwab
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2137
abstract: An atom attached to a micrometer-scale wire that is vibrating at a frequency of 100 MHz and with displacement amplitude 1 nm experiences an acceleration magnitude 10^9 ms^-2, approaching the surface gravity of a neutron star. As one application of such extreme non-inertial forces in a mesoscopic setting, we consider a model two-path atom interferometer with one path consisting of the 100 MHz vibrating wire atom guide. The vibrating wire guide serves as a non-inertial reference frame and induces an in principle measurable phase shift in the wave function of an atom traversing the wire frame. We furthermore consider the effect on the two-path atom wave interference when the vibrating wire is modeled as a quantum object, hence functioning as a quantum non-inertial reference frame. We outline a possible realization of the vibrating wire, atom interferometer using a superfluid helium quantum interference setup.

id: 1409.2146
title: A Process Algebra Approach to Quantum Mechanics
authors: William H. Sulis
comments: 24 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1404.3414
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2146
abstract: The process approach to NRQM offers a fourth framework for the quantization of physical systems. Unlike the standard approaches (Schrodinger-Heisenberg, Feynman, Wigner-Gronewald-Moyal), the process approach is not merely equivalent to NRQM and is not merely a re-interpretation. The process approach provides a dynamical completion of NRQM. Standard NRQM arises as a asymptotic quotient by means of a set-valued process covering map, which links the process algebra to the usual space of wave functions and operators on Hilbert space. The process approach offers an emergentist, discrete, finite, quasi-non-local and quasi-non-contextual realist interpretation which appears to resolve many of the paradoxes and is free of divergences. Nevertheless, it retains the computational power of NRQM and possesses an emergent probability structure which agrees with NRQM in the asymptotic quotient. The paper describes the process algebra, the process covering map for single systems and the configuration process covering map for multiple systems. It demonstrates the link to NRQM through a toy model. Applications of the process algebra to various quantum mechanical situations - superpositions, two-slit experiments, entanglement, Schrodinger's cat - are presented along with an approach to the paradoxes and the issue of classicality.

id: 1409.2150
title: Characterizing Topological Order with Matrix Product Operators
authors: Mehmet Burak ?ahino?lu, Dominic Williamson, Nick Bultinck, Michael Mari?n, Jutho Haegeman, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2150
abstract: One of the most striking features of quantum phases that exhibit topological order is the presence of long range entanglement that cannot be detected by any local order parameter. The formalism of projected entangled-pair states is a natural framework for the parameterization of the corresponding ground state wavefunctions, in which the full wavefunction is encoded in terms of local tensors. Topological order is reflected in the symmetries of these tensors, and we give a characterization of those symmetries in terms of matrix product operators acting on the virtual level. This leads to a set of algebraic rules characterizing states with topological quantum order. The corresponding matrix product operators fully encode all topological features of the theory, and provide a systematic way of constructing topological states. We generalize the conditions of $\mathsf{G}$ and twisted injectivity to the matrix product operator case, and provide a complete picture of the ground state manifold on the torus. As an example, we show how all string-net models of Levin and Wen fit within this formalism, and in doing so provide a particularly intuitive interpretation of the pentagon equation for F-symbols as the pulling of certain matrix product operators through the string-net tensor network. Our approach paves the way to finding novel topological phases beyond string-nets, and elucidates the description of topological phases in terms of entanglement Hamiltonians and edge theories.

id: 1409.2187
title: A Note on Quantum Security for Post-Quantum Cryptography
authors: Fang Song
comments: To appear in PQCrypto2014. Same content with different formatting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2187
abstract: Shor's quantum factoring algorithm and a few other efficient quantum algorithms break many classical crypto-systems. In response, people proposed post-quantum cryptography based on computational problems that are believed hard even for quantum computers. However, security of these schemes against \emph{quantum} attacks is elusive. This is because existing security analysis (almost) only deals with classical attackers and arguing security in the presence of quantum adversaries is challenging due to unique quantum features such as no-cloning. This work proposes a general framework to study which classical security proofs can be restored in the quantum setting. Basically, we split a security proof into (a sequence of) classical security reductions, and investigate what security reductions are "quantum-friendly". We characterize sufficient conditions such that a classical reduction can be "lifted" to the quantum setting. We then apply our lifting theorems to post-quantum signature schemes. We are able to show that the classical generic construction of hash-tree based signatures from one-way functions and and a more efficient variant proposed in~\cite{BDH11} carry over to the quantum setting. Namely, assuming existence of (classical) one-way functions that are resistant to efficient quantum inversion algorithms, there exists a quantum-secure signature scheme. We note that the scheme in~\cite{BDH11} is a promising (post-quantum) candidate to be implemented in practice and our result further justifies it. Finally we demonstrate the generality of our framework by showing that several existing works (Full-Domain hash in the quantum random-oracle model~\cite{Zha12ibe} and the simple hybrid arguments framework in~\cite{HSS11}) can be reformulated under our unified framework.

id: 1409.2199
title: Distribution of quantum Fisher information in asymmetric cloning machines
authors: Xing Xiao, Yao Yao, Lei-Ming Zhou, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 7361 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2199
abstract: An unknown quantum state cannot be copied on demand and broadcast freely due to the famous no-cloning theorem. Approximate cloning schemes have been proposed to achieve the optimal cloning characterized by the maximal fidelity between the original and its copies. Here, from the perspective of quantum Fisher information (QFI), we investigate the distribution of QFI in asymmetric cloning machines which produce two nonidentical copies. As one might expect, improving the QFI of one copy results in decreasing the QFI of the other copy, roughly the same as that of fidelity. It is perhaps also unsurprising that asymmetric phase-covariant cloning machine outperforms universal cloning machine in distributing QFI since a priori information of the input state has been utilized. However, interesting results appear when we compare the distributabilities of fidelity (which quantifies the full information of quantum states), and QFI (which only captures the information of relevant parameters) in asymmetric cloning machines. In contrast to the results of fidelity, where the distributability of symmetric cloning is always optimal for any d-dimensional cloning, we find that asymmetric cloning performs always better than symmetric cloning on the distribution of QFI for $d\leq18$, but this conclusion becomes invalid when $d>18$.

id: 1409.2200
title: Multiple phase estimation for arbitrary pure states under white noise
authors: Yao Yao, Li Ge, Xing Xiao, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages and no figures. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2200
abstract: In any realistic quantum metrology scenarios, the ultimate precision in the estimation of parameters is limited not only by the so-called Heisenberg scaling, but also the environmental noise encountered by the underlying system. In the context of quantum estimation theory, it is of great significance to carefully evaluate the impact of a specific type of noise on the corresponding quantum Fisher information (QFI) or quantum Fisher information matrix (QFIM). Here we investigate the multiple phase estimation problem for a natural parametrization of arbitrary pure states under white noise. We obtain the explicit expression of the symmetric logarithmic derivative (SLD) and hence the analytical formula of QFIM. Moreover, the attainability of the quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound (QCRB) is confirmed by the commutability of SLDs and the optimal estimators are elucidated for the experimental purpose. These findings generalize previously known partial results and highlight the role of white noise in quantum metrology.

id: 1409.2225
title: Supersymmetry and eigensurface topology of the spherical quantum pendulum
authors: Burkhard Schmidt, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1404.2243
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2225
abstract: We undertook a mutually complementary analytic and computational study of the full-fledged spherical (3D) quantum rotor subject to combined orienting and aligning interactions characterized, respectively, by dimensionless parameters $\eta$ and $\zeta$. By making use of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY QM), we found two sets of conditions under which the problem of a spherical quantum pendulum becomes analytically solvable. These conditions coincide with the loci $\zeta=\frac{\eta^2}{4k^2}$ of the intersections of the eigenenergy surfaces spanned by the $\eta$ and $\zeta$ parameters. The integer topological index $k$ is independent of the eigenstate and thus of the projection quantum number $m$. These findings have repercussions for rotational spectra and dynamics of molecules subject to combined permanent and induced dipole interactions.

id: 1409.2237
title: Universal Optimal Quantum Correlator
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Michele Dall'Arno, Masanao Ozawa, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, submitted as a proceeding of the Quantum 2014 conference, Turin, Italy, 25-31 May, 2014
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol. 12 (7-8), 1560002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2237
abstract: Recently, a novel operational strategy to access quantum correlation functions of the form Tr[A rho B] was provided in [F. Buscemi, M. Dall'Arno, M. Ozawa, and V. Vedral, arXiv:1312.4240]. Here we propose a realization scheme, that we call partial expectation values, implementing such strategy in terms of a unitary interaction with an ancillary system followed by the measurement of an observable on the ancilla. Our scheme is universal, being independent of rho, A, and B, and it is optimal in a statistical sense. Our scheme is suitable for implementation with present quantum optical technology, and provides a new way to test uncertainty relations.

id: 1409.2244
title: Unitary evolution and the distinguishability of quantum states
authors: Sam Morley-Short, Lawrence Rosenfeld, Pieter Kok
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2244
abstract: The study of quantum systems evolving from initial states to distinguishable, orthogonal final states is important for information processing applications such as quantum computing and quantum metrology. However, for most unitary evolutions and initial states the system does not evolve to an orthogonal quantum state. Here, we ask what proportion of quantum states evolves to nearly orthogonal systems as a function of the dimensionality of the Hilbert space of the system, and numerically study the evolution of quantum states in low-dimensional Hilbert spaces. We find that, as well as the speed of dynamical evolution, the level of maximum distinguishability depends critically on the Hamiltonian of the system.

id: 1409.2316
title: Algebraic metrology: Pretty good states and bounds
authors: Michalis Skotiniotis, Florian Fr?wis, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Barbara Kraus
comments: 19 pages, including 5 appendices with detailed proofs and three figures. Comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2316
abstract: We investigate quantum metrology using a Lie algebraic approach for a class of Hamiltonians, including local and nearest-neighbor interaction Hamiltonians. Using this Lie algebraic formulation, we identify and construct highly symmetric states that admit Heisenberg scaling in precision in the absence of noise, and investigate their performance in the presence of noise. To this aim we perform a numerical scaling analysis, and derive upper bounds on the quantum Fisher information.

id: 1409.2374
title: Electromagnetic normal modes and Casimir effects in layered structures
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 50 pages, 21 figures, more than 400 equations
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 155457 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2374
abstract: We derive a general procedure for finding the electromagnetic normal modes in layered structures. We apply this procedure to planar, spherical and cylindrical structures. These normal modes are important in a variety of applications. They are the only input needed in calculations of Casimir interactions. We present explicit expression for the condition for modes and Casimir energy for a large number of specific geometries. The layers are allowed to be two-dimensional so graphene and graphene-like sheets as well as two-dimensional electron gases can be handled within the formalism. Also forces on atoms in layered structures are obtained. One side-result is the van der Waals and Casimir-Polder interaction between two atoms.

id: 1409.2419
title: Experimental protection against evolution of states in a subspace via a super-Zeno scheme on an NMR quantum information processor
authors: Harpreet Singh, Arvind, Kavita Dorai
comments: 9 pages Revtex4-1 11 figures, Minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052329 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2419
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the freezing of evolution of quantum states in one- and two-dimensional subspaces of two qubits, on an NMR quantum information processor. State evolution was frozen and leakage of the state from its subspace to an orthogonal subspace was successfully prevented using super-Zeno sequences, comprising of a set of inverting radio frequency (rf) pulses punctuated by pre-selected time intervals. We demonstrate the efficacy of the scheme by preserving different types of states, including separable and maximally entangled states in one- and two-dimensional subspaces of two qubits. The change in the experimental density matrices was tracked by carrying out full state tomography at several time points. We use the fidelity measure for the one-dimensional case and the leakage (fraction) into the orthogonal subspace for the two-dimensional case, as qualitative indicators to estimate the resemblance of the density matrix at a later time to the initially prepared density matrix. For the case of entangled states, we additionally compute an entanglement parameter to indicate the presence of entanglement in the state at different times. We experimentally demonstrate that the super-Zeno scheme is able to successfully confine state evolution to the one- or two-dimensional subspace being protected.

id: 1409.2454
title: Why QBism is not the Copenhagen interpretation and what John Bell might have thought of it
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 14 pages. Based on a talk at the conference "Quantum [Un]Speakables II: 50 Years of Bell's Theorem", University of Vienna, June 19, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2454
abstract: Christopher Fuchs and R\"udiger Schack have developed a way of understanding science, which, among other things, resolves many of the conceptual puzzles of quantum mechanics that have vexed people for the past nine decades. They call it QBism. I speculate on how John Bell might have reacted to QBism, and I explain the many ways in which QBism differs importantly from the orthodox ways of thinking about quantum mechanics associated with the term "Copenhagen interpretation."

id: 1409.2468
title: Harmonic Oscillators, Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle and Simultaneous Measurement Precision for Position and Momentum
authors: Donald J. Kouri
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. The claim that a scaled Fourier transform can be used to obtain analysis of quantum harmonic oscillators is incorrect
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2468
abstract: At the recent QSCP XIX, the author claimed a procedure of using a scaled Fourier transform (the scaling being determined by the detailed interaction and particle mass for a harmonic oscillator) to achieve simultaneous resolution of position and momentum greater than the standard Heisenberg value of 1/2. The procedure is, in fact, invalid for quantum mechanics. The purpose of this paper is simply to give the correct analysis of the uncertainty product, thereby clarifying the error made.

id: 1409.2477
title: Fast Quantum Methods for Optimization
authors: Sergio Boixo, Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando Somma
comments: 15 pages (2 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2477
abstract: Discrete combinatorial optimization consists in finding the optimal configuration that minimizes a given discrete objective function. An interpretation of such a function as the energy of a classical system allows us to reduce the optimization problem into the preparation of a low-temperature thermal state of the system. Motivated by the quantum annealing method, we present three strategies to prepare the low-temperature state that exploit quantum mechanics in remarkable ways. We focus on implementations without uncontrolled errors induced by the environment. This allows us to rigorously prove a quantum advantage. The first strategy uses a classical-to-quantum mapping, where the equilibrium properties of a classical system in $d$ spatial dimensions can be determined from the ground state properties of a quantum system also in $d$ spatial dimensions. We show how such a ground state can be prepared by means of quantum annealing, including quantum adiabatic evolutions. This mapping also allows us to unveil some fundamental relations between simulated and quantum annealing. The second strategy builds upon the first one and introduces a technique called spectral gap amplification to reduce the time required to prepare the same quantum state adiabatically. If implemented on a quantum device that exploits quantum coherence, this strategy leads to a quadratic improvement in complexity over the well-known bound of the classical simulated annealing method. The third strategy is not purely adiabatic; instead, it exploits diabatic processes between the low-energy states of the corresponding quantum system. For some problems it results in an exponential speedup (in the oracle model) over the best classical algorithms.

id: 1409.2517
title: Quantum Apices: Identifying Limits of Entanglement, Nonlocality, & Contextuality
authors: Elie Wolfe
comments: Doctoral Thesis for the University of Connecticut
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2517
abstract: This work develops analytic methods to quantitatively demarcate quantum reality from its subset of classical phenomenon, as well as from the superset of general probabilistic theories. Regarding quantum nonlocality, we discuss how to determine the quantum limit of Bell-type linear inequalities. In contrast to semidefinite programming approaches, our method allows for the consideration of inequalities with abstract weights, by means of leveraging the Hermiticity of quantum states. Recognizing that classical correlations correspond to measurements made on separable states, we also introduce a practical method for obtaining sufficient separability criteria. We specifically vet the candidacy of driven and undriven superradiance as schema for entanglement generation. We conclude by reviewing current approaches to quantum contextuality, emphasizing the operational distinction between nonlocal and contextual quantum statistics. We utilize our abstractly-weighted linear quantum bounds to explicitly demonstrate a set of conditional probability distributions which are simultaneously compatible with quantum contextuality while being incompatible with quantum nonlocality. It is noted that this novel statistical regime implies an experimentally-testable target for the Consistent Histories theory of quantum gravity.

id: 1409.2536
title: Coding Theorem and Strong Converse for Quantum Channels
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 5+1 pp, IEEEtran. Posted now, after 15 years, in view of the recent interest in strong converses. Related work by Ogawa & Nagaoka (quant-ph/9808063), and significant subsequent progress in quant-ph/0012127, quant-ph/0206186, arXiv:0903.2838, arXiv:0912.5537, arXiv:1106.3089, arXiv:1108.5327, arXiv:1205.1712, arXiv:1208.1478, arXiv:1301.4927, arXiv:1306.1586, arXiv:1310.7028, arXiv:1401.4161, arXiv:1402.5940, arXiv:1404.5940, arXiv:1405.1797, arXiv:1406.2946, arXiv:1408.3373, arXiv:1408.5328
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 45(7):2481-2485 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2536
abstract: In this correspondence we present a new proof of Holevo's coding theorem for transmitting classical information through quantum channels, and its strong converse. The technique is largely inspired by Wolfowitz's combinatorial approach using types of sequences. As a by-product of our approach which is independent of previous ones, both in the coding theorem and the converse, we can give a new proof of Holevo's information bound.

id: 1409.2550
title: Cavity enhanced transport of excitons
authors: Johannes Schachenmayer, Claudiu Genes, Edoardo Tignone, Guido Pupillo
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, [v2]: Updated reference to complementary work arXiv:1409.2514, [v3]: Update to version accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 196403 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2550
abstract: We show that exciton-type transport in certain materials can be dramatically modified by their inclusion in an optical cavity: the modification of the electromagnetic vacuum mode structure introduced by the cavity leads to transport via delocalized polariton modes rather than through tunneling processes in the material itself. This can help overcome exponential suppression of transmission properties as a function of the system size in the case of disorder and other imperfections. We exemplify massive improvement of transmission for excitonic wave-packets through a cavity, as well as enhancement of steady-state exciton currents under incoherent pumping. These results may have implications for experiments of exciton transport in disordered organic materials. We propose that the basic phenomena can be observed in quantum simulators made of Rydberg atoms, cold molecules in optical lattices, as well as in experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1409.2559
title: Ability of stabilizer quantum error correction to protect itself from its own imperfection
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 9 pages, 3 tables, final accepted version for publication in Physical Review A (v2: improved main theorem, slightly expanded each section, reformatted for readability, v3: corrected an error and typos in the proof of Theorem 2, v4: edited language)
journal: Physical Review A, 90 (2014) 062304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2559
abstract: The theory of stabilizer quantum error correction allows us to actively stabilize quantum states and simulate ideal quantum operations in a noisy environment. It is critical is to correctly diagnose noise from its syndrome and nullify it accordingly. However, hardware that performs quantum error correction itself is inevitably imperfect in practice. Here, we show that stabilizer codes possess a built-in capability of correcting errors not only on quantum information but also on faulty syndromes extracted by themselves. Shor's syndrome extraction for fault-tolerant quantum computation is naturally improved. This opens a path to realizing the potential of stabilizer quantum error correction hidden within an innocent looking choice of generators and stabilizer operators that have been deemed redundant.

id: 1409.2567
title: Improving the precision of weak measurements by postselection
authors: Shengshi Pang, Todd A. Brun
comments: 10pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2567
abstract: Postselected weak measurement is a useful protocol to amplify weak physical effects. However, there has recently been controversy over whether it gives any advantage in precision. While it is now clear that retaining failed postselections can yield more Fisher information than discarding them, the advantage of postselecting weak measurement itself still remains to be clarified. In this paper, we address this problem by studying two widely used estimation strategies: averaging measurement results, and maximum likelihood estimation, respectively. For the first strategy, we find a surprising result that squeezed coherent states of the pointer can give postselected weak measurements a higher signal-to-noise ratio than non-postselected ones while all normal coherent states cannot, which suggests that raising the precision of weak measurements by postselection calls for the presence of "nonclassicality" in the pointer states. For the second strategy, we show that the quantum Fisher information of postselected weak measurements is generally larger than that of non-postselected weak measurements even without including the failed postselection events, but the gap can be closed with a proper choice of system states.

id: 1409.2594
title: A Direct Coupling Coherent Quantum Observer for a Single Qubit Finite Level Quantum System
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A preliminary version of this paper has been accepted to appear in the 2014 Australian Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2594
abstract: This paper considers the problem of constructing a direct coupling quantum observer for a single qubit finite level quantum system plant. The proposed observer is a single mode linear quantum system which is shown to be able to estimate one of the plant variables in a time averaged sense. A numerical example and simulations are included to illustrate the properties of the observer.

id: 1409.2626
title: A Statistical Theory of Designed Quantum Transport Across Disordered Networks
authors: Mattia Walschaers, Roberto Mulet, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 042137 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2626
abstract: We explain how centrosymmetry, together with a dominant doublet in the local density of states, can guarantee interference-assisted, strongly enhanced, strictly coherent quantum excitation transport between two predefined sites of a random network of two-level systems. Starting from a generalisation of the chaos assisted tunnelling mechanism, we formulate a random matrix theoretical framework for the analytical prediction of the transfer time distribution, of lower bounds of the transfer efficiency, and of the scaling behaviour of characteristic statistical properties with the size of the network.

id: 1409.2643
title: Entanglement dynamics of quantum states in a beam splitter
authors: M. Rohith, R. Rajeev, C. Sudheesh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2643
abstract: We theoretically study the dynamics of entangled states created in a beam splitter with a nonlinear Kerr medium placed into one input arm. Entanglement dynamics of initial classical and nonclassical states are studied and compared. Signatures of revival and fractional revival phenomena exhibited during the time evolution of states in the Kerr medium are captured in the entangled states produced by the beam splitter. Maximum entanglement is obtained at the instants of collapses of wave packets in the medium. Our analysis shows increase in entanglement with increase in the degree of nonclassicality of the initial states considered. We show that the states generated at the output of the beam splitter using initial nonclassical states are more robust against decoherence, due to photon absorption by an environment, than those formed by an initial classical state.

id: 1409.2647
title: Electron-spin dynamics in elliptically polarized light waves
authors: Heiko Bauke, Sven Ahrens, Rainer Grobe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2647
abstract: We investigate the coupling of the spin angular momentum of light beams with elliptical polarization to the spin degree of freedom of free electrons. It is shown that this coupling, which is of similar origin as the well-known spin-orbit coupling, can lead to spin precession. The spin-precession frequency is proportional to the product of the laser-field's intensity and its spin density. The electron-spin dynamics is analyzed by employing exact numerical methods as well as time-dependent perturbation theory based on the fully relativistic Dirac equation and on the nonrelativistic Pauli equation that is amended by a relativistic correction that accounts for the light's spin density.

id: 1409.2666
title: Quantum filtering for multiple input multiple output systems driven by arbitrary zero-mean jointly Gaussian input fields
authors: Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: 19 pages, no figures. Published in a special issue of the Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics dedicated to the memory of Slava Belavkin
journal: Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics 21(3), pp. 386-398 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2666
abstract: In this paper, we treat the quantum filtering problem for multiple input multiple output (MIMO) Markovian open quantum systems coupled to multiple boson fields in an arbitrary zero-mean jointly Gaussian state, using the reference probability approach formulated by Bouten and van Handel as a quantum version of a well-known method of the same name from classical nonlinear filtering theory, and exploiting the generalized Araki-Woods representation of Gough. This includes Gaussian field states such as vacuum, squeezed vacuum, thermal, and squeezed thermal states as special cases. The contribution is a derivation of the general quantum filtering equation (or stochastic master equation as they are known in the quantum optics community) in the full MIMO setup for any zero-mean jointy Gaussian input field states, up to some mild rank assumptions on certain matrices relating to the measurement vector.

id: 1409.2670
title: Open quantum systems with loss and gain
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: Correction of a few misprints; addition of a few new references; paper will appear in a Special Issue of International Journal of Theoretical Physics related to several conferences on PHHQP in 2014; accepted 10 October 2014; available: DOI 10.1007/s10773-014-2375-3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2670
abstract: We consider different properties of small open quantum systems coupled to an environment and described by a non-Hermitian Hamilton operator. Of special interest is the non-analytical behavior of the eigenvalues in the vicinity of singular points, the so-called exceptional points (EPs), at which the eigenvalues of two states coalesce and the corresponding eigenfunctions are linearly dependent from one another. The phases of the eigenfunctions are not rigid in approaching an EP and providing therewith the possibility to put information from the environment into the system. All characteristic properties of non-Hermitian quantum systems hold true not only for natural open quantum systems that suffer loss due to their embedding into the continuum of scattering wavefunctions. They appear also in systems coupled to different layers some of which provide gain to the system. Thereby gain and loss, respectively, may be fixed inside every layer, i.e. characteristic of it.

id: 1409.2672
title: Non-Hermitian oscillators with $T_{d}$ symmetry
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2672
abstract: We analyse some PT-symmetric oscillators with $T_{d}$ symmetry that depend on a potential parameter $g$. We calculate the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for each irreducible representation and for a range of values of $g$. Pairs of eigenvalues coalesce at exceptional points $g_c$; their magnitude roughly decreasing with the magnitude of the eigenvalues. It is difficult to estimate whether there is a phase transition at a nonzero value of $g$ as conjectured in earlier papers. Group theory and perturbation theory enable one to predict whether a given space-time symmetry leads to real eigenvalues for sufficiently small nonzero values of $g$.

id: 1409.2689
title: Stationary ensemble approximations of dynamic quantum states: Optimizing the Generalized Gibbs Ensemble
authors: Dries Sels, Michiel Wouters
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2689
abstract: We reconsider the non-equilibrium dynamics of closed quantum systems. In particular we focus on the thermalization of integrable systems. Here we show how the generalized Gibbs Ensemble (GGE) can be constructed as the best approximation to the time dependent density matrix. Our procedure allows for a systematic construction of the GGE by a constrained minimization of the distance between the latter and the true state. Moreover, we show that the entropy of the GGE is a direct measure for the quality of the approximation. We apply our method to a quenched hard core bose gas. In contrast to the standard GGE, our correlated GGE properly describes the higher order correlation functions.

id: 1409.2691
title: Slicing the Fock space for state production and protection
authors: R. F. Rossetti, G. D. de Moraes Neto, F. O. Prado, F. Brito, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2691
abstract: In this letter we present a protocol to engineer interactions confined to subspaces of the Fock space in trapped ions: we show how to engineer upper-, lower-bounded and sliced Jaynes-Cummings (JC) and anti-Jaynes-Cummings (AJC) Hamiltonians. The upper-bounded (lower-bounded) interaction acting upon Fock subspaces ranging from $\left\vert 0\right\rangle $ to $\left\vert M\right\rangle $ ($\left\vert N\right\rangle $ to$\ \infty$), and the sliced one confined to Fock subspace ranging from $\left\vert M\right\rangle $ to $\left\vert N\right\rangle $, whatever $M<N$. Whereas the upper-bounded JC or AJC interactions is shown to drive any initial state to a steady Fock state $\left\vert N\right\rangle $, the sliced one is shown to produce steady superpositions of Fock states confined to the sliced subspace $\left\{ \left\vert N\right\rangle \text{,}\left\vert N+1\right\rangle \right\} $.

id: 1409.2708
title: Relativistic quantum pseudo-telepathy
authors: Piotr Gawron, ?ukasz Pawela
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1211.1213
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2708
abstract: We analyze the impact of the Unruh effect on the quantum Magic Square game. We find the values of acceleration parameter for which quantum strategy yields higher players' winning probability than classical strategy.

id: 1409.2746
title: A simple and robust method for characterization of afterpulsing in single photon detectors
authors: Gerhard Humer, Momtchil Peev, Christoph Schaeff, Sven Ramelow, Mario Stip?evi?, Rupert Ursin
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2746
abstract: Single photon detectors are important for a wide range of applications each with their own specific requirements, which makes necessary the precise characterization of detectors. Here, we present a simple and accurate methodology of characterizing dark count rate, detection efficiency, and after-pulsing in single photon detectors purely based on their counting statistics. We demonstrate our new method on a custom-made, free-running single photon detector based on an InGaAs based avalanche photo diode (APD), though the methodology presented here is applicable for any type of single photon detector.

id: 1409.2766
title: Covariant local field theory equations following from the relativistic canonical quantum mechanics of arbitrary spin
authors: Volodimir Simulik
comments: 66 pages. It is not a review paper. The list of results is long and the systematic presentation is preferable
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2766
abstract: The new relativistic equations of motion for the particles with spin s=1, s=3/2, s=2 and nonzero mass have been introduced. The description of the relativistic canonical quantum mechanics of the arbitrary mass and spin has been given. The link between the relativistic canonical quantum mechanics of the arbitrary spin and the covariant local field theory has been found. The manifestly covariant field equations that follow from the quantum mechanical equations, have been considered. The covariant local field theory equations for spin s=(1,1) particle-antiparticle doublet, spin s=(1,0,1,0) particle-antiparticle multiplet, spin s=(3/2,3/2) particle-antiparticle doublet, spin s=(2,2) particle-antiparticle doublet, spin s=(2,0,2,0) particle-antiparticle multiplet and spin s=(2,1,2,1) particle-antiparticle multiplet have been introduced. The Maxwell-like equations for the boson with spin s=1 and $m>0$ have been introduced as well.

id: 1409.2781
title: Photon-pair generation in photonic crystal fibrebre with a 1.5GHz modelocked VECSEL
authors: Oliver J. Morris, Robert J.A. Francis-Jones, Keith G. Wilcox, Anne C. Tropper, Peter J. Mosley
comments: 17 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: Optics Communications 327 (2014) 39-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2781
abstract: Four-wave mixing (FWM) in optical fibre is a leading technique for generating high-quality photon pairs. We report the generation of photon pairs by spontaneous FWM in photonic crystal fibre pumped by a 1.5 GHz repetition-rate vertical-external-cavity surface-emitting laser (VECSEL). The photon pairs exhibit high count rates and a coincidence-to-accidental ratio of over 80. The VECSEL's high repetition-rate, high average power, tunability, and small footprint make this an attractive source for quantum key distribution and photonic quantum-state engineering.

id: 1409.2790
title: The Essence of Quantum Theory for Computers
authors: W.C. Parke
comments: To be published
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2790
abstract: Quantum computers take advantage of interfering quantum alternatives in order to handle problems that might be too time consuming with algorithms based on classical logic. Developing quantum computers requires new ways of thinking beyond those in the familiar classical world. To help in this thinking, we give a description of the foundational ideas that hold in all of our successful physical models, including quantum theory. Our emphasis will be on the proper interpretation of our theories, and not just their statements. Our tact will be to build on the concept of information, which lies central to the operation of not just computers, but the Universe. For application to quantum computing, the essence of quantum theory is given, together with special precautions and limitations.

id: 1409.2855
title: Triggered single photon emitters based on stimulated parametric scattering in weakly nonlinear systems
authors: Oleksandr Kyriienko, Timothy C. H. Liew
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063805 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2855
abstract: We introduce a scheme of single photon emission based on four-wave mixing in a three mode system with weak Kerr-type nonlinearity. A highly populated lower energy mode results in strong stimulated scattering of particle pairs out of the central mode, which consequently limits the central mode occupation. Thus, the system can be reduced to a $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinear medium with greatly enhanced interaction constant. As a model setup we consider dipolaritons in semiconductor microcavities. Using the master equation approach we show strong antibunching under continuous wave pump, which largely exceeds the conventional blockade mechanism. Finally, using a pulsed excitation we demonstrate theoretically a triggered single photon emitter in a weakly nonlinear system with 33% emission probability.

id: 1409.2889
title: Time-dependent potential barriers and superarrivals
authors: H. Karami, S. V. Mousavi
comments: Accepted by Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2889
abstract: Scattering of a Gaussian wavepacket from rectangular potential barriers with increasing widths or heights is studied numerically. It is seen that during a certain time interval the time-evolving transmission probability increases compared to the corresponding unperturbed cases. In the literature this effect is known as superarrival in transmission probability. We present a trajectory-based explanation for this effect by using the concept of quantum potential energy and computing a selection of Bohmian trajectories. Relevant parameters in superarrivals are determined for the case that the barrier width increases linearly during the dispersion of the wavepacket. Nonlinear in time perturbation is also considered.

id: 1409.2891
title: Weak Values and Modular Variables From a Quantum Phase Space Perspective
authors: Augusto C. Lobo, Yakir Aharonov, Jeff Tollaksen, Elizabeth M. Berrigan, Clyffe A. Ribeiro
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.5340
journal: Quantum Studies: Mathematics and Foundations, pages 1-36, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2891
abstract: We address two major conceptual developments introduced by Aharonov and collaborators through a \textit{quantum phase space} approach: the concept of \textit{modular variables} devised to explain the phenomena of quantum dynamical non-locality and the \textit{two-state formalism} for Quantum Mechanics which is a retrocausal time-symmetric interpretation of quantum physics which led to the discovery of \textit{weak values.} We propose that a quantum phase space structure underlies these profound physical insights in a unifying manner. For this, we briefly review the Weyl-Wigner and the coherent state formalisms as well as the inherent symplectic structures of quantum projective spaces in order to gain a deeper understanding of the weak value concept. We also review Schwinger's finite quantum kinematics so that we may apply this discrete formalism to understand Aharonov's modular variable concept in a different manner that has been proposed before in the literature. We discuss why we believe that this\ is indeed the correct kinematic framework for the modular variable concept and how this may shine some light on the physical distinction between quantum dynamical non-locality and the kinematic non-locality, generally associated with entangled quantum systems.

id: 1409.2892
title: Storage and retrieval of ultrafast single photons using a room-temperature diamond quantum memory
authors: Duncan G. England, Kent A.G. Fisher, Jean-Philippe W. MacLean, Philip J. Bustard, Rune Lausten, Kevin J. Resch, Benjamin J. Sussman
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 053602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2892
abstract: We report the storage and retrieval of single photons, via a quantum memory, in the optical phonons of room-temperature bulk diamond. The THz-bandwidth heralded photons are generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion and mapped to phonons via a Raman transition, stored for a variable delay, and released on demand. The second-order correlation of the memory output is $g^{(2)}(0) = 0.65 \pm 0.07$, demonstrating preservation of non-classical photon statistics throughout storage and retrieval. The memory is low-noise, high-speed and broadly tunable; it therefore promises to be a versatile light-matter interface for local quantum processing applications.

id: 1409.2904
title: New analytic solution for the heat flow through a general harmonic network
authors: Nahuel Freitas, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial error in the derivation of Eqs. (19) and (20). An update with corrected expressions and a detailed derivation will follow soon
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2904
abstract: We present a new analytic expression for the heat current through a general harmonic network coupled with Ohmic reservoirs. We use a new method that enables us to express the stationary state of the network in terms of the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of a generalized cubic eigenvalue problem. In this way, we obtain exact formulae for the heat current and the local temperature inside the network. Our method does not rely in the usual assumptions of weak coupling to the environments or on the existence of an infinite cutoff in the environmental spectral densities. We use this method to study non-equilibrium processes without the weak coupling and Markovian approximations. As a first application of our method, we revisit the problem of heat conduction in 2D and 3D crystals with binary mass disorder. We complement previous results showing that for small systems the scaling of the heat current with the system size greatly depends on the strength of the interaction between system and reservoirs. This somewhat counter-intuitive result seems not to have been noticed before.

id: 1409.2929
title: Single-photon router: enhancing the transfer rate by the boundary
authors: Jing Lu, Z. H. Wang, Lan Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2929
abstract: We study the transport property of single photon scattered by a two-level system (TLS) in a T-shaped waveguide, which are made of an infinite coupled-resonator waveguide (CRW) and a semi-infinite CRW. The spontaneous emission of the TLS directs single photons form one CRW to the other. Although the transfer rate is different for the wave incident from different CRW, the transfer rate could be unit for the wave incident from the semi-infinite CRW due to the break of the translational symmetry by the presence of boundary.

id: 1409.2933
title: Real-time Information, Uncertainty and Quantum Feedback Control
authors: Bo Qi, Daoyi Dong, Chunlin Chen, Lijun Liu, Zairong Xi
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2933
abstract: Feedback is the core concept in cybernetics and its effective use has made great success in but not limited to the fields of engineering, biology, and computer science. When feedback is used to quantum systems, two major types of feedback control protocols including coherent feedback control (CFC) and measurement-based feedback control (MFC) have been developed. In this paper, we compare the two types of quantum feedback control protocols by focusing on the real-time information used in the feedback loop and the capability in dealing with parameter uncertainty. An equivalent relationship is established between quantum CFC and non-selective quantum MFC in the form of operator-sum representation. Using several examples of quantum feedback control, we show that quantum MFC can theoretically achieve better performance than quantum CFC in stabilizing a quantum state and dealing with Hamiltonian parameter uncertainty. The results enrich understanding of the relative advantages between quantum MFC and quantum CFC, and can provide useful information in choosing suitable feedback protocols for quantum systems.

id: 1409.2935
title: Nonlinear optical magnetometry with accessible in situ optical squeezing
authors: N. Otterstrom, R.C. Pooser, B.J. Lawrie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2935
abstract: We demonstrate compact and accessible squeezed-light magnetometry using four-wave mixing in a single hot rubidium vapor cell. The strong intrinsic coherence of the four wave mixing process results in nonlinear magneto-optical rotation (NMOR) on each mode of a two mode relative-intensity squeezed state. This framework enables 4.7 dB of quantum noise reduction while the opposing polarization rotation signals of the probe and conjugate fields add to increase the total signal to noise ratio.

id: 1409.2940
title: Measurement-Based Noiseless Linear Amplification for Quantum Communication
authors: Helen M. Chrzanowski, Nathan Walk, Syed M. Assad, Jiri Janousek, Sara Hosseini, Timothy C. Ralph, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 7+3 pages, 5+1 figures, close to published version
journal: Nature Photonics, 8, 333 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2940
abstract: Entanglement distillation is an indispensable ingredient in extended quantum communication networks. Distillation protocols are necessarily non-deterministic and require advanced experimental techniques such as noiseless amplification. Recently it was shown that the benefits of noiseless amplification could be extracted by performing a post-selective filtering of the measurement record to improve the performance of quantum key distribution. We apply this protocol to entanglement degraded by transmission loss of up to the equivalent of 100km of optical fibre. We measure an effective entangled resource stronger than that achievable by even a maximally entangled resource passively transmitted through the same channel. We also provide a proof-of-principle demonstration of secret key extraction from an otherwise insecure regime. The measurement-based noiseless linear amplifier offers two advantages over its physical counterpart: ease of implementation and near optimal probability of success. It should provide an effective and versatile tool for a broad class of entanglement-based quantum communication protocols.

id: 1409.2976
title: Optimal quantum control of Bose-Einstein condensates in magnetic microtraps: Comparison of GRAPE and Krotov optimization schemes
authors: Georg J?ger, Daniel Reich, Michael H. Goerz, Christiane P. Koch, Ulrich Hohenester
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2976
abstract: We study optimal quantum control of the dynamics of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates: The targets are to split a condensate, residing initially in a single well, into a double well, without inducing excitation; and to excite a condensate from the ground to the first excited state of a single well. The condensate is described in the mean-field approximation of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We compare two optimization approaches in terms of their performance and ease of use, namely gradient ascent pulse engineering (GRAPE) and Krotov's method. Both approaches are derived from the variational principle but differ in the way the control is updated, additional costs are accounted for, and second order derivative information can be included. We find that GRAPE produces smoother control fields and works in a black-box manner, whereas Krotov with a suitably chosen step size parameter converges faster but can produce sharp features in the control fields.

id: 1409.3025
title: Efficient generation of twin photons at telecom wavelengths with 10 GHz repetition-rate tunable comb laser
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Ryosuke Shimizu, Isao Morohashi, Kentaro Wakui, Masahiro Takeoka, Shuro Izumi, Takahide Sakamoto, Mikio Fujiwara, Taro Yamashita, Shigehito Miki, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 7468 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3025
abstract: Efficient generation and detection of indistinguishable twin photons are at the core of quantum information and communications technology (Q-ICT). These photons are conventionally generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC), which is a probabilistic process, and hence occurs at a limited rate, which restricts wider applications of Q-ICT. To increase the rate, one had to excite SPDC by higher pump power, while it inevitably produced more unwanted multi-photon components, harmfully degrading quantum interference visibility.Here we solve this problem by using recently developed 10 GHz repetition-rate-tunable comb laser, combined with a group-velocity-matched nonlinear crystal, and superconducting nanowire single photon detectors. They operate at telecom wavelengths more efficiently with less noises than conventional schemes, those typically operate at visible and near infrared wavelengths generated by a 76 MHz Ti Sapphire laser and detected by Si detectors. We could show high interference visibilities, which are free from the pump-power induced degradation. Our laser, nonlinear crystal, and detectors constitute a powerful tool box, which will pave a way to implementing quantum photonics circuits with variety of good and low-cost telecom components, and will eventually realize scalable Q-ICT in optical infra-structures.

id: 1409.3032
title: Quantum harmonic oscillator state synthesis by reservoir engineering
authors: D. Kienzler, H.-Y. Lo, B. Keitch, L. de Clercq, F. Leupold, F. Lindenfelser, M. Marinelli, V. Negnevitsky, J. P. Home
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, typos corrected
journal: Science 347,6217 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3032
abstract: The robust generation of quantum states in the presence of decoherence is a primary challenge for explorations of quantum mechanics at larger scales. Using the mechanical motion of a single trapped ion, we utilize reservoir engineering to generate squeezed, coherent and displaced-squeezed states as steady states in the presence of noise. We verify the created state by generating two-state correlated spin-motion Rabi oscillations resulting in high contrast measurements. For both cooling and measurement, we use spin-oscillator couplings that provide transitions between oscillator states in an engineered Fock state basis. Our approach should facilitate studies of entanglement, quantum computation, and open-system quantum simulations in a wide range of physical systems.

id: 1409.3085
title: A Formulation of Lattice Gauge Theories for Quantum Simulations
authors: Erez Zohar, Michele Burrello
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 054506 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3085
abstract: We examine the Kogut-Susskind formulation of lattice gauge theories under the light of fermionic and bosonic degrees of freedom that provide a description useful to the development of quantum simulators of gauge invariant models. We consider both discrete and continuous gauge groups and adopt a realistic multi-component Fock space for the definition of matter degrees of freedom. In particular, we express the Hamiltonian of the gauge theory and the Gauss law in terms of Fock operators. The gauge fields are described in two different bases, based on either group elements or group representations. This formulation allows for a natural scheme to achieve a consistent truncation of the Hilbert space for continuous groups, and provides helpful tools to study the connections of gauge theories with topological quantum double and string-net models for discrete groups. Several examples, including the case of the discrete $D_3$ gauge group, are presented.

id: 1409.3093
title: Gaussian Noise Sensitivity and BosonSampling
authors: Gil Kalai, Guy Kindler
comments: Version 2: A few corrections and additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3093
abstract: We study the sensitivity to noise of |permanent(X)|^2 for random real and complex n x n Gaussian matrices X, and show that asymptotically the correlation between the noisy and noiseless outcomes tends to zero when the noise level is {\omega}(1)/n. This suggests that, under certain reasonable noise models, the probability distributions produced by noisy BosonSampling are very sensitive to noise. We also show that when the amount of noise is constant the noisy value of |permanent(X)|^2 can be approximated efficiently on a classical computer. These results seem to weaken the possibility of demonstrating quantum-speedup via BosonSampling without quantum fault-tolerance.

id: 1409.3097
title: An introduction to quantum machine learning
authors: M. Schuld, I. Sinayskiy, F. Petruccione
comments: to appear in Contemporary Physics; 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3097
abstract: Machine learning algorithms learn a desired input-output relation from examples in order to interpret new inputs. This is important for tasks such as image and speech recognition or strategy optimisation, with growing applications in the IT industry. In the last couple of years, researchers investigated if quantum computing can help to improve classical machine learning algorithms. Ideas range from running computationally costly algorithms or their subroutines efficiently on a quantum computer to the translation of stochastic methods into the language of quantum theory. This contribution gives a systematic overview of the emerging field of quantum machine learning. It presents the approaches as well as technical details in an accessable way, and discusses the potential of a future theory of quantum learning.

id: 1409.3131
title: A subquantum arrow of time
authors: Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 10 pages Latex
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser., vol 504 (2014), (1), 012008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3131
abstract: The outcome of a single quantum experiment is unpredictable, except in a pure-state limit. The definite process that takes place in the apparatus may either be intrinsically random or be explainable from a deeper theory. While the first scenario is the standard lore, the latter implies that quantum mechanics is emergent. In that case, it is likely that one has to reconsider radiation by accelerated charges as a physical effect, which thus must be compensated by an energy input. Stochastic electrodynamics, for example, asserts that the vacuum energy arises from classical fluctuations with energy $\frac{1}{2}\hbar\omega$ per mode. In such theories the stability of the hydrogen ground state will arise from energy input from fluctuations and output by radiation, hence due to an energy throughput. That flux of energy constitutes an arrow of time, which we call the "subquantum arrow of time". It is related to the stability of matter and it is more fundamental than, e.g., the thermodynamic and cosmological arrows.

id: 1409.3172
title: Robust and efficient in situ quantum control
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Osama Moussa
comments: #QuantumControl #funnypictures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 052306 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3172
abstract: Precision control of quantum systems is the driving force for both quantum technology and the probing of physics at the quantum and nano-scale. We propose an implementation independent method for in situ quantum control that leverages recent advances in the direct estimation of quantum gate fidelity. Our algorithm takes account of the stochasticity of the problem and is suitable for closed-loop control and requires only a constant number of fidelity estimating experiments per iteration independent of the dimension of the control space. It is efficient and robust to both statistical and technical noise.

id: 1409.3182
title: Ground state connectivity of local Hamiltonians
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Jamie Sikora
comments: 29 pages; v2 includes a new result concerning the tightness of the Traversal Lemma, as well as minor changes throughout to address anonymous referee comments (we thank the referees for their feedback)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3182
abstract: The study of ground state energies of local Hamiltonians has played a fundamental role in quantum complexity theory. In this paper, we take a new direction by introducing the physically motivated notion of "ground state connectivity" of local Hamiltonians, which captures problems in areas ranging from quantum stabilizer codes to quantum memories. We show that determining how "connected" the ground space of a local Hamiltonian is can range from QCMA-complete to NEXP-complete. As a result, we obtain a natural QCMA-complete problem, a goal which has generally proven difficult since the conception of QCMA over a decade ago. Our proofs rely on a new technical tool, the Traversal Lemma, which analyzes the Hilbert space a local unitary evolution must traverse under certain conditions. We show that this lemma is tight up to a polynomial factor with respect to the length of the unitary evolution in question.

id: 1409.3204
title: Solution to the quantum Zermelo navigation problem
authors: Dorje C. Brody, David Meier
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 100502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3204
abstract: The solution to the problem of finding a time-optimal control Hamiltonian to generate a given unitary gate, in an environment in which there exists an uncontrollable ambient Hamiltonian (e.g., a background field), is obtained. In the classical context, finding the time-optimal way to steer a ship in the presence of a background wind or current is known as the Zermelo navigation problem, whose solution can be obtained by working out geodesic curves on a space equipped with a Randers metric. The solution to the quantum Zermelo problem, which is shown here to take a remarkably simple form, is likewise obtained by finding explicit solutions to the geodesic equations of motion associated with a Randers metric on the space of unitary operators. The result reveals that the optimal control in a sense `goes along with the wind'.

id: 1409.3208
title: Normalizer circuits and a Gottesman-Knill theorem for infinite-dimensional systems
authors: Juan Bermejo-Vega, Cedric Yen-Yu Lin, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 54 pages + appendices. The discussion has been extended in this version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3208
abstract: $\textit{Normalizer circuits}$ [1,2] are generalized Clifford circuits that act on arbitrary finite-dimensional systems $\mathcal{H}_{d_1}\otimes ... \otimes \mathcal{H}_{d_n}$ with a standard basis labeled by the elements of a finite Abelian group $G=\mathbb{Z}_{d_1}\times... \times \mathbb{Z}_{d_n}$. Normalizer gates implement operations associated with the group $G$ and can be of three types: quantum Fourier transforms, group automorphism gates and quadratic phase gates. In this work, we extend the normalizer formalism [1,2] to infinite dimensions, by allowing normalizer gates to act on systems of the form $\mathcal{H}_\mathbb{Z}^{\otimes a}$: each factor $\mathcal{H}_\mathbb{Z}$ has a standard basis labeled by $\textit{integers}$ $\mathbb{Z}$, and a Fourier basis labeled by $\textit{angles}$, elements of the circle group $\mathbb{T}$. Normalizer circuits become hybrid quantum circuits acting both on continuous- and discrete-variable systems. We show that infinite-dimensional normalizer circuits can be efficiently simulated classically with a generalized $\textit{stabilizer formalism}$ for Hilbert spaces associated with groups of the form $\mathbb{Z}^a\times \mathbb{T}^b \times \mathbb{Z}_{d_1}\times...\times \mathbb{Z}_{d_n}$. We develop new techniques to track stabilizer-groups based on normal forms for group automorphisms and quadratic functions. We use our normal forms to reduce the problem of simulating normalizer circuits to that of finding general solutions of systems of mixed real-integer linear equations [3] and exploit this fact to devise a robust simulation algorithm: the latter remains efficient even in pathological cases where stabilizer groups become infinite, uncountable and non-compact. The techniques developed in this paper might find applications in the study of fault-tolerant quantum computation with superconducting qubits [4,5].

id: 1409.3258
title: Extracting work from absence of correlations
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Michele Pastena
comments: 4+8 pages, 1 figure. v2: same results, but hopefully more readable now
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3258
abstract: As Landauer's Principle and Szilard's engine illustrate, the reduction of a system's entropy costs work, while its increase can be used to extract work from a heat bath. One consequence in standard thermodynamics is that correlations have work value: the total entropy of two correlated systems is less than the sum of their local entropies, and thus work can be extracted if this correlation is consumed. In this paper, we show that the situation is surprisingly different for microscopic and quantum systems far from the thermodynamic limit: quite the contrary, absence of correlations can be used to extract work. Recently, it has been shown that the possible state transitions in the microscopic regime are severely limited by an infinite family of "second laws". We show that stochastic independence, if consumed as a resource, allows to overcome these limitations, to extract additional work reliably, and to achieve all state transitions that are otherwise only possible in the thermodynamic limit. Our result also yields an operational non-asymptotic characterization of von Neumann (neg-)entropy in terms of a majorization relation which generalizes the trumping relation from entanglement theory.

id: 1409.3305
title: Fixed-point quantum search with an optimal number of queries
authors: Theodore J. Yoder, Guang Hao Low, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages plus references, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 210501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3305
abstract: Grover's quantum search and its generalization, quantum amplitude amplification, provide quadratic advantage over classical algorithms for a diverse set of tasks, but are tricky to use without knowing beforehand what fraction $\lambda$ of the initial state is comprised of the target states. In contrast, fixed-point search algorithms need only a reliable lower bound on this fraction, but, as a consequence, lose the very quadratic advantage that makes Grover's algorithm so appealing. Here we provide the first version of amplitude amplification that achieves fixed-point behavior without sacrificing the quantum speedup. Our result incorporates an adjustable bound on the failure probability, and, for a given number of oracle queries, guarantees that this bound is satisfied over the broadest possible range of $\lambda$.

id: 1409.3312
title: QBism: A Critical Appraisal
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 47 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3312
abstract: By insisting that the formal apparatus of quantum mechanics is a probability calculus, QBism opens the door to a deeper understanding of what quantum mechanics is trying to tell us. By insisting on a subjectivist Bayesian interpretation of probability in the context of quantum foundations, it closes this door again. To find the proper balance between subject and object, one must turn to Niels Bohr, the alleged "obscurity" of whose views casts a poor light on the current state of foundational research.

id: 1409.3323
title: The Structure of Promises in Quantum Speedups
authors: Shalev Ben-David
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3323
abstract: It has long been known that in the usual black-box model, one cannot get super-polynomial quantum speedups without some promise on the inputs. In this paper, we examine certain types of symmetric promises, and show that they also cannot give rise to super-polynomial quantum speedups. We conclude that exponential quantum speedups only occur given "structured" promises on the input. Specifically, we show that there is a polynomial relationship of degree $12$ between $D(f)$ and $Q(f)$ for any function $f$ defined on permutations (elements of $\{0,1,\dots, M-1\}^n$ in which each alphabet element occurs exactly once). We generalize this result to all functions $f$ defined on orbits of the symmetric group action $S_n$ (which acts on an element of $\{0,1,\dots, M-1\}^n$ by permuting its entries). We also show that when $M$ is constant, any function $f$ defined on a "symmetric set" - one invariant under $S_n$ - satisfies $R(f)=O(Q(f)^{12(M-1)})$.

id: 1409.3341
title: Narrowband biphoton generation in the group delay regime
authors: Luwei Zhao, Yumian Su, Shengwang Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3341
abstract: We study narrow-band biphoton generation from spontaneous four-wave mixing with electromagnetically induced transparency in a laser cooled atomic ensemble. We compare two formalisms in the interaction and Heisenberg pictures, and find that they agree in the low gain regime but disagree in the high gain regime. We extend both formalisms accounting the non-uniformity in atomic density and the driving laser fields. We find that for a fixed optical depth and a weak and far-detuned pump laser beam, the two-photon waveform is independent of the atomic density distribution. However, the spatial profiles of the two driving laser beams have significant effects on the biphoton temporal waveform. We predict that waveform shaping in time domain can be achieved by controlling the spatial profiles of the driving laser fields.

id: 1409.3386
title: On the mathematical foundations of mutually unbiased bases
authors: Koen Thas
comments: 6 pages; submitted (September 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3386
abstract: In order to describe the right setting to handle Zauner's conjecture on mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) (saying that in $\mathbb{C}^d$, a set of MUBs of the theoretical maximal size $d + 1$ exists only if $d$ is a prime power), we pose some fundamental questions which naturally arise. Some of these questions have important consequences for the construction theory of (new) sets of maximal MUBs.

id: 1409.3396
title: More about the doubling degeneracy operators associated with Majorana fermions and Yang-Baxter equation
authors: Li-Wei Yu, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 12 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3396
abstract: A new realization of doubling degeneracy based on emergent Majorana operator $\Gamma$ presented by Lee-Wilczek has been made. The Hamiltonian can be obtained through the new type of solution of Yang-Baxter equation, i.e. $\breve{R}(\theta)$-matrix. For 2-body interaction, $\breve{R}(\theta)$ gives the "superconducting" chain that is the same as 1D Kitaev chain model. The 3-body Hamiltonian commuting with $\Gamma$ is derived by 3-body $\breve{R}_{123}$-matrix, we thus show that the essence of the doubling degeneracy is due to $[\breve{R}(\theta), \Gamma]=0$. We also show that the extended $\Gamma'$-operator is an invariant of braid group $B_N$ for odd $N$. Moreover, with the extended $\Gamma'$-operator, we construct the high dimensional matrix representation of solution to Yang-Baxter equation and find its application in constructing $2N$-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state for odd $N$.

id: 1409.3398
title: Observation of generalized optomechanical coupling and cooling on cavity resonance
authors: Andreas Sawadsky, Henning Kaufer, Ramon Moghadas Nia, Sergey P. Tarabrin, Farid Ya. Khalili, Klemens Hammerer, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 043601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3398
abstract: Optomechanical coupling between a light field and the motion of a cavity mirror via radiation pressure plays an important role for the exploration of macroscopic quantum physics and for the detection of gravitational waves (GWs). It has been used to cool mechanical oscillators into their quantum ground states and has been considered to boost the sensitivity of GW detectors, e.g. via the optical spring effect. Here, we present the experimental characterization of generalized, that is, dispersive and dissipative optomechanical coupling, with a macroscopic (1.5mm)^2-sized silicon nitride (SiN) membrane in a cavity-enhanced Michelson-type interferometer. We report for the first time strong optomechanical cooling based on dissipative coupling, even on cavity resonance, in excellent agreement with theory. Our result will allow for new experimental regimes in macroscopic quantum physics and GW detection.

id: 1409.3424
title: Selective dynamical decoupling for quantum state transfer
authors: Holger Frydrych, Anton¨ªn Hoskovec, Gernot Alber, Igor Jex
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48 (2015) 025501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3424
abstract: State transfer across discrete quantum networks is one of the elementary tasks of quantum information processing. Its aim is the faithful placement of information into a specific position in the network. However, all physical systems suffer from imperfections, which can severely limit the transfer fidelity. We present selective dynamical decoupling schemes which are capable of stabilizing imperfect quantum state transfer protocols on the model of a bent linear qubit chain. The efficiency of the schemes is tested and verified in numerical simulations on a number of realistic cases. The simulations demonstrate that these selective dynamical decoupling schemes are capable of suppressing unwanted errors in quantum state transfer protocols efficiently.

id: 1409.3426
title: No-Signalling Assisted Zero-Error Capacity of Quantum Channels and an Information Theoretic Interpretation of the Lovasz Number
authors: Runyao Duan, Andreas Winter
comments: 43 pages, 4 figures (eps). V2 has a new title, several small errors corrected and new results on channel simulation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3426
abstract: We study the one-shot zero-error classical capacity of a quantum channel assisted by quantum no-signalling correlations, and the reverse problem of exact simulation of a prescribed channel by a noiseless classical one. Quantum no-signalling correlations are viewed as two-input and two-output completely positive and trace preserving maps with linear constraints enforcing that the device cannot signal. Both problems lead to simple semidefinite programmes (SDPs) that depend only the Kraus operator space of the channel. In particular, we show that the zero-error classical simulation cost is precisely the conditional min-entropy of the Choi-Jamiolkowski matrix of the given channel. The zero-error classical capacity is given by a similar-looking but different SDP; the asymptotic zero-error classical capacity is the regularization of this SDP, and in general we do not know of any simple form. Interestingly however, for the class of classical-quantum channels, we show that the asymptotic capacity is given by a much simpler SDP, which coincides with a semidefinite generalization of the fractional packing number suggested earlier by Aram Harrow. This finally results in an operational interpretation of the celebrated Lovasz $\vartheta$ function of a graph as the zero-error classical capacity of the graph assisted by quantum no-signalling correlations, the first information theoretic interpretation of the Lovasz number.

id: 1409.3435
title: Quantum Gibbs Samplers: the commuting case
authors: Michael J. Kastoryano, Fernando G. S. L. Brandao
comments: 42 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3435
abstract: We analyze the problem of preparing quantum Gibbs states of lattice spin Hamiltonians with local and commuting terms on a quantum computer and in nature. Our central result is an equivalence between the behavior of correlations in the Gibbs state and the mixing time of the semigroup which drives the system to thermal equilibrium (the Gibbs sampler). We introduce a framework for analyzing the correlation and mixing characteristics of quantum Gibbs states and quantum Gibbs samplers, which is rooted in the theory of non-commutative Lp spaces. We consider two distinct classes of Gibbs samplers, one of which being the well-studied Davies generators modelling the dynamics on the system due to weak-coupling with a large Markovian environment. We show that their gap is independent of system size if, and only if, a certain strong form of clustering of correlations holds in the Gibbs state. As concrete applications of our formalism, we show that for every one-dimensional lattice system, or for systems in lattices of any dimension at high enough temperatures, the Gibbs samplers of commuting Hamiltonians are always gapped, giving an efficient way of preparing these states on a quantum computer.

id: 1409.3437
title: A cavity QED realization of a quasi-random walk for atoms
authors: T. Hinkel, T. Griesser, H. Ritsch, C. Genes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3437
abstract: We consider the time dependent dynamics of an atom in a two-color pumped cavity, longitudinally through a side mirror and transversally via direct driving of the atomic dipole. The beating of the two driving frequencies leads to a time dependent effective optical potential that forces the atom into a non-trivial motion, strongly resembling a discrete random walk behavior between lattice sites. We provide both numerical and analytical analysis of such a quasi-random walk behavior.

id: 1409.3478
title: The PBR theorem seen from the eyes of a Bohmian
authors: Aur¨¦lien Drezet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3478
abstract: The aim of this paper is to present an analysis of the new theorem by Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) concerning ontic and epistemic hidden variables in quantum mechanics [Nature Phys. 8, 476 (2012)]. This is a kind of review and defense of my previous critical analysis done in the context of Bohmian mechanics. This is also the occasion for me to review some of the fundamental aspects of Bohmian theory rarely discussed in the literature. The paper is submitted for the issue PBR theorem and Beyond of IJQF (International Journal of Quantum Foundations).

id: 1409.3488
title: Heisenberg scaling with weak measurement: A quantum state discrimination point of view
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Jeff Tollaksen, James E. Troupe, Justin Dressel, Yakir Aharonov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Stud.: Math. Found. 2, 5 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3488
abstract: We examine the results of the paper "Precision metrology using weak measurements", [Zhang, Datta, and Walmsley, arXiv:1310.5302] from a quantum state discrimination point of view. The Heisenberg scaling of the photon number for the precision of the interaction parameter between coherent light and a spin one-half particle (or pseudo-spin) has a simple interpretation in terms of the interaction rotating the quantum state to an orthogonal one. In order to achieve this scaling, the information must be extracted from the spin rather than from the coherent state of light, limiting the applications of the method to phenomena such as cross-phase modulation. We next investigate the effect of dephasing noise, and show a rapid degradation of precision, in agreement with general results in the literature concerning Heisenberg scaling metrology. We also demonstrate that a von Neumann-type measurement interaction can display a similar effect.

id: 1409.3494
title: Decoherence-free subspaces for a quantum register interacting with a spin environment
authors: Pawe? Nale?yty, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 6 pages, 1 table
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1350014 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3494
abstract: We study a model of a quantum spin register interacting with an environment of spin particles in quantum-measurement limit. In the limit of collective decoherence we obtain the form of state vectors that constitute high-dimensional decoherence-free subspaces (DFS). In a more general setting we present sufficient and necessary conditions for existence of low-dimensional DFSs that can be used to construct subspaces of higher dimension.

id: 1409.3525
title: Cryptographic security of quantum key distribution
authors: Christopher Portmann, Renato Renner
comments: 31+23 pages. 28 figures. Comments and questions welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3525
abstract: This work is intended as an introduction to cryptographic security and a motivation for the widely used Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) security definition. We review the notion of security necessary for a protocol to be usable in a larger cryptographic context, i.e., for it to remain secure when composed with other secure protocols. We then derive the corresponding security criterion for QKD. We provide several examples of QKD composed in sequence and parallel with different cryptographic schemes to illustrate how the error of a composed protocol is the sum of the errors of the individual protocols. We also discuss the operational interpretations of the distance metric used to quantify these errors.

id: 1409.3527
title: On The Scattering Process in Quantum Optics
authors: John E. Gough
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013802 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3527
abstract: The derivation of a quantum Markovian model for an opto-mechanical system consisting of a quantum mechanical mirror interacting with quantum optical input fields via radiation pressure is difficult problem which ultimately involves the scattering process of quantum stochastic calculus. We show that while the scattering process may be approximated in a singular limit by regular processes using different schemes, however the limit model is highly sensitive to how the approximation scheme is interpreted mathematically. We find two main types of stochastic limits of regular models, and illustrate the origin of this difference at the level of one particle scattering. As an alternative modelling scheme, we consider models of mirrors as non-trivial dielectric medium with a boundary that is itself quantized. Rather than treating the plane waves for the electromagnetic field, we take the actual physical modes and quantize these. The input-output formalism is then obtained in the far zone where the plane wave approximation is valid. Several examples are considered, and the quantum stochastic model is derived. We also consider the quantum trajectories problem for continual measurement of the reflect output fields, and derive the stochastic master equations for homodyning and photon counting detection to estimate the mirror observables.

id: 1409.3538
title: Disturbance in weak measurements and the difference between quantum and classical weak values
authors: Asger C. Ipsen
comments: welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3538
abstract: The role of measurement induced disturbance in weak measurements is of central importance for the interpretation of the weak value. Uncontrolled disturbance can interfere with the postselection process and make the weak value dependent on the details of the measurement process. Here we develop the concept of a generalized weak measurement for classical and quantum mechanics. The two cases appear remarkably similar, but we point out some important differences. A priori it is not clear what the correct notion of disturbance should be in the context of weak measurements. We consider three different notions and get three different results: (1) For a `strong' definition of disturbance, we find that weak measurements are disturbing. (2) For a weaker definition we find that a general class of weak measurements are non-disturbing, but that one gets weak values which depend on the measurement process. (3) Finally, with respect to an operational definition of the `degree of disturbance', we find that the AAV weak measurements are the least disturbing, but that the disturbance is still non-zero.

id: 1409.3552
title: Efficient synthesis of probabilistic quantum circuits with fallback
authors: Alex Bocharov, Martin Roetteler, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures; added Appendix F on the runtime performance of the synthesis algorithm
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 052317 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3552
abstract: Recently it has been shown that Repeat-Until-Success (RUS) circuits can approximate a given single-qubit unitary with an expected number of $T$ gates of about $1/3$ of what is required by optimal, deterministic, ancilla-free decompositions over the Clifford+$T$ gate set. In this work, we introduce a more general and conceptually simpler circuit decomposition method that allows for synthesis into protocols that probabilistically implement quantum circuits over several universal gate sets including, but not restricted to, the Clifford+$T$ gate set. The protocol, which we call Probabilistic Quantum Circuits with Fallback (PQF), implements a walk on a discrete Markov chain in which the target unitary is an absorbing state and in which transitions are induced by multi-qubit unitaries followed by measurements. In contrast to RUS protocols, the presented PQF protocols terminate after a finite number of steps. Specifically, we apply our method to the Clifford+$T$, Clifford+$V$, and Clifford+$\pi/12$ gate sets to achieve decompositions with expected gate counts of $\log_b(1/\varepsilon)+O(\log(\log(1/\varepsilon)))$, where $b$ is a quantity related to the expansion property of the underlying universal gate set.

id: 1409.3558
title: A universal adiabatic quantum query algorithm
authors: Mathieu Brandeho, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 21 pages, compared to v1, includes a rigorous proof of the correctness of the algorithm based on a version of the adiabatic theorem that does not require a spectral gap
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3558
abstract: Quantum query complexity is known to be characterized by the so-called quantum adversary bound. While this result has been proved in the standard discrete-time model of quantum computation, it also holds for continuous-time (or Hamiltonian-based) quantum computation, due to a known equivalence between these two query complexity models. In this work, we revisit this result by providing a direct proof in the continuous-time model. One originality of our proof is that it draws new connections between the adversary bound, a modern technique of theoretical computer science, and early theorems of quantum mechanics. Indeed, the proof of the lower bound is based on Ehrenfest's theorem, while the upper bound relies on the adiabatic theorem, as it goes by constructing a universal adiabatic quantum query algorithm. Another originality is that we use for the first time in the context of quantum computation a version of the adiabatic theorem that does not require a spectral gap.

id: 1409.3562
title: Strong converse exponent for classical-quantum channel coding
authors: Milan Mosonyi, Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: v4: Section III extended with the discussion of the Renyi divergences with parameter alpha between 0 and 1. 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3562
abstract: We determine the exact strong converse exponent of classical-quantum channel coding, for every rate above the Holevo capacity. Our form of the exponent is an exact analogue of Arimoto's, given as a transform of the Renyi capacities with parameters $\alpha>1$. It is important to note that, unlike in the classical case, there are many inequivalent ways to define the Renyi divergence of states, and hence the R\'enyi capacities of channels. Our exponent is in terms of the Renyi capacities corresponding to a version of the Renyi divergences that has been introduced recently in [M\"uller-Lennert, Dupuis, Szehr, Fehr and Tomamichel, J. Math. Phys. 54, 122203, (2013)], and [Wilde, Winter, Yang, Commun. Math. Phys. 331, (2014)]. Our result adds to the growing body of evidence that this new version is the natural definition for the purposes of strong converse problems.

id: 1409.3563
title: Quantum-proof randomness extractors via operator space theory
authors: Mario Berta, Omar Fawzi, Volkher B. Scholz
comments: This second version is shortened and does not contain the results on SDP relaxations which were part of the first version. These will appear elsewhere in an extended and corrected form
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3563
abstract: Quantum-proof randomness extractors are an important building block for classical and quantum cryptography as well as for device independent randomness amplification and expansion. It is known that some constructions are quantum-proof whereas others are provably not [Gavinsky {\it et al.}, STOC'07]. We argue that the theory of operator spaces offers a natural framework for studying to what extent extractors are secure against quantum adversaries: we first phrase the definition of extractors as a bounded norm condition between normed spaces, and then show that the presence of quantum adversaries corresponds to a completely bounded norm condition between operator spaces. From this we show that very high min-entropy extractors as well as extractors with small output are always (approximately) quantum-proof. We also study a generalization of extractors called randomness condensers. Again, we phrase the definition of condensers as a bounded norm condition and the definition of quantum-proof condensers as a completely bounded norm condition. Seeing condensers as bipartite graphs, we then find that the bounded norm condition corresponds to an instance of a well studied combinatorial problem, called bipartite densest subgraph. Furthermore, using the characterization in terms of operator spaces, we can associate to any condenser a Bell inequality (two-player game) such that classical and quantum strategies are in one-to-one correspondence with classical and quantum attacks on the condenser. Hence, we get for every quantum-proof condenser a Bell inequality that can not be violated by quantum mechanics.

id: 1409.3585
title: Universal Quantum Computation by Scattering in the Fermi-Hubbard Model
authors: Ning Bao, Patrick Hayden, Grant Salton, Nathaniel Thomas
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Hyperref and cleveref LaTeX packages conflicted (fixed by including hyperref before cleveref). Other minor edits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3585
abstract: The Hubbard model may be the simplest model of particles interacting on a lattice, but simulation of its dynamics remains beyond the reach of current numerical methods. In this article, we show that general quantum computations can be encoded into the physics of wave packets propagating through a planar graph, with scattering interactions governed by the fermionic Hubbard model. Therefore, simulating the model on planar graphs is as hard as simulating quantum computation. We give two different arguments, demonstrating that the simulation is difficult both for wave packets prepared as excitations of the fermionic vacuum, and for hole wave packets at filling fraction one-half in the limit of strong coupling. In the latter case, which is described by the t-J model, there is only reflection and no transmission in the scattering events, as would be the case for classical hard spheres. In that sense, the construction provides a quantum mechanical analog of the Fredkin-Toffoli billiard ball computer.

id: 1409.3597
title: Coherent inelastic backscattering of laser light from three isotropic atoms
authors: Andreas Ketterer, Andreas Buchleitner, Vyacheslav N. Shatokhin
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053839 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3597
abstract: We study the impact of double and triple scattering contributions on coherent backscattering of laser light from saturated isotropic atoms, in the helicity preserving polarization channel. Using the recently proposed diagrammatic pump-probe approach, we analytically derive single-atom spectral responses to a classical polychromatic driving field, combine them self-consistently to double and triple scattering processes, and numerically deduce the corresponding elastic and inelastic spectra, as well as the total backscattered intensities. We find that account of the triple scattering contribution leads to a faster decay of phase-coherence with increasing saturation of the atomic transition as compared to double scattering alone, and to a better agreement with the experiment on strontium atoms.

id: 1409.3620
title: Quantum Secret Sharing with error correction
authors: Aziz Mouzali, Fatiha Merazka, Damian Markham
comments: We just add the four figures
journal: Communication in Theoretical Physics vol 58 No 5 page 661,671 year 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3620
abstract: We investigate in this work a quantum error correction on a five-qubits graph state used for secret sharing through five noisy channels. We describe the procedure for the five, seven and nine qubits codes. It is known that the three codes always allow error recovery if only one among the sents qubits is disturbed in the transmitting channel. However, if two qubits and more are disturbed, then the correction will depend on the used code.

id: 1409.3624
title: Wannier-Stark states in double-periodic lattices I: one-dimensional lattices
authors: D.N. Maksimov, E.N. Bulgakov, A.R. Kolovsky
comments: 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3624
abstract: We analyze the Wannier-Stark spectrum of a quantum particle in generic one-dimensional double-periodic lattices. In the limit of weak static field the spectrum is shown to be a superposition of two Wannier-Stark ladders originated from two Bloch subbands. As the strength of the field is increased, the spectrum rearranges itself into a single Wannier-Stark ladder. We derive analytical expressions which describe the rearrangement employing the analogy between the Wannier-Stark problem and the driven two-level system in the strong-coupling regime.

id: 1409.3665
title: A Monotone Measure for Non-Local Correlations
authors: Salman Beigi, Amin Gohari
comments: 43 pages, 1 table, 3 figures, V2: added new results answering some of the open questions raised in the first version, V3: changed title, improved readability
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3665
abstract: No-signaling boxes are the abstract objects for studying non-locality, and wirings are local operations on the space of no-signaling boxes. This means that, no matter how non-local the nature is, the set of physical non-local correlations must be closed under wirings. Then, one approach to identify the non-locality of nature is to characterize closed sets of non-local correlations. Although non-trivial examples of wirings of no-signaling boxes are known, there is no systematic way to study wirings. In particular, given a set of no-signaling boxes, we do not know a general method to prove that it is closed under wirings. In this paper, we propose the first general method to construct such closed sets of non-local correlations. We show that a well-known measure of correlation, called maximal correlation, when appropriately defined for non-local correlations, is monotonically decreasing under wirings. This establishes a conjecture about the impossibility of simulating isotropic boxes from each other, implying the existence of a continuum of closed sets of non-local boxes under wirings. To prove our main result, we introduce some mathematical tools that may be of independent interest: we define a notion of maximal correlation ribbon as a generalization of maximal correlation, and provide a connection between it and a known object called hypercontractivity ribbon; we show that these two ribbons are monotone under wirings too.

id: 1409.3679
title: Quantum correlation exists in any non-product state
authors: Yu Guo, Shengjun Wu
comments: 5 pages
journal: Scientific Reports 4:7179 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3679
abstract: Simultaneous existence of correlation in complementary bases is a fundamental feature of quantum correlation, and we show that this characteristic is present in any non-product bipartite state. We propose a measure via mutually unbiased bases to study this feature of quantum correlation, and compare it with other measures of quantum correlation for several families of bipartite states.

id: 1409.3681
title: Time Reversal and Charge Conjugation in an Embedding Quantum Simulator
authors: Xiang Zhang, Yangchao Shen, Junhua Zhang, Jorge Casanova, Lucas Lamata, Enrique Solano, Man-Hong Yung, Jing-Ning Zhang, Kihwan Kim
comments: 13+12 pages, 3+1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3681
abstract: The understanding of symmetry operations has brought enormous advancements in physics, ranging from elementary particle to condensed matter systems. In quantum mechanics, symmetry operations are described by either unitary or antiunitary operators, where the latter are unphysical transformations that cannot be realized in physical systems. So far, quantum simulators of unitary and dissipative processes, the only allowed physical dynamics, have been realized in key experiments. Here, we present an embedding quantum simulator able to encode unphysical operations in a multilevel single trapped ion. In this sense, we experimentally observe phenomena associated with the nonunitary Majorana dynamics and implement antiunitary symmetry operations, i.e., time reversal and charge conjugation, at arbitrary evolution times. These experiments enhance the toolbox of quantum simulations towards applications involving unphysical operations.

id: 1409.3685
title: A new model for quantum games based on the Marinatto-Weber approach
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 46} (2013) 275301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3685
abstract: The Marinatto-Weber approach to quantum game is a straightforward way to apply the power of quantum mechanics to classical game theory. In the simplest case, the quantum scheme is that players manipulate their own qubits of a two-qubit state either with the identity operator or the Pauli operator $\sigma_{x}$. However, such a simplification of the scheme raises doubt as to whether it could really reflect a quantum game. In this paper we put forward examples which may constitute arguments against the present form of the Marinatto-Weber scheme. Next, we modify the scheme to eliminate the undesirable properties of the protocol by extending the players' strategy sets.

id: 1409.3688
title: A lower bound on the fidelity between two states in terms of their trace-distance and max-relative entropy
authors: Lin Zhang, Kaifeng Bu, Junde Wu
comments: v1: 6 pages, no figure, any comments are welcome! v2:Some little errors are corrected. The third author is included. v3: Some minor revisions are made. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1309.6374
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3688
abstract: Fidelity is a fundamental and ubiquitous concept in quantum information theory. Fuchs-van de Graaf's inequalities deal with bounding fidelity from above and below. In this paper, we give a lower bound on the quantum fidelity between two states in terms of their trace-norm distance and their max-relative entropy.

id: 1409.3719
title: Hybrid quantum information processing
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3719
abstract: The development of quantum information processing has traditionally followed two separate and not immediately connected lines of study. The main line has focused on the implementation of quantum bit (qubit) based protocols whereas the other line has been devoted to implementations based on high-dimensional Gaussian states (such as coherent and squeezed states). The separation has been driven by the experimental difficulty in interconnecting the standard technologies of the two lines. However, in recent years, there has been a significant experimental progress in refining and connecting the technologies of the two fields which has resulted in the development and experimental realization of numerous new hybrid protocols. In this Review, we summarize these recent efforts on hybridizing the two types of schemes based on discrete and continuous variables.

id: 1409.3744
title: Bell-type inequalities for bivariate maps on orthomodular lattices
authors: Jaros?aw Pykacz, Lubica Valaskova, Olga Nanasiova
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3744
abstract: Bell-type inequalities on orthomodular lattices, in which conjunctions of propositions are not modeled by meets but by maps for simultaneous measurements (s-maps), are studied. It is shown that the most simple of these inequalities, that involves only two propositions, is always satisfied, contrary to what happens in the case of traditional version of this inequality in which conjunctions of propositions are modeled by meets. Equivalence of various Bell-type inequalities formulated with the aid of bivariate maps on orthomodular lattices is studied. Our invesigations shed new light on the interpretation of various multivariate maps defined on orthomodular lattices already studied in the literature. The paper is concluded by showing the possibility of using s-maps and j-maps to represent counterfactual conjunctions and disjunctions of non-compatible propositions about quantum systems.

id: 1409.3754
title: Experimental realization of a dynamic squeezing gate
authors: Kazunori Miyata, Hisashi Ogawa, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 060302(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3754
abstract: Squeezing is a nonlinear Gaussian operation that is the key component in construction of other nonlinear Gaussian gates. In our implementation of the squeezing gate, the amount and the orientation of the squeezing can be controlled by an external driving signal with 1 MHz operational bandwidth. This opens a brand new area of dynamic Gaussian processing. In particular, the gate can be immediately employed as the feed-forward needed for the deterministic implementation of the quantum cubic gate, which is a key piece of universal quantum information processing.

id: 1409.3786
title: Protecting a solid-state spin from decoherence using dressed spin states
authors: D. Andrew Golter, Thomas K. Baldwin, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3786
abstract: Dressed spin states, a spin coupling to continuous radiation fields, can fundamentally change how a spin responds to magnetic fluctuations. Using dressed spin states, we were able to protect an electron spin in diamond from decoherence. Dressing a spin with resonant microwaves at a coupling rate near 1 MHz leads to a 50 times reduction in the linewidth of the spin transition, limited by transit-time broadening. The spin decoherence and the energy level structure of the dressed states were probed with optical coherent-population-trapping processes. Compared with dynamical decoupling, where effects of the bath are averaged out at specific times, the dressed state provides a continuous protection from decoherence.

id: 1409.3787
title: Extended linear regime of cavity-QED enhanced optical circular birefringence induced by a charged quantum dot
authors: C.Y. Hu, J.G. Rarity
comments: Section IV has been added to show the linear GFR/GCB is not affected by high-order dressed state resonances in reflection/transmission spectra. 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 075304 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3787
abstract: Giant optical Faraday rotation (GFR) and giant optical circular birefringence (GCB) induced by a single quantum-dot spin in an optical microcavity can be regarded as linear effects in the weak-excitation approximation if the input field lies in the low-power limit [Hu et al, Phys.Rev. B {\bf 78}, 085307(2008) and ibid {\bf 80}, 205326(2009)]. In this work, we investigate the transition from the weak-excitation approximation moving into the saturation regime comparing a semiclassical approximation with the numerical results from a quantum optics toolbox [S.M. Tan, J. Opt. B {\bf 1}, 424 (1999)]. We find that the GFR and GCB around the cavity resonance in the strong coupling regime are input-field independent at intermediate powers and can be well described by the semiclassical approximation. Those associated with the dressed state resonances in the strong coupling regime or merging with the cavity resonance in the Purcell regime are sensitive to input field at intermediate powers, and cannot be well described by the semiclassical approximation due to the quantum dot saturation. As the GFR and GCB around the cavity resonance are relatively immune to the saturation effects, the rapid read out of single electron spins can be carried out with coherent state and other statistically fluctuating light fields. This also shows that high speed quantum entangling gates, robust against input power variations, can be built exploiting these linear effects.

id: 1409.3791
title: Quasi-exactly-solvable confining solutions for spin-1 and spin-0 bosons in (1+1)-dimensions with a scalar linear potential
authors: Luis B. Castro, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Annals Phys. 351 (2014) 571-578
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3791
abstract: We point out a misleading treatment in the recent literature regarding confining solutions for a scalar potential in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. We further present the proper bound-state solutions in terms of the generalized Laguerre polynomials and show that the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions depend on the solutions of algebraic equations involving the potential parameter and the quantum number.

id: 1409.3793
title: Quantum Google Algorithm: Construction and Application to Complex Networks
authors: G.D. Paparo, M. M¨¹ller, F. Comellas, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2014) 129: 150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3793
abstract: We review the main findings on the ranking capabilities of the recently proposed Quantum PageRank algorithm (G.D. Paparo et al., Sci. Rep. 2, 444 (2012) and G.D. Paparo et al., Sci. Rep. 3, 2773 (2013)) applied to large complex networks. The algorithm has been shown to identify unambiguously the underlying topology of the network and to be capable of clearly highlighting the structure of secondary hubs of networks. Furthermore, it can resolve the degeneracy in importance of the low-lying part of the list of rankings. Examples of applications include real-world instances from the WWW, which typically display a scale-free network structure and models of hierarchical networks. The quantum algorithm has been shown to display an increased stability with respect to a variation of the damping parameter, present in the Google algorithm, and a more clearly pronounced power-law behaviour in the distribution of importance among the nodes, as compared to the classical algorithm.

id: 1409.3806
title: Evaluation of convex roof entanglement measures
authors: Geza Toth, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 6 pages including 3 figures, 6-page supplement with 2 figures, revtex4; v2: typos corrected, presentation improved, title shortened. For the CoRoNa MATLAB package for convex roof numerical analysis, which has been used for the manuscript, see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 160501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3806
abstract: We show a powerful method to compute entanglement measures based on convex roof constructions. In particular, our method is applicable to measures that, for pure states, can be written as low order polynomials of operator expectation values. We show how to compute the linear entropy of entanglement, the linear entanglement of assistance, and a bound on the dimension of the entanglement for bipartite systems. We discuss how to obtain the convex roof of the three-tangle for three-qubit states. We also show how to calculate the linear entropy of entanglement and the quantum Fisher information based on partial information or device independent information. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method by concrete examples

id: 1409.3812
title: Work measurement as a generalized quantum measurement
authors: Augusto J. Roncaglia, Federico Cerisola, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 250601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3812
abstract: We present a new method to measure the work $w$ performed on a driven quantum system and to sample its probability distribution $P(w)$. The method is based on a simple fact that remained unnoticed until now: Work on a quantum system can be measured by performing a generalized quantum measurement at a single time. Such measurement, which technically speaking is denoted as a POVM (positive operator valued measure) reduces to an ordinary projective measurement on an enlarged system. This observation not only demystifies work measurement but also suggests a new quantum algorithm to efficiently sample the distribution $P(w)$. This can be used, in combination with fluctuation theorems, to estimate free energies of quantum states on a quantum computer.

id: 1409.3827
title: Reexamining classical and quantum models for the D-Wave One processor
authors: Tameem Albash, Troels F. R?nnow, Matthias Troyer, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: EPJ-ST 224, 111 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3827
abstract: We revisit the evidence for quantum annealing in the D-Wave One device (DW1) based on the study of random Ising instances. Using the probability distributions of finding the ground states of such instances, previous work found agreement with both simulated quantum annealing (SQA) and a classical rotor model. Thus the DW1 ground state success probabilities are consistent with both models, and a different measure is needed to distinguish the data and the models. Here we consider measures that account for ground state degeneracy and the distributions of excited states, and present evidence that for these new measures neither SQA nor the classical rotor model correlate perfectly with the DW1 experiments. We thus provide evidence that SQA and the classical rotor model, both of which are classically efficient algorithms, do not satisfactorily explain all the DW1 data. A complete model for the DW1 remains an open problem. Using the same criteria we find that, on the other hand, SQA and the classical rotor model correlate closely with each other. To explain this we show that the rotor model can be derived as the semiclassical limit of the spin-coherent states path integral. We also find differences in which set of ground states is found by each method, though this feature is sensitive to calibration errors of the DW1 device and to simulation parameters.

id: 1409.3851
title: On Historical Background to the Ontic Breakthrough.I Polemic Defense of Quantum Reality
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3851
abstract: After stating the author's ontic position, a collage of relevant thoughts of some distinguished foundationally-minded physicists are quoted and polemically commented upon. Thus, a kind of historical background of the recent ontic breakthrough is given. The brealthrough itself is presented in Part II.

id: 1409.3884
title: The Global versus Local Hamiltonian Description of Quantum Input-Output Theory
authors: John E. Gough
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Section on classical environments for quantum systems added. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1404.3182
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3884
abstract: The aim of this paper is to derive the global Hamiltonian form for a quantum system and bath, or more generally a quantum network with multiple quantum input field connections, based on the local descriptions. We give a new simple argument which shows that the global Hamiltonian for a single Markov component arises as the singular perturbation of the free translation operator. We show that the Fermi analogue takes an equivalent form provided the parity of the coefficients is correctly specified. This allows us to immediately extend the theory of quantum feedback networks to Fermi systems.

id: 1409.3897
title: Tight asymptotic bounds on local hypothesis testing between a pure bipartite state and the white noise state
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Masaki Owari
comments: Several typos were fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3897
abstract: We consider asymptotic hypothesis testing (or state discrimination with asymmetric treatment of errors) between an arbitrary fixed bipartite pure state $\ket{\Psi}$ and the completely mixed state under one-way LOCC (local operations and classical communications), two-way LOCC, and separable POVMs. As a result, we derive the Hoeffding bounds under two-way LOCC POVMs and separable POVMs. Further, we derive a Stein's lemma type of optimal error exponents under one-way LOCC, two-way LOCC, and separable POVMs up to the third order, which clarifies the difference between one-way and two-way LOCC POVM. Our study gives a very rare example in which the optimal performance under the infinite-round two-way LOCC is also equal to that under separable operations and can be attained with two-round communication, but not attained with the one-way LOCC.

id: 1409.3898
title: Protected gates for topological quantum field theories
authors: Michael E. Beverland, Robert K?nig, Fernando Pastawski, John Preskill, Sumit Sijher
comments: 44 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3898
abstract: We give restrictions on the locality-preserving unitary automorphisms $U$, which are protected gates, for topologically ordered systems. For arbitrary anyon models, we show that such unitaries only generate a finite group, and hence do not provide universality. For abelian anyon models, we find that the logical action of $U$ is contained in a proper subgroup of the generalized Clifford group. In the case $D(\mathbb{Z}_2)$, which describes Kitaev's toric code, this represents a tightening of statement previously obtained within the stabilizer framework (PRL 110:170503). For non-abelian models, we find that such automorphisms are very limited: for example, there is no non-trivial gate for Fibonacci anyons. For Ising anyons, protected gates are elements of the Pauli group. These results are derived by relating such automorphisms to symmetries of the underlying anyon model: protected gates realize automorphisms of the Verlinde algebra. We additionally use the compatibility with basis changes to characterize the logical action.

id: 1409.3998
title: Beyond heat baths: Generalized resource theories for small-scale thermodynamics
authors: Nicole Yunger Halpern, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3998
abstract: Small-scale heat exchanges have recently been modeled with resource theories intended to extend thermodynamics to the nanoscale and quantum regimes. We generalize these theories to exchanges of quantities other than heat, to baths other than heat baths, and to free energies other than the Helmholtz free energy. These generalizations are illustrated with "grand-potential" theories that model movements of heat and particles. Free operations include unitaries that conserve energy and particle number. From this conservation law and from resource-theory principles, the grand-canonical form of the free states is derived. States are shown to form a quasiorder characterized by free operations, d-majorization, the hypothesis-testing entropy, and rescaled Lorenz curves. We calculate the work distillable from, and we bound the work cost of creating, a state. These work quantities can differ but converge to the grand potential in the thermodynamic limit. Extending thermodynamic resource theories beyond heat baths, we open diverse realistic systems to modeling with one-shot statistical mechanics. Prospective applications such as electrochemical batteries are hoped to bridge one-shot theory to experiments.

id: 1409.4017
title: Quantum correlation cost of the weak measurement
authors: Jun Zhang, Shao-xiong Wu, Chang-shui Yu
comments: To appear in: Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4017
abstract: Quantum correlation cost (QCC) characterizing how much quantum correlation is used in a weak-measurement process is presented based on the trace norm. It is shown that the QCC is related to the trace-norm-based quantum discord (TQD) by only a factor that is determined by the strength of the weak measurement, so it only catches partial quantumness of a quantum system compared with the TQD. We also find that the residual quantumness can be `extracted' not only by the further von Neumann measurement, but also by a sequence of infinitesimal weak measurements. As an example, we demonstrate our outcomes by the Bell-diagonal state.

id: 1409.4036
title: PPT-inducing, distillation-prohibiting, and entanglement-binding quantum channels
authors: Sergey N. Filippov
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 35, 484 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4036
abstract: Entanglement degradation in open quantum systems is reviewed in the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski representation of linear maps. In addition to physical processes of entanglement dissociation and entanglement annihilation, we consider quantum dynamics transforming arbitrary input states into those that remain positive under partial transpose (PPT-inducing channels). Such evolutions form a convex subset of distillation-prohibiting channels. A relation between the above channels and entanglement-binding ones is clarified. An example of the distillation-prohibiting map $\Phi\otimes\Phi$ is given, where $\Phi$ is not entanglement binding.

id: 1409.4057
title: Quantum metrology with unitary parametrization processes
authors: Jing Liu, Xiaoxing Jing, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports, 5, 8565 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4057
abstract: Quantum Fisher information is a central quantity in quantum metrology. We discuss an alternative representation of quantum Fisher information for unitary parametrization processes. The highlight of this representation is that all information of parametrization transformation, i.e., the entire dynamical information, is totally involved in a Hermitian operator H. Utilizing this representation, quantum Fisher information is only determined by H and the initial state. We apply this representation in a collective spin system and show the specific expression of H. For a simple case, a spin-half system, the quantum Fisher information is given and the optimal states to access maximum quantum Fisher information are found. Furthermore, for an exponential form initial state, an analytical expression of quantum Fisher information by H operator is provided. The multiparameter quantum metrology is also considered and discussed utilizing this representation in the last.

id: 1409.4061
title: On-chip generation and demultiplexing of quantum correlated photons using a silicon-silica monolithic photonic integration platform
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda, Peter Karkus, Hidetaka Nishi, Tai Tsuchizawa, William J. Munro, Hiroki Takesue, Koji Yamada
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express 22, 22831-22840 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4061
abstract: We demonstrate the generation and demultiplexing of quantum correlated photons on a monolithic photonic chip composed of silicon and silica-based waveguides. Photon pairs generated in a nonlinear silicon waveguide are successfully separated into two optical channels of an arrayed-waveguide grating fabricated on a silica-based waveguide platform.

id: 1409.4069
title: All-optical formation of coherent dark states of silicon-vacancy spins in diamond
authors: Benjamin Pingault, Jonas N. Becker, Carsten H. H. Schulte, Carsten Arend, Christian Hepp, Tillmann Godde, Alexander I. Tartakovskii, Matthew Markham, Christoph Becher, Mete Atature
comments: Additional data and analysis is available for download in PDF format at the publications section of this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4069
abstract: Spin impurities in diamond can be versatile tools for a wide range of solid-state-based quantum technologies, but finding spin impurities which offer sufficient quality in both photonic and spin properties remains a challenge for this pursuit. The silicon-vacancy center has recently attracted a lot of interest due to its spin-accessible optical transitions and the quality of its optical spectrum. Complementing these properties, spin coherence is essential for the suitability of this center as a spin-photon quantum interface. Here, we report all-optical generation of coherent superpositions of spin states in the ground state of a negatively charged silicon-vacancy center using coherent population trapping. Our measurements reveal a characteristic spin coherence time, T2*, exceeding 250 nanoseconds at 4 K. We further investigate the role of phonon-mediated coupling between orbital states as a source of irreversible decoherence. Our results indicate the feasibility of all-optical coherent control of silicon-vacancy spins using ultrafast laser pulses.

id: 1409.4104
title: Leggett-Garg Inequalities, Pilot Waves and Contextuality
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi
comments: 21 pages, no figures, forthcoming in International Journal of Quantum Foundations. v2 contains minor improvements and connects better to other recent literature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4104
abstract: In this paper we first analyse Leggett and Garg's argument to the effect that macroscopic realism contradicts quantum mechanics. After making explicit all the assumptions in Leggett and Garg's reasoning, we argue against the plausibility of their auxiliary assumption of non-invasive measurability, using Bell's construction of stochastic pilot-wave theories as a counterexample. Violations of the Leggett-Garg inequality thus do not provide a good argument against macrorealism per se. We then apply Dzhafarov and Kujala's analysis of contextuality in the presence of signalling to the case of the Leggett-Garg inequalities, with rather surprising results. An analogy with pilot-wave theory again helps to clarify the situation.

id: 1409.4120
title: Perturbation theory by the moment method and point-group symmetry
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4120
abstract: We analyze earlier applications of perturbation theory by the moment method (also called inner product method) to anharmonic oscillators. For concreteness we focus on two-dimensional models with symmetry $C_{4v}$ and $C_{2v}$ and reveal the reason why some of those earlier treatments proved unsuitable for the calculation of the perturbation corrections for some excited states. Point-group symmetry enables one to predict which states require special treatment.

id: 1409.4144
title: Quantum speed limits for Bell-diagonal states
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Wei Han, Yun-Jie Xia, Ke-Xia Jiang, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4144
abstract: Bounds of the minimum evolution time between two distinguishable states of a system can help to assess the maximal speed of quantum computers and communication channels. We study the quantum speed limit time of a composite quantum states in the presence of nondissipative decoherence. For the initial states with maximally mixed marginals, we obtain the exactly expressions of quantum speed limit time which mainly depend on the parameters of the initial states and the decoherence channels. Furthermore, by calculating quantum speed limit time for the time-dependent states started from a class of initial states, we discover that the quantum speed limit time gradually decreases in time, and the decay rate of the quantum speed limit time would show a sudden change at a certain critical time. Interestingly, at the same critical time, the composite system dynamics would exhibit a sudden transition from classical to quantum decoherence.

id: 1409.4146
title: Multifractality in the fidelity of the Toffoli gate
authors: Jalil Khatibi Moqadam, Guilherme S. Welter, Paulo A. A. Esquef
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4146
abstract: We analyze the multifractality of the fidelity in an engineered Toffoli gate. Using quantum control methods, we define several optimization problems whose global solutions realize the gate in a chain of three qubits with XY Heisenberg interaction. We perturb the system by introducing imperfections in the form of $1/f$ noise to the interqubit couplings. Multifractal analysis shows that the degree of multifractality in the gate fidelity increases when optimized control pulses used to render the fidelity are less sensitive to variations in the interqubits coupling strengths.

id: 1409.4153
title: Phase-dependent double-¦« electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Yi-Hsin Chen, Pin-Ju Tsai, Ite A. Yu, Ying-Cheng Chen, Yong-Fan Chen
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4153
abstract: We theoretically investigate a double-{\Lambda} electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) system. The property of the double-{\Lambda} medium with a closed-loop configuration depends on the relative phase of the applied laser fields. This phase-dependent mechanism differentiates the double-{\Lambda} medium from the conventional Kerr-based nonlinear medium, e.g., EIT-based nonlinear medium discussed by Harris and Hau [Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 4611 (1999)], which depends only on the intensities of the applied laser fields. Steady-state analytical solutions for the phase-dependent system are obtained by solving the Maxwell-Bloch equations. In addition, we discuss efficient all-optical phase modulation and coherent light amplification based on the proposed double-{\Lambda} EIT scheme.

id: 1409.4203
title: What does it mean for half of an empty cavity to be full?
authors: Eric G. Brown, Marco del Rey, Hans Westman, Juan Leon, Andrzej Dragan
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 016005 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4203
abstract: It is well known that the vacuum state of a quantum field is spatially entangled. This is true both in free and confined spaces, for example in an optical cavity. The obvious consequence of this, however, is surprising and intuitively challenging; namely, that in a mathematical sense half of an empty cavity is not empty. Formally this is clear, but what does this physically mean in terms of, say, measurements that can actually be made? In this paper we utilize the tools of Gaussian quantum mechanics to easily characterize the reduced state of a subregion in a cavity and expose the spatial profile of its entanglement with the opposite region. We then go on to discuss a thought experiment in which a mirror is introduced between the regions. In so doing we expose a simple and physically concrete answer to the above question: the vacuum excitations resulting from entanglement are mathematically equivalent to the real excitations generated by suddenly introducing a mirror. Performing such an experiment in the laboratory may be an excellent method of verifying vacuum entanglement, and we conclude by discussing different possibilities of achieving this aim.

id: 1409.4209
title: Investigation of defect cavities formed in three-dimensional woodpile photonic crystals
authors: Mike P. C. Taverne, Y.-L. D. Ho, J. G. Rarity
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 32, Issue 4, pp. 639-648 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4209
abstract: We report the optimisation of optical properties of single defects in three-dimensional (3D) face-centred-cubic (FCC) woodpile photonic crystal (PC) cavities by using plane-wave expansion (PWE) and finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) methods. By optimising the dimensions of a 3D woodpile PC, wide photonic band gaps (PBG) are created. Optical cavities with resonances in the bandgap arise when point defects are introduced in the crystal. Three types of single defects are investigated in high refractive index contrast (Gallium Phosphide-Air) woodpile structures and Q-factors and mode volumes ($V_{eff}$) of the resonant cavity modes are calculated. We show that, by introducing an air buffer around a single defect, smaller mode volumes can be obtained. We demonstrate high Q-factors up to 700000 and cavity volumes down to $V_{eff}<0.2(\lambda/n)^3$. The estimates of $Q$ and $V_{eff}$ are then used to quantify the enhancement of spontaneous emission and the possibility of achieving strong coupling with nitrogen-vacancy (NV) colour centres in diamond.

id: 1409.4220
title: Quantum phase estimation using a multi-headed cat state
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Chang-Woo Lee, Hyunchul Nha, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 7+ pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 32(6), 1186-1192 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4220
abstract: It was recently shown that an entangled coherent state, which is a superposition of two different coherent states, can surpass the performance of noon state in estimating an unknown phase-shift. This may hint at further enhancement in phase estimation by incorporating more component states in the superposition of resource state. We here introduce a four-headed cat state (4HCS), a superposition of four different coherent states, and propose its application to quantum phase estimation. We demonstrate the enhanced performance in phase estimation by employing an entangled state via the 4HCS, which can surpass that of the two-headed cat state (2HCS), particularly in the regime of small average photon numbers. Moreover, we show that an entangled state modified from the 4HCS can further enhance the phase estimation, even in the regime of large average photon number under a photon-loss channel. Our investigation further extends to incorporate an increasingly large number of component states in the resource superposition state and clearly show its merit in phase estimation.

id: 1409.4221
title: Entanglement and other quantum correlations of a single qudit state as a resource for quantum technologies
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 16 pp., submitted to the International Journal of Quantum Information; the material is based on the contributions of the authors presented at the Workshop ad Memoriam of Carlo Novero "Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with Atoms and Photons" (Turin, Italy, May 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4221
abstract: The approach to extend the notion of entanglement for characterizing the properties of quantum correlations in the state of a single qudit is presented. New information and entropic inequalities, such as the subadditivity condition, strong subadditivity condition, and monotonicity of relative entropy for a single qudit corresponding to an arbitrary spin state with spin j are discussed. The idea to employ quantum correlations in the single-qudit state, such as the entanglement, for developing a new quantum technique in quantum computing and quantum communication is proposed. Examples of qutrit and qudit with j = 3/2 are considered.

id: 1409.4235
title: Motion and gravity effects in the precision of quantum clocks
authors: Joel Lindkvist, Carlos Sab¨ªn, G?ran Johansson, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. I. F. previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4235
abstract: We show that motion and gravity affect the precision of quantum clocks. We consider a localised quantum field as a fundamental model of a quantum clock moving in spacetime and show that its state is modified due to changes in acceleration. By computing the quantum Fisher information we determine how relativistic motion modifies the ultimate bound in the precision of the measurement of time. While in the absence of motion the squeezed vacuum is the ideal state for time estimation, we find that it is highly sensitive to the motion-induced degradation of the quantum Fisher information. We show that coherent states are generally more resilient to this degradation and that in the case of very low initial number of photons, the optimal precision can be even increased by motion. These results can be tested with current technology by using superconducting resonators with tunable boundary conditions.

id: 1409.4263
title: Unitary and anti-unitary quantum description of the classical not gate
authors: G. Cattaneo, G. Conte, R. Leporini
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4263
abstract: We consider the unitary and the anti--unitary operator realizations of two important genuine quantum gates that transform elements of the computational basis of into superpositions: the square root of the identity and the square root of the negation.

id: 1409.4267
title: Quantum teleportation on a photonic chip
authors: Benjamin J. Metcalf, Justin B. Spring, Peter C. Humphreys, Nicholas Thomas-peter, Marco Barbieri, W. Steven Kolthammer, Xian-min Jin, Nathan K. Langford, Dmytro Kundys, James C. Gates, Brian J. Smith, Peter G. R. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: Originally submitted version - refer to online journal for accepted manuscript; Nature Photonics (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4267
abstract: Quantum teleportation is a fundamental concept in quantum physics which now finds important applications at the heart of quantum technology including quantum relays, quantum repeaters and linear optics quantum computing (LOQC). Photonic implementations have largely focussed on achieving long distance teleportation due to its suitability for decoherence-free communication. Teleportation also plays a vital role in the scalability of photonic quantum computing, for which large linear optical networks will likely require an integrated architecture. Here we report the first demonstration of quantum teleportation in which all key parts - entanglement preparation, Bell-state analysis and quantum state tomography - are performed on a reconfigurable integrated photonic chip. We also show that a novel element-wise characterisation method is critical to mitigate component errors, a key technique which will become increasingly important as integrated circuits reach higher complexities necessary for quantum enhanced operation.

id: 1409.4268
title: Process estimation in presence of time-invariant memory effects
authors: Tomas Rybar, Mario Ziman
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4268
abstract: Any repeated use of a fixed experimental instrument is subject to memory effects. We design an estimation method uncovering the details of the underlying interaction between the system and the internal memory without having any experimental access to memory degrees of freedom. In such case, by definition, any memoryless quantum process tomography (QPT) fails, because the observed data sequences do not satisfy the elementary condition of statistical independence. However, we show that the randomness implemented in certain QPT schemes is sufficient to guarantee the emergence of observable "statistical" patterns containing complete information on the memory channels. We demonstrate the algorithm in details for case of qubit memory channels with two-dimensional memory. Interestingly, we found that for arbitrary estimation method the memory channels generated by controlled unitary interactions are indistinguishable from memoryless unitary channels.

id: 1409.4281
title: Energy and information propagation in a finite coupled bosonic heat bath
authors: Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4281
abstract: The finite coupled bosonic model of reservoir introduced by Vasile et al. [1] to characterize non-Markovianity, is used to study the different dissipative behaviors of a harmonic oscillator coupled to it when it is in resonance, close to resonance or far detuned. We show that information and energy exchange between system and heat bath go hand in hand because phonons are the carriers of both: in resonance free propagation of excitations is achieved, and therefore pure dissipation, while when far detuned the system can only correlate with the first oscillator in the bath's chain, leading to almost unitary evolution. In the intermediate situation we show the penetration of correlations and the formation of oscillatory (dressed state) behavior, which lies at the root of non-Markovianity.

id: 1409.4329
title: Super quantum discord for a class of two-qubit states with weak measurement
authors: H. Eftekhari, E. Faizi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1302.4039 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4329
abstract: So far, super quantum discord has been calculated explicitly only for Bell-diagonal states and expressions for more general quantum states are not known. In this paper, we derive explicit expressions for super quantum discord for a larger class of two-qubit states, namely, a 4-parameter family of two-qubit states. We observe that, weak measurements obtain more quantumness of correlations than strong measurements. As an application, the dynamic behavior of the super quantum discord under decoherence channel is investigated. We find that, the super quantum discord decreases monotonically as a function of the measurement strength parameter.

id: 1409.4338
title: Smooth Entropy Bounds on One-Shot Quantum State Redistribution
authors: Mario Berta, Matthias Christandl, Dave Touchette
comments: v2: 23 pages, 1 figure, new strong converse for quantum state redistribution with feedback
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4338
abstract: In quantum state redistribution as considered in [Luo and Devetak (2009)] and [Devetak and Yard (2008)], there are 4 systems of interest: the A system held by Alice, the B system held by Bob, the C system that is to be transmitted from Alice to Bob, and the R system that holds a purification of the state in the ABC registers. We give upper and lower bounds on the amount of quantum communication required to perform the task of quantum state redistribution in a one-shot setting. Our bounds are in terms of smooth conditional min- and max- entropies, and the smooth max-information. The protocol for the upper bound has a clear structure, building on the work [Oppenheim (2008)]: it decomposes the quantum state redistribution task into two simpler quantum state merging tasks by introducing a coherent relay. In the independent and identical (iid) asymptotic limit our upper and lower bounds converge to the quantum conditional mutual information, thus yielding an alternative proof of optimality of this communication rate for iid asymptotic quantum state redistribution. In particular, we obtain a strong converse for quantum state redistribution, which even holds when allowing for feedback.

id: 1409.4352
title: An upper bound on the second order asymptotic expansion for the quantum communication cost of state redistribution
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4352
abstract: State redistribution is the protocol in which, given an arbitrary tripartite quantum state, with two of the subsystems initially being with Alice and one being with Bob, the goal is for Alice to send one of her subsystems to Bob, possibly with the help of prior shared entanglement. We derive an upper bound on the second order asymptotic expansion for the quantum communication cost of achieving state redistribution with a given finite accuracy. In proving our result, we also obtain an upper bound on the quantum communication cost of this protocol in the one-shot setting, by using the protocol of coherent state merging as a primitive.

id: 1409.4355
title: Optimal ancilla-free Clifford+V approximation of z-rotations
authors: Neil J. Ross
comments: 14 pages. Extends previous version from Pauli+V to Clifford+V. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1403.2975
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4355
abstract: We describe a new efficient algorithm to approximate z-rotations by ancilla-free Clifford+V circuits, up to a given precision epsilon. Our algorithm is optimal in the presence of an oracle for integer factoring: it outputs the shortest Clifford+V circuit solving the given problem instance. In the absence of such an oracle, our algorithm is still near-optimal, producing circuits of V-count m + O(log(log(1/epsilon))), where m is the V-count of the third-to-optimal solution. A restricted version of the algorithm approximates z-rotations in the Pauli+V gate set. Our method is based on previous work by the author and Selinger on the optimal ancilla-free approximation of z-rotations using Clifford+T gates and on previous work by Bocharov, Gurevich, and Svore on the asymptotically optimal ancilla-free approximation of z-rotations using Clifford+V gates.

id: 1409.4377
title: A quantum mechanical version of Price's theorem for Gaussian states
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov
comments: 11 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the Australian Control Conference, 17-18 November 2014, Canberra, Australia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4377
abstract: This paper is concerned with integro-differential identities which are known in statistical signal processing as Price's theorem for expectations of nonlinear functions of jointly Gaussian random variables. We revisit these relations for classical variables by using the Frechet differentiation with respect to covariance matrices, and then show that Price's theorem carries over to a quantum mechanical setting. The quantum counterpart of the theorem is established for Gaussian quantum states in the framework of the Weyl functional calculus for quantum variables satisfying the Heisenberg canonical commutation relations. The quantum mechanical version of Price's theorem relates the Frechet derivative of the generalized moment of such variables with respect to the real part of their quantum covariance matrix with other moments. As an illustrative example, we consider these relations for quadratic-exponential moments which are relevant to risk-sensitive quantum control.

id: 1409.4391
title: Direct Sum Theorem for Bounded Round Quantum Communication Complexity
authors: Dave Touchette
comments: 25 pages, no figure, part of prelims taken from arXiv:1404.3733
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4391
abstract: We prove a direct sum theorem for bounded round entanglement-assisted quantum communication complexity. To do so, we use the fully quantum definition for information cost and complexity that we recently introduced, and use both the fact that information is a lower bound on the communication, and the fact that a direct sum property holds for quantum information complexity. We then give a protocol for compressing a single copy of a protocol down to its quantum information cost, up to terms depending on the number of rounds and the allowed increase in error. Two important tools to derive this protocol are a smooth conditional min-entropy bound for a one-shot quantum state redistribution protocol, and the quantum substate theorem of Jain, Radhakrishnan and Sen (FOCS'02) to transform this bound into a von Neumann conditional entropy bound. This result further establishes the newly introduced notions of quantum information cost and complexity as the correct quantum generalisations of the classical ones in the standard communication complexity setting. Finding such a quantum generalization of information complexity was one of the open problem recently raised by Braverman (STOC'12).

id: 1409.4440
title: Tighter quantum uncertainty relations follow from a general probabilistic bound
authors: Florian Fr?wis, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. v2: improved presentation, references added, results on the connection between saturated inequality and entanglement structure for multi-qubit states added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4440
abstract: Uncertainty relations (URs) like the Heisenberg-Robertson or the time-energy UR are often considered to be hallmarks of quantum theory. Here, a simple derivation of these URs is presented based on a single classical inequality from estimation theory, a Cram\'er-Rao-like bound. The Heisenberg-Robertson UR is then obtained by using the Born rule and the Schr\"odinger equation. This allows a clear separtion of the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics from the Hilbert space structure and the dynamical law. It also simplifies the interpretation of the bound. In addition, the Heisenberg-Robertson UR is tightened for mixed states by replacing one variance by the so-called quantum Fisher information. Thermal states of Hamiltonians with evenly-gapped energy levels are shown to saturate the tighter bound for natural choices of the operators. This example is further extended to Gaussian states of a harmonic oscillator. For many-qubit systems, we illustrate the interplay between entanglement and the structure of the operators that saturate the UR with spin-squeezed states and Dicke states.

id: 1409.4454
title: Towards AC-induced optimum control of dynamical localization
authors: F. Revuelta, R. Chac¨®n, F. Borondo
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4454
abstract: It is shown that optimum control of dynamical localization (quantum suppression of classical diffusion) in the context of ultracold atoms in periodically shaken optical lattices subjected to time-periodic forces having equidistant zeros depends on the \textit{impulse} transmitted by the external force over half-period rather than on the force amplitude. This result provides a useful principle for optimally controlling dynamical localization in general periodic systems, which is capable of experimental realization.

id: 1409.4485
title: Experimental Test of Quantum Jarzynski Equality with a Trapped Ion System
authors: Shuoming An, Jing-Ning Zhang, Mark Um, Dingshun Lv, Yao Lu, Junhua Zhang, Zhang-qi Yin, H. T. Quan, Kihwan Kim
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4485
abstract: The past two decades witnessed important developments in the field of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics. Among these developments, the Jarzynski equality, being a milestone following the landmark work of Clausius and Kelvin, stands out. The Jarzynski equality relates the free energy difference between two equilibrium states and the work done on the system through far from equilibrium processes. While experimental tests of the equality have been performed in classical regime, the verification of the quantum Jarzynski equality has not yet been fully demonstrated due to experimental challenges. Here, we report an experimental test of the quantum Jarzynski equality with a single \Yb ion trapped in a harmonic potential. We perform projective measurements to obtain phonon distributions of the initial thermal state. Following that we apply the laser induced force on the projected energy eigenstate, and find transition probabilities to final energy eigenstates after the work is done. By varying the speed of applying the force from equilibrium to far-from equilibrium regime, we verified the quantum Jarzynski equality in an isolated system.

id: 1409.4516
title: Detecting non-Markovianity from continuous monitoring
authors: Kimmo Luoma, Pinja Haikka, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4516
abstract: We study how non-Markovianity of an open two-level system can be detected when continuously monitoring a part of its bosonic environment. Considering a physical scenario of an atom in a lossy cavity, we demonstrate that the properties of the time-dependent flux of the photons from the cavity allows the detection of memory effects in the atomic dynamics, without requiring state nor process tomography. This framework overlaps with effective descriptions for the memory part of the environment using pseudomode methods. Our central results show how the Markovian measurement record on the environment of an enlarged open system allows to draw conclusions on the non- Markovianity of the original system of interest.

id: 1409.4522
title: Quantum-information-theoretic approach to the signalling time of cryptochromes in Arabidopsis thaliana
authors: A. Chia, A. Gorecka, P. Kurzynski, T. Paterek, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4522
abstract: An important problem in the magnetoreception of birds is the identification of a host molecule for a magnetically sensitive chemical reaction known as the radical-pair mechanism. Current experiments and theory suggest cryptochrome (a class of receptor molecules) as a viable candidate. Cryptochrome functions as a signalling molecule, triggering further chemical reactions that lead to a neural signal when it attains a certain population in a particular state. Here we characterise cryptochrome response times by proposing a simple model to describe its radical-pair reaction. A key element of the reaction is the quantum coherent oscillations between singlet and triplet spin states of the radicals. While this is essential for enabling the magnetic sensing of cryptochrome, coherent state transitions can also increase the speed of certain processes. By using the well-known formalism of Kraus maps from quantum information theory we study the influence of decoherence on how quickly cryptochrome can signal. In particular we describe the radical-pair reaction as a quantum random walk with a variable dephasing parameter for the singlet-triplet oscillations. This allows us to study the state transitions of the radical pair subject to different levels of decoherence. We find that for realistic system parameters (transition rates) obtained from the literature, dephasing induces a change in cryptochrome signalling times of only a few percent. We thus argue that the process is essentially robust to dephasing. This change is seen to occur over only a small window of dephasing noise strengths. Artificial (i.e. unrealistic) system parameters are also explored.

id: 1409.4529
title: Lateral Casimir force between deeply corrugated dielectric and metallic plates
authors: Arash Azari, MirFaez Miri
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 26, 1250026 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4529
abstract: We study the lateral Casimir force between corrugated dielectric plates. We use the dielectric contrast perturbation theory [R. Golestanian, {\it Phys. Rev. Lett.} {\bf 95}, 230601, (2005)], which allows us to consider arbitrary deformations with large amplitudes. We consider sinusoidal, rectangular, and sawtooth corrugations, for samples made of silicon and gold. We use the plasma and Drude-Lorentz models for the permittivity of gold and silicon, respectively. For these geometries and materials, the lateral Casimir force is {\it not} a sinusoidal function of the relative lateral displacement of plates when the gap between the plates in comparable with the depth of the corrugations. Our results facilitate the design of miniaturized devices based on lateral Casimir forces.

id: 1409.4562
title: Experimental observation of a phase transition in the evolution of many-body systems with dipolar interactions
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter, Robin Kaiser
comments: Maintext: 4 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary Information: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4562
abstract: Non-equilibrium dynamics of many-body systems is important in many branches of science, such as condensed matter, quantum chemistry, and ultracold atoms. Here we report the experimental observation of a phase transition of the quantum coherent dynamics of a 3D many-spin system with dipolar interactions, and determine its critical exponents. Using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) on a solid-state system of spins at room-temperature, we quench the interaction Hamiltonian to drive the evolution of the system. The resulting dynamics of the system coherence can be localized or extended, depending on the quench strength. Applying a finite-time scaling analysis to the observed time-evolution of the number of correlated spins, we extract the critical exponents v = s = 0.42 around the phase transition separating a localized from a delocalized dynamical regime. These results show clearly that such nuclear-spin based quantum simulations can effectively model the non-equilibrium dynamics of complex many-body systems, such as 3D spin-networks with dipolar interactions.

id: 1409.4599
title: Genuine Multipartite Entanglement of Superpositions
authors: Zhihao Ma, Zhihua Chen, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 (2014) 032307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4599
abstract: We investigate how the genuine multipartite entanglement is distributed among the components of superposed states. Analytical lower and upper bounds for the usual multipartite negativity and the genuine multipartite entanglement negativity are derived. These bounds are shown to be tight by detailed examples.

id: 1409.4600
title: Non-commutativity and Local Indistinguishability of Quantum States
authors: Teng Ma, Ming-Jing Zhao, Yao-Kun Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 12 pages
journal: Scientific Reports 4 (2014) 6336
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4600
abstract: We study the local indistinguishability problem of quantum states. By introducing an easily calculated quantity, non-commutativity, we present an criterion which is both necessary and sufficient for the local indistinguishability of a complete set of pure orthogonal product states. A constructive distinguishing procedure to obtain the concrete local measurements and classical communications is given. The non-commutativity of ensembles can be also used to characterize the quantumness for classical-quantum or quantum-classical correlated states.

id: 1409.4622
title: Optimal two-qubit tomography based on local and global measurements: Maximal robustness against errors as described by condition numbers
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Karol Bartkiewicz, Jan Perina Jr., Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 062123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4622
abstract: We present an error analysis of various tomographic protocols based on the linear inversion for the reconstruction of an unknown two-qubit state. We solve the problem of finding a tomographic protocol which is the most robust against errors in terms of the lowest value (i.e., equal to 1) of a condition number, as required by the Gastinel-Kahan theorem. In contrast, standard tomographic protocols, including those based on mutually unbiased bases, are nonoptimal for determining all 16 elements of an unknown two-qubit density matrix. Our method is based on the measurements of the 16 generalized Pauli operators, where twelve of them can be locally measured, and the other four require nonlocal Bell measurements. Our method corresponds to selectively measuring, one by one, all of the real and imaginary elements of an unknown two-qubit density matrix. We describe two experimentally feasible setups of this protocol for the optimal reconstruction of two photons in an unknown polarization state using conventional detectors and linear-optical elements. Moreover, we define the operators for the optimal reconstruction of the states of multiqubit or multilevel (qudit) systems.

id: 1409.4647
title: The thermodynamics of creating correlations: Limitations and optimal protocols
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Nicolai Friis, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Marcus Huber
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 032118 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4647
abstract: We establish a rigorous connection between fundamental resource theories at the quantum scale. Correlations and entanglement constitute indispensable resources for numerous quantum information tasks. However, their establishment comes at the cost of energy, the resource of thermodynamics, and is limited by the initial entropy. Here, the optimal conversion of energy into correlations is investigated. Assuming the presence of a thermal bath, we establish general bounds for arbitrary systems and construct a protocol saturating them. The amount of correlations, quantified by the mutual information, can increase at most linearly with the available energy, and we determine where the linear regime breaks down. We further consider the generation of genuine quantum correlations, focusing on the fundamental constituents of our universe: fermions and bosons. For fermionic modes, we find the optimal entangling protocol. For bosonic modes, we show that while Gaussian operations can be outperformed in creating entanglement, their performance is optimal for high energies.

id: 1409.4709
title: Continuous matrix product states for coupled fields: Application to Luttinger Liquids and quantum simulators
authors: Fernando Quijandr¨ªa, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, David Zueco
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4709
abstract: A way of constructing continuous matrix product states (cMPS) for coupled fields is presented here. The cMPS is a variational \emph{ansatz} for the ground state of quantum field theories in one dimension. Our proposed scheme is based in the physical interpretation in which the cMPS class can be produced by means of a dissipative dynamic of a system interacting with a bath. We study the case of coupled bosonic fields. We test the method with previous DMRG results in coupled Lieb Liniger models. Besides, we discuss a novel application for characterizing the Luttinger liquid theory emerging in the low energy regime of these theories. Finally, we propose a circuit QED architecture as a quantum simulator for coupled fields.

id: 1409.4724
title: Parafermion stabilizer codes
authors: Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Rabindra Nepal, Alexey A. Kovalev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4724
abstract: We define and study parafermion stabilizer codes which can be viewed as generalizations of Kitaev's one dimensional model of unpaired Majorana fermions. Parafermion stabilizer codes can protect against low-weight errors acting on a small subset of parafermion modes in analogy to qudit stabilizer codes. Examples of several smallest parafermion stabilizer codes are given. A locality preserving embedding of qudit operators into parafermion operators is established which allows one to map known qudit stabilizer codes to parafermion codes. We also present a local 2D parafermion construction that combines topological protection of Kitaev's toric code with additional protection relying on parity conservation.

id: 1409.4800
title: The computational power of normalizer circuits over black-box groups
authors: Juan Bermejo-Vega, Cedric Yen-Yu Lin, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 40 pages + appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4800
abstract: This work presents a precise connection between Clifford circuits, Shor's factoring algorithm and several other famous quantum algorithms with exponential quantum speed-ups for solving Abelian hidden subgroup problems. We show that all these different forms of quantum computation belong to a common new restricted model of quantum operations that we call \emph{black-box normalizer circuits}. To define these, we extend the previous model of normalizer circuits [arXiv:1201.4867v1,arXiv:1210.3637,arXiv:1409.3208], which are built of quantum Fourier transforms, group automorphism and quadratic phase gates associated to an Abelian group $G$. In previous works, the group $G$ is always given in an explicitly decomposed form. In our model, we remove this assumption and allow $G$ to be a black-box group. While standard normalizer circuits were shown to be efficiently classically simulable [arXiv:1201.4867v1,arXiv:1210.3637,arXiv:1409.3208], we find that normalizer circuits are powerful enough to factorize and solve classically-hard problems in the black-box setting. We further set upper limits to their computational power by showing that decomposing finite Abelian groups is complete for the associated complexity class. In particular, solving this problem renders black-box normalizer circuits efficiently classically simulable by exploiting the generalized stabilizer formalism in [arXiv:1201.4867v1,arXiv:1210.3637,arXiv:1409.3208]. Lastly, we employ our connection to draw a few practical implications for quantum algorithm design: namely, we give a no-go theorem for finding new quantum algorithms with black-box normalizer circuits, a universality result for low-depth normalizer circuits, and identify two other complete problems.

id: 1409.4807
title: On the structure of LOCC: finite vs. infinite rounds
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome. For version 2, some terminology and notation have been modified, along with numerous other editorial changes, and a distance measure on quantum measurements has been formally defined. All results are the same as in version 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4807
abstract: Every measurement that can be implemented by local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC) using an infinite number of rounds is the limit of a sequence of measurements each of which requires only a finite number of rounds. This rather obvious and well-known fact is nonetheless of interest as it shows that these infinite-round measurements can be approximated arbitrarily closely simply by using more and more rounds of communication. Here we demonstrate the perhaps less obvious result that (at least) for bipartite systems, the reverse relationship also holds. Specifically, we show that every finite-round bipartite LOCC measurement is the limit of a continuous sequence of LOCC measurements, where each measurement in that sequence can be implemented by LOCC, but only with the use of an infinite number of rounds. Thus, the set of LOCC measurements that require an infinite number of rounds is dense in the entirety of LOCC, as is the set of finite-round LOCC measurements. This means there exist measurements that can only be implemented by LOCC by using an infinite number of rounds, but can nonetheless be approximated closely by using one round of communication, and actually in some cases, no communication is needed at all. These results follow from a new necessary condition for finite-round LOCC, which is extremely simple to check, is very easy to prove, and which can be violated by utilizing an infinite number of rounds.

id: 1409.4878
title: Quantum games and games with factorizable and non-factorizable probabilities
authors: Azhar Iqbal, James M. Chappell, Derek Abbott
comments: Revised, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4878
abstract: A quantum game-theoretic setting enables the analysis of strategic interaction among agents with access to quantum resources. One of the original motivations for re-expressing quantum algorithms, and quantum communication protocols, in terms of competing quantum agents was to provide new insights into their workings. Looking closely, one finds that quantum strategic interactions utilize quantum probabilities and such probabilities are realizable in quantum mechanical experiments that allow implementation of unitary transformations, quantum measurements etc. This paper presents a perspective on a quantum game-theoretic framework involving quantum probabilities, which are not subject to the strong factorizability constraints that classical probabilities are found to possess. We suggest that a quantum version of a classical game can be obtained more directly if we replace the factorizability relations for probabilities in a classical game with two weaker constraints that are also obeyed by the quantum probabilities. The solutions of symmetric bimatrix games with such `non-factorizable' probabilities are then analyzed and compared to the solutions that appear in the standard version of a quantum game.

id: 1409.4880
title: Practical Topological Cluster State Quantum Computing Requires Loss Below 1%
authors: Adam C. Whiteside, Austin G. Fowler
comments: 12 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4880
abstract: The surface code cannot be used when qubits vanish during computation; instead, a variant known as the topological cluster state is necessary. It has a gate error threshold of $0.75% and only requires nearest-neighbor interactions on a 2D array of qubits. Previous work on loss tolerance using this code only considered qubits vanishing during measurement. We begin by also including qubit loss during two-qubit gates and initialization, and then additionally consider interaction errors that occur when neighbors attempt to entangle with a qubit that isn't there. In doing so, we show that even our best case scenario requires a loss rate below 1% in order to avoid considerable space-time overhead.

id: 1409.4881
title: A micrometer-scale integrated silicon source of time-energy entangled photons
authors: Davide Grassani, Stefano Azzini, Marco Liscidini, Matteo Galli, Michael J. Strain, Marc Sorel, J. E. Sipe, Daniele Bajoni
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4881
abstract: Entanglement is a fundamental resource in quantum information processing. Several studies have explored the integration of sources of entangled states on a silicon chip but the sources demonstrated so far require millimeter lengths and pump powers of the order of hundreds of mWs to produce an appreciable photon flux, hindering their scalability and dense integration. Microring resonators have been shown to be efficient sources of photon pairs, but entangled state emission has never been demonstrated. Here we report the first demonstration of a microring resonator capable of emitting time-energy entangled photons. We use a Franson experiment to show a violation of Bell's inequality by as much as 11 standard deviations. The source is integrated on a silicon chip, operates at sub-mW pump power, emits in the telecom band with a pair generation rate exceeding 10$^7$ Hz per $nm$, and outputs into a photonic waveguide. These are all essential features of an entangled states emitter for a quantum photonic networks.

id: 1409.4908
title: Tuneable quantum interference in a 3D integrated circuit
authors: Zachary Chaboyer, Thomas Meany, L.G. Helt, Michael J. Withford, M.J. Steel
comments: 11 pages, 24 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 9601, (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4908
abstract: Integrated photonics promises solutions to questions of stability, complexity, and size in quantum optics. Advances in tunable and non-planar integrated platforms, such laser-inscribed photonics, continue to bring the realisation of quantum advantages in computation and metrology ever closer, perhaps most easily seen in multi-path interferometry. Here we demonstrate control of two-photon interference in a chip-scale 3D multi-path interferometer, showing a reduced periodicity and enhanced visibility compared to single photon measurements. Observed non-classical visibilities are widely tunable, and explained well by theoretical predictions based on classical measurements. With these predictions we extract a Fisher information approaching a theoretical maximum, demonstrating the capability of the device for quantum enhanced phase measurements.

id: 1409.4913
title: Selfish atom selects quantum resonances at fractional atomic frequencies
authors: Gennady A. Koganov, Reuben Shuker
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023819 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4913
abstract: We show that the atom as a "quantum entity", driven by an external field in the form of pulse sequence at repetition rate equal to the internal quantum frequency divided by an integer n, responds resonantly. It seeks and finds its characteristic frequencies in any possible combination of its frequencies. This is an indication of self expression by the atom at many sub-frequencies of its own transition frequencies. It is a non-intuitive phenomenon since the external repetition rate has no quantum character, yet the atom responds to it if the rate is equal to 1/n its eigen-frequency. We believe that our results will have implications in other quantum related processes, such as resonant enhancement of chemical reactions and biological processes.

id: 1409.5019
title: Unextendible maximally entangled bases in dxd
authors: Yan-Ling Wang, Mao-Sheng Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 90, 034301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5019
abstract: We investigate the unextendible maximally entangled bases in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$ and present a $30$-number UMEB construction in $\mathbb{C}^{6}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{6}$. For higher dimensional case, we show that for a given $N$-number UMEB in $\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$, there is a $\widetilde{N}$-number, $\widetilde{N}=(qd)^2-(d^2-N)$, UMEB in $\mathbb{C}^{qd}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{qd}$ for any $q\in\mathbb{N}$. As an example, for $\mathbb{C}^{12n}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{12n}$ systems, we show that there are at least two sets of UMEBs which are not equivalent.

id: 1409.5039
title: Experimental violation of a d-dimensional Bell inequality using energy-time entangled photons
authors: Sacha Schwarz, B?nz Bessire, Andr¨¦ Stefanov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 12, No. 7 & 8 (2015) 150026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5039
abstract: We experimentally study the violation of the CGLMP inequality for entangled 2-qubit and 2-qutrit states with different degrees of entanglement using numerically optimized measurement settings. The qudits are encoded and manipulated in the frequency spectrum of broadband energy-time entangled photons by taking into account a spatial light modulator. The latter allows to discretize the spectrum into bins. By controlling each frequency bin individually, the generation of maximally and non-maximally entangled qutrits is verified through quantum state tomography.

id: 1409.5041
title: Quasi-quantization: classical statistical theories with an epistemic restriction
authors: Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 35 pages, 15 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5041
abstract: A significant part of quantum theory can be obtained from a single innovation relative to classical theories, namely, that there is a fundamental restriction on the sorts of statistical distributions over physical states that can be prepared. This is termed an "epistemic restriction" because it implies a fundamental limit on the amount of knowledge that any observer can have about the physical state of a classical system. This article provides an overview of epistricted theories, that is, theories that start from a classical statistical theory and apply an epistemic restriction. We consider both continuous and discrete degrees of freedom, and show that a particular epistemic restriction called classical complementarity provides the beginning of a unification of all known epistricted theories. This restriction appeals to the symplectic structure of the underlying classical theory and consequently can be applied to an arbitrary classical degree of freedom. As such, it can be considered as a kind of quasi-quantization scheme; "quasi" because it generally only yields a theory describing a subset of the preparations, transformations and measurements allowed in the full quantum theory for that degree of freedom, and because in some cases, such as for binary variables, it yields a theory that is a distortion of such a subset. Finally, we propose to classify quantum phenomena as weakly or strongly nonclassical by whether or not they can arise in an epistricted theory.

id: 1409.5086
title: Solving the Schr?dinger Equation with Power Anharmonicity
authors: Vladimir B. Belyaev, Andrej Babi?
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5086
abstract: We present an application of a nonstandard approximate method---the finite-rank approximation---to solving the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation for a bound-state problem. The method is illustrated on the example of a three-dimensional isotropic quantum anharmonic oscillator with additive cubic or quartic anharmonicity. Approximate energy eigenvalues are obtained and convergence of the method is discussed.

id: 1409.5093
title: Entanglement properties of positive operators with ranges in completely entangled subspaces
authors: R Sengupta, Arvind, Ajit Iqbal Singh
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062323 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5093
abstract: We prove that the projection on a completely entangled subspace S of maximum dimension in a multipartite quantum system obtained by Parthasarathy is not positive under partial transpose. We next show that several positive operators with range in S also have the same property. In this process we construct an orthonormal basis of S and provide a linking theorem to link the constructions of completely entangled subspaces due to Parthasarthy, Bhat and Johnston.

id: 1409.5098
title: An Inquiry into the Possibility of Nonlocal Quantum Communication
authors: John G. Cramer, Nick Herbert
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5098
abstract: The possibility of nonlocal quantum communication is considered. We investigate three $gedankenexperiments$ that have variable entanglement: (1) a 4-detector polarization-entangled system, (2) a 4-detector path-entangled system, and (3) a 3-detector path-entangled system that uses an innovative optical mixer to combine photon paths. A new quantum paradox is reviewed in which the presence or absence of an interference pattern in a path-entangled two photon system, controlled by measurement choice, is a potential nonlocal signal. We show that for the cases considered, even when interference patterns can be switched off and on, there is always a "signal" interference pattern and an "anti-signal" interference pattern that mask any observable interference when they are added, even when entanglement and coherence are simultaneously present. This behavior can be attributed to what in the literature has been called "the complementarity of one- and two-particle interference".

id: 1409.5100
title: What probabilities tell about quantum systems, with application to entropy and entanglement
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: Preliminary version of chapter 6 in in A. Bokulich and G. Jaeger, eds., "Quantum Information and Entanglement", Cambridge University Press, Cambridge UK, pp. 127-150 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5100
abstract: As described quantum mechanically, an experimental trial parses into "a preparation" expressed by a density operator and "a measurement" expressed by a set of detection operators, one for each measurable event. A density operator and a detection operator combine via the "trace rule" to generate the probability of a measurable event. As used to describe experiments, both density operators and detection operators depend on parameters expressing experimental choices, so the probabilities they generate also depend on these parameters. The trace rule answers the question: "what parametrized probabilities are generated by a given parametrized density operator and given parametrized detection operator?" Recognizing that the accessibility of operators to experimental tests is only indirect, via probabilities, we ask what probabilities tell about operators, or, put more precisely: "what combinations of a parametrized density operator and parametrized detection operators generate any given set of parametrized probabilities?" We show that any parametrized probability measure can be explained by many inequivalent models expressed by density operators and detection operators. so that a parametrized probability measure, detached from any of the (infinitely many) parametrized operators that generate it, becomes an interesting object in its own right. By detaching a parametrized probability measure from the operators that may have led us to it, we (1) strengthen Holevo's bound on a quantum communication channel and (2) clarify a role for multiple levels of modeling in an example based on quantum key distribution. We then inquire into some parametrized probability measures generated by entangled states and into the topology of the associated parameter spaces; in particular we display some previously overlooked topological features of level sets of these probability measures.

id: 1409.5101
title: Arbitrary Spin Galilean Oscillator
authors: C. R. Hagen
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5101
abstract: The so-called Dirac oscillator was proposed as a modification of the free Dirac equation which reproduces many of the properties of the simple harmonic oscillator but accompanied by a strong spin-orbit coupling term. It has yet to be extended successfully to the arbitrary spin S case primarily because of the unwieldiness of general spin Lorentz invariant wave equations. It is shown here using the formalism of totally symmetric multispinors that the Dirac oscillator can, however, be made to accommodate spin by incorporating it into the framework of Galilean relativity. This is done explicitly for spin zero and spin one as special cases of the arbitrary spin result. For the general case it is shown that the coefficient of the spin-orbit term has a 1/S behavior by techniques which are virtually identical to those employed in the derivation of the g-factor carried out over four decades ago.

id: 1409.5115
title: Semiclassical analysis of Bose-Hubbard dynamics
authors: Hagar Veksler, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5115
abstract: In this work the two site Bose-Hubbard model is studied analytically in the limit of weak coupling u and large number of particles N . The semiclassical approximation where \frac{1}{N} plays the role of Planck's constant was used and perturbation theory to order u^{2} was applied. In particular, the difference in the occupation between the two sites, where initially all particles are at one site was calculated analytically. Excellent agreement with the exact numerical solution was found. This quantity exhibits collapses and revivals that superimpose rapid oscillations. The occupation difference was calculated also for the case where initially both sites are occupied provided that the difference in occupation is sufficiently large. It provides an analytical description of results that were so far found only numerically. Similar behavior and analysis are expected for a large variety of physical situations in optics, atom optics and quantum dynamics of electrons in Rydberg atoms.

id: 1409.5157
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum cryptography
authors: Feihu Xu, Marcos Curty, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: An invited review to the special issue of the IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics (JSTQE) on 'Quantum communication and cryptography'
journal: IEEE JSTQE, Vol.21, No.3, Article#:6601111, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5157
abstract: In theory, quantum key distribution (QKD) provides information-theoretic security based on the laws of physics. Owing to the imperfections of real-life implementations, however, there is a big gap between the theory and practice of QKD, which has been recently exploited by several quantum hacking activities. To fill this gap, a novel approach, called measurement-device-independent QKD (mdiQKD), has been proposed. It can remove all side-channels from the measurement unit, arguably the most vulnerable part in QKD systems, thus offering a clear avenue towards secure QKD realisations. Here, we review the latest developments in the framework of mdiQKD, together with its assumptions, strengths and weaknesses.

id: 1409.5158
title: Analysis of the Christensen et al. Clauser-Horne (CH)-Inequality-Based Test of Local Realism
authors: Donald A. Graft
comments: Added discussion of an alternative analysis considering accidental coincidences; added discussion of the 'rational interpretation' of EPR; re-organized overall; minor corrections throughout
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5158
abstract: The Clauser-Horne (CH) inequality can validly test aspects of locality when properly applied. This paper analyzes a recent CH-based EPRB experiment, the Christensen et al. experiment. Full details of the data analysis applied to the experiment are given. An alternative analysis is also presented that considers the role of accidental coincidences and confirms and justifies the main analysis. It is shown that the experiment confirms locality and disconfirms the quantum joint prediction. To make sense of this surprising finding, the conclusion presents a new rational interpretation of the EPR paradox. The paper also contributes to promulgation of robust and correct data analysis by describing the important degrees of freedom that affect the analysis, and that must be addressed in the analysis of any EPRB experiment.

id: 1409.5170
title: Wigner function negativity and contextuality in quantum computation on rebits
authors: Nicolas Delfosse, Philippe Allard Guerin, Jacob Bian, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 18 + 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 021003 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5170
abstract: We describe a universal scheme of quantum computation by state injection on rebits (states with real density matrices). For this scheme, we establish contextuality and Wigner function negativity as computational resources, extending results of [M. Howard et al., Nature 510, 351--355 (2014)] to two-level systems. For this purpose, we define a Wigner function suited to systems of $n$ rebits, and prove a corresponding discrete Hudson's theorem. We introduce contextuality witnesses for rebit states, and discuss the compatibility of our result with state-independent contextuality.

id: 1409.5211
title: Bloch vector, disclination and exotic quantum holonomy
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Taksu Cheon
comments: 7pages, 3figures; an extensive revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5211
abstract: A topological formulation of the eigenspace anholonomy, where eigenspaces are interchanged by adiabatic cycles, is introduced. The anholonomy in two-level systems is identified with a disclination of the director (headless vector) of a Bloch vector, which characterizes eigenprojectors. The covering map structure behind the exotic quantum holonomy and the role of the homotopy classification of adiabatic cycles are elucidated. The extensions of this formulation to nonadiabatic cycles and N-level systems are outlined.

id: 1409.5237
title: Qubit interference at avoided crossings: The role of driving shape and bath coupling
authors: Ralf Blattmann, Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042109 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5237
abstract: We derive the structure of the Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg-Majorana (LZSM) interference pattern for a qubit that experiences quantum dissipation and is additionally subjected to time-periodic but otherwise general driving. A spin-boson Hamiltonian serves as model which we treat with a Bloch-Redfield master equation in Floquet basis. It predicts a peak structure that depends sensitively on the operator through which the qubit couples to the bath. The Fourier transforms of the LZSM patterns exhibit arc structures which reflect the shape of the driving. These features are captured by an effective time-independent Bloch equation which provides an analytical solution. Moreover, we determine the decay of these arcs as a function of dissipation strength and temperature.

id: 1409.5255
title: Interpretation of the classical limits of quantum mechanics on a non-commutative configuration space
authors: Fabio Benatti, Laure Gouba
comments: 12 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1302.4284
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5255
abstract: The classical limit of two quantum mechanical oscillators on a non-commutative configuration space has been recently studied based on the anti-Wick quantization scheme which makes use of completely positive maps constructed by means of coherent states. The limits corresponding to the removal of configuration-space non-commutativity and position-momentum non-commutativity do not commute. While reducing to a commutative configuration-space and then to classical position and momentum yields a classical theory on a $4$-dimensional phase-space, the inverted sequence of limits does instead provide a classical theory on a $2$-dimensional phase-space. Moreover, if the free dynamics of the two non-commutative quantum oscillators is also taken into account, in the first case one again obtains the dynamics of two classical free oscillators dynamics; instead, in the second case, one loses completely track of the dynamics and reduces to a purely kinematical $1$-dimensional description. We herewith explain these results by examining the fate of the phase-space localisation properties of the Wigner functions of coherent states under the various limits.

id: 1409.5265
title: Tomographic discord for a system of two coupled nanoelectric circuits
authors: A.K. Fedorov, E.O. Kiktenko, O.V. Man'ko, V.I. Man'ko
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Scr. 90, 055101 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5265
abstract: We consider quantum correlations and quantum discord phenomena for two-qubit states with $X$-type density matrices in the tomographic framework of quantum mechanics. By introducing different measurements schemes, we establish the relation between tomographic approach to quantum discord, symmetric discord, and measurement-induced disturbance. In our consideration, $X$-states appear as approximations of ground and low temperature thermal states of two coupled harmonic oscillators realized by nanoelectric $LC$-circuits. Possibilities for control the amounts of correlations and entropic asymmetry due to variation of the frequency detuning and the coupling constant are also considered.

id: 1409.5283
title: Quantum thermodynamics for a model of an expanding universe
authors: Nana Liu, John Goold, Ivette Fuentes, Vlatko Vedral, Kavan Modi, David Edward Bruschi
comments: 6 pages, 1 appendix, no figures. I. Fuentes previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5283
abstract: We investigate the thermodynamical properties of quantum fields in curved spacetime. Our approach is to consider quantum fields in curved spacetime as a quantum system undergoing an out-of-equilibrium transformation. The non-equilibrium features are studied by using a formalism which has been developed to derive fluctuation relations and emergent irreversible features beyond the linear response regime. We apply these ideas to an expanding universe scenario, therefore avoiding assumptions on the relation between entropy and quantum matter. We provide a fluctuation theorem which allows us to understand particle production due to the expansion of the universe as an entropic increase. Our results pave the way towards a different understanding of the thermodynamics of relativistic and quantum systems in our universe.

id: 1409.5284
title: Generic entanglement and symmetry: permutation and translation symmetry
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5284
abstract: We study entanglement of generic states in the Hilbert spaces that respect symmetry. By applying concentration of measure, we show that a pure state respecting permutation symmetry is typically weakly entangled and that a pure state respecting translation symmetry is as highly entangled as a generic state without symmetry. We then investigate higher moments of the distribution of the amount of entanglement over generic states for each symmetry and provide numerical evidence that generic states with symmetry are divided into two subensembles characterized by different entanglement spectrum, which is in contrast to those without symmetry that are divided into three subensembles. This indicates that imposing symmetry on generic states radically changes the entanglement spectrum.

id: 1409.5341
title: Effect of Loss on Multiplexed Single-Photon Sources
authors: Damien Bonneau, Gabriel J. Mendoza, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: Journal version
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 043057
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5341
abstract: An on-demand single-photon source is a key requirement for scaling many optical quantum technologies. A promising approach to realize an on-demand single-photon source is to multiplex an array of heralded single-photon sources using an active optical switching network. However, the performance of multiplexed sources is degraded by photon loss in the optical components and the non-unit detection efficiency of the heralding detectors. We provide a theoretical description of a general multiplexed single-photon source with lossy components and derive expressions for the output probabilities of single-photon emission and multi-photon contamination. We apply these expressions to three specific multiplexing source architectures and consider their tradeoffs in design and performance. To assess the effect of lossy components on near- and long-term experimental goals, we simulate the multiplexed sources when used for many-photon state generation under various amounts of component loss. We find that with a multiplexed source composed of switches with ~0.2-0.4 dB loss and high efficiency number-resolving detectors, a single-photon source capable of efficiently producing 20-40 photon states with low multi-photon contamination is possible, offering the possibility of unlocking new classes of experiments and technologies.

id: 1409.5347
title: Hierarchies of multipartite entanglement for continuous-variable states
authors: Antonio A. Valido, Federico Levi, Florian Mintert
comments: minor changes, typos corrected, Ref.[28] added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052321 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5347
abstract: We derive a hierarchy of separability criteria for multi-mode continuous variable systems. They permit to study in a unified way the k-partite entanglement of broad classes of Gaussian and non- Gaussian states. With specific examples we demonstrate the strength of the criteria, and, we discuss their assessment based on data obtained from Gaussian measurements.

id: 1409.5362
title: Individual addressing of trapped $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ion qubits using a MEMS-based beam steering system
authors: S. Crain, E. Mount, S. Baek, J. Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5362
abstract: The ability to individually manipulate the increasing number of qubits is one of the many challenges towards scalable quantum information processing with trapped ions. Using micro-mirrors fabricated with micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) technology, we focus laser beams on individual ions in a linear chain and steer the focal point in two dimensions. We demonstrate sequential single qubit gates on multiple $^{171}$Yb$^+$ qubits and characterize the gate performance using quantum state tomography. Our system features negligible crosstalk to neighboring ions ($< 3\times 10^{-4}$), and switching speed comparable to typical single qubit gate times ($<$ 2 $\mu$s).

id: 1409.5386
title: Comment on "How the result of a single coin toss can turn out to be 100 heads"
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Comment on arXiv:1403.2362
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5386
abstract: In a recent Letter [PRL 113, 120404 (2014)] Ferrie and Combes claimed to show "that weak values are not inherently quantum, but rather a purely statistical feature of pre- and post-selection with disturbance." In this Comment I will show that this claim is not valid. It follows from Ferrie and Combes misunderstanding of the concept of weak value.

id: 1409.5388
title: Heating of trapped ultracold atoms by collapse dynamics
authors: Franck Lalo?, William J. Mullin, Philip Pearle
comments: 36 pages; 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5388
abstract: {The Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) theory alters the Schr\"odinger equation. It describes wave function collapse as a dynamical process instead of an ill-defined postulate, thereby providing macroscopic uniqueness and solving the so-called measurement problem of standard quantum theory. CSL contains a parameter $\lambda$ giving the collapse rate of an isolated nucleon in a superposition of two spatially separated states and, more generally, characterizing the collapse time for any physical situation. CSL is experimentally testable, since it predicts some behavior different from that predicted by standard quantum theory. One example is the narrowing of wave functions, which results in energy imparted to particles. Here we consider energy given to trapped ultra-cold atoms. Since these are the coldest samples under experimental investigation, it is worth inquiring how they are affected by the CSL heating mechanism. We examine the CSL heating of a BEC in contact with its thermal cloud. Of course, other mechanisms also provide heat and also particle loss. From varied data on optically trapped cesium BEC's, we present an energy audit for known heating and loss mechanisms. The result provides an upper limit on CSL heating and thereby an upper limit on the parameter $\lambda$. We obtain $\lambda\lesssim 1(\pm1)\times 10^{-7}$sec$^{-1}$.}

id: 1409.5392
title: Revivals of Zitterbewegung of a bound localized Dirac particle
authors: E. Romera
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5392
abstract: In this paper a bound localized Dirac particle is shown to exhibit a revival of the zitterbewegung (ZB) oscillation amplitude. These revivals go beyond the known quasiclassical regenerations in which the ZB oscillation amplitude is decreasing from period to period. This phenomenon is studied in a Dirac oscillator and it is shown that it is possible to set up wave packets in which there is a regeneration of the initial ZB amplitude.

id: 1409.5417
title: Visualizing operators of coupled spin systems
authors: Ariane Garon, Robert Zeier, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 27 pages, 12 figures, 10 tables; v2: extended the discussion of Wigner functions, the motivation, and the comparison to other work
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042122 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5417
abstract: The state of quantum systems, their energetics, and their time evolution is modeled by abstract operators. How can one visualize such operators for coupled spin systems? A general approach is presented which consists of several shapes representing linear combinations of spherical harmonics. It is applicable to an arbitrary number of spins and can be interpreted as a generalization of Wigner functions. The corresponding visualization transforms naturally under non-selective spin rotations as well as spin permutations. Examples and applications are illustrated for the case of three spins 1/2.

id: 1409.5531
title: A mathematical theory of resources
authors: Bob Coecke, Tobias Fritz, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 32 pages, many figures. v2 and v3: minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5531
abstract: In many different fields of science, it is useful to characterize physical states and processes as resources. Chemistry, thermodynamics, Shannon's theory of communication channels, and the theory of quantum entanglement are prominent examples. Questions addressed by a theory of resources include: Which resources can be converted into which other ones? What is the rate at which arbitrarily many copies of one resource can be converted into arbitrarily many copies of another? Can a catalyst help in making an impossible transformation possible? How does one quantify the resource? Here, we propose a general mathematical definition of what constitutes a resource theory. We prove some general theorems about how resource theories can be constructed from theories of processes wherein there is a special class of processes that are implementable at no cost and which define the means by which the costly states and processes can be interconverted one to another. We outline how various existing resource theories fit into our framework. Our abstract characterization of resource theories is a first step in a larger project of identifying universal features and principles of resource theories. In this vein, we identify a few general results concerning resource convertibility.

id: 1409.5544
title: Optical memory bandwidth and multiplexing capacity in the erbium telecommunication window
authors: Julian Dajczgewand, Rose Ahlefeldt, Thomas B?ttger, Anne Louchet-Chauvet, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 
journal: 2015 New J. Phys. 17 023031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5544
abstract: We study the bandwidth and multiplexing capacity of an erbium-doped optical memory for quantum storage purposes. We concentrate on the protocol ROSE (Revival of a Silenced Echo) because it has the largest potential multiplexing capacity. Our analysis is applicable to other protocols that involve strong optical excitation. We show that the memory performance is limited by instantaneous spectral diffusion and we describe how this effect can be minimised to achieve optimal performance.

id: 1409.5554
title: Probing the non-locality of Majorana fermions via quantum correlations
authors: Jun Li, Ting Yu, Hai-Qing Lin, J. Q. You
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 4930 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5554
abstract: Majorana fermions (MFs) are exotic particles that are their own anti-particles. Recently, the search for the MFs occurring as quasi-particle excitations in solid-state systems has attracted widespread interest, because of their fundamental importance in fundamental physics and potential applications in topological quantum computation based on solid-state devices. Here we study the quantum correlations between two spatially separate quantum dots induced by a pair of MFs emerging at the two ends of a semiconductor nanowire, in order to develop a new method for probing the MFs. We find that without the tunnel coupling between these paired MFs, quantum entanglement cannot be induced from an unentangled (i.e., product) state, but quantum discord is observed due to the intrinsic nonlocal correlations of the paired MFs. This finding reveals that quantum discord can indeed demonstrate the intrinsic non-locality of the MFs formed in the nanowire. Also, quantum discord can be employed to discriminate the MFs from the regular fermions. Furthermore, we propose an experimental setup to measure the onset of quantum discord due to the nonlocal correlations. Our approach provides a new, and experimentally accessible, method to study the Majorana bound states by probing their intrinsic non-locality signature.

id: 1409.5572
title: Fisher-Shannon product and quantum revivals in wavepacket dynamics
authors: T. Garc¨ªa, F. de los Santos, E. Romera
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 2284-2287
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5572
abstract: We show the usefulness of the Fisher-Shannon information product in the study of the sequence of collapses and revivals that take place along the time evolution of quantum wavepackets. This fact is illustrated in two models, the quantum bouncer and a graphene quantum ring.

id: 1409.5581
title: Fractional revivals through R¨¦nyi uncertainty relations
authors: Elvira Romera, Francisco de los Santos
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 013837 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5581
abstract: We show that the R\'enyi uncertainty relations give a good description of the dynamical behavior of wave packets and constitute a sound approach to revival phenomena by analyzing three model systems: the simple harmonic oscillator, the infinite square well, and the quantum bouncer. We prove the usefulness of entropic uncertainty relations as a tool for identifying fractional revivals by providing a comparison in different contexts with the usual Heisenberg uncertainty relation and with the common approach in terms of the autocorrelation function.

id: 1409.5587
title: Application of new R¨¦nyi uncertainty relations to wave packet revivals
authors: Francisco de los Santos, Clara Guglieri, Elvira Romera
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of the international conference Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics FQMT'08
journal: Physica E 42 (2010) 303-307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5587
abstract: Wave packet revivals and fractional revivals are studied by means of newly derived uncertainty relations that involve R\'enyi entropies and position and momentum dispersions.

id: 1409.5591
title: Husimi distribution and phase-space analysis of a vibron-model quantum phase transition
authors: M. Calixto, R. del Real, E. Romera
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A86, 032508 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5591
abstract: The Husimi distribution is proposed for a phase space analysis of quantum phase transitions in the two-dimensional $U(3)$ vibron model for $N$-size molecules. We show that the inverse participation ratio and Wehrl's entropy of the Husimi distribution give sharp signatures of the quantum (shape) phase transition from linear to bent. Numerical results are complemented with a variational approach using parity-symmetry-adapted $U(3)$ coherent states, which reach the minimum Wehrl entropy $\frac{N(3+2N)}{(N+1)(N+2)}$, in the rigidly linear phase, according to a generalized Wehrl-Lieb conjecture. We also propose a characterization of the vibron-model quantum phase transition by means of the zeros of the Husimi distribution.

id: 1409.5596
title: Parity-symmetry-adapted coherent states and entanglement in quantum phase transitions of vibron models
authors: M. Calixto, E. Romera, R. del Real
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 365301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5596
abstract: We propose coherent (`Schr\"odinger catlike') states adapted to the parity symmetry providing a remarkable variational description of the ground and first excited states of vibron models for finite-($N$)-size molecules. Vibron models undergo a quantum shape phase transition (from linear to bent) at a critical value $\xi_c$ of a control parameter. These trial cat states reveal a sudden increase of vibration-rotation entanglement linear ($L$) and von Neumann ($S$) entropies from zero to $L^{(N)}_{\rm cat}(\xi)\simeq 1-{2}/{\sqrt{\pi N}}$ [to be compared with $L^{(N)}_{\rm max.}(\xi)=1-{1}/{(N+1)}$] and $S^{(N)}_{\rm cat}(\xi)\simeq \frac{1}{2} \log_2(N+1)$, respectively, above the critical point, $\xi>\xi_c$, in agreement with exact numerical calculations. We also compute inverse participation ratios, for which these cat states capture a sudden delocalization of the ground state wave packet across the critical point. Analytic expressions for entanglement entropies and inverse participation ratios of variational states, as functions of $N$ and $\xi$, are given in terms of hypergeometric functions.

id: 1409.5599
title: Fisher information, nonclassicality and quantum revivals
authors: E. Romera, F. de los Santos
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 377, 2284-2287 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5599
abstract: Wave packet revivals and fractional revivals are studied by means of a measure of nonclassicality based on the Fisher information. In particular, we show that the spreading and the regeneration of initially Gaussian wave packets in a quantum bouncer and an in the infinite square-well correspond, respectively, to high and low nonclassicality values. This result is in accordance with the physical expectations that at a quantum revival wave packets almost recover their initial shape and the classical motion revives temporarily afterward.

id: 1409.5625
title: The Spectral Backbone of Excitation Transport in Ultra-Cold Rydberg Gases
authors: Torsten Scholak, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, accepted as is by Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5625
abstract: The spectral structure underlying excitonic energy transfer in ultra-cold Rydberg gases is studied numerically, in the framework of random matrix theory, and via self-consistent diagrammatic techniques. Rydberg gases are made up of randomly distributed, highly polarizable atoms that interact via strong dipolar forces. Dynamics in such a system is fundamentally different from cases in which the interactions are of short range, and is ultimately determined by the spectral and eigenvector structure. In the energy levels' spacing statistics, we find evidence for a critical energy that separates delocalized eigenstates from states that are localized at pairs or clusters of atoms separated by less than the typical nearest-neighbor distance. We argue that the dipole blockade effect in Rydberg gases can be leveraged to manipulate this transition across a wide range: As the blockade radius increases, the relative weight of localized states is reduced. At the same time, the spectral statistics -- in particular, the density of states and the nearest neighbor level spacing statistics -- exhibits a transition from approximately a 1-stable L\'evy to a Gaussian orthogonal ensemble. Deviations from random matrix statistics are shown to stem from correlations between interatomic interaction strengths that lead to an asymmetry of the spectral density and profoundly affect localization properties. We discuss approximations to the self-consistent Matsubara-Toyozawa locator expansion that incorporate these effects.

id: 1409.5647
title: Multiplexed Readout of Transmon Qubits with Josephson Bifurcation Amplifiers
authors: V. Schmitt, X. Zhou, K. Juliusson, A. Blais, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, and 31 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5647
abstract: Achieving individual qubit readout is a major challenge in the development of scalable superconducting quantum processors. We have implemented the multiplexed readout of a four transmon qubit circuit using non-linear resonators operated as Josephson bifurcation amplifiers. We demonstrate the simultaneous measurement of Rabi oscillations of the four transmons. We find that multiplexed Josephson bifurcation is a high-fidelity readout method, the scalability of which is not limited by the need of a large bandwidth nearly quantum-limited amplifier as is the case with linear readout resonators.

id: 1409.5654
title: Invariant currents and scattering off locally symmetric potential landscapes
authors: P. A. Kalozoumis, C. Morfonios, F. K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5654
abstract: We study the effect of discrete symmetry breaking in inhomogeneous scattering media within the framework of generic wave propagation. Our focus is on one-dimensional scattering potentials exhibiting local symmetries. We find a class of spatially invariant nonlocal currents, emerging when the corresponding generalized potential exhibits symmetries in arbitrary spatial domains. These invariants characterize the wave propagation and provide a spatial mapping of the wave function between any symmetry related domains. This generalizes the Bloch and parity theorems for broken reflection and translational symmetries, respectively. Their nonvanishing values indicate the symmetry breaking, whereas a zero value denotes the restoration of the global symmetry where the well-known forms of the two theorems are recovered. These invariants allow for a systematic treatment of systems with any local symmetry combination, providing a tool for the investigation of the scattering properties of aperiodic but locally symmetric systems. To this aim we express the transfer matrix of a locally symmetric potential unit via the corresponding invariants and derive quantities characterizing the complete scattering device which serve as key elements for the investigation of transmission spectra and particularly of perfect transmission resonances.

id: 1409.5658
title: An example of a quantum statistical model which cannot be mapped to a less informative one by any trace preserving positive map
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5658
abstract: Comparison of statistical models (experiments) is an important branch of mathematical statistics, which gives deep insights in many aspects of foundation of statistics. So far, there are two quantum versions of the concept: Comparison with respect to classical tasks and full quantum tasks. In the latter version, a quantum statistical model is more informative than another if and only if a trace preserving positive map sends the former to the latter. On the other hand, in the former version, the existence of a trace preserving positive map sending the former to the latter is a useful sufficient condition. A natural question is whether this is necessary or not. We resolve this question negatively by giving a counter example.

id: 1409.5678
title: Ambiguity in quantum-theoretical descriptions of experiments
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: In K. Mahdavi and D. Koslover, eds., "Advances in Quantum Computation," Contemporary Mathematics Series, vol. 482 (American Mathematical Society, Providence, I, 2009), pp. 107-123
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5678
abstract: This paper contributes to a burgeoning area of investigation, the ambiguity inherent in mathematics and the implications for physics of this ambiguity. To display the mathematical form of equations of quantum theory used to describe experiments, we make explicit the knobs by which the devices of an experiment are arranged and adjusted. A quantum description comes in two parts: (1) a statement of results of an experiment, expressed by probabilities of detections as functions of knob settings, and (2) an explanation of how we think these results come about, expressed by linear operators, also as functions of knob settings. Because quantum mechanics separates the two parts of any description, it is known that between the statements of results and the explanations lurks a logical gap: given any statement of results one has a choice of explanations. Here we work out some consequences of this openness to choice. We show how quantum theory as mathematical language in which to describe experiments necessarily involves multiple descriptions: multiple explanations of a given result, as well as multiple statements of results and multiple arrangement of knobs. Appreciating these multiplicities resolves what otherwise is a confusion in the concept of invariance. Implications of multiplicity of description for the security of quantum key distribution are noted.

id: 1409.5690
title: Off-axis retrieval of orbital angular momentum of light stored in cold atoms
authors: R. A. de Oliveira, L. Pruvost, P. S. Barbosa, W. S. Martins, S. Barreiro, D. Felinto, D. Bloch, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5690
abstract: We report on the storage of orbital angu- lar momentum (OAM) of light of a Laguerre-Gaussian mode in an ensemble of cold cesium atoms and its re- trieval along an axis different from the incident light beam. We employed a time-delayed four-wave mixing configuration to demonstrate that at small angle (2o), after storage, the retrieved beam carries the same OAM as the one encoded in the input beam. A calculation based on mode decomposition of the retrieved beam over the Laguerre-Gaussian basis is in agreement with the experimental observations done at small angle values. However, the calculation shows that the OAM retrieving would get lost at larger angles, reducing the fidelity of such storing-retrieving process. In addition, we have also observed that by applying an external magnetic field to the atomic ensemble the retrieved OAM presents Larmor oscillations, demonstrating the possibility of its manipulation and off-axis retrieval.

id: 1409.5692
title: Full multipartite entanglement of frequency comb Gaussian states
authors: S. Gerke, J. Sperling, W. Vogel, Y. Cai, J. Roslund, N. Treps, C. Fabre
comments: close to published version, see also viewpoint this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 050501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5692
abstract: An analysis is conducted of the multipartite entanglement for Gaussian states generated by the parametric down-conversion of a femtosecond frequency comb. Using a recently introduced method for constructing optimal entanglement criteria, a family of tests is formulated for mode decompositions that extends beyond the traditional bipartition analyses. A numerical optimization over this family is performed to achieve maximal significance of entanglement verification. For experimentally prepared 4-, 6-, and 10-mode states, full entanglement is certified for all of the 14, 202, and 115974 possible nontrivial partitions, respectively.

id: 1409.5696
title: Induced Coherence, Vacuum Fields, and Complementarity in Biphoton Generation
authors: A. Heuer, R. Menzel, P. W. Milonni
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 053601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5696
abstract: We describe spontaneous parametric down-conversion experiments in which induced coherence across two coupled interferometers results in high-visibility single-photon interference. Opening additional photon channels allows "which-path" information and reduces the visibility of the singlephoton interference, but results in nearly perfect visibility when photons are counted in coincidence. A simplified theoretical model accounts for these complementary observations and attributes them directly to the relations among the vacuum fields at the different crystals.

id: 1409.5702
title: Nonlocal correlations in the star-network configuration
authors: Armin Tavakoli, Paul Skrzypczyk, Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5702
abstract: The concept of bilocality was introduced to study the correlations which arise in an entanglement swapping scenario, where one has two sources which can naturally taken to be independent. This additional constraint leads to stricter requirements than simply imposing locality, in the form of bilocality inequalities. In this work we consider a natural generalisation of the bilocality scenario, namely the star-network consisting of a single central party surrounded by $n$ edge parties, each of which shares an independent source with the centre. We derive new inequalities which are satisfied by all local correlations in this scenario, for the cases when the central party performs (i) two dichotomic measurements (ii) a single Bell state measurement. We demonstrate quantum violations of these inequalities and study both the robustness to noise and to losses.

id: 1409.5727
title: Light storage via coherent population oscillation in a thermal cesium vapor
authors: A. J. F. de Almeida, J. Sales, M.-A. Maynard, T. Laupretre, F. Bretenaker, D. Felinto, F. Goldfarb, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5727
abstract: We report on the storage of light via the phenomenon of Coherent Population Oscillation (CPO) in an atomic cesium vapor at room temperature. In the experiment the optical information of a probe field is stored in the CPO of two ground states of a Lambda three-level system formed by the Zeeman sublevels of the hyperfine transition F = 3 - F' = 2 of cesium D2 line. We show directly that this CPO based memory is very insensitive to stray magnetic field inhomogeneities and presents a lifetime which is mainly limited only by atomic motion. A theoretical simulation of the measured spectra was also developed and is in very good agreement with the experiment.

id: 1409.5728
title: Long distance measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with coherent-state superpositions
authors: Hua-Lei Yin, Wen-Fei Cao, Yao Fu, Yan-Lin Tang, Yang Liu, Teng-Yun Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 5451(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5728
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) with decoy-state method is believed to be securely applied to defeat various hacking attacks in practical quantum key distribution systems. Recently, the coherent-state superpositions (CSS) have emerged as an alternative to single-photon qubits for quantum information processing and metrology. Here, in this Letter, CSS are exploited as the source in MDI-QKD. We present an analytical method which gives two tight formulas to estimate the lower bound of yield and the upper bound of bit error rate. We exploit the standard statistical analysis and Chernoff bound to perform the parameter estimation. Chernoff bound can provide good bounds in the long distance MDI-QKD. Our results show that with CSS, both the security transmission distance and secure key rate are significantly improved compared with those of the weak coherent states in the finite-data case.

id: 1409.5747
title: Temporal Quantum-State Tomography of Narrowband Biphotons
authors: Peng Chen, Chi Shu, Xianxin Guo, M. M. T. Loy, Shengwang Du
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 010401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5747
abstract: We describe and demonstrate a quantum state tomography for measuring the complex temporal waveform of narrowband biphotons. Through six sets of two-photon interference measurements projected in different polarization subspaces, we can construct the time-frequency entangled two-photon joint amplitude and phase functions in continuous-variable time domain. For the first time, we apply this technique to experimentally determine the temporal quantum states of narrowband biphotons generated from spontaneous four-wave mixing in cold atoms, and fully confirm the theoretical predictions.

id: 1409.5787
title: Scattering solutions of the Klein Gordon equation for a step potential with hyperbolic tangent potential
authors: Clara Rojas
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Modern Physics Letters A. Vol. 29, No. 28 (2014), 1450146
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5787
abstract: We solve the Klein-Gordon equation for a step potential with hyperbolic tangent potential. The scattering solutions are derived in terms of hypergeometric functions. The reflection coefficient R and transmission coefficient T are calculated, we observed superradiance and transmission resonances.

id: 1409.5789
title: The Husimi distribution, the Wehrl entropy and the superradiant phase in spin-boson interactions
authors: R. del Real, M. Calixto, E. Romera
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1409.5591
journal: Physica Scripta T153 (2013) 014016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5789
abstract: We study the Husimi distribution of the ground state in the Dicke model of field-matter interactions to visualize the quantum phase transition, from normal to superradiant, in phase-space. We follow an exact numerical and variational analysis, without making use of the usual Holstein-Primakoff approximation. We find that Wehrl entropy of the Husimi distribution provides an indicator of the sharp change of symmetry trough the critical point. Additionally, we note that the zeros of the Husimi distribution characterize the Dicke model quantum phase transition.

id: 1409.5804
title: The resource theory of steering
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Leandro Aolita
comments: Presentation and structure improved. 18 pages, 1 Figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5804
abstract: We present an operational framework for Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering as a physical resource. To begin with, we characterize the set of steering non-increasing operations (SNIOs) --i.e., those that do not create steering-- on arbitrary-dimensional bipartite systems composed of a quantum subsystem and a black-box device. Next, we introduce the notion of convex steering monotones as the fundamental axiomatic quantifiers of steering. As a convenient example thereof, we present the relative entropy of steering. In addition, we prove that two previously proposed quantifiers, the steerable weight and the robustness of steering, are also convex steering monotones. To end up with, for minimal-dimensional systems, we establish, on the one hand, necessary and sufficient conditions for pure-state steering conversions under stochastic SNIOs and prove, on the other hand, the non-existence of steering bits, i.e., measure-independent maximally steerable states from which all states can be obtained by means of the free operations. Our findings reveal unexpected aspects of steering and lay foundations for further resource-theory approaches, with potential implications in Bell non-locality.

id: 1409.5817
title: The roads not taken: empty waves, wavefunction collapse and protective measurement in quantum theory
authors: Peter Holland
comments: in Protective Measurement and Quantum Reality, ed. S. Gao (Cambridge University Press, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5817
abstract: Within the class of ontological interpretations of quantum theory where a physical system comprises a particle and a field (wavefunction) guiding it, an empty wave is a segment of the wavefunction not containing the particle. We examine the impact of this concept on the debate between the epistemological and ontological viewpoints. The theoretical merits of the empty wave in avoiding the wavefunction collapse hypothesis, and in supplying conceptual precision in the application of quantum mechanics, are emphasized. Particular reference is made to path detection in interferometry and it is shown how a consistent application of the particle and empty wave concepts dispels the suggestion that this is a <surrealist> theory. The problem of how the reality of an empty wave might be demonstrated by its effect on other systems is examined and general arguments advanced against this possibility. However, these arguments are not conclusive and we describe how the technique of protective measurement suggests a method to probe the empirical implications of empty waves and potentially distinguish between the epistemological and ontological perspectives.

id: 1409.5840
title: Perfect State Transfer in Laplacian Quantum Walk
authors: R. Alvir, S. Dever, B Lovitz, J. Myer, C. Tamon, Y. Xu, H. Zhan
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5840
abstract: For a graph $G$ and a related symmetric matrix $M$, the continuous-time quantum walk on $G$ relative to $M$ is defined as the unitary matrix $U(t) = \exp(-itM)$, where $t$ varies over the reals. Perfect state transfer occurs between vertices $u$ and $v$ at time $\tau$ if the $(u,v)$-entry of $U(\tau)$ has unit magnitude. This paper studies quantum walks relative to graph Laplacians. Some main observations include the following closure properties for perfect state transfer: (1) If a $n$-vertex graph has perfect state transfer at time $\tau$ relative to the Laplacian, then so does its complement if $n\tau$ is an integer multiple of $2\pi$. As a corollary, the double cone over any $m$-vertex graph has perfect state transfer relative to the Laplacian if and only if $m \equiv 2 \pmod{4}$. This was previously known for a double cone over a clique (S. Bose, A. Casaccino, S. Mancini, S. Severini, Int. J. Quant. Inf., 7:11, 2009). (2) If a graph $G$ has perfect state transfer at time $\tau$ relative to the normalized Laplacian, then so does the weak product $G \times H$ if for any normalized Laplacian eigenvalues $\lambda$ of $G$ and $\mu$ of $H$, we have $\mu(\lambda-1)\tau$ is an integer multiple of $2\pi$. As a corollary, a weak product of $P_{3}$ with an even clique or an odd cube has perfect state transfer relative to the normalized Laplacian. It was known earlier that a weak product of a circulant with odd integer eigenvalues and an even cube or a Cartesian power of $P_{3}$ has perfect state transfer relative to the adjacency matrix. As for negative results, no path with four vertices or more has antipodal perfect state transfer relative to the normalized Laplacian. This almost matches the state of affairs under the adjacency matrix (C. Godsil, Discrete Math., 312:1, 2011).

id: 1409.5874
title: Hilbert Space Theory of Classical Electrodynamics
authors: A. K. Rajagopal, Partha Ghose
comments: 10 pages, no figures; references added, typo in Eqn. (24) corrected, and \hat{H} in Eqns. (30), (31) replaced by \hat{L}, and hence Eqn. (34) is written in terms of \hat{L} to clarify the content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5874
abstract: Classical electrodynamics is reformulated in terms of wave functions in the classical phase space of electrodynamics, following the Koopman-von Neumann-Sudarshan prescription for classical mechanics on Hilbert spaces {\em sans} the superselection rule which prohibits interference effects in classical mechanics. This is accomplished by transforming from a set of commuting observables in one Hilbert space to another set of commuting observables in a larger Hilbert space. This is necessary to clarify the theoretical basis of much recent work on quantum-like features exhibited by classical optics. Furthermore, following Bondar et al ({\em Phys.Rev. A} {\bf 88}, 052108, (2013)), it is pointed out that quantum processes that preserve the positivity or nonpositivity of the Wigner function can be implemented by classical optics. This may be useful in interpreting quantum information processing in terms of classical optics.

id: 1409.5876
title: Connectivity is a Poor Indicator of Fast Quantum Search
authors: David A. Meyer, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures; additional 10 pages of supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 110503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5876
abstract: A randomly walking quantum particle evolving by Schr\"odinger's equation searches on $d$-dimensional cubic lattices in $O(\sqrt{N})$ time when $d \ge 5$, and with progressively slower runtime as $d$ decreases. This suggests that graph connectivity (including vertex, edge, algebraic, and normalized algebraic connectivities) is an indicator of fast quantum search, a belief supported by fast quantum search on complete graphs, strongly regular graphs, and hypercubes, all of which are highly connected. In this paper, we show this intuition to be false by giving two examples of graphs for which the opposite holds true: one with low connectivity but fast search, and one with high connectivity but slow search. The second example is a novel two-stage quantum walk algorithm in which the walking rate must be adjusted to yield high search probability.

id: 1409.5881
title: Estimating the output entropy of a tensor product of two quantum channels
authors: Grigori G. Amosov
comments: 15 pages
journal: Theor. Math. Phys. 182:3 397-406 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5881
abstract: In this paper we find, for a class of bipartite quantum states, a nontrivial lower bound on the entropy gain resulting from the action of a tensor product of identity channel with an arbitrary channel. By means of that we then estimate (from below) the output entropy of the tensor product of dephasing channel with an arbitrary channel. Finally, we provide a characterization of all phase-damping channels resulting as particular cases of dephasing channels.

id: 1409.5946
title: Entanglement area law from specific heat capacity
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Marcus Cramer
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2 minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5946
abstract: We study the scaling of entanglement in low-energy states of quantum many-body lattice models in arbitrary dimensions. We show that if at low enough temperatures the specific heat capacity of the model decays exponentially with inverse temperature, the entanglement in every low-energy state satisfies an area law (with a logarithmic correction). This behaviour of the heat capacity is typically observed in gapped systems. Assuming merely that the low-temperature specific heat decays polynomially with temperature, we find a subvolume scaling of entanglement. Our results give experimentally verifiable conditions for area laws, and show that they are a generic property of low-energy states of matter.

id: 1409.5965
title: Entanglement Distribution in Optical Networks
authors: Alex Ciurana, Vicente Martin, Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Bernhard Schrenk, Momtchil Peev, Andreas Poppe
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5965
abstract: The ability to generate entangled photon-pairs over a broad wavelength range opens the door to the simultaneous distribution of entanglement to multiple users in a network by using centralized sources and flexible wavelength-division multiplexing schemes. Here we show the design of a metropolitan optical network consisting of tree-type access networks whereby entangled photon-pairs are distributed to any pair of users, independent of their location. The network is constructed employing commercial off-the-shelf components and uses the existing infrastructure, which allows for moderate deployment costs. We further develop a channel plan and a network-architecture design to provide a direct optical path between any pair of users, thus allowing classical and one-way quantum communication as well as entanglement distribution. This allows the simultaneous operation of multiple quantum information technologies. Finally, we present a more flexible backbone architecture that pushes away the load limitations of the original network design by extending its reach, number of users and capabilities.

id: 1409.5991
title: A correct security evaluation of quantum key distribution
authors: Osamu Hirota
comments: 9pages, 3 figures, Quantum ICT Research Institute Bulletin, vol-4, no-1, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5991
abstract: There is no doubt that quantum key distribution is an excellent result as a science. However, this paper presents a view on quantum key distribution (QKD) wherein QKD may have a difficulty to provide a sufficient security and good communication performance in real world networks. In fact, a one-time pad forwarded by QKD model with $\bar{\epsilon}=10^{-6}$ may be easily decrypted by key estimation. Despite that researchers know several criticisms on the theoretical incompleteness on the security evaluation, Portmann and Rennner, and others still avert from the discussion on criticism, and experimental groups tend to make exaggerated claims about their own work by making it seems that QKD is applicable to commercial communication systems. All such claims are based on a misunderstanding of the meaning of criteria of information theoretic security in cryptography. A severe situation has arisen as a result, one that will impair a healthy development of quantum information science (QIS). Thus, the author hopes that this paper will help to stimulate discussions on developing a more detailed theory.

id: 1409.5994
title: When quantum channel preserves product states
authors: Yu Guo, Zhaofang Bai, Shuanping Du, Xiulan Li
comments: 4 pages
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, 74, 277-282 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5994
abstract: Product states are always considered as the states that don't contain quantum correlation. We discuss here when a quantum channel sends the product states to themselves. The exact forms of such channels are proposed. It is shown that such a quantum channel is a local quantum channel, a composition of a local quantum channel and a flip operation, or such that one of the local states is fixed. Both finite- and infinite-dimensional systems are considered.

id: 1409.6031
title: Coherence and Decay of Higher Energy Levels of a Superconducting Transmon Qubit
authors: Michael J. Peterer, Samuel J. Bader, Xiaoyue Jin, Fei Yan, Archana Kamal, Ted Gudmundsen, Peter J. Leek, Terry P. Orlando, William D. Oliver, Simon Gustavsson
comments: Minor corrections. Added two plots in Figure 2. Added figures of the setup and the Ramsey fits in the supplemental material, as as more details on the device characterization. Rephrased last paragraph on charge dissipation. Added some references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 010501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6031
abstract: We present measurements of coherence and successive decay dynamics of higher energy levels of a superconducting transmon qubit. By applying consecutive $\pi$-pulses for each sequential transition frequency, we excite the qubit from the ground state up to its fourth excited level and characterize the decay and coherence of each state. We find the decay to proceed mainly sequentially, with relaxation times in excess of 20 $\mu$s for all transitions. We also provide a direct measurement of the charge dispersion of these levels by analyzing beating patterns in Ramsey fringes. The results demonstrate the feasibility of using higher levels in transmon qubits for encoding quantum information.

id: 1409.6102
title: Decoherence of interacting Majorana modes
authors: H. T. Ng
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6102
abstract: We study the decoherence of Majorana modes of a fermion chain, where the fermions interact with their nearest neighbours. We investigate the effect of dissipation and dephasing on the Majorana modes of a fermionic chain. The dissipative and dephasing noises induce the parity- and non-parity-preserving transitions between the eigenstates of system, respectively. Therefore, these two types of noises lead to the different decoherence mechanisms. In each type of noise, we discuss the low- and high-frequency regimes to describe the different environments. We numerically calculate the dissipation and dephasing rates in the presence of long-range interactions. We find that the decoherence rate of interacting Majorana modes is different to that of non-interacting modes. We show the examples that the long-range interactions can reduce the decoherence rate. It is advantageous to the potential applications of quantum information processing.

id: 1409.6130
title: An alternative approach to the construction of Schur-Weyl transform
authors: Pawe? Jakubczyk, Yevgen Kravets, Dorota Jakubczyk
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6130
abstract: We propose an alternative approach for the construction of the unitary matrix which performs generalized unitary rotations of the system consisting of independent identical subsystems (for example spin system). This matrix, when applied to the system, results in a change of degrees of freedom, uncovering the information hidden in non-local degrees of freedom. This information can be used, inter alia, to study the structure of entangled states, their classification and may be useful for construction of quantum algorithms.

id: 1409.6145
title: Decoherence Models for Discrete-Time Quantum Walks and their Application to Neutral Atom Experiments
authors: Andrea Alberti, Wolfgang Alt, Reinhard Werner, Dieter Meschede
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, 1 table, replaced fig. 10 in the new version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 123052 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6145
abstract: We discuss decoherence in discrete-time quantum walks in terms of a phenomenological model that distinguishes spin and spatial decoherence. We identify the dominating mechanisms that affect quantum walk experiments realized with neutral atoms walking in an optical lattice. From the measured spatial distributions, we determine with good precision the amount of decoherence per step, which provides a quantitative indication of the quality of our quantum walks. In particular, we find that spin decoherence is the main mechanism responsible for the loss of coherence in our experiment. We also find that the sole observation of ballistic instead of diffusive expansion in position space is not a good indicator for the range of coherent delocalization. We provide further physical insight by distinguishing the effects of short and long time spin dephasing mechanisms. We introduce the concept of coherence length in the discrete-time quantum walk, which quantifies the range of spatial coherences. Unexpectedly, we find that quasi-stationary dephasing does not modify the local properties of the quantum walk, but instead affects spatial coherences. For a visual representation of decoherence phenomena in phase space, we have developed a formalism based on a discrete analogue of the Wigner function. We show that the effects of spin and spatial decoherence differ dramatically in momentum space.

id: 1409.6167
title: Quantum multiparameter metrology with generalized entangled coherent state
authors: Jing Liu, Xiao-Ming Lu, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6167
abstract: We apply a generalized form of entangled coherent state (ECS) in an optical interferometer to detect the phase sensitivity. Both the linear and nonlinear protocols have been considered. We find that, similarly with the generalized NOON state [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 070403 (2013)], utilizing the simultaneous estimation, this generalized form of ECS gives a O(d) advantage on the parameter number d compared to the independent estimation, and the nonlinear protocol shows no advantage on d than the linear counterpart in these cases. Furthermore, this generalized form of ECS can give a lower Cramer-Rao bound than the generalized NOON state in both linear and nonlinear protocols. The homodyne detection has been applied in the linear protocol in the last.

id: 1409.6184
title: Completely positive approximate solutions of driven open quantum systems
authors: Farhang Haddadfarshi, Jian cui, Florian Mintert
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 130402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6184
abstract: We define a perturbative approximation for the solution of Lindblad master equations with time-dependent generators that satisfies the fundamental property of complete positivity, as essential for quantum simulations and optimal control. With explicit examples we show that ensuring this property substantially improves the accuracy of the perturbative approximation.

id: 1409.6189
title: Quantum master equation with balanced gain and loss
authors: Dennis Dast, Daniel Haag, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, additions in the text, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6189
abstract: We present a quantum master equation describing a Bose-Einstein condensate with particle loss on one lattice site and particle gain on the other lattice site whose mean-field limit is a non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Gross-Pitaevskii equation. It is shown that the characteristic properties of PT-symmetric systems, such as the existence of stationary states and the phase shift of pulses between two lattice sites, are also found in the many-particle system. Visualizing the dynamics on a Bloch sphere allows us to compare the complete dynamics of the master equation with that of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We find that even for a relatively small number of particles the dynamics are in excellent agreement and the master equation with balanced gain and loss is indeed an appropriate many-particle description of a PT-symmetric Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 1409.6204
title: $\mathrm H_2^+$ in a weak magnetic field
authors: H¨¦ctor Medel Cobaxin, Alexander Alijah, Juan Carlos L¨®pez Vieyra, Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6204
abstract: The electronic energy of $\mathrm H_2^+$ in magnetic fields of up to $B=0.2B_0$ (or 4.7 $\times 10^4$ Tesla) is investigated. Numerical values of the magnetic susceptibility for both the diamagnetic and paramagnetic contributions are reported for arbitrary orientations of the molecule in the magnetic field. It is shown that both diamagnetic and paramagnetic susceptibilities grow with inclination, while paramagnetic susceptibility is systematically much smaller than the diamagnetic one. Accurate two-dimensional Born-Oppenheimer surfaces are obtained with special trial functions. Using these surfaces, vibrational and rotational states are computed and analysed for the isotopologues $\mathrm H_2^+$ and $\mathrm D_2^+$.

id: 1409.6205
title: The one-dimensional thermal properties for the relativistic harmonic oscillators
authors: Abdelmalek Boumali
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6205
abstract: In this paper, we want to improved the calculations of the thermodynamic quantities of the relativistic Harmonic oscillator using the Hurwitz zeta function. The comparison of our results with those obtained by a method based on the Euler-MacLaurin approach has been made.

id: 1409.6242
title: Resource quality of a symmetry-protected topologically ordered phase for quantum computation
authors: Jacob Miller, Akimasa Miyake
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120506 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6242
abstract: We investigate entanglement naturally present in the 1D topologically ordered phase protected with the on-site symmetry group of an octahedron as a potential resource for teleportation-based quantum computation. We show that, as long as certain characteristic lengths are finite, all its ground states have the capability to implement any unit-fidelity one-qubit gate operation asymptotically as a key computational building block. This feature is intrinsic to the entire phase, in that perfect gate fidelity coincides with perfect string order parameters under a state-insensitive renormalization procedure. Our approach may pave the way toward a novel program to classify quantum many-body systems based on their operational use for quantum information processing.

id: 1409.6290
title: Fleeting Critical Review of the Recent Ontic Breakthrough in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 24 pages, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6290
abstract: The ontic breakthrough in quantum foundations, consisting of three theo- rems, that of Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph (PBR), the Colbeck-Renner one, and Hardy's one, is shortly presented, together with various reactions. Some of the ideas involved are explained and/or commented upon. Thus, the wave- function is proved real in three independent ways. Each of the theorems rests on more or less plausible assumptions, but they require more in-depth anal- yses.

id: 1409.6297
title: A proposed resolution of the delayed-choice paradox
authors: Michael B. Heaney
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6297
abstract: This paper proposes a resolution of the delayed-choice paradox of the Conventional Theory of quantum mechanics, where a particle seems to know what will happen in the future, and changes its present behavior accordingly. A comparison of the Conventional Theory with an Advanced Theory and a Symmetrical Theory of the same delayed-choice experiment suggests that the apparent paradox is caused by an incorrect assumption about the interaction of a wavefunction with a beam-splitter. Once this assumption is corrected, there is no delayed-choice paradox in any of the three theories.

id: 1409.6342
title: Scattering of a scalar relativistic particle by the hyperbolic tangent potential
authors: Clara Rojas
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1409.5787
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 10.1139/cjp-2014-0309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6342
abstract: We solve the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of the hyperbolic tangent potential. The scattering solutions are derived in terms of hypergeometric functions. The reflection $R$ and transmission $T$ coefficients are calculated in terms of Gamma function and, superradiance is discussed, when the reflection coefficient $R$ is greater than one.

id: 1409.6356
title: Husimi distribution and phase space analysis of Dicke model quantum phase transition
authors: E. Romera, R. del Real, M. Calixto
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1409.5789, arXiv:1409.5591
journal: Physical Review A 85, 053831 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6356
abstract: The Husimi distribution is proposed for a phase space analysis of quantum phase transitions in the Dicke model of spin-boson interactions. We show that the inverse participation ratio and Wehrl entropy of the Husimi distribution give sharp signatures of the quantum phase transition. The analysis has been done using two frameworks: a numerical treatment and an analytical variational approximation. Additionally we have proposed a new characterization of the Dicke model quantum phase transition by means of the zeros of the Husimi distribution in the variational approach.

id: 1409.6372
title: All optical control of a single electron spin in diamond
authors: Yiwen Chu, Matthew Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 021801 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6372
abstract: Precise coherent control of the individual electronic spins associated with atom-like impurities in the solid state is essential for applications in quantum information processing and quantum metrology. We demonstrate all-optical initialization, fast coherent manipulation, and readout of the electronic spin of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV$^-$) center in diamond at T$\sim$7K. We then present the observation of a novel double-dark resonance in the spectroscopy of an individual NV center. These techniques open the door for new applications ranging from robust manipulation of spin states using geometric quantum gates to quantum sensing and information processing.

id: 1409.6386
title: Comparative Study of the Performance of Quantum Annealing and Simulated Annealing
authors: Hidetoshi Nishimori, Junichi Tsuda, Sergey Knysh
comments: 19 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012104 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6386
abstract: Relations of simulated annealing and quantum annealing are studied by a mapping from the transition matrix of classical Markovian dynamics of the Ising model to a quantum Hamiltonian and vice versa. It is shown that these two operators, the transition matrix and the Hamiltonian, share the eigenvalue spectrum. Thus, if simulated annealing with slow temperature change does not encounter a difficulty caused by an exponentially long relaxation time at a first-order phase transition, the same is true for the corresponding process of quantum annealing in the adiabatic limit. One of the important differences between the classical-to-quantum mapping and the converse quantum-to-classical mapping is that the Markovian dynamics of a short-range Ising model is mapped to a short-range quantum system, but the converse mapping from a short-range quantum system to a classical one results in long-range interactions. This leads to a difference in efficiencies that simulated annealing can be efficiently simulated by quantum annealing but the converse is not necessarily true. We conclude that quantum annealing is easier to implement and is more flexible than simulated annealing. We also point out that the present mapping can be extended to accommodate explicit time dependence of temperature, which is used to justify the quantum-mechanical analysis of simulated annealing by Somma, Batista, and Ortiz. Additionally, an alternative method to solve the non-equilibrium dynamics of the one-dimensional Ising model is provided through the classical-to-quantum mapping.

id: 1409.6410
title: High-fidelity error-resilient composite phase gates
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012341 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6410
abstract: We present a method to construct high-fidelity quantum phase gates, which are insensitive to errors in various experimental parameters. The phase gates consist of a pair of two sequential broadband composite pulses, with a phase difference $\pi+\alpha/2$ between them, where $\alpha$ is the desired gate phase. By using composite pulses which compensate systematic errors in the pulse area, the frequency detuning, or both the area and the detuning, we thereby construct composite phase gates which compensate errors in the same parameters. Particularly interesting are phase gates which use the recently discovered universal composite pulses, which compensate systematic errors in any parameter of the driving field, which keep the evolution Hermitian (e.g., pulse amplitude and duration, pulse shape, frequency detuning, Stark shifts, residual frequency chirps, etc.

id: 1409.6435
title: Why doubly excited determinants govern configuration interaction calculations of electron correlations
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Jos¨¦ M. Gracia-Bond¨ªa, Michael Springborg
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6435
abstract: Computational evidence shows that, when using natural orbitals to study (dynamical and non-dynamical) electron correlation, determinants with an odd number of excitations play a negligible role. Instead, doubly excited determinants rule the rostrum in this kind of configuration interaction calculations. We explain mathematically why it must be so.

id: 1409.6456
title: Classical and quantum dynamics in the (non-Hermitian) Swanson oscillator
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch, Alexander Rush, Roman Schubert
comments: extended version, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6456
abstract: The non-Hermitian quadratic oscillator studied by Swanson is one of the popular $PT$-symmetric model systems. Here a full classical description of its dynamics is derived using recently developed metriplectic flow equations, which combine the classical symplectic flow for Hermitian systems with a dissipative metric flow for the anti-Hermitian part. Closed form expressions for the metric and phase-space trajectories are presented which are found to be periodic in time. Since the Hamiltonian is only quadratic the classical dynamics exactly describes the quantum dynamics of Gaussian wave packets. It is shown that the classical metric and trajectories as well as the quantum wave functions can diverge in finite time even though the $PT$-symmetry is unbroken, i.e., the eigenvalues are purely real.

id: 1409.6468
title: Quantum phase transition of nonlocal Ising chain with transverse field in a resonator
authors: Yu-Na Zhang, Xi-Wang Luo, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Xingxiang Zhou
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review B 90, 094510 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6468
abstract: We study the quantum phase transition in a spin chain with variable Ising interaction and position-dependent coupling to a resonator field. Such a complicated model, usually not present in natural physical systems, can be simulated by an array of qubits based on man-made devices and exhibits interesting behavior. We show that, when the coupling between the qubit and field is strong enough, a super-radiant phase transition occurs, and it is possible to pick a particular field mode to undergo this phase transition by properly modulating the strength of the Ising interaction. We also study the impact of the resonator field on the magnetic properties of the spin chain, and find a rich set of phases characterized by distinctive qubit correlation functions.

id: 1409.6479
title: Quantum information approach to Bose-Einstein condensate of composite bosons
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Jayne Thompson, Sadegh Raeisi, Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 8+ pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6479
abstract: We consider composite bosons (cobosons) comprised of two elementary particles, fermions or bosons, in an entangled state. We study a model of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) for indistinguishable cobosons. We find that cobosons made of two entangled fermions behave in a predictable way, i.e., their condensate fraction and the transition temperature are increasing functions of their entanglement. Interestingly, cobosons made of two entangled bosons exhibit the opposite behaviour - their condensate fraction and the transition temperature are decreasing functions of entanglement.

id: 1409.6509
title: All-optical routing of single photons with multiple input and output ports by interferences
authors: Wei-Bin Yan, Bao Liu, Ling Zhou, Heng Fan
comments: Comments are welcome! 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6509
abstract: We propose a waveguide-cavity coupled system to achieve the routing of photons by the phases of other photons. Our router has four input ports and four output ports. The transport of the coherent-state photons injected through any input port can be controlled by the phases of the coherent-state photons injected through other input ports. This control can be achieved when the mean numbers of the routed and control photons are small enough and require no additional control fields. Therefore, the all-optical routing of photons can be achieved at the single-photon level.

id: 1409.6516
title: Quantum correlations and non-classicality in a system of two coupled vertical external cavity surface emitting lasers
authors: D. Mogilevtsev, D. B. Horoshko, Yu. M. Golubev, M. I. Kolobov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063819 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6516
abstract: Here we demonstrate that photocurrent noise reduction below the standard quantum limit and modal anticorrelation can arise in two mode coupled two-VECSEL system with common pump. This effect occurs due to correlated loss of laser modes. It is possible to suppress noise below the standard quantum limit even for Poissonian coherent pumping, whereas the regularity of the pump can be harmful for non-classicality.

id: 1409.6561
title: Observation of localized multi-spatial-mode quadrature squeezing in four-wave mixing
authors: C. S. Embrey, M. T. Turnbull, P. G. Petrov, V. Boyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6561
abstract: Quantum states of light can improve imaging whenever the image quality and resolution are limited by the quantum noise of the illumination. In the case of a bright illumination, quantum enhancement is obtained for a light field composed of many squeezed transverse modes. A possible realization of such a multi-spatial-mode squeezed state is a field which contains a transverse plane in which the local electric field displays reduced quantum fluctuations at all locations, on any one quadrature. Using nondegenerate four-wave mixing in a hot vapor, we have generated a bichromatic multi-spatial-mode squeezed state and showed that it exhibits localised quadrature squeezing at any point of its transverse profile, in regions much smaller than its size. We observe 75 independently squeezed regions. This confirms the potential of this technique for producing illumination suitable for practical quantum imaging.

id: 1409.6572
title: Ion-trap measurements of electric-field noise near surfaces
authors: M. Brownnutt, M. Kumph, P. Rabl, R. Blatt
comments: 71 pages, 25 figures. We have aimed to produce a comprehensive review; if we missed out your favourite measurement or theory, do let us know
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6572
abstract: Electric-field noise near surfaces is a common problem in diverse areas of physics, and a limiting factor for many precision measurements. There are multiple mechanisms by which such noise is generated, many of which are poorly understood. Laser-cooled, trapped ions provide one of the most sensitive systems to probe electric-field noise at MHz frequencies and over a distance range 30 - 3000 $\mu$m from the surface. Over recent years numerous experiments have reported spectral densities of electric-field noise inferred from ion heating-rate measurements and several different theoretical explanations for the observed noise characteristics have been proposed. This paper provides an extensive summary and critical review of electric-field noise measurements in ion traps, and compares these experimental findings with known and conjectured mechanisms for the origin of this noise. This reveals that the presence of multiple noise sources, as well as the different scalings added by geometrical considerations, complicate the interpretation of these results. It is thus the purpose of this review to assess which conclusions can be reasonably drawn from the existing data, and which important questions are still open. In so doing it provides a framework for future investigations of surface-noise processes.

id: 1409.6595
title: Robust interface between flying and topological qubits
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Ming Gong, Jia Liu, Yong Hu, Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang
comments: v2: rewritten of the introduction, removed partially of the second section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6595
abstract: Hybrid architectures, consisting of conventional and topological qubits, have recently attracted much attention due to their capability in consolidating the robustness of topological qubits and the universality of conventional qubits. However, these two kinds of qubits are normally constructed in significantly different energy scales, and thus this energy mismatch is a major obstacle for their coupling that supports the exchange of quantum information between them. Here, we propose a microwave photonic quantum bus for a direct strong coupling between the topological and conventional qubits, in which the energy mismatch is compensated by the external driving field via the fractional ac Josephson effect. In the framework of tight-binding simulation and perturbation theory, we show that the energy splitting of the topological qubits in a finite length nanowire is still robust against local perturbations, which is ensured not only by topology, but also by the particle-hole symmetry. Therefore, the present scheme realizes a robust interface between the flying and topological qubits. Finally, we demonstrate that this quantum bus can also be used to generate multipartitie entangled states with the topological qubits.

id: 1409.6643
title: An order-theoretic quantification of contextuality
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Published version; 17 pages, 1 figure; published under title "Quantifying Contextuality" which duplicates another title on the arXiv by different authors
journal: Information, 5(3), 508-525, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6643
abstract: In this essay, I develop order-theoretic notions of determinism and contextuality on domains and topoi. In the process, I develop a method for quantifying contextuality and show that the order-theoretic sense of contextuality is analogous to the sense embodied in the topos-theoretic statement of the Kochen-Specker theorem. Additionally, I argue that this leads to a relation between the entropy associated with measurements on quantum systems and the second law of thermodynamics. The idea that the second law has its origin in the ordering of quantum states and processes dates to at least 1958 and possibly earlier. The suggestion that the mechanism behind this relation is contextuality, is made here for the first time.

id: 1409.6658
title: Quantum correlation evolution of GHZ and W states under noisy channels using ameliorated measurement-induced disturbance
authors: Pakhshan Espoukeh, Pouria Pedram
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Inf Process 14 (2015) 303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6658
abstract: We study quantum correlation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states under various noisy channels using measurement-induced disturbance approach and its optimized version. Although these inequivalent maximal entangled states represent the same quantum correlation in the absence of noise, it is shown that the W state is more robust than the GHZ state through most noisy channels. Also, using measurement-induced disturbance measure, we obtain the analytical relations for the time evolution of quantum correlations in terms of the noisy parameter $\kappa$ and remove its overestimating quantum correlations upon implementing the ameliorated measurement-induced disturbance.

id: 1409.6669
title: Elementary solution to the time-independent quantum navigation problem
authors: Dorje C. Brody, David M. Meier
comments: 5 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A48, 055302 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6669
abstract: A quantum navigation problem concerns the identification of a time-optimal Hamiltonian that realises a required quantum process or task, under the influence of a prevailing `background' Hamiltonian that cannot be manipulated. When the task is to transform one quantum state into another, finding the solution in closed form to the problem is nontrivial even in the case of time-independent Hamiltonians. An elementary solution, based on trigonometric analysis, is found here when the Hilbert space dimension is two. Difficulties arising from generalisations to higher-dimensional systems are discussed.

id: 1409.6697
title: Casimir friction: Relative motion more generally
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 14 pages latex2e, one figure. To appear in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter (Special Issue Article)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6697
abstract: This paper extends our recent study on Casimir friction forces for dielectric plates moving parallel to each other [J. S. H{\o}ye and I. Brevik, Eur. Phys. J. D {\bf 68}, 61 (2014)], to the case where the plates are no longer restricted to rectilinear motion. Part of the mathematical formalism thereby becomes more cumbersome, but reduces in the end to the form that we could expect to be the natural one in advance. As an example, we calculate the Casimir torque on a planar disc rotating with constant angular velocity around its vertical symmetry axis next to another plate.

id: 1409.6746
title: Observation of a deeper-than-EPR nonlocality in a macroscopic quantum phase with distinguishable electrons
authors: Sergey Emelyanov
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6746
abstract: We propose a situation where quantum theory manifestly predicts spatially-discontinuous electron transitions at a macroscopic distance. The situation appears realizable in a modified integer Quantum Hall system where macroscopic-scale quantum states are spatially-separated and hence quantum transitions between them are observable on the level of individual acts. In the system, we have observed the transitions with discontinuity as long as about 1cm and argue that actually it is a peculiar quantum dynamics which may well be nonlocal insofar as it is macroscopically-discontinuous. The observation of quantum dynamics clearly requires a deeper quantum kinematics which, in the vein of Bell's ideas, legitimates the concept of a non-Lorentz-invariant quantum pre-space responsible for absolute simultaneity as well as for a real causal sequence. This implies a legitimation of the Lorentz-Poincare's version of relativity as the only version which leaves room for quantum pre-space through the notion of aether. As a great benefit, this version avoids the quantum dilemma and therefore is compatible with the de Broglie-Bohm's realistic version of quantum theory. Thus, we can naturally avoid all conceptual problems related to quantum mysticism and ultimately reinstate the Einstein's realistic insight into physics. Moreover, we open the door to his dream of a unified physical theory as now we can soundly unify two realistic theories the foundations of which are reconcilable.

id: 1409.6752
title: Full-response characterization of afterpulsing in single-photon detectors
authors: D. B. Horoshko, V. N. Chizhevsky, S. Ya. Kilin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6752
abstract: We have performed a statistical characterization of the effect of afterpulsing in a free-running silicon single-photon detector by measuring the distribution of afterpulse waiting times in response to pulsed illumination and fitting it by a sum of exponentials. We show that a high degree of goodness of fit can be obtained for 5 exponentials, but the physical meaning of estimated characteristic times is dubious. We show that a continuous limit of the sum of exponentials with a uniform density between the limiting times gives excellent fitting results in the full range of the detector response function.

id: 1409.6759
title: Dissipation-induced continuous quantum error correction for superconducting circuits
authors: Joachim Cohen, Mazyar Mirrahimi
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6759
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is a crucial step towards long coherence times required for efficient quantum information processing (QIP). One major challenge in this direction concerns the fast real-time analysis of error syndrome measurements and the associated feedback control. Recent proposals on autonomous QEC (AQEC) have opened new perspectives to overcome this difficulty. Here, we design an AQEC scheme based on quantum reservoir engineering adapted to superconducting qubits. We focus on a three-qubit bit-flip code, where three transmon qubits are dispersively coupled to a few low-Q resonator modes. By applying only continuous-wave drives of fixed but well-chosen frequencies and amplitudes, we engineer an effective interaction Hamiltonian to evacuate the entropy created by eventual bit-flip errors. We provide a full analytical and numerical study of the protocol, while introducing the main limitations on the achievable error correction rates.

id: 1409.6777
title: Impossibility of Classically Simulating One-Clean-Qubit Computation
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Hirotada Kobayashi, Tomoyuki Morimae, Harumichi Nishimura, Shuhei Tamate, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. New results and new authors have been added. (DQC1_2 is improved to DQC1_1, and collapse of PH is improved from 3rd to 2nd level.) Title is also changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6777
abstract: Deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit (DQC1) is a restricted model of quantum computing where the input state is the completely mixed state except for a single clean qubit, and only a single output qubit is measured at the end of the computing. It is proved that the restriction of quantum computation to the DQC1 model does not change the complexity classes NQP and SBQP. As a main consequence, it follows that the DQC1 model cannot be efficiently simulated by classical computers unless the polynomial-time hierarchy collapses to the second level (more precisely, to AM), which answers the long-standing open problem posed by Knill and Laflamme under the very plausible complexity assumption. The argument developed in this paper also weakens the complexity assumption necessary for the existing impossibility results on classical simulation of various sub-universal quantum computing models, such as the IQP model and the Boson sampling.

id: 1409.6783
title: Steady entanglements in bosonic dissipative networks
authors: G. D. de Moraes Neto, W. Rosado, F. O. Prado, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6783
abstract: In this letter we propose a scheme for the preparation of steady entanglements in bosonic dissipative networks. We describe its implementation in a system of coupled cavities interacting with an engineered reservoir built up of three-level atoms. Emblematic bipartite ($Bell$ and $NOON$) and multipartite $W$-class states can be produced with high fidelity and purity.

id: 1409.6792
title: Commuting Quantum Circuits with Few Outputs are Unlikely to be Classically Simulatable
authors: Yasuhiro Takahashi, Seiichiro Tani, Takeshi Yamazaki, Kazuyuki Tanaka
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures; v2: Theorems 1 and 3 improved, proofs modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6792
abstract: We study the classical simulatability of commuting quantum circuits with n input qubits and O(log n) output qubits, where a quantum circuit is classically simulatable if its output probability distribution can be sampled up to an exponentially small additive error in classical polynomial time. First, we show that there exists a commuting quantum circuit that is not classically simulatable unless the polynomial hierarchy collapses to the third level. This is the first formal evidence that a commuting quantum circuit is not classically simulatable even when the number of output qubits is exponentially small. Then, we consider a generalized version of the circuit and clarify the condition under which it is classically simulatable. Lastly, we apply the argument for the above evidence to Clifford circuits in a similar setting and provide evidence that such a circuit augmented by a depth-1 non-Clifford layer is not classically simulatable. These results reveal subtle differences between quantum and classical computation.

id: 1409.6793
title: Influence of Induced Charges in the Electric Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: Rui-Feng Wang
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6793
abstract: This paper states that the induced charge should not be neglected in the electric Aharonov-Bohm effect. If the induced charge is taken into account, the interference pattern of the moving charge will not change with the potential difference between the two metal tubes. It means that the scale potential itself can not affect the phase of the moving charge, and the true factor affecting the phase of the moving charge is the energy of the system including the moving charge and the induced charge.

id: 1409.6802
title: Corrections to Thomas-Fermi densities at turning points and beyond
authors: Raphael F. Ribeiro, Donghyung Lee, Attila Cangi, Peter Elliott, Kieron Burke
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 050401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6802
abstract: Uniform semiclassical approximations for the number and kinetic-energy densities are derived for many non-interacting fermions in one-dimensional potentials with two turning points. The resulting simple, closed-form expressions contain the leading corrections to Thomas-Fermi theory, involve neither sums nor derivatives, are spatially uniform approximations, and are exceedingly accurate.

id: 1409.6841
title: Quantum Correlations of Helicity Entangled States in Non-inertial Frames Beyond Single Mode Approximation
authors: Zeynab Harsij, Behrouz Mirza
comments: 12 pages,5 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 351 (2014) 665-681
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6841
abstract: A helicity entangled tripartite state is considered in which the degree of entanglement is preserved in non-inertial frames. It is shown that Quantum Entanglement remains observer independent. As another measure of quantum correlation, Quantum Discord has been investigated. It is explicitly shown that acceleration has no effect on the degree of quantum correlation for the bipartite and tripartite helicity entangled states. Geometric Quantum Discord as a Hilbert-Schmidt distance is computed for helicity entangled states. It is shown that living in non-inertial frames does not make any influence on this distance, either. In addition, the analysis has been extended beyond single mode approximation to show that acceleration does not have any impact on the quantum features in the limit beyond the single mode. As an interesting result, while the density matrix depends on the right and left Unruh modes, the Negativity as a measure of Quantum Entanglement remains constant. Also, Quantum Discord does not change beyond single mode approximation.

id: 1409.6847
title: Quantum Fisher information of fermionic cavity modes in an accelerated motion
authors: Zahid Hussain Shamsi, DaiGyoung Kim, Younghun Kwon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6847
abstract: We investigate the effect of the inertial and non-inertial segments of relativistic motion on the quantum Fisher information of (1+1) Dirac field modes confined to cavities. %For this purpose, a bipartite system comprising of Alice's and Rob's cavities with appropriate boundary conditions is prepared. For the purpose, we consider the situation that Rob's cavity, initially inertial, accelerates uniformly with respect to its proper time and then again becomes inertial while Alice's cavity remains inertial. The acceleration is assumed to be very small and its effects were analyzed in a perturbative regime. For analysis, we consider $\theta$ parameterized two-qubit pure entangled state and a Werner state. In contrast to the degradation of entanglement due to the relativistic motion between the cavities, the quantum Fisher information of the pure composite system $\mathcal{F}_\theta$ with respect to parameter $\theta$ is found to be invariant under the same conditions. However, in the case of the Werner state, the quantum Fisher information displays periodic degradation, due to the inertial and non-inertial segments of motion. Further, we investigate how this evolution process affects the quantum Fisher information distribution over the subsystems of Alice's and Rob's cavities. We find that the quantum Fisher information over the Rob's cavity shows the periodic degradation behavior depending upon the parameter $\theta$ as well as the uniform acceleration for both the two qubit pure state and Werner state. The quantum Fisher information over Alice's cavity remains invariant throughout the motion of Rob's cavity for the two qubit pure state whereas for Werner state it is affected by the mixing parameter of the Werner state.

id: 1409.6891
title: A geometric framework for mixed quantum states based on a Kahler structure
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6891
abstract: In this paper we introduce a geometric framework for mixed quantum states based on a K\"ahler structure. The geometric framework includes a symplectic form, an almost complex structure, and a Riemannian metric that characterize the space of mixed quantum states. We argue that the almost complex structure is integrable. We also in detail discuss a visualizing application of this geometric framework by deriving a geometric uncertainty relation for mixed quantum states. The framework is computationally effective and it provides us with a better understanding of general quantum mechanical systems.

id: 1409.6905
title: Unitary transformations of a family of two-dimensional anharmonic oscillators
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6905
abstract: In this paper we analyze a recent application of perturbation theory by the moment method to a family of two-dimensional anharmonic oscillators. By means of straightforward unitary transformations we show that two of the models studied by the authors are separable. Other is unbounded from below and therefore cannot be successfully treated by perturbation theory unless a complex harmonic frequency is introduced in the renormalization process. We calculate the lowest resonance by means of complex-coordinate rotation and compare its real part with the eigenvalue estimated by the authors. A pair of the remaining oscillators are equivalent as they can be transformed into one another by unitary transformations.

id: 1409.6927
title: Cooling Techniques for Trapped Ions
authors: Daniel M. Segal, Christof Wunderlich
comments: Part of the Proceedings of the Les Houches Winter School on the Physics with Trapped Charged Particles held in January 2012. References updated in mid 2012
journal: Physics with Trapped Charged Particles, Lectures from the Les Houches Winter School, edited by M. Knoop, N. Madsen, and R. C. Thompson (Imperial College Press, London, 2014), pp. 43-81
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6927
abstract: This book chapter gives an introduction to, and an overview of, methods for cooling trapped ions. The main addressees are researchers entering the field. It is not intended as a comprehensive survey and historical account of the extensive literature on this topic. We present the physical ideas behind several cooling schemes, outline their mathematical description, and point to relevant literature useful for a more in-depth study of this topic.

id: 1409.6953
title: Quasipinning and selection rules for excitations in atoms and molecules
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Michael Springborg
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures, new references, some typos corrected and a new section added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6953
abstract: Postulated by Pauli to explain the electronic structure of atoms and molecules, the exclusion principle establishes an upper bound of 1 for the fermionic natural occupation numbers $\{n_i\}$. A recent analysis of the pure $N$-representability problem provides a wide set of inequalities for the $\{n_i\}$, leading to constraints on these numbers. This has a strong potential impact on reduced density matrix functional theory as we know it. In this work we continue our study the nature of these inequalities for some atomic and molecular systems. The results indicate that (quasi)saturation of some of them leads to selection rules for the dominant configurations in configuration interaction expansions, in favorable cases providing means for significantly reducing their computational requirements.

id: 1409.6990
title: Transverse distinguishability of entangled photons with arbitrarily shaped spatial near- and far-field distributions
authors: Robert Elsner, Dirk Puhlmann, Gregor Pieplow, Axel Heuer, Ralf Menzel
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6990
abstract: Entangled photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion inside a nonlinear crystal exhibit a complex spatial photon count distribution. A quantitative description of this distribution helps with the interpretation of experiments that depend on this structure. We developed a theoretical model and an accompanying numerical calculation that includes the effects of phase matching and the crystal properties to describe a wide range of spatial effects in two-photon experiments. The numerical calculation was tested against selected analytical approximations. We furthermore performed a double-slit experiment where we measured the visibility V and the distinguishability D and obtained $D^2 + V^2 = 1.43$. The numerical model accurately predicts these experimental results.

id: 1409.6993
title: Casimir-Polder interaction for gently curved surfaces
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Thorsten Emig, Mehran Kardar
comments: 6 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 081702(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6993
abstract: We use a derivative expansion for gently curved surfaces to compute the leading and the next-to-leading curvature corrections to the Casimir-Polder interaction between a polarizable small particle and a non-planar surface. While our methods apply to any homogeneous and isotropic surface, explicit results are presented here for perfect conductors. We show that the derivative expansion of the Casimir-Polder potential follows from a resummation of its perturbative series, for small in-plane momenta. We consider the retarded, non-retarded and classical high temperature limits.

id: 1409.7013
title: Numerical detection of symmetry enriched topological phases with space group symmetry
authors: Ling Wang, Andrew Essin, Michael Hermele, Olexei Motrunich
comments: 7 figs, 8 pages. Accepted by PRB rapid communication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 121103(R) 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7013
abstract: Topologically ordered phases of matter, in particular so-called symmetry enriched topological (SET) phases, can exhibit quantum number fractionalization in the presence of global symmetry. In Z_2 topologically ordered states in two dimensions, fundamental translations T_x and T_y acting on anyons can either commute or anticommute. This property, crystal momentum fractionalization, can be seen in a periodicity of the excited-state spectrum in the Brillouin zone. We present a numerical method to detect the presence of this form of symmetry enrichment given a projected entangled pair state (PEPS); we study the minima of spectrum of correlation lengths of the transfer matrix for a cylinder. As a benchmark, we demonstrate our method using a modified toric code model with perturbation. An enhanced periodicity in momentum clearly reveals the anticommutation relation {T_x,T_y}=0$ for the corresponding quasiparticles in the system.

id: 1409.7018
title: Non equilibrium dynamics of an optomechanical Dicke model
authors: Kamanasish Debnath, Aranya B. Bhattacherjee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7018
abstract: Motivated by the experimental realization of Dicke model in optical cavities, we model an optomechanical system consisting of a two level BEC with transverse pumping. We investigate the transition from normal and inverted state to the superradiant phase through a detailed study of the phase portrait of the system. The rich phase portrait generated by analytic arguments displays two types of superradiant phases, regions of coexistence and some portion determining the persistent oscillations. We study the time evolution of the system from any phase and discuss the role of mirror frequency in achieving the attractors and stable values. Further, we add an external mechanical pump to the mirror which is capable of changing the mirror frequency and study the impact of the pump on the phase portraits and the dynamics of the system. We find the external mirror frequency changing the phase portraits and even shifting the critical transition point, thereby predicting a system with controllable phase transition.

id: 1409.7063
title: Robust quantum control using smooth pulses and topological winding
authors: Edwin Barnes, Xin Wang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, v2: new general analytical solution added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7063
abstract: The greatest challenge in achieving the high level of control needed for future technologies based on coherent quantum systems is the decoherence induced by the environment. Here, we present an analytical approach that yields explicit constraints on the driving field which are necessary and sufficient to ensure that the leading-order noise-induced errors in a qubit's evolution cancel exactly. We derive constraints for two of the most common types of noise that arise in qubits: slow fluctuations of the qubit energy splitting and fluctuations in the driving field itself. By theoretically recasting a phase in the qubit's wavefunction as a topological winding number, we can satisfy the noise-cancelation conditions by adjusting driving field parameters without altering the target state or quantum evolution. We demonstrate our method by constructing robust quantum gates for two types of spin qubit: phosphorous donors in silicon and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.

id: 1409.7101
title: Direct measurement of the Wigner function by photon-number-resolving detection
authors: Niranjan Sridhar, Reihaneh Shahrokhshahi, Aaron J. Miller, Brice Calkins, Thomas Gerrits, Adriana Lita, Sae Woo Nam, Olivier Pfister
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. Special issue of JOSA B on Photon-Number-Resolving Detectors for Quantum State Engineering
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 31, Issue 10, pp. B34-B40 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7101
abstract: Photon-number-revolving (PNR) detection allows the direct measurement of the Wigner quasiprobability distribution of an optical mode without the need for numerically processing an inverse Radon transform [K. Banaszek and K. W\'odkiewicz, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 4344 (1996)]. In this work, we reproduced the seminal experiment of Banaszek et al. [Phys. Rev. A 60, 674 (1999)] of quantum tomography of a pure coherent state, and of a statistical mixture thereof, and extended it to the more general case of photon fluxes with much more than one photon per detection time. This was made possible by the use of a superconducting transition-edge sensor to perform PNR detection from 0 to 5 photons at 1064 nm, at about 70% system efficiency and with no dead time. We detail signal acquisition and detection efficiency and discuss prospects for applying such quantum tomography to non-Gaussian states.

id: 1409.7161
title: Equivalent spin-orbit interaction in two-polariton Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model
authors: Ci Li, Xizheng Zhang, Zhi Song
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7161
abstract: A hybrid quantum system combines two or more distinct quantum components, exhibiting features not seen in these individual systems. In this work, we study the one-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings- Hubbard model in the two-excitation subspace. We ?nd that the center momentum of two-excitation induces a magnetic ux piercing the 4-leg ladder in the auxiliary space. Furthermore, it is shown that the system in {\pi}-center-momentum subspace is equivalent to a chain system for spin-1 particle with spin-orbit coupling. As a simple application, based on this concise description, a series of bound-pair eigenstates is presented, which displays long-range correlation.

id: 1409.7167
title: "Almost" Quotient Space, Non-dynamical Decoherence and Quantum Measurement
authors: Yu-Lei Feng, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 30 pages, no figure, a revised version with some errors corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7167
abstract: An alternative approach to decoherence, named non-dynamical decoherence is developed and used to resolve the quantum measurement problem. According to decoherence, the observed system is open to a macroscopic apparatus(together with a possible added environment) in a quantum measurement process. We show that this open system can be well described by an "almost" quotient Hilbert space formed phenomenally according to some stability conditions. A group of random phase unitary operators is introduced further to obtain an exact quotient space for the observed system. In this quotient space, a density matrix can be constructed to give the Born's probability rule, realizing a (non-dynamical) decoherence. The concept of the ("almost") quotient space can also be used to explain the classical properties of a macroscopic system. We show further that the definite outcomes in a quantum measurement are mainly caused by the "almost" quotient space of the macroscopic apparatus.

id: 1409.7178
title: Non equilibrium dissipation-driven steady many-body entanglement
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Mauro Antezza
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, updated version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 91, 042124 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7178
abstract: We study an ensemble of two-level quantum systems (qubits) interacting with a common electromagnetic field in proximity of a dielectric slab whose temperature is held different from that of some far surrounding walls. We show that the dissipative dynamics of the qubits driven by this stationary and out of thermal equilibrium (OTE) field, allows the production of steady many-body entangled states, differently from the case at thermal equilibrium where steady states are always non-entangled. By studying up to ten qubits, we point out the role of symmetry in the entanglement production, which is exalted in the case of permutationally invariant configurations. In the case of three qubits, we find a strong dependence of tripartite entanglement on the spatial disposition of the qubits, and in the case of six qubits, we find several highly entangled bipartitions where entanglement can, remarkably, survive for large qubit-qubit distances up to 100 $\mu$m.

id: 1409.7192
title: Quantum versus classical annealing: insights from scaling theory and results for spin glasses on 3-regular graphs
authors: Cheng-Wei Liu, Anatoli Polkovnikov, Anders W. Sandvik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 147203 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7192
abstract: We discuss an Ising spin glass where each $S=1/2$ spin is coupled antiferromagnetically to three other spins (3-regular graphs). Inducing quantum fluctuations by a time-dependent transverse field, we use out-of-equilibrium quantum Monte Carlo simulations to study dynamic scaling at the quantum glass transition. Comparing the dynamic exponent and other critical exponents with those of the classical (temperature-driven) transition, we conclude that quantum annealing is less efficient than classical simulated annealing in bringing the system into the glass phase. Quantum computing based on the quantum annealing paradigm is therefore inferior to classical simulated annealing for this class of problems. We also comment on previous simulations where a parameter is changed with the simulation time, which is very different from the true Hamiltonian dynamics simulated here.

id: 1409.7223
title: Entanglement from dissipative dynamics into overlapping environments
authors: Riccardo Mengoni, Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062341 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7223
abstract: We consider two ensembles of qubit dissipating into two overlapping environments, that is with a certain number of qubit in common that dissipate into both environments. We then study the dynamics of bipartite entanglement between the two ensembles by excluding the common qubit. To get analytical solutions for an arbitrary number of qubit we consider initial states with a single excitation and show that the largest amount of entanglement can be created when excitations are initially located among side (non common) qubit. Moreover, the stationary entanglement exhibits a monotonic (resp. non-monotonic) scaling versus the number of common (resp. side) qubit.

id: 1409.7224
title: Tunneling in Polymer Quantization and the Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Durmus Ali Demir, Ozan Sargin
comments: 21pp,3 figures, to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014), 3237-3243
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7224
abstract: As an application of the polymer quantization scheme, in this work we investigate the one dimensional quantum mechanical tunneling phenomenon from the perspective of polymer representation of a non-relativistic point particle and derive the transmission and reflection coefficients. Since any tunneling phenomenon inevitably evokes a tunneling time we attempt an analytical calculation of tunneling times by defining an operator well suited in discrete spatial geometry. The results that we come up with hint at appearance of the Quantum Zeno Effect in polymer framework.

id: 1409.7226
title: Superradiance and collective gain in multimode optomechanics
authors: T. Kipf, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 (2014) 053808
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7226
abstract: We present a description of a strongly driven multimode optomechanical system that shows the emergence of cooperative effects usually known from systems of atom-light interaction. Our calculations show that under application of a coherent pump field the system's response can be switched from a superradiant regime to a collective gain regime by varying the frequency detuning of the pump. In the superradiant regime, enhanced optical cooling of a single vibrational mode is possible, whereas the collective gain regime would potentially enable one to achieve almost thresholdless phonon laser action. The threshold pumping power scales as 1/N.

id: 1409.7237
title: Remote transfer of Gaussian quantum discord
authors: Lingyu Ma, Xiaolong Su
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 22, 15894 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7237
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies quantum correlation between quantum systems, which has potential application in quantum information processing. In this paper, we propose a scheme realizing the remote transfer of Gaussian quantum discord, in which another quantum discordant state or an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled state serves as ancillary state. The calculation shows that two independent optical modes that without direct interaction become quantum correlated after the transfer. The output Gaussian quantum discord can be higher than the initial Gaussian quantum discord when optimal gain of the classical channel and the ancillary state are chosen. The physical reason for this result comes from the fact that the quantum discord of an asymmetric Gaussian quantum discordant state can be higher than that of a symmetric one. The presented scheme has potential application in quantum information network.

id: 1409.7246
title: Polar codes in network quantum information theory
authors: Christoph Hirche, Ciara Morgan, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7246
abstract: Polar coding is a method for communication over noisy classical channels which is provably capacity-achieving and has an efficient encoding and decoding. Recently, this method has been generalized to the realm of quantum information processing, for tasks such as classical communication, private classical communication, and quantum communication. In the present work, we apply the polar coding method to network quantum information theory, by making use of recent advances for related classical tasks. In particular, we consider problems such as the compound multiple access channel and the quantum interference channel. The main result of our work is that it is possible to achieve the best known inner bounds on the achievable rate regions for these tasks, without requiring a so-called quantum simultaneous decoder. Thus, our work paves the way for developing network quantum information theory further without requiring a quantum simultaneous decoder.

id: 1409.7264
title: Quantum Information Entropies for the $\ell$-state P?schl-Teller-type potential
authors: W. A. Yahya, K.J. Oyewumi, K.D. Sen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7264
abstract: In this study, we obtained the position-momentum uncertainties and some uncertainty relations for the P\"oschl-Teller-type potential for any $\ell$. The radial expectation values of $r^{-2}$, $r^{2}$ and $p^{2}$ are obtained from which the Heisenberg Uncertainty principle holds for the potential model under consideration. The Fisher information is then obtained and it is observed that the Fisher-information-based uncertainty relation and the Cramer-Rao inequality hold for this even power potential. Some numerical and graphical results are displayed.

id: 1409.7290
title: Entropic Version of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Paradox
authors: Sadegh Raeisi, Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 4 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7290
abstract: Consider four binary +-1 variables A, B, C and D for which classical reasoning implies ABCD = 1. In this case the knowledge of A, B, C automatically provides knowledge of D because D = ABC. However, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradox shows that despite classical prediction one can find quantum states and observables with well defined outcomes for which D = -ABC. In this work we formulate an information-theoretic version of this paradox. We show that for a tripartite quantum system one can find a set of four properties for which classical reasoning implies that D = ABC, yet quantum theory predicts that one can know everything about A, B, C and nothing about D.

id: 1409.7308
title: Creation of quantum error correcting codes in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: T. H. Kyaw, D. A. Herrera-Mart?, E. Solano, G. Romero, L.-C. Kwek
comments: Added a new appendix section
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 064503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7308
abstract: We propose to construct large quantum graph codes by means of superconducting circuits working at the ultrastrong coupling regime. In this physical scenario, we are able to create a cluster state between any pair of qubits within a fraction of a nanosecond. To exemplify our proposal, creation of the five-qubit and Steane codes is numerically simulated. We also provide optimal operating conditions with which the graph codes can be realized with state-of-the-art superconducting technologies.

id: 1409.7342
title: On the time optimal thermalization of single mode Gaussian states
authors: Alberto Carlini, Andrea Mari, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90 (2014), 052324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7342
abstract: We consider the problem of time optimal control of a continuous bosonic quantum system subject to the action of a Markovian dissipation. In particular, we consider the case of a one mode Gaussian quantum system prepared in an arbitrary initial state and which relaxes to the steady state due to the action of the dissipative channel. We assume that the unitary part of the dynamics is represented by Gaussian operations which preserve the Gaussian nature of the quantum state, i.e. arbitrary phase rotations, bounded squeezing and unlimited displacements. In the ideal ansatz of unconstrained quantum control (i.e. when the unitary phase rotations, squeezing and displacement of the mode can be performed instantaneously), we study how control can be optimized for speeding up the relaxation towards the fixed point of the dynamics and we analytically derive the optimal relaxation time. Our model has potential and interesting applications to the control of modes of electromagnetic radiation and of trapped levitated nanospheres.

id: 1409.7426
title: Multi-Boson Correlation Sampling with Multi-mode Thermal Sources
authors: Vincenzo Tamma, Simon Laibacher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063836 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7426
abstract: The determination of the computational complexity of the boson sampling problem with single boson sources has opened a novel research direction in the quantum computing field. Some research effort has also been devoted towards the use of different input sources where the sampling from the output distribution of a linear interferometer is still a complex task not achievable by a classical device. In this letter, we discuss the use of multi-mode thermal sources, based on a generalization of the boson sampling problem which relies on time-correlation measurements. We derive, for any possible sample, two equivalent formulations for the respective multi-boson correlation functions in terms of matrix permanents. The properties of these permanents emerging from the physics of multi-boson interference raise essential questions in the field of complexity theory. Our results are a manifestation of the physics behind correlated measurements in either photonic or atomic interferometers with bosonic thermal sources. This fascinating physics paves the way towards important applications not only in quantum computing but also in quantum metrology and quantum communication, by taking advantage of different kinds of bosonic sources.

id: 1409.7473
title: Modular Quantum Memories Using Passive Linear Optics and Coherent Feedback
authors: Hendra I. Nurdin, John E. Gough
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures. Submitted. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7473
abstract: In this paper, we show that quantum memory for qudit states encoded in a single photon pulsed optical field has a conceptually simple modular realization using only passive linear optics and coherent feedback. We exploit the idea that two decaying optical cavities can be coupled in a coherent feedback configuration to create an internal mode of the coupled system which is isolated and decoherence-free for the purpose of qubit storage. The qubit memory can then be switched between writing/read-out mode and storage mode simply by varying the routing of certain freely propagating optical fields in the network. It is then shown that the qubit memories can be interconnected with one another to form a qudit quantum memory. We explain each of the phase of writing, storage, and read-out for this modular quantum memory scheme. The results point a way towards modular architectures for complex compound quantum memories.

id: 1409.7486
title: Unpolarized states and hidden polarization
authors: P. de la Hoz, G. Bjork, A. B. Klimov, G. Leuchs, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 7 pages, 3 eps-color figures. Submitted to PRA. Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7486
abstract: We capitalize on a multipolar expansion of the polarisation density matrix, in which multipoles appear as successive moments of the Stokes variables. When all the multipoles up to a given order $K$ vanish, we can properly say that the state is $K$th-order unpolarized, as it lacks of polarization information to that order. First-order unpolarized states coincide with the corresponding classical ones, whereas unpolarized to any order tally with the quantum notion of fully invariant states. In between these two extreme cases, there is a rich variety of situations that are explored here. The existence of \textit{hidden} polarisation emerges in a natural way in this context.

id: 1409.7490
title: Coupling approach for the realization of a $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potential for a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double well
authors: Fabian Single, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner, J?rg Main
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, minor changes in the text, correction of two references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7490
abstract: We show how non-Hermitian potentials used to describe probability gain and loss in effective theories of open quantum systems can be achieved by a coupling of the system to an environment. We do this by coupling a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped in an attractive double-delta potential to a condensate fraction outside the double well. We investigate which requirements have to be imposed on possible environments with a linear coupling to the system. This information is used to determine an environment required for stationary states of the BEC. To investigate the stability of the system we use fully numerical simulations of the dynamics. It turns out that the approach is viable and possible setups for the realization of a $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potential for a BEC are accessible. Vulnerabilities of the whole system to small perturbations can be adhered to the singular character of the simplified delta-shaped potential used in our model.

id: 1409.7497
title: Exploiting Non-Markovianity of the Environment for Quantum Control
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Nadav Katz, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7497
abstract: When the environment of an open quantum system is non-Markovian, amplitude and phase flow not only from the system into the environment but also back. Here we show that this feature can be exploited to carry out quantum control tasks that could not be realized if the system was isolated. Inspired by recent experiments on superconducting phase circuits, we consider an anharmonic ladder with resonant amplitude control only. This restricts realizable operations to SO(N). The ladder is immersed in an environment of two-level systems. Strongly coupled two-level systems lead to non-Markovian effects, whereas the weakly coupled ones result in single-exponential decay. Presence of the environment allows for implementing diagonal unitaries that, together with SO(N), yield the full group SU(N). Using optimal control theory, we obtain errors that are solely $T_1$-limited.

id: 1409.7513
title: Comment on "Contextuality in Bosonic Bunching"
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Christian Kraglund Andersen
comments: Comment on Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 020403 (2014), arXiv:1306.3700, see also arXiv:1212.5502
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 138901 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7513
abstract: Bosonic bunching occurs within quantum physics and can be mimicked classically by noncontextual hidden-variable models, which excludes this phenomenon as a means to prove stronger-than-quantum contextuality.

id: 1409.7567
title: Position and momentum information-theoretic measures of the pseudoharmonic potential
authors: W.A. Yahya, K.J. Oyewumi, K.D. Sen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7567
abstract: In this study, the information-theoretic measures in both the position and momentum spaces for the pseudoharmonic potential using Fisher information, Shannon entropy, Renyi entropy, Tsallis entropy and Onicescu information energy are investigated analytically and numerically. The results obtained are applied to some diatomic molecules. The Renyi and Tsallis entropies are analytically obtained in position space using Srivastava-Niukkanen linearization formula in terms of the Lauricella hypergeometric function. Also they are obtained in the momentum space in terms of the multivariate Bell polynomials of Combinatorics. We observed that the Fisher information increases with $n$ in both the position and momentum spaces, but decreases with $\ell$ for all the diatomic molecules considered. The Shannon entropy also increases with increasing $n$ in the position space and decreases with increasing $\ell$. The variations of the Renyi and Tsallis entropies with $\ell$ are also discussed. The exact and numerical values of the Onicescu information energy are also obtained, after which the ratio of information-theoretic impetuses to lengths for Fisher, Shannon and Renyi are obtained.

id: 1409.7582
title: Efficient Bit Sifting Scheme of Post-processing in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Qiong Li, Dan Le, Xianyan Wu, Xiamu Niu, Hong Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7582
abstract: Bit sifting is an important step in the post-processing of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) whose function is to sift out the undetected original keys. The communication traffic of bit sifting has essential impact on the net secure key rate of a practical QKD system, and it is facing unprecedented challenges with the fast increase of the repetition frequency of quantum channel. In this paper, we present an efficient bit sifting scheme whose core is a lossless source coding algorithm. Both theoretical analysis and experimental results demonstrate that the performance of our scheme is approaching the Shannon limit. Our scheme can greatly decrease the communication traffic of the post-processing of a QKD system, which means it can decrease the secure key consumption for classical channel authentication and increase the net secure key rate of the QKD system. Meanwhile, it can relieve the storage pressure of the system greatly, especially the device at Alice side. Some recommendations on the application of our scheme to some representative practical QKD systems are also provided.

id: 1409.7588
title: Emergent "Quantum" Theory in Complex Adaptive Systems
authors: Djordje Minic, Sinisa Pajevic
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7588
abstract: Motivated by the question of stability, in this letter we argue that an effective "quantum" theory can emerge in complex adaptive systems. In the concrete example of stochastic Lotka-Volterra dynamics, the relevant effective "Planck constant" associated with such emergent "quantum" theory has the dimensions of the square of the unit of time. Such an emergent quantum-like theory has inherently non-classical stability as well as coherent properties that are not, in principle, endangered by thermal fluctuations and therefore might be of crucial importance in complex adaptive systems.

id: 1409.7665
title: Dynamics of multi-qubit systems in noisy environment
authors: N. Metwally, A. Almannaei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7665
abstract: Some properties of multi-qubit systems interacting with noisy environment is discussed. The amount of the survival entanglement is quantified for the GHZ and W-states. It is shown that the entanglement decay depends on the noise type ( correlated or non-correlated), number of interacted qubits with the environment and the initial state which passes through this noisy environment. In general, the GHZ is more fragile than the W-state. The phenomena of entanglement sudden death appears only for non-correlated noise.

id: 1409.7732
title: Bell Inequalities for Continuously Emitting Sources
authors: Emanuel Knill, Scott Glancy, Sae Woo Nam, Kevin Coakley, Yanbao Zhang
comments: 31 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032105 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7732
abstract: A common experimental strategy for demonstrating non-classical correlations is to show violation of a Bell inequality by measuring a continuously emitted stream of entangled photon pairs. The measurements involve the detection of photons by two spatially separated parties. The detection times are recorded and compared to quantify the violation. The violation critically depends on determining which detections are coincident. Because the recorded detection times have "jitter", coincidences cannot be inferred perfectly. In the presence of settings-dependent timing errors, this can allow a local-realistic system to show apparent violation--the so-called "coincidence loophole". Here we introduce a family of Bell inequalities based on signed, directed distances between the parties' sequences of recorded timetags. Given that the timetags are recorded for synchronized, fixed observation periods and that the settings choices are random and independent of the source, violation of these inequalities unambiguously shows non-classical correlations violating local realism. Distance-based Bell inequalities are generally useful for two-party configurations where the effective size of the measurement outcome space is large or infinite. We show how to systematically modify the underlying Bell functions to improve the signal to noise ratio and to quantify the significance of the violation.

id: 1409.7740
title: Low-temperature thermodynamics with quantum coherence
authors: Varun Narasimhachar, Gilad Gour
comments: Main matter (4 pages, 2 figures) + References (2 pages) + Supplemental matter (18 pages, 1 figure). This version: Added references [26,27,30]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7740
abstract: We find a new characterization of low-temperature processes, which we call "cooling processes", incorporating quantum coherence in the model of thermodynamics for the first time. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for the feasibility of state transitions under cooling processes. We also rigorously confirm the intuitive robustness of coherence against low-temperature thermal noise. Additionally, we develop the low-temperature "Gibbs-preserving" model, and by comparing our results on the two models, we argue that the latter is a poor approximation to physical processes.

id: 1409.7745
title: Universal adiabatic quantum computation via the space-time circuit-to-Hamiltonian construction
authors: David Gosset, Barbara M. Terhal, Anna Vershynina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7745
abstract: We show how to perform universal adiabatic quantum computation using a Hamiltonian which describes a set of particles with local interactions on a two-dimensional grid. A single parameter in the Hamiltonian is adiabatically changed as a function of time to simulate the quantum circuit. We bound the eigenvalue gap above the unique groundstate by mapping our model onto the ferromagnetic XXZ chain with kink boundary conditions; the gap of this spin chain was computed exactly by Koma and Nachtergaele using its $q$-deformed version of SU(2) symmetry. We also discuss a related time-independent Hamiltonian which was shown by Janzing to be capable of universal computation. We observe that in the limit of large system size, the time evolution is equivalent to the exactly solvable quantum walk on Young's lattice.

id: 1409.7757
title: Complete achromatic optical switching between two waveguides with a sign flip of the phase mismatch
authors: Wei Huang, Andon A. Rangelov, Elica Kyoseva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7757
abstract: We present a two-waveguide coupler which, realizes complete achromatic all-optical switching. The coupling of the waveguides has a hyperbolic-secant shape while the phase mismatch has a sign flip at the maximum of the coupling. We derive an analytic solution for the electric field propagation using coupled mode theory and show that the light switching is robust again small-to-moderate variations in the coupling and phase mismatch. Thus, we realize an achromatic light switching between the two waveguides. We further consider the extended case of three coupled waveguides in an array and pay special attention to the case of equal achromatic light beam splitting.

id: 1409.7767
title: Laser pulses for coherent xuv Raman excitation
authors: Loren Greenman, Christiane P. Koch, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7767
abstract: We combine multi-channel electronic structure theory with quantum optimal control to derive Raman pulse sequences that coherently populate a valence excited state. For a neon atom, Raman target populations of up to 13% are obtained. Superpositions of the ground and valence Raman states with a controllable relative phase are found to be reachable with up to 4.5% population and phase control facilitated by the pump pulse carrier envelope phase. Our results open a route to creating core-hole excitations in molecules and aggregates that locally address specific atoms and represent the first step towards realization of multidimensional spectroscopy in the xuv and x-ray regimes.

id: 1409.7769
title: Quantum teleportation of multiple properties of a single quantum particle
authors: Xi-Lin Wang, Xin-Dong Cai, Zu-En Su, Ming-Cheng Chen, Dian Wu, Li Li, Nai-Le Liu, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures. A revised version, with additional analysis on error budget, a universal scheme for teleporting N DoFs, and a fast active feed-forward scheme for spin-orbit composite states. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7769
abstract: Quantum teleportation provides a "disembodied" way to transfer quantum states from one object to another at a distant location, assisted by priorly shared entangled states and a classical communication channel. In addition to its fundamental interest, teleportation has been recognized as an important element in long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum networks and measurement-based quantum computation. There have been numerous demonstrations of teleportation in different physical systems such as photons, atoms, ions, electrons, and superconducting circuits. Yet, all the previous experiments were limited to teleportation of one degree of freedom (DoF) only. However, a single quantum particle can naturally possess various DoFs -- internal and external -- and with coherent coupling among them. A fundamental open challenge is to simultaneously teleport multiple DoFs, which is necessary to fully describe a quantum particle, thereby truly teleporting it intactly. Here, we demonstrate the first teleportation of the composite quantum states of a single photon encoded in both the spin and orbital angular momentum. We develop a method to project and discriminate hyper-entangled Bell states exploiting probabilistic quantum non-demolition measurement, which can be extended to more DoFs. We verify the teleportation for both spin-orbit product states and hybrid entangled state, and achieve a teleportation fidelity ranging from 0.57 to 0.68, above the classical limit. Our work moves a step toward teleportation of more complex quantum systems, and demonstrates an enhanced capability for scalable quantum technologies.

id: 1409.7770
title: Entanglement-Based Machine Learning on a Quantum Computer
authors: X.-D. Cai, D. Wu, Z.-E. Su, M.-C. Chen, X.-L. Wang, L. Li, N.-L. Liu, C.-Y. Lu, J.-W. Pan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 2 table, revised version with additional data on unsupervised machine learning
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 110504 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7770
abstract: Machine learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, learns from previous experience to optimize performance, which is ubiquitous in various fields such as computer sciences, financial analysis, robotics, and bioinformatics. A challenge is that machine learning with the rapidly growing "big data" could become intractable for classical computers. Recently, quantum machine learning algorithms [Lloyd, Mohseni, and Rebentrost, arXiv.1307.0411] were proposed which could offer an exponential speedup over classical algorithms. Here, we report the first experimental entanglement-based classification of 2-, 4-, and 8-dimensional vectors to different clusters using a small-scale photonic quantum computer, which are then used to implement supervised and unsupervised machine learning. The results demonstrate the working principle of using quantum computers to manipulate and classify high-dimensional vectors, the core mathematical routine in machine learning. The method can in principle be scaled to larger number of qubits, and may provide a new route to accelerate machine learning.

id: 1409.7809
title: Rapid mixing and stability of quantum dissipative systems
authors: Angelo Lucia, Toby S. Cubitt, Spyridon Michalakis, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 040302 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7809
abstract: The physics of many materials is modeled by quantum many-body systems with local interactions. If the model of the system is sensitive to noise from the environment, or small perturbations to the original interactions, it will not properly model the robustness of the real physical system it aims to describe, or be useful when engineering novel systems for quantum information processing. We show that local observables and correlation functions of local Liouvillians are stable to local perturbations if the dynamics is rapidly mixing and has a unique fixed point. No other condition is required.

id: 1409.7845
title: Beyond heat baths II: Framework for generalized thermodynamic resource theories
authors: Nicole Yunger Halpern
comments: 31 pages, 2 tables, 2 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7845
abstract: Cutting-edge experiments, which involve the nano- and quantum scales, have been united with thermodynamics, which describes macroscopic systems, via resource theories. Resource theories have modeled small-scale exchanges of heat and information. Recently, the models were extended to particle exchanges, and a family of thermodynamic resource theories was proposed to model diverse baths, interactions, and free energies. This paper motivates and details the family's structure and prospective applications. How to model electrochemical, gravitational, magnetic, and other thermodynamic systems is explained. Szilard's engine and Landauer's Principle are generalized, as resourcefulness is shown to be convertible not only between informational and gravitational-energy forms, but also among varied physical degrees of freedom in the thermodynamic limit. Quantum operators associated with extensive variables offer opportunities to explore nonclassical noncommutation. This generalization of thermodynamic resource theories invites the modeling of realistic systems that might be harnessed to test small-scale statistical mechanics experimentally.

id: 1409.7875
title: Randomness Requirement on CHSH Bell Test in the Multiple Run Scenario
authors: Xiao Yuan, Zhu Cao, Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032111 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7875
abstract: The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality test is widely used as a mean of invalidating the local deterministic theories and a tool of device independent quantum cryptographic tasks. There exists a randomness (freewill) loophole in the test, which is widely believed impossible to be closed perfectly. That is, certain random inputs are required for the test. Following a randomness quantification method used in literature, we investigate the randomness required in the test under various assumptions. By comparing the results, one can conclude that the key to make the test result reliable is to rule out correlations between multiple runs.

id: 1409.7877
title: The quantum Bell-Ziv-Zakai bounds and Heisenberg limits for waveform estimation
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Mankei Tsang, Michael J. W. Hall, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7877
abstract: We propose quantum versions of the Bell-Ziv-Zakai lower bounds on the error in multiparameter estimation. As an application we consider measurement of a time-varying optical phase signal with stationary Gaussian prior statistics and a power law spectrum $\sim 1/|\omega|^p$, with $p>1$. With no other assumptions, we show that the mean-square error has a lower bound scaling as $1/{\cal N}^{2(p-1)/(p+1)}$, where ${\cal N}$ is the time-averaged mean photon flux. Moreover, we show that this accuracy is achievable by sampling and interpolation, for any $p>1$. This bound is thus a rigorous generalization of the Heisenberg limit, for measurement of a single unknown optical phase, to a stochastically varying optical phase.

id: 1409.7880
title: Talbot self-imaging in $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric complex crystals
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 11 pages, 5 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043827 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7880
abstract: The Talbot effect, i.e. the self-imaging property of a periodic wave in near-field diffraction, is a remarkable interference phenomenon in paraxial systems with continuous translational invariance. In crystals, i.e. systems with discrete translational invariance, self-imaging has been regarded so far as a seldom effect, restricted to special sets of initial field distributions. Here it is shown that in a class of gapless $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric complex crystals at the symmetry breaking threshold Talbot revivals can arise for almost any initial periodic wave distribution which is commensurate with the lattice period. A possible experimental realization of commensurate Talbot self-imaging for light pulses in complex 'temporal' crystals, realized in an optical dispersive fiber loop with amplitude and phase modulators, is briefly discussed.

id: 1409.7882
title: Superluminal two-color light in multiple Raman gain medium
authors: V. Kudria?ov, J. Ruseckas, A. Mekys, A. Ekers, N. Bezuglov, G. Juzeli¨±nas
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 033827 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7882
abstract: We investigate theoretically the formation of two-component light with superluminal group velocity in a medium controlled by four Raman pump fields. In such an optical scheme only a particular combination of the probe fields is coupled to the matter and exhibits superluminal propagation, the orthogonal combination is uncoupled. The individual probe fields do not have a definite group velocity in the medium. Calculations demonstrate that this superluminal component experiences an envelope advancement in the medium with respect to the propagation in vacuum.

id: 1409.7891
title: Derivation of quantum probabilities from deterministic evolution
authors: T.G. Philbin
comments: 7 pages. References added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7891
abstract: The predictions of quantum mechanics are probabilistic. Quantum probabilities are extracted using a postulate of the theory called the Born rule, the status of which is central to the "measurement problem" of quantum mechanics. Efforts to justify the Born rule from other physical principles, and thus elucidate the measurement process, have involved lengthy statistical or information-theoretic arguments. Here we show that Bohm's deterministic formulation of quantum mechanics allows the Born rule for measurements on a single system to be derived, without any statistical assumptions. We solve a simple example where the creation of an ensemble of identical quantum states, together with position measurements on those states, are described by Bohm's quantum dynamics. The calculated measurement outcomes agree with the Born-rule probabilities, which are thus a consequence of deterministic evolution. Our results demonstrate that quantum probabilities can emerge from simple dynamical laws alone, and they support the view that there is no underlying indeterminism in quantum phenomena.

id: 1409.7987
title: Galois Unitaries, Mutually Unbiased Bases, and MUB-balanced states
authors: D.M. Appleby, Ingemar Bengtsson, Hoan Bui Dang
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, AMS Latex. Version 2: minor improvements plus a few additional references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7987
abstract: A Galois unitary is a generalization of the notion of anti-unitary operators. They act only on those vectors in Hilbert space whose entries belong to some chosen number field. For Mutually Unbiased Bases the relevant number field is a cyclotomic field. By including Galois unitaries we are able to remove a mismatch between the finite projective group acting on the bases on the one hand, and the set of those permutations of the bases that can be implemented as transformations in Hilbert space on the other hand. In particular we show that there exist transformations that cycle through all the bases in every dimension which is an odd power of an odd prime. (For even primes unitary MUB-cyclers exist.) These transformations have eigenvectors, which are MUB-balanced states (i.e. rotationally symmetric states in the original terminology of Wootters and Sussman) if and only if d = 3 modulo 4. We conjecture that this construction yields all such states in odd prime power dimension.

id: 1409.7993
title: Quantum imaging by coherent enhancement
authors: Guang Hao Low, Theodore J. Yoder, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 100801 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7993
abstract: Conventional wisdom dictates that to image the position of fluorescent atoms or molecules, one should stimulate as much emission and collect as many photons as possible. That is, in this classical case, it has always been assumed that the coherence time of the system should be made short, and that the statistical scaling $\sim1/\sqrt{t}$ defines the resolution limit for imaging time $t$. However, here we show in contrast that given the same resources, a long coherence time permits a higher resolution image. In this quantum regime, we give a procedure for determining the position of a single two-level system, and demonstrate that the standard errors of our position estimates scale at the Heisenberg limit as $\sim 1/t$, a quadratic, and notably optimal, improvement over the classical case.

id: 1409.8025
title: Reply to Comment on "Contextuality in bosonic bunching"
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Jayne Thompson, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: Reply to arXiv:1409.7513 [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 138901 (2014)]. See also arXiv:1306.3700 and arXiv:1212.5502
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 138902 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8025
abstract: This is a reply to arXiv:1409.7513 [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 138901 (2014)].

id: 1409.8039
title: A robust superconducting setup to probe the thermal Casimir effect
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, invited contribution to a special issue on Casimir Forces of J. Phys. Cond. matt
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27 (2015) 214021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8039
abstract: We describe a superconducting Casimir apparatus inspired by a recently proposed setup involving magnetic surfaces [G. Bimonte, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 112}, 240401 (2014)]. The present setup consists of a superconducting Nb sphere and a flat gold plate including in its interior a superconducting Nb strip. The experimental scheme involves a differential measurement of the Casimir force at a point of the gold plate above the Nb strip and away from from it. We show that similar to the previous setup, the superconducting system considered here implies widely different modulations of the Casimir force, depending on whether the thermal force is computed using the Drude or the plasma model, thus paving the way to an unambiguous discrimination between these alternative prescriptions.

id: 1409.8051
title: Comparing different approaches for generating random numbers device-independently using a photon pair source
authors: V. Caprara Vivoli, P. Sekatski, J.-D. Bancal, C.C.W. Lim, A. Martin, R.T. Thew, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin, N. Sangouard
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 17 (2), 023023 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8051
abstract: What is the most efficient way to generate random numbers device-independently using a photon pair source based on spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC)? We consider this question by comparing two implementations of a detection-loophole-free Bell test. In particular, we study in detail a scenario where a heralded single photon source (HSPS) is used to herald path-entangled states, i.e. entanglement between two spatial modes sharing a single photon and where non-locality is revealed using photon counting preceded by small displacement operations. We start by giving a theoretical description of such a measurement. We then show how to optimize the Bell-CHSH violation through a non-perturbative calculation, taking the main experimental imperfections into account. We finally bound the amount of randomness that can be extracted and compare it to the one obtained with the conventional scenario using photon pairs entangled e.g. in polarization and analyzed through photon counting. While the former requires higher overall detection efficiencies, it is far more efficient in terms of both the entropy per experimental run and the rate of random bit generation.

id: 1409.8076
title: Tomography by noise
authors: G. Harder, D. Mogilevtsev, N. Korolkova, Ch. Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 070403 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8076
abstract: We present an efficient and robust method for the reconstruction of photon number distributions by using solely thermal noise as a probe. The method uses a minimal number of pre-calibrated quantum devices, only one on/off single-photon detector is sufficient. Feasibility of the method is demonstrated by the experimental inference of single-photon, thermal and two-photon states. The method is stable to experimental imperfections and provides a direct, user-friendly quantum diagnostics tool.

id: 1409.8081
title: Fermionic statistics suppresses Fano resonances
authors: Andrea Crespi, Linda Sansoni, Giuseppe Della Valle, Alessio Ciamei, Roberta Ramponi, Fabio Sciarrino, Paolo Mataloni, Stefano Longhi, Roberto Osellame
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8081
abstract: Fano resonances and bound states with energy in the continuum are ubiquitous phenomena in different areas of physics. Observations, however, have been limited so far to single-particle processes. In this work we experimentally investigate the multi-particle case and observe Fano interference in a non-interacting two-particle Fano-Anderson model by considering propagation of two-photon states in engineered photonic lattices. We demonstrate that the quantum statistics of the particles, either bosonic or fermionic, strongly affects the decay process. Remarkably, we find that the Fano resonance, when two discrete levels are coupled to a continuum, is suppressed in the fermionic case.

id: 1409.8082
title: Detection of weak forces based on noise-activated switching in bistable optomechanical systems
authors: Samuel Aldana, Christoph Bruder, Andreas Nunnenkamp
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063810 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8082
abstract: We propose to use cavity optomechanical systems in the regime of optical bistability for the detection of weak harmonic forces. Due to the optomechanical coupling an external force on the mechanical oscillator modulates the resonance frequency of the cavity and consequently the switching rates between the two bistable branches. A large difference in the cavity output fields then leads to a strongly amplified homodyne signal. We determine the switching rates as a function of the cavity detuning from extensive numerical simulations of the stochastic master equation as appropriate for continuous homodyne detection. We develop a two-state rate equation model that quantitatively describes the slow switching dynamics. This model is solved analytically in the presence of a weak harmonic force to obtain approximate expressions for the power gain and signal-to-noise ratio that we then compare to force detection with an optomechanical system in the linear regime.

id: 1409.8085
title: On the constrained classical capacity of infinite-dimensional covariant quantum channels
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 7 pages Revtex, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8085
abstract: The additivity of the minimal output entropy and that of the $\chi$-capacity are known to be equivalent for finite-dimensional irreducibly covariant channels. In this paper we formulate a list of conditions allowing to establish similar equivalence for infinite-dimensional covariant channels with constrained input. This is then applied to Bosonic Gaussian channels with quadratic input constraint to extend the classical capacity results of the recent paper \cite{ghg} to the case where the complex structures associated with the channel and with the constraint operator need not commute. In particular, this implies a multimode generalization of the "threshold condition", obtained for single mode in \cite{schaefer}) and the proof of the fact that under this condition the classical "Gaussian capacity" resulting from optimization over Gaussian inputs is equal to the full classical capacity. We also investigate implications of the gauge-covariance condition for the single- and multimode Bosonic Gaussian channels.

id: 1409.8096
title: Robustness of Controlled Quantum Dynamics
authors: Andy Koswara, Raj Chakrabarti
comments: In press, Physical Review A (this https URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8096
abstract: Control of multi-level quantum systems is sensitive to implementation errors in the control field and uncertainties associated with system Hamiltonian parameters. A small variation in the control field spectrum or the system Hamiltonian can cause an otherwise optimal field to deviate from controlling desired quantum state transitions and reaching a particular objective. An accurate analysis of robustness is thus essential in understanding and achieving model-based quantum control, such as in control of chemical reactions based on ab initio or experimental estimates of the molecular Hamiltonian. In this paper, theoretical foundations for quantum control robustness analysis are presented from both a distributional perspective - in terms of moments of the transition amplitude, interferences, and transition probability - and a worst-case perspective. Based on this theory, analytical expressions and a computationally efficient method for determining the robustness of coherently controlled quantum dynamics are derived. The robustness analysis reveals that there generally exists a set of control pathways that are more resistant to destructive interferences in the presence of control field and system parameter uncertainty. These robust pathways interfere and combine to yield a relatively accurate transition amplitude and high transition probability when uncertainty is present.

id: 1409.8170
title: Effective dynamics of strongly dissipative Rydberg gases
authors: M Marcuzzi, J Schick, B Olmos, I Lesanovsky
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 482001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8170
abstract: We investigate the evolution of interacting Rydberg gases in the limit of strong noise and dissipation. Starting from a description in terms of a Markovian quantum master equation we derive effective equations of motion that govern the dynamics on a "coarse-grained" timescale where fast dissipative degrees of freedom have been adiabatically eliminated. Specifically, we consider two scenarios which are of relevance for current theoretical and experimental studies --- Rydberg atoms in a two-level (spin) approximation subject to strong dephasing noise as well as Rydberg atoms under so-called electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) conditions and fast radiative decay. In the former case we find that the effective dynamics is described by classical rate equations up to second order in an appropriate perturbative expansion. This drastically reduces the computational complexity of numerical simulations in comparison to the full quantum master equation. When accounting for the fourth order correction in this expansion, however, we find that the resulting equation breaks the preservation of positivity and thus cannot be interpreted as a proper classical master rate equation. In the EIT system we find that the expansion up to second order retains information not only on the "classical" observables, but also on some quantum coherences. Nevertheless, this perturbative treatment still achieves a non-trivial reduction of complexity with respect to the original problem.

id: 1409.8178
title: Accounting for Classical Hardware in the Control of Quantum Devices
authors: Ian N. Hincks, Christopher Granade, Troy W. Borneman, D. G. Cory
comments: 18 pages with appendices, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8178
abstract: High fidelity coherent control of quantum systems is critical to building quantum devices and quantum computers. We provide a general optimal control framework for designing control sequences that account for hardware control distortions while maintaining robustness to environmental noise. We demonstrate the utility of our algorithm by presenting examples of robust quantum gates optimized in the presence of nonlinear distortions. We show that nonlinear classical controllers do not necessarily incur additional computational cost to pulse optimization, enabling more powerful quantum devices.

id: 1409.8204
title: A proposal for the experimental detection of CSL induced random walk
authors: Sayantani Bera, Bhawna Motwani, Tejinder P. Singh, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 7664 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8204
abstract: Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) is one possible explanation for dynamically induced collapse of the wave-function during a quantum measurement. The collapse is mediated by a stochastic non-linear modification of the Schrodinger equation. A consequence of the CSL mechanism is an extremely tiny violation of energy-momentum conservation, which can, in principle, be detected in the laboratory via the random diffusion of a particle induced by the stochastic collapse mechanism. In a paper in 2003, Collett and Pearle investigated the translational CSL diffusion of a sphere, and the rotational CSL diffusion of a disc, and showed that this effect dominates over the ambient environmental noise at low temperatures and extremely low pressures (about ten-thousandth of a pico-Torr). In the present paper, we revisit their analysis and argue that this stringent condition on pressure can be relaxed, and that the CSL effect can be seen at the pressure of about a pico-Torr. A similar analysis is provided for diffusion produced by gravity-induced decoherence, where the effect is typically much weaker than CSL. We also discuss the CSL induced random displacement of a quantum oscillator. Lastly, we propose possible experimental set-ups justifying that CSL diffusion is indeed measurable with the current technology.

id: 1409.8205
title: The screen representation of vector coupling coefficients or Wigner 3j symbols: exact computation and illustration of the asymptotic behavior
authors: Ana Carla P. Bitencourt, Mirco Ragni, Robert G. Littlejohn, Roger Anderson, Vincenzo Aquilanti
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, presented at ICCSA 2014, 14th International Conference on Computational Science and Applications
journal: Lectures Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 8579, 468-481 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8205
abstract: The Wigner $3j$ symbols of the quantum angular momentum theory are related to the vector coupling or Clebsch-Gordan coefficients and to the Hahn and dual Hahn polynomials of the discrete orthogonal hyperspherical family, of use in discretization approximations. We point out the important role of the Regge symmetries for defining the screen where images of the coefficients are projected, and for discussing their asymptotic properties and semiclassical behavior. Recursion relationships are formulated as eigenvalue equations, and exploited both for computational purposes and for physical interpretations.

id: 1409.8215
title: An integrated source of spectrally filtered correlated photons for large scale quantum photonic systems
authors: Nicholas C. Harris, Davide Grassani, Angelica Simbula, Mihir Pant, Matteo Galli, Tom Baehr-Jones, Michael Hochberg, Dirk Englund, Daniele Bajoni, Christophe Galland
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041047, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8215
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of quantum-correlated photon-pairs combined with the spectral filtering of the pump field by more than 95dB using Bragg reflectors and electrically tunable ring resonators. Moreover, we perform demultiplexing and routing of signal and idler photons after transferring them via a fiber to a second identical chip. Non-classical two-photon temporal correlations with a coincidence-to-accidental ratio of 50 are measured without further off-chip filtering. Our system, fabricated with high yield and reproducibility in a CMOS process, paves the way toward truly large-scale quantum photonic circuits by allowing sources and detectors of single photons to be integrated on the same chip.

id: 1409.8217
title: Interconversion of pure Gaussian states using non-Gaussian operations
authors: Michael G. Jabbour, Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012316 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8217
abstract: We analyze the conditions under which local operations and classical communication enable entanglement transformations within the set of bipartite pure Gaussian states. A set of necessary and sufficient conditions had been found in [Quant. Inf. Comp. 3, 211 (2003)] for the interconversion between such states that is restricted to Gaussian local operations and classical communication. Here, we exploit majorization theory in order to derive more general (sufficient) conditions for the interconversion between bipartite pure Gaussian states that goes beyond Gaussian local operations. While our technique is applicable to an arbitrary number of modes for each party, it allows us to exhibit surprisingly simple examples of 2 x 2 Gaussian states that necessarily require non-Gaussian local operations to be transformed into each other.

id: 1409.8307
title: Variational principle for steady states of dissipative quantum many-body systems
authors: Hendrik Weimer
comments: 6+2 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 040402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8307
abstract: We present a novel generic framework to approximate the non-equilibrium steady states of dissipative quantum many-body systems. It is based on the variational minimization of a suitable norm of the quantum master equation describing the dynamics. We show how to apply this approach to different classes of variational quantum states and demonstrate its successful application to a dissipative extension of the Ising model, which is of importance to ongoing experiments on ultracold Rydberg atoms. Finally, we identify several advantages of the variational approach over previously employed mean-field-like methods.

id: 1409.8320
title: Classification of transversal gates in qubit stabilizer codes
authors: Jonas T. Anderson, Tomas Jochym-O'Connor
comments: 23 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8320
abstract: This work classifies the set of diagonal gates that can implement a single or two-qubit transversal logical gate for qubit stabilizer codes. We show that individual physical gates on the underlying qubits that compose the code are restricted to have entries of the form $e^{i \pi c/2^k}$ along their diagonal, resulting in a similarly restricted class of logical gates that can be implemented in this manner. Moreover, we show that all diagonal logical gates that can be implemented transversally by individual physical diagonal gates must belong to the Clifford hierarchy. Furthermore, we can use this result to prove a conjecture about transversal gates made by Zeng et al. in 2007.

id: 1409.8338
title: Anomalous optical bistability and robust entanglement of mechanical oscillators using two-photon coherence
authors: Eyob A. Sete, H. Eleuch
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures; published version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 32, 971 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8338
abstract: Quantum coherence is one of the most intriguing applications of quantum mechanics, and has led to interesting phenomena and uncommon results. Here we show that in a stark contrast to the usual red-detuned condition to observe bistability in single-mode optomechanics, the optical intensities exhibit bistability for all values of cavity-laser detuning due to intermode coupling induced by the two-photon coherence. Interestingly, an unconventional bistability with "ribbon"-shaped hysteresis can be observed for blue-detuned laser frequencies. We also demonstrate that the two-photon coherence leads to a strong entanglement between the movable mirrors in the adiabatic regime. Surprisingly, the mirror-mirror entanglement is shown to persist for environment temperature of the phonon bath up to 12 K using experimental parameters.

id: 1409.8400
title: Local Hidden Variable Theoretic Measure of Quantumness of Mutual Information
authors: R.R. Puri
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math.Theor. 47, 115303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8400
abstract: Entanglement, a manifestation of quantumness of correlations between the observables of the subsystems of a composite system, and the quantumness of their mutual information are widely studied characteristics of a system of spin-1/2 particles. The concept of quantumness of correlations between the observables of a system is based on incommensurability of the correlations with the predictions of some local hidden variable (LHV) theory. However, the concept of quantumness of mutual information does not invoke the LHV theory explicitly. In this paper, by invoking explicitly the local hidden variable theory, a measure of quantumness of mutual information, $Q_{LHV}$, for a system of two spin-1/2 particles is proposed. It is based on finding the difference between the quantum and classical mutual informations in which the classical mutual information corresponds to the joint probability of the eigenvalues of the spins each along a specified direction. The proposed measure circumvents the need of optimization when the Bloch vector of each spin is non-zero; the optimization is needed but can be performed analytically exactly when the Bloch vector of each spin vanishes and is simplified when the Bloch vector of only one of the spins is zero. In essence, the proposed measure is identical with the measurement induced disturbance when the Bloch vector of each of the spins is non-zero. However, whereas the measurement induced disturbance is non-unique when the Bloch vector of one or both the spins is zero, the proposed measure even then determines the quantumness of mutual information unambiguously. The $Q_{LHV}$ is identical with the symmetric discord if the Bloch vector of each spin vanishes. It is same as the quantum discord if the Bloch vector of only one spin is zero and if the state in question possesses certain additional properties.

id: 1409.8480
title: Complete criterion for convex-Gaussian state detection
authors: Anna Vershynina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062329 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8480
abstract: We present a new criterion that determines whether a fermionic state is a convex combination of pure Gaussian states. This criterion is complete and characterizes the set of convex-Gaussian states from the inside. If a state passes a program it is a convex-Gaussian state and any convex-Gaussian state can be approximated with arbitrary precision by states passing the criterion. The criterion is presented in the form of a sequence of solvable semidefinite programs. It is also complementary to the one developed by de Melo, Cwiklinski and Terhal, which aims at characterizing the set of convex-Gaussian states from the outside. Here we present an explicit proof that criterion by de Melo et al. is complete, by estimating a distance between an n-extendible state, a state that passes the criterion, to the set of convex-Gaussian states.

id: 1409.8488
title: Privacy in Quantum Communication Complexity
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Mathieu Lauri¨¨re, Fran?ois Le Gall, Mathys Rennela
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8488
abstract: In two-party quantum communication complexity, Alice and Bob receive some classical inputs and wish to compute some function that depends on both these inputs, while minimizing the communication. This model has found numerous applications in many areas of computer science. One question that has received a lot of attention recently is whether it is possible to perform such protocols in a private way. We show that defining privacy for quantum protocols is not so straightforward and it depends on whether we assume that the registers where Alice and Bob receive their classical inputs are in fact classical registers (and hence unentangled with the rest of the protocol) or quantum registers (and hence can be entangled with the rest of the protocol or the environment). We provide new quantum protocols for the Inner Product function and for Private Information Retrieval, and show that the privacy assuming classical input registers can be exponentially smaller than the privacy assuming quantum input registers. We also argue that the right notion of privacy of a communication protocol is the one assuming classical input registers, since otherwise the players can deviate considerably from the protocol.

id: 1409.8505
title: Orthogonal-state-based cryptography in quantum mechanics and local post-quantum theories
authors: S. Aravinda, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak, R. Srikanth
comments: 12 pages, no figure, this is a modified version of a talk delivered by Anirban Pathak at Quantum 2014, INRIM, Turin, Italy. This version is published in Int. J. Quantum. Infor
journal: Int. J. Quantum Infor. Vol. 12 (2014) 1560020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8505
abstract: We introduce the concept of cryptographic reduction, in analogy with a similar concept in computational complexity theory. In this framework, class $A$ of crypto-protocols reduces to protocol class $B$ in a scenario $X$, if for every instance $a$ of $A$, there is an instance $b$ of $B$ and a secure transformation $X$ that reproduces $a$ given $b$, such that the security of $b$ guarantees the security of $a$. Here we employ this reductive framework to study the relationship between security in quantum key distribution (QKD) and quantum secure direct communication (QSDC). We show that replacing the streaming of independent qubits in a QKD scheme by block encoding and transmission (permuting the order of particles block by block) of qubits, we can construct a QSDC scheme. This forms the basis for the \textit{block reduction} from a QSDC class of protocols to a QKD class of protocols, whereby if the latter is secure, then so is the former. Conversely, given a secure QSDC protocol, we can of course construct a secure QKD scheme by transmitting a random key as the direct message. Then the QKD class of protocols is secure, assuming the security of the QSDC class which it is built from. We refer to this method of deduction of security for this class of QKD protocols, as \textit{key reduction}. Finally, we propose an orthogonal-state-based deterministic key distribution (KD) protocol which is secure in some local post-quantum theories. Its security arises neither from geographic splitting of a code state nor from Heisenberg uncertainty, but from post-measurement disturbance.

id: 1409.8512
title: Non-commuting Observables are Jointly Measureable under Disturbance Correction Strategy
authors: Liang-Liang Sun, Yong-Shun Song, Zhi-Xin Chen, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8512
abstract: In the study of Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation, it is commonly believed that the non-unitary change of states hinders us from deducing the information encoded in original states about subsequently measured observable. However, we find that the disturbance can be corrected iff the pre-measurement is non-projective. In this work, by analysing the effect of decoherence on statistics of the subsequential measurement, we find the acquired information from pre-measurement can be used to developed a correction strategy, and then the information about post-measured observable can be recovered. In viewpoint of estimation theory, this result is the unbiasedness condition, which enable us to define precisions of measurement directly in terms of Fisher information. Moreover, we study the precisions trade-off relations in the information theoretic viewpoint.

id: 1409.8530
title: Hydrogen atom in space with a compactified extra dimension and potential defined by Gauss' law
authors: Martin Bure?, Petr Siegl
comments: 10 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 354 (2015) 316-327
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8530
abstract: We investigate the consequences of one extra spatial dimension for the stability and energy spectrum of the non-relativistic hydrogen atom with a potential defined by Gauss' law, i.e. proportional to $1/|x|^2$. The additional spatial dimension is considered to be either infinite or curled-up in a circle of radius $R$. In both cases, the energy spectrum is bounded from below for charges smaller than the same critical value and unbounded from below otherwise. As a consequence of compactification, negative energy eigenstates appear: if $R$ is smaller than a quarter of the Bohr radius, the corresponding Hamiltonian possesses an infinite number of bound states with minimal energy extending at least to the ground state of the hydrogen atom.

id: 1409.8551
title: Emergence of metastable pointer states basis in non-Markovian quantum dynamics
authors: F. Lastra, C.E. L¨®pez, S.A. Reyes, S. Wallentowitz
comments: Submitted for publication, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8551
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of classical and quantum correlations between two qubits. Each qubit is implemented by a pair of phosphorous impurities embedded in a silicon substrate. The main decoherence mechanism affecting these types of qubits is provided by the coupling of the phosphorous impurities to the acoustical vibrations of the silicon lattice. We find that depending on the temperature of the substrate and the initial state, three different dynamics can be found. These are characterized by the number of abrupt changes in both classical and quantum correlations. We also show that the correlations do not disappear. Moreover, before the classical correlations reach a constant value, they may experience successive abrupt changes associated with the apparition of metastable pointer states basis. Then, a constant value for the classical correlations is reached when the preferred basis is established.

id: 1409.8552
title: Emission of OAM entangled photon pairs in a nonlinear ring fiber utilizing spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: D. Jav?rek, J. Svozil¨ªk, J. Pe?ina Jr
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8552
abstract: We suggest the generation of photon pairs in a thermally induced nonlinear periodically-poled silica fiber by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Photons are generated directly in eigenstates of optical angular momentum. Photons in a pair can be entangled in these states as well as in frequencies. We identify suitable spatial and polarization modes giving an efficient nonlinear interaction. By changing the pump field properties both narrow- and broad-band down-converted fields can be obtained.

id: 1409.8555
title: A comment on "How the result of a single coin toss can turn out to be 100 heads"
authors: Eliahu Cohen
comments: Comment on arXiv:1403.2362
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8555
abstract: In [1] the authors claim that "weak values are not inherently quantum but rather a purely statistical feature". I argue that their model reproduces only few elements of weak measurements but fails to reproduce all the other intrinsically quantum features.

id: 1409.8564
title: Effectiveness of classical spin simulations for describing NMR relaxation of quantum spins
authors: Tarek A. Elsayed, Boris V. Fine
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8564
abstract: We investigate the limits of effectiveness of classical spin simulations for predicting free induction decays (FIDs) measured by solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) on systems of quantum nuclear spins. The specific limits considered are associated with the range of interaction, the size of individual quantum spins and the long-time behavior of the FID signals. We compare FIDs measured or computed for lattices of quantum spins (mainly spins 1/2) with the FIDs computed for the corresponding lattices of classical spins. Several cases of excellent quantitative agreement between quantum and classical FIDs are reported along with the cases of gradually decreasing quality of the agreement. We formulate semi-empirical criteria defining the situations, when classical simulations are expected to accurately reproduce quantum FIDs. Our findings indicate that classical simulations may be a quantitatively accurate tool of first principles calculations for a broad class of macroscopic systems, where individual quantum microscopic degrees of freedom are far from the classical limit.

id: 1409.8632
title: A Unified Approach Towards Monogamy of Quantum Correlations
authors: Asutosh Kumar
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8632
abstract: We prove that monogamy of a convex quantum correlation measure for an arbitrary multipartite pure quantum state leads to its monogamy for the mixed state in the same Hilbert space. In particular, we prove that the square of negativity is monogamous for \(n\)-qubit mixed state. Several derived monogamy relations are also discussed. We, primarily, aim to establish that a general quantum correlation obeys a set of monogamy relations.

id: 1409.8655
title: Decoherence of nuclear spins in the "frozen core" of an electron spin
authors: R. Guichard, S. J. Balian, G. Wolfowicz, P. A. Mortemousque, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8655
abstract: Hybrid qubit systems combining electronic spins with nearby ("proximate") nuclear spin registers offer a promising avenue towards quantum information processing, with even multi-spin error correction protocols recently demonstrated in diamond. However, for the important platform offered by spins of donor atoms in cryogenically-cooled silicon,decoherence mechanisms of $^{29}$Si proximate nuclear spins are not yet well understood.The reason is partly because proximate spins lie within a so-called "frozen core" region where the donor electronic hyperfine interaction strongly suppresses nuclear dynamics. We investigate the decoherence of a central proximate nuclear qubit arising from quantum spin baths outside, as well as inside, the frozen core around the donor electron. We consider the effect of a very large nuclear spin bath comprising many ($\gtrsim 10^8$) weakly contributing pairs outside the frozen core. We also propose that there may be an important contribution from a few (of order $100$) symmetrically sited nuclear spin pairs ("equivalent pairs"), which were not previously considered as their effect is negligible outside the frozen core. If equivalent pairs represent a measurable source of decoherence, nuclear coherence decays could provide sensitive probes of the symmetries of electronic wavefunctions. For the phosphorus donor system, we obtain $T_{2n}$ values of order 1 second for both the "far bath" and "equivalent pair" models, confirming the suitability of proximate nuclei in silicon as very long-lived spin qubits.

id: 1409.0032
title: Unraveling the mesoscopic character of quantum dots in nanophotonics
authors: Petru Tighineanu, Anders S?ndberg S?rensen, S?ren Stobbe, Peter Lodahl
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0032
abstract: We provide a microscopic theory for semiconductor quantum dots that explains the pronounced deviations from the prevalent point-dipole description that were recently observed in spectroscopic experiments on quantum dots in photonic nanostructures. At the microscopic level the deviations originate from structural inhomogeneities generating a large circular quantum current density that flows inside the quantum dot over mesoscopic length scales. The model is supported by the experimental data, where a strong variation of the multipolar moments across the emission spectrum of quantum dots is observed. Our work enriches the physical understanding of quantum dots and is of significance for the fields of nanophotonics, quantum photonics, and quantum-information science, where quantum dots are actively employed.

id: 1409.0099
title: On a Block Matrix Inequality quantifying the Monogamy of the Negativity of Entanglement
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 20 pages, of which 7 pages provide the physics background
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0099
abstract: We convert a conjectured inequality from quantum information theory, due to He and Vidal, into a block matrix inequality and prove a special case. Given $n$ matrices $A_i$, $i=1,\ldots,n$, of the same size, let $Z_1$ and $Z_2$ be the block matrices $Z_1:=(A_jA_i^*)_{i,j=1}^n$ and $Z_2:=(A_j^*A_i)_{i,j=1}^n$. Then the conjectured inequality is \[ \left(||Z_1||_1-\trace Z_1\right)^2 + \left(||Z_2||_1-\trace Z_2\right)^2 \le \left(\sum_{i\neq j} ||A_i||_2 ||A_j||_2\right)^2. \] We prove this inequality for the already challenging case $n=2$ with $A_1$ equal to the identity matrix.

id: 1409.0147
title: Ising-like models on arbitrary graphs : The Hadamard way
authors: R¨¦my Mosseri
comments: published version, minor changes from v1
journal: Physical Review E 91, 012142 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0147
abstract: We propose a generic framework to describe classical Ising-like models defined on arbitrary graphs. The energy spectrum is shown to be the Hadamard transform of a suitably defined sparse "coding" vector associated with the graph. We expect that the existence of a fast Hadamard transform algorithm (used for instance in image ccompression processes), together with the sparseness of the coding vector, may provide ways to fasten the spectrum computation.. Applying this formalism to regular graphs, such as hypercubic graphs, we obtain a simple recurrence relation for the spectrum, which significantly speeds up its determination. First attempts to analyse partition functions and transfer matrices are also presented.

id: 1409.0190
title: Constraints on axion-nucleon coupling constants from measuring the Casimir force between corrugated surfaces
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0190
abstract: We obtain stronger laboratory constraints on the coupling constants of axion-like particles to nucleons from measurements of the normal and lateral Casimir forces between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces of a sphere and a plate. For this purpose, the normal and lateral additional force arising in the experimental configurations due to two-axion exchange between protons and neutrons are calculated. Our constraints following from measurements of the normal and lateral Casimir forces are stronger than the laboratory constraints reported so far for masses of axion-like particles larger than 11eV and 8eV, respectively. A comparison between various laboratory constraints on the coupling constants of axion-like particles to nucleons obtained from the magnetometer measurements, Eotvos- and Cavendish-type experiments, and from the Casimir effect is performed over the wide range of masses of axion-like particles from 10^{-10}eV to 20eV.

id: 1409.0282
title: Calibration of Interaction Energy between Bose and Fermi Superfluids
authors: Ren Zhang, Wei Zhang, Hui Zhai, Peng Zhang
comments: 10pages, 3 figures, including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063614 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0282
abstract: In this letter we study the interaction energy in a mixture of Bose and Fermi superfluids realized in recent cold atom experiment. On the Bose-Einstein-condensate (BEC) side of a Feshbach resonance between fermionic atoms, this interaction energy can be directly related to the scattering length between a bosonic atom and a dimer composed of fermions. We calculate the atom-dimer scattering length from a three-body analysis with both a zero-range model and a separable model including the van der Waals length scale, and we find significant deviation from the result given by a mean-field approach. We also find that the multiple scattering between atom and dimer can account for such a deviation. Our results provide a calibration to the mean-field interaction energy, which can be verified by measuring the shift of collective oscillation frequency.

id: 1409.0284
title: Feshbach-Stabilized Insulator of Bosons in Optical Lattices
authors: Laurent de Forges de Parny, Valy G. Rousseau, Tommaso Roscilde
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures + Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 195302 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0284
abstract: Feshbach resonances - namely resonances between an unbound two-body state (atomic state) and a bound (molecular) state, differing in magnetic moment - are a unique tool to tune the interaction properties of ultracold atoms. Here we show that the spin-changing interactions, coherently coupling the atomic and molecular state, can act as a novel mechanism to stabilize an insulating phase - the Feshbach insulator - for bosons in an optical lattice close to a narrow Feshbach resonance. Making use of quantum Monte Carlo simulations and mean-field theory, we show that the Feshbach insulator appears around the resonance, preventing the system from collapsing when the effective atomic scattering length becomes negative. On the atomic side of the resonance, the transition from condensate to Feshbach insulator has a characteristic first-order nature, due to the simultaneous loss of coherence in the atomic and molecular components. These features appear clearly in the ground-state phase diagram of e.g. $^{87}$Rb around its 414 G resonance, and they are therefore directly amenable to experimental observation.

id: 1409.0323
title: Breaking the resilience of a two-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate to fragmentation
authors: Shachar Klaiman, Axel U. J. Lode, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum, Ofir E. Alon
comments: 5+eps pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043620 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0323
abstract: A two-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) split by a radial potential barrier is investigated. We determine on an accurate many-body level the system's ground-state phase diagram as well as a time-dependent phase diagram of the splitting process. Whereas the ground state is condensed for a wide range of parameters, the time-dependent splitting process leads to substantial fragmentation. We demonstrate for the first time the dynamical fragmentation of a BEC despite its ground state being condensed. The results are analyzed by a mean-field model and suggest that a large manifold of low-lying fragmented excited states can significantly impact the dynamics of trapped two-dimensional BECs.

id: 1409.0361
title: The Bose Hubbard model with squeezed dissipation
authors: Fernando Quijandr¨ªa, Uta Naether, Diego Porras, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, David Zueco
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48, 055302 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0361
abstract: The stationary properties of the Bose-Hubbard model under squeezed dissipation are investigated. The dissipative model does not possess a $U(1)$ symmetry, but parity is conserved: $\langle a_j \rangle \to -\langle a_j \rangle$. We find that $\langle a_j \rangle = 0$ always holds, so no symmetry breaking occurs. Without the onsite repulsion, the linear case is known to be critical. At the critical point the system freezes to an EPR state with infinite two mode entanglement. We show here that the correlations are rapidly destroyed whenever the repulsion is switched on. Then, the system approaches a thermal state with an effective temperature defined in terms of the squeezing parameter in the dissipators. We characterize this transition by means of a Gutzwiller {\it ansatz} and the Gaussian Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approximation.

id: 1409.0480
title: A New Method and a New Scaling For Deriving Fermionic Mean-field Dynamics
authors: S?ren Petrat, Peter Pickl
comments: 40 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0480
abstract: We introduce a new method for deriving the time-dependent Hartree(-Fock) equations as an effective mean-field dynamics from the microscopic Schroedinger equation for fermionic many-particle systems in quantum mechanics. The method is based on a Gronwall type estimate for a suitable measure of distance between the microscopic solution and an antisymmetrized product state. We use this method to treat a new mean-field limit for fermions that relies on long-range interactions. Some of our results hold for singular attractive or repulsive interactions, including Coulomb interaction. We also treat the mean-field limit coupled to a semiclassical limit that was discussed in the literature before. Explicit rates of convergence are provided and our results hold for initial data close (but not necessarily equal) to antisymmetrized product states.

id: 1409.0546
title: Floquet engineering of long-range p-wave superconductivity
authors: M¨®nica Benito, ?lvaro G¨®mez-Le¨®n, Victor Bastidas, Tobias Brandes, Gloria Platero
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 205127 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0546
abstract: Floquet Majorana Fermions appear as steady states at the boundary of time-periodic topological phases of matter. In this work, we theoretically study the main features of these exotic topological phases in the periodically driven one-dimensional Kitaev model. By controlling the ac fields, we can predict new topological phase transitions that should give rise to signatures of Majorana states in experiments. Moreover, the knowledge of the time-dependence of these Majorana states allows one to manipulate them. Our work contains a complete analysis of the monochromatic driving in different frequency regimes.

id: 1409.0564
title: Some Operator and Trace Function Convexity Theorems
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Rupert L. Frank, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 11 pages latex2e. Some new results added and some proofs simplified using the triple convexity theorem. Minor error in a proof detected and corrected 10/10/14. Some typos and a comment added at the end of the proof of Theorem 3.2 02/05/15
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0564
abstract: We consider convex trace functions $\Phi_{p,q,s} = Trace[ (A^{q/2}B^p A^{q/2})^s]$ where $A$ and $B$ are positive $n\times n$ matrices and ask when these functions are convex or concave. We also consider operator convexity/concavity of $A^{q/2}B^p A^{q/2}$ and convexity/concavity of the closely related trace functional $Trace[ A^{q/2}B^p A^{q/2} C^r]$. For concavity, these questions are completely settled, thereby settling cases left open by Hiai, while the convexity questions are settled in many cases. As a consequence, the Audenaert-Datta R\'enyi entropy conjectures are proved for some cases.

id: 1409.0626
title: Bound states in waveguides with complex Robin boundary conditions
authors: Radek Novak
comments: 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0626
abstract: We consider the Laplacian in a tubular neighbourhood of a hyperplane subjected to non-self-adjoint $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric Robin boundary conditions. Its spectrum is found to be purely essential and real for constant boundary conditions. The influence of the perturbation in the boundary conditions on the threshold of the essential spectrum is studied using the Birman-Schwinger principle. Our aim is to derive a sufficient condition for existence, uniqueness and reality of discrete eigenvalues. We show that discrete spectrum exists when the perturbation acts in the mean against the unperturbed boundary conditions and we are able to obtain the first term in its asymptotic expansion in the weak coupling regime.

id: 1409.0635
title: Excitation spectrum and quasiparticles in quantum gases. A rigorous approach
authors: Marcin Napi¨®rkowski
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Warsaw, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0635
abstract: This thesis is devoted to a rigorous study of interacting quantum gases. The main objects of interest are the closely related concepts of excitation spectrum and quasiparticles. The immediate motivation of this work is to propose a spectral point of view concerning these two concepts. In the first part of this thesis we discuss the concepts of excitation spectrum and quasiparticles. We provide an overview of physical motivations and based on that we propose a spectral and Hamiltonian-based approach towards these terms. Based on that, we formulate definitions and propositions related to these concepts. In the second part we recall the Bogoliubov and Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approximations, which in the physics literature are used to obtain the quasiparticle picture. We show how these two approaches fit into a universal scheme which allows us to arrive at a quasiparticle picture in a more general setup. This scheme is based on the minimization of Hamiltonians over the so-called Gaussian states. Its abstract formulation is the content of Beliaev's Theorem. In the last part we present a rigorous result concerning the justification of the Bogoliubov approximation. This justification employs the concept of the mean-field and infinite-volume limit. We show that for a large number of particles, a large volume and a sufficiently high density, the low-lying energy-momentum spectrum of the homogeneous Bose gas is well described by the Bogoliubov approximation. This result, which is formulated in the form of a theorem, can be seen as the main result of this thesis.

id: 1409.0636
title: Manipulating decision making of typical agents
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 14 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Syst. Man Cybern. Syst. 44 (2014) 1155-1168
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0636
abstract: We investigate how the choice of decision makers can be varied under the presence of risk and uncertainty. Our analysis is based on the approach we have previously applied to individual decision makers, which we now generalize to the case of decision makers that are members of a society. The approach employs the mathematical techniques that are common in quantum theory, justifying our naming as Quantum Decision Theory. However, we do not assume that decision makers are quantum objects. The techniques of quantum theory are needed only for defining the prospect probabilities taking into account such hidden variables as behavioral biases and other subconscious feelings. The approach describes an agent's choice as a probabilistic event occurring with a probability that is the sum of a utility factor and of an attraction factor. The attraction factor embodies subjective and unconscious dimensions in the mind of the decision maker. We show that the typical aggregate amplitude of the attraction factor is $1/4$, and it can be either positive or negative depending on the relative attraction of the competing choices. The most efficient way of varying the decision makers choice is realized by influencing the attraction factor. This can be done in two ways. One method is to arrange in a special manner the payoff weights, which induces the required changes of the values of attraction factors. We show that a slight variation of the payoff weights can invert the sign of the attraction factors and reverse the decision preferences, even when the prospect utilities remain unchanged. The second method of influencing the decision makers choice is by providing information to decision makers. The methods of influencing decision making are illustrated by several experiments, whose outcomes are compared quantitatively with the predictions of our approach.

id: 1409.0673
title: Construction of Darboux coordinates in noncanonical Hamiltonian systems via normal form expansions
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0673
abstract: Darboux's theorem guarantees the existence of local canonical coordinates on symplectic manifolds under certain conditions. We demonstrate a general method to construct such Darboux coordinates in the vicinity of a fixed point of a noncanonical Hamiltonian system via normal form expansions. The procedure serves as a tool to naturally extract canonical coordinates and at the same time to transform the Hamiltonian into its Poincare-Birkhoff normal form. The method is general in the sense that it is applicable for arbitrary degrees of freedom, in arbitrary orders of the local expansion, and it is independent of the precise form of the Hamiltonian. The method presented allows for the general and systematic investigation of noncanonical Hamiltonian systems in the vicinity of fixed points, which e.g. correspond to ground, excited or transition states. As an exemplary field of application, we discuss a variational approach to quantum systems which defines a noncanonical Hamiltonian system for the variational parameters and which directly allows to apply transition state theory to quantum mechanical wave packets.

id: 1409.0705
title: Prospects for studies of the free fall and gravitational quantum states of antimatter
authors: Gabriel Dufour, David B. Cassidy, Paolo Crivelli, Pascal Debu, Astrid Lambrecht, Valery V. Nesvizhevsky, Serge Reynaud, Alexei Yu. Voronin, Thomas E. Wall
comments: This work reviews contributions made at the GRANIT 2014 workshop on prospects for the observation of the free fall and gravitational quantum states of antimatter
journal: Advances in High Energy Physics, vol. 2015, article ID 379642 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0705
abstract: Different experiments are ongoing to measure the effect of gravity on cold neutral antimatter atoms such as positronium, muonium and antihydrogen. Among those, the project GBAR in CERN aims to measure precisely the gravitational fall of ultracold antihydrogen atoms. In the ultracold regime, the interaction of antihydrogen atoms with a surface is governed by the phenomenon of quantum reflection which results in bouncing of antihydrogen atoms on matter surfaces. This allows the application of a filtering scheme to increase the precision of the free fall measurement. In the ultimate limit of smallest vertical velocities, antihydrogen atoms are settled in gravitational quantum states in close analogy to ultracold neutrons (UCNs). Positronium is another neutral system involving antimatter for which free fall under gravity is currently being investigated at UCL. Building on the experimental techniques under development for the free fall measurement, gravitational quantum states could also be observed in positronium. In this contribution, we review the status of the ongoing experiments and discuss the prospects of observing gravitational quantum states of antimatter and their implications.

id: 1409.0739
title: Quantum work distribution for a driven diatomic molecule
authors: Alison Leonard, Sebastian Deffner
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures; published version
journal: Chemical Physics 446 (2015) 18
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0739
abstract: We compute the quantum work distribution for a driven Morse oscillator. To this end, we solve the time-dependent dynamics for a scale-invariant process, from which the exact expressions for the transition probabilities are found. Special emphasis is put on the contributions to the work distribution from discrete (bound) and continuous (scattering) parts of the spectrum. The analysis is concluded by comparing the work distribution for the exact Morse potential and the one resulting from a harmonic approximation.

id: 1409.0740
title: Concrete incompleteness & Bell's theorem
authors: Han Geurdes
comments: 3 pages replacement 10 pages submitted
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0740
abstract: For a subset of 2 dimensional unit parameter vectors, Bell's correlation formula with local hidden variables reproduces the quantum correlation. This is unexpected considering a general no-go LHV claim derived from the same function.

id: 1409.0778
title: Bosonization and the Berry connection in two-dimensional QED
authors: H. B. Thacker, Gabriel Wong
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 065009 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0778
abstract: The dynamical effects of topological charge in two-dimensional QED can be expressed in terms of a topological order parameter via a Berry phase construction. The Berry phase describes the electric charge polarization of the vacuum in a manner similar to the theory of polarization in topological insulators. The topological order parameter labels discrete vacua which differ by units of electric flux. Here the associated Berry connection is explicitly constructed from the Dirac Hamiltonian eigenstates by introducing a small attractive Thirring coupling, so that there is still a stable boson in the limit of zero EM coupling. The Berry connection arises from the analytic structure of the Bethe ansatz states in complex rapidity near the free fermion point.

id: 1409.0821
title: Quantum spin coherence in halogen-modified Cr$_7$Ni molecular nanomagnets
authors: Danielle Kaminski, Amy L. Webber, Christopher J. Wedge, Junjie Liu, Grigore A. Timco, Inigo J. Vitorica-Yrezabal, Eric J. L. McInnes, Richard E. P. Winpenny, Arzhang Ardavan
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, including supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 184419 (2014)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0821
abstract: Among the factors determining the quantum coherence of the spin in molecular magnets is the presence and the nature of nuclear spins in the molecule. We have explored modifying the nuclear spin environment in Cr$_7$Ni-based molecular nanomagnets by replacing hydrogen atoms with deuterium or the halogen atoms, fluorine or chlorine. We find that the spin coherence, studied at low temperatures by pulsed electron spin resonance, is modified by a range of factors, including nuclear spin and magnetic moment, changes in dynamics owing to nuclear mass, and molecular morphology changes.

id: 1409.0852
title: Iterative tailoring of optical quantum states with homodyne measurements
authors: Jean Etesse, Bhaskar Kanseri, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol.22, No.24, 30357 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0852
abstract: As they can travel long distances, free space optical quantum states are good candidates for carrying information in quantum information technology protocols. These states, however, are often complex to produce and require protocols whose success probability drops quickly with an increase of the mean photon number. Here we propose a new protocol for the generation and growth of arbitrary states, based on one by one coherent adjunctions of the simple state superposition $\alpha | 0 > +\beta | 1 >$. Due to the nature of the protocol, that allows for the use of quantum memories, it can outperform existing protocols.

id: 1409.1040
title: Nanometric constrictions in superconducting coplanar waveguide resonators
authors: Mark David Jenkins, Uta Naether, Miguel Ciria, Javier Ses¨¦, James Atkinson, Carlos S¨¢nchez-Azqueta, Enrique del Barco, Johannes Majer, David Zueco, Fernando Luis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1040
abstract: We report on the design, fabrication and characterization of superconducting coplanar waveguide resonators with nanoscopic constrictions. By reducing the size of the center line down to 50 nm, the radio frequency currents are concentrated and the magnetic field in its vicinity is increased. The device characteristics are only slightly modified by the constrictions, with changes in resonance frequency lower than 1% and internal quality factors of the same order of magnitude as the original ones. These devices could enable the achievement of higher couplings to small magnetic samples or even to single molecular spins and have applications in circuit quantum electrodynamics, quantum computing and electron paramagnetic resonance.

id: 1409.1091
title: Non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion for Temperature-Dependent Linear Spectra of Light Harvesting Aggregates
authors: Gerhard Ritschel, Daniel Suess, Sebastian M?bius, Walter T. Strunz, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1091
abstract: Non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion (NMQSD) has turned out to be an efficient method to calculate excitonic properties of aggregates composed of organic chromophores, taking into account the coupling of electronic transitions to vibrational modes of the chromophores. NMQSD is an open quantum system approach that incorporates environmental degrees of freedom (the vibrations in our case) in a stochastic way. We show in this paper that for linear optical spectra (absorption, circular dichroism) no stochastics is needed, even for finite temperatures. Thus, the spectra can be obtained by propagating a single trajectory. To this end we map a finite temperature environment to the zero temperature case using the so-called thermofield method. The resulting equations can then be solved efficiently by standard integrators.

id: 1409.1224
title: Entanglement Entropy Scaling Laws and Eigenstate Typicality in Free Fermion Systems
authors: Hsin-Hua Lai, Kun Yang
comments: 4.5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 081110 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1224
abstract: We demonstrate that the entanglement entropy area law for free fermion ground states and the corresponding volume law for highly excited states are related by a position-momentum duality, thus of the same origin. For a typical excited state in the thermodynamic limit, we further show that the reduced density matrix of a subsystem approaches thermal density matrix, provided the subsystem's linear size is small compared to that of the whole system in all directions, a property we dub eigenstate typicality. This provides an explicit example of thermalization via entanglement, and reveals how statistical physics emerges from a single eigenstate by tracing out a large number of degrees of freedom.

id: 1409.1231
title: Jerusalem Lectures on Black Holes and Quantum Information
authors: Daniel Harlow
comments: still a lot of pages and figures, now with typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1231
abstract: In these lectures I give an introduction to the quantum physics of black holes, including recent developments based on quantum information theory such as the firewall paradox and its various cousins. I also give an introduction to holography and the AdS/CFT correspondence, focusing on those aspects which are relevant for the black hole information problem.

id: 1409.1242
title: Stoner ferromagnetism in a thermal pseudospin-1/2 Bose gas
authors: Juraj Radic, Stefan S. Natu, Victor Galitski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 185302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1242
abstract: We compute the finite-temperature phase diagram of a pseudospin-$1/2$ Bose gas with contact interactions, using two complementary methods: the random phase approximation (RPA) and self-consistent Hartree-Fock theory. We show that the inter-spin interactions, which break the (pseudo) spin-rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian, generally lead to the appearance of a magnetically ordered phase at temperatures above the superfluid transition. In three dimensions, we predict a normal easy-axis/easy-plane ferromagnet for sufficiently strong repulsive/attractive inter-species interactions respectively. The normal easy-axis ferromagnet is the bosonic analog of Stoner ferromagnetism known in electronic systems. For the case of inter-spin attraction, we also discuss the possibility of a \textit{bosonic} analog of the Cooper paired phase. This state is shown to significantly lose in energy to the transverse ferromagnet in three dimensions, but is more energetically competitive in lower dimensions. Extending our calculations to a spin-orbit-coupled Bose gas with equal Rashba and Dresselhaus-type couplings (as recently realized in experiment), we investigate the possibility of stripe ordering in the normal phase. Within our approximations however, we do not find an instability towards stripe formation, suggesting that the stripe order melts below the condensation temperature, which is consistent with the experimental observations of Ji \textit{et al.} [Ji \textit{et al.}, Nature Physics \textbf{10}, 314 (2014)].

id: 1409.1297
title: NSQUID arrays as conveyers of quantum information
authors: Qiang Deng, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1297
abstract: We have considered the quantum dynamics of an array of nSQUIDs -- two-junction SQUIDs with negative mutual inductance between their two arms. Effective dual-rail structure of the array creates additional internal degree of freedom for the fluxons in the array, which can be used to encode and transport quantum information. Physically, this degree of freedom is represented by electromagnetic excitations localized on the fluxon. We have calculated the spatial profile and frequency spectrum of these excitations. Their dynamics can be reduced to two quantum states, so that each fluxons moving through the array carries with it a qubit of information. Coherence properties of such a propagating qubits in the nSQUID array are characterized by the dynamic suppression of the low-frequency decoherence due to the motion-induced spreading of the noise spectral density to a larger frequency interval.

id: 1409.1381
title: Two-Qubit Pulse Gate for the Three-Electron Double Quantum Dot Qubit
authors: Sebastian Mehl
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 035430 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1381
abstract: The three-electron configuration of gate-defined double quantum dots encodes a promising qubit for quantum information processing. I propose a two-qubit entangling gate using a pulse-gated manipulation procedure. The requirements for high-fidelity entangling operations are equivalent to the requirements for the pulse-gated single-qubit manipulations that have been successfully realized for Si QDs. This two-qubit gate completes the universal set of all-pulse-gated operations for the three-electron double-dot qubit and paves the way for a scalable setup to achieve quantum computation.

id: 1409.1416
title: A quantum algorithm for approximating the influences of Boolean functions and its applications
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Li Yang
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1416
abstract: We investigate the influences of variables on a Boolean function $f$ based on the quantum Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm. A previous paper (Floess et al. in Math. Struct. in Comp. Science 23: 386, 2013) has proved that if a $n$-variable Boolean function $f(x_1,\ldots,x_n)$ does not depend on an input variable $x_i$, using the Bernstein-Vazirani circuit to $f$ will always obtain an output $y$ that has a $0$ in the $i$th position. We generalize this result and show that after one time running the algorithm, the probability of getting a 1 in each position $i$ is equal to the dependence degree of $f$ on the variable $x_i$, i.e. the influence of $x_i$ on $f$. On this foundation, we give an approximation algorithm to evaluate the influence of any variable on a Boolean function. Next, as an application, we use it to study the Boolean functions with juntas, and construct probabilistic quantum algorithms to learn certain Boolean functions. Compared with the deterministic algorithms given by Floess et al., our probabilistic algorithms are faster.

id: 1409.1450
title: The continuum limit of loop quantum gravity - a framework for solving the theory
authors: Bianca Dittrich
comments: draft chapter for a volume edited by A. Ashtekar and J. Pullin, to be published in the World Scientific series "100 Years of General Relativity"
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1450
abstract: The construction of a continuum limit for the dynamics of loop quantum gravity is unavoidable to complete the theory. We explain that such a construction is equivalent to obtaining the continuum physical Hilbert space, which encodes the solutions of the theory. We present iterative coarse graining methods to construct physical states in a truncation scheme and explain in which sense this scheme represents a renormalization flow. We comment on the role of diffeomorphism symmetry as an indicator for the continuum limit.

id: 1409.1504
title: Space group symmetry fractionalization in a family of exactly solvable models with Z2 topological order
authors: Hao Song, Michael Hermele
comments: 31 pages, 13 figures; v2: references added; v3: outline improved, reference added, acknowledgments updated, and minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 014405 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1504
abstract: We study square lattice space group symmetry fractionalization in a family of exactly solvable models with $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological order in two dimensions. In particular, we have obtained a complete understanding of which distinct types of symmetry fractionalization (symmetry classes) can be realized within this class of models, which are generalizations of Kitaev's $\mathbb{Z}_2$ toric code to arbitrary lattices. This question is motivated by earlier work of A. M. Essin and one of us (M. H.), where the idea of symmetry classification was laid out, and which, for square lattice symmetry, produces 2080 symmetry classes consistent with the fusion rules of $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological order. This approach does not produce a physical model for each symmetry class, and indeed there are reasons to believe that some symmetry classes may not be realizable in strictly two-dimensional systems, thus raising the question of which classes are in fact possible. While our understanding is limited to a restricted class of models, it is complete in the sense that for each of the 2080 possible symmetry classes, we either prove rigorously that the class cannot be realized in our family of models, or we give an explicit model realizing the class. We thus find that exactly 487 symmetry classes are realized in the family of models considered. With a more restrictive type of symmetry action, where space group operations act trivially in the internal Hilbert space of each spin degree of freedom, we find that exactly 82 symmetry classes are realized. In addition, we present a single model that realizes all $2^6 = 64$ types of symmetry fractionalization allowed for a single anyon species ($\mathbb{Z}_2$ charge excitation), as the parameters in the Hamiltonian are varied. The paper concludes with a summary and a discussion of two results pertaining to more general bosonic models.

id: 1409.1873
title: ElecSus: A program to calculate the electric susceptibility of an atomic ensemble
authors: Mark A. Zentile, James Keaveney, Lee Weller, Daniel J. Whiting, Charles S. Adams, Ifan G. Hughes
comments: 16 pages, 9 Figures
journal: Comp. Phys. Comm. 189 (2015) 162-174
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1873
abstract: We present a computer program and underlying model to calculate the electric susceptibility of a gas, which is essential to predict its absorptive and dispersive properties. Our program focusses on alkali-metal vapours where we use a matrix representation of the atomic Hamiltonian in the completely uncoupled basis in order to calculate transition frequencies and strengths. The program calculates various spectra for a weak-probe laser beam in an atomic medium with an applied axial magnetic field. This allows many optical devices to be designed, such as Faraday rotators/filters, optical isolators and circular polarisation filters. Fitting routines are also provided with the program which allows the user to perform optical metrology by fitting to experimental data.

id: 1409.1885
title: Edge binding of sine-Gordon solitons in spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Sebastiano Peotta, Francisco Mireles, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 021601(R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1885
abstract: In recent experiments with ultracold gases a Raman coupling scheme is used to produce both spin-orbit (SO) and Zeeman-type couplings [Y.-J. Lin et al., Nature 471, 83 (2011)]. Their competition drives a phase transition to a magnetized state with broken $Z_2$ symmetry. Using a hydrodynamic approach we study a confined binary condensate subject to both SO and Zeeman-type couplings. We find that in the limit of small healing length and in the phase with unbroken symmetry, the boundary magnetization profile has an analytical solution in the form of a sine-Gordon soliton. The soliton is bound to the edge of the system by the nontrivial boundary condition resulting from the combined effect of the SO coupling and the drop in the particle density. The same boundary condition is important in the magnetized phase as well, where we characterize numerically the boundary spin structure. We further discuss how the nontrivial magnetization structure affects the density profile near the boundary, yet another prediction that can be tested in current experiments of spin-orbit coupled condensates.

id: 1409.1953
title: Self-Consistent Embedding of Density-Matrix Renormalization Group Wavefunctions in a Density Functional Environment
authors: Thomas Dresselhaus, Johannes Neugebauer, Stefan Knecht, Sebastian Keller, Yingjin Ma, Markus Reiher
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 142, 044111 (2015)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1953
abstract: We present the first implementation of a density matrix renormalization group algorithm embedded in an environment described by density functional theory. The frozen density embedding scheme is used with a freeze-and-thaw strategy for a self-consistent polarization of the orbital-optimized wavefunction and the environmental densities with respect to each other.

id: 1409.1962
title: Waveguide Integrated Superconducting Single Photon Detectors Implemented as Coherent Perfect Absorbers
authors: Mohsen K. Akhlaghi, Ellen Schelew, Jeff F. Young
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1962
abstract: At the core of an ideal single photon detector is an active material that ideally absorbs and converts photons to discriminable electronic signals. A large active material volume favours high-efficiency absorption, but often at the expense of conversion efficiency, noise, speed and timing accuracy. The present work demonstrates how the concept of coherent perfect absorption can be used to relax this trade-off for a waveguide-integrated superconducting nanowire single photon detector. A very short (8.5$\mu$m long) and narrow (8$\times$35nm$^2$) U-shaped NbTiN nanowire atop a silicon-on-insulator waveguide is turned into a perfect absorber by etching an asymmetric nanobeam cavity around it. At 2.05K, the detectors show $\sim$96$\pm$12% on-chip quantum efficiency for 1545nm photons with an intrinsic dark count rate $<$0.1Hz. The estimated timing jitter is $\sim$53ps full-width at half-maximum and the reset time is $<$7ns, both extrinsically limited by readout electronics. This architecture is capable of pushing ultra-compact detector performance to ideal limits, and so promises to find a myriad of applications in quantum optics.

id: 1409.2115
title: Inflation of small true vacuum bubble by quantization of Einstein-Hilbert action
authors: Dongshan He, Qing-yu Cai
comments: Final version
journal: Science China 58, 079801 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2115
abstract: We study the quantization of the Einstein-Hilbert action for a small true vacuum bubble without matter or scalar field. The quantization of action induces an extra term of potential called quantum potential in Hamilton-Jacobi equation, which gives expanding solutions including the exponential expansion solutions of the scalar factor $a$ for the bubble. We show that exponential expansion of the bubble continues with a short period (about a Planck time $t_p$), no matter whether the bubble is closed, flat or open. The exponential expansion ends spontaneously when the bubble becomes large, i.e., the scalar factor $a$ of the bubble approaches a Planck length $l_p$. We show that it is quantum potential of the small true vacuum bubble that plays the role of the scalar field potential suggested in the slow-roll inflation model. With the picture of quantum tunneling, we calculate particle creation rate during inflation, which shows that particles created by inflation have the capability of reheating the universe.

id: 1409.2127
title: Exact solution of Ising model of an alternating delta spin chain
authors: El¨ªas R¨ªos
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equations (2,3,4)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2127
abstract: The Ising model on an alternating triangular lattice with the nearest-neighbor interaction in a magnetic field is presented. Exact solution of this model is found. The thermodynamic quantities, like free energy, specific heat a finite temperature and function correlaction, are calculated by treatment based on the transfer matrix method. Our results show that the model proposed does not have phase transition to a finite temperature, but the curve of specific heat presented a Schottky anomaly.

id: 1409.2134
title: Nonclassical imaging via photon-number fluctuation correlation
authors: Jane N. Sprigg, Tao Peng, Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2134
abstract: We report an experimental study on a nonclassical imaging mechanism. By achieving a convolution between the aperture function of the object and the photon-number fluctuation correlation function of thermal light, we isolated a resolved image from the unresolved classical image as well as the autocorrelation of two identical unresolved classical images. The remarkable feature of this mechanism is that its imaging resolution depends on the angular size of the light source instead of that of the imaging lens.

id: 1409.2188
title: Dispersion and light transport characteristics of large-scale photonic-crystal coupled nanocavity arrays
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda, Eiichi Kuramochi, Hiroki Takesue, Masaya Notomi
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 39, 2290-2293 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2188
abstract: We investigate the dispersion and transmission property of slow-light coupled-resonator optical waveguides that consist of more than 100 ultrahigh-Q photonic crystal cavities. We show that experimental group-delay spectra exhibited good agreement with numerically calculated dispersions obtained with the three-dimensional plane wave expansion method. Furthermore, a statistical analysis of the transmission property indicated that fabrication fluctuations in individual cavities are less relevant than in the localized regime. These behaviors are observed for a chain of up to 400 cavities.

id: 1409.2202
title: Cryogenic Control Architecture for Large-Scale Quantum Computing
authors: J. M. Hornibrook, J. I. Colless, I. D. Conway Lamb, S. J. Pauka, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard, J. D. Watson, G. C. Gardner, S. Fallahi, M. J. Manfra, D. J. Reilly
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 3, 024010 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2202
abstract: Solid-state qubits have recently advanced to the level that enables them, in-principle, to be scaled-up into fault-tolerant quantum computers. As these physical qubits continue to advance, meeting the challenge of realising a quantum machine will also require the engineering of new classical hardware and control architectures with complexity far beyond the systems used in today's few-qubit experiments. Here, we report a micro-architecture for controlling and reading out qubits during the execution of a quantum algorithm such as an error correcting code. We demonstrate the basic principles of this architecture in a configuration that distributes components of the control system across different temperature stages of a dilution refrigerator, as determined by the available cooling power. The combined setup includes a cryogenic field-programmable gate array (FPGA) controlling a switching matrix at 20 millikelvin which, in turn, manipulates a semiconductor qubit.

id: 1409.2256
title: Realization of Fractional Chern Insulators in the Thin-Torus-Limit with Ultracold Bosons
authors: Fabian Grusdt, Michael H?ning
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053623 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2256
abstract: Topological states of interacting many-body systems are at the focus of current research due to the exotic properties of their elementary excitations. In this paper we suggest a realistic experimental setup for the realization of a simple version of such a phase. We show how delta-interacting bosons hopping on the links of a one-dimensional (1D) ladder can be used to simulate the thin-torus-limit of the two-dimensional (2D) Hofstadter-Hubbard model at one-quarter magnetic flux per plaquette. Bosons can be confined to ladders by optical superlattices, and synthetic magnetic fields can be realized by far off-resonant Raman beams. We show that twisted boundary conditions can be implemented, enabling the realization of a fractionally quantized Thouless pump. Using numerical density-matrix-renormalization-group (DMRG) calculations we show that the groundstate of our model is an incompressible symmetry-protected topological charge density wave (CDW) phase at average filling $\rho = 1/8$ per lattice site, related to the 1/2 Laughlin-type state of the corresponding 2D model.

id: 1409.2260
title: A Trotter-Kato Theorem for Quantum Markov Limits
authors: Luc Bouten, Rolf Gohm, John Gough, Hendra Nurdin
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2260
abstract: Using the Trotter-Kato theorem we prove the convergence of the unitary dynamics generated by an increasingly singular Hamiltonian in the case of a single field coupling. The limit dynamics is a quantum stochastic evolution of Hudson-Parthasarathy type, and we establish in the process a graph limit convergence of the pre-limit Hamiltonian operators to the Chebotarev-Gregoratti-von Waldenfels Hamiltonian generating the quantum Ito evolution.

id: 1409.2301
title: Long-range states in excited ultracold 3He*-4He* dimers
authors: Daniel G. Cocks, Gillian Peach, Ian B. Whittingham
comments: 19 pages; revisions to text
journal: D G Cocks et al (2015) J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48, 115205
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2301
abstract: Long-range bound states of the excited heteronuclear 3He*--4He* system that dissociate to either 3He(1s2s 3S_1) + 4He(1s2p 3P_j) or 3He(1s2p 3P_j) + 4He(1s2s 3S_1), where j=0, 1, 2, are investigated using both single-channel and multichannel calculations in order to analyse the effects of Coriolis and non-adiabatic couplings. The multichannel calculations predict two groups of resonances above the lowest asymptotic energy. One of these groups dissociates to an atomic pair with the 2p excitation on the fermionic atom and the other dissociates to two asymptotes which correspond to the 2p excitation on either atom. Many of these resonances could be identified with levels in the single-channel calculation although the differences in energies were large. The total parity was found to have a significant influence on the ability to make these identifications. No purely bound states were found, although several resonances with line widths smaller than 1 MHz were obtained.

id: 1409.2382
title: Microwave Experiments Simulating Quantum Search and Directed Transport in Artificial Graphene
authors: Julian B?hm, Matthieu Bellec, Fabrice Mortessagne, Ulrich Kuhl, Sonja Barkhofen, Stefan Gehler, Hans-J¨¹rgen St?ckmann, Iain Foulger, Sven Gnutzmann, Gregor Tanner
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, supplementary material: 4 videos
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 110501 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2382
abstract: A series of quantum search algorithms have been proposed recently providing an algebraic speedup compared to classical search algorithms from $N$ to $\sqrt{N}$, where $N$ is the number of items in the search space. In particular, devising searches on regular lattices has become popular in extending Grover's original algorithm to spatial searching. Working in a tight-binding setup, it could be demonstrated, theoretically, that a search is possible in the physically relevant dimensions 2 and 3 if the lattice spectrum possesses Dirac points. We present here a proof of principle experiment implementing wave search algorithms and directed wave transport in a graphene lattice arrangement. The idea is based on bringing localized search states into resonance with an extended lattice state in an energy region of low spectral density---namely, at or near the Dirac point. The experiment is implemented using classical waves in a microwave setup containing weakly coupled dielectric resonators placed in a honeycomb arrangement, i.e., artificial graphene. Furthermore, we investigate the scaling behavior experimentally using linear chains.

id: 1409.2401
title: Studies on the bound-state spectrum of hyperbolic potential
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Few-Body Systems 55, 143-150 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2401
abstract: Bound states of hyperbolic potential is investigated by means of a generalized pseudospectral method. Significantly improved eigenvalues, eigenfunctions are obtained efficiently for arbitrary $n, \ell$ quantum states by solving the relevant non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation allowing a non-uniform, optimal spatial discretization. Eigenvalues accurate up to tenth decimal place are reported for a large range of potential parameters; thus covering a wide range of interaction. Excellent agreement with available literature results is observed in all occasions. Special attention is paid for higher states. Some new states are given. Energy variations with respect to parameters in the potential are studied in considerable detail for the first time.

id: 1409.2420
title: Krylov-projected quantum Monte Carlo
authors: N. S. Blunt, Ali Alavi, George H. Booth
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2420
abstract: We present an approach to the calculation of arbitrary spectral, thermal and excited state properties within the full configuration interaction quantum Monte Carlo framework. This is achieved via an unbiased projection of the Hamiltonian eigenvalue problem into a space of stochastically sampled Krylov vectors, thus enabling the calculation of real-frequency spectral and thermal properties and avoiding explicit analytic continuation. We use this approach to calculate temperature-dependent properties and one- and two-body spectral functions for various Hubbard models, as well as isolated excited states in ab initio systems.

id: 1409.2429
title: Construction of dynamical invariants for the time-dependent harmonic oscillator with a time-dependent driven force
authors: M. C. Bertin, B. M. Pimentel, J. A. Ramirez
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2429
abstract: We construct the linear and quadratic polynomial dynamical invariants for the classical and quantum time-dependent harmonic oscillator driven by a time-dependent force. To obtain them, we use exclusively the associated equations of motion for the system. We also find an algebraic relationship between the linear and quadratic invariants at the classical and quantum level.

id: 1409.2482
title: Multiterminal Conductance of a Floquet Topological Insulator
authors: L. E. F. Foa Torres, P. M. Perez-Piskunow, C. A. Balseiro, G. Usaj
comments: 5 pages + 4 figures + suppl. material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 266801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2482
abstract: We report on simulations of the dc conductance and quantum Hall response of a Floquet topological insulator using Floquet scattering theory. Our results reveal that laser-induced edge states in graphene lead to quantum Hall plateaus once imperfect matching with the non-illuminated leads is lessened. But the magnitude of the Hall plateaus is not directly related to the number and chirality of all the edge states at a given energy as usual. Instead, the plateaus are dominated only by those edge states adding to the dc density of states. Therefore, the dc quantum Hall conductance of a Floquet topological insulator is not directly linked to topological invariants of the full the Floquet bands.

id: 1409.2514
title: Extraordinary exciton conductance induced by strong coupling
authors: Johannes Feist, Francisco J. Garcia-Vidal
comments: Main text: 5 pages, 4 figures; Supplemental: 2 pages, 1 figure. Version 2: Updated reference to related work arXiv:1409.2550. Version 3: Updated to version accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2514
abstract: We demonstrate that exciton conductance in organic materials can be enhanced by several orders of magnitude when the molecules are strongly coupled to an electromagnetic mode. Using a 1D model system, we show how the formation of a collective polaritonic mode allows excitons to bypass the disordered array of molecules and jump directly from one end of the structure to the other. This finding could have important implications in the fields of exciton transistors, heat transport, photosynthesis, and biological systems in which exciton transport plays a key role.

id: 1409.2543
title: Angular-momentum couplings in long-range Rb$_2$ Rydberg molecules
authors: David A. Anderson, Stephanie A. Miller, Georg Raithel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2543
abstract: We study angular-momentum couplings in $^{87}$Rb$_2$ Rydberg molecules formed between Rydberg and 5S$_{1/2}$ ground-state atoms. We use a Fermi model that includes S-wave and P-wave singlet and triplet scattering of the Rydberg electron with the 5S$_{1/2}$ atom, along with the fine structure coupling of the Rydberg atom and hyperfine structure coupling of the 5S$_{1/2}$ atom. We discuss the effects of these couplings on the adiabatic molecular potentials. We obtain bound-state energies, lifetimes, and electric and magnetic dipole moments for the vibrational ground states of the $^{87}$Rb$(n$D$+5$S$_{1/2})$ molecules in all adiabatic potentials, with fine and hyperfine structure included. We also study the effect of the hyperfine structure on the deep $^3$S-wave- and $^3$P-wave-dominated adiabatic molecular potentials, which support high-$\ell$ $^{87}$Rb$_2$ Rydberg molecules.

id: 1409.2700
title: Molecular Cluster Perturbation Theory. I. Formalism
authors: Jason N. Byrd, Nakul Jindal, Robert W. Molt, Jr., Rodney J. Bartlett, Beverly A. Sanders, Victor F. Lotrich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2700
abstract: We present second-order molecular cluster perturbation theory (MCPT(2)), a linear scaling methodology to calculate arbitrarily large systems with explicit calculation of individual wavefunctions in a coupled-cluster framework. This new MCPT(2) framework uses coupled-cluster perturbation theory and an expansion in terms of molecular dimer interactions to obtain molecular wavefunctions that are infinite-order in both the electronic fluctuation operator and all possible dimer (and products of dimers) interactions. The MCPT(2) framework has been implemented in the new SIA/Aces4 parallel architecture, making use of the advanced dynamic memory control and fine grained parallelism to perform very large explicit molecular cluster calculations. To illustrate the power of this method, we have computed energy shifts, lattice site dipole moments, and harmonic vibrational frequencies via explicit calculation of the bulk system for the polar and non-polar polymorphs of solid hydrogen fluoride. The explicit lattice size (without using any periodic boundary conditions) was expanded up to 1,000 HF molecules, with 32,000 basis functions and 10,000 electrons. Our obtained HF lattice site dipole moments and harmonic vibrational frequencies agree well with the existing literature.

id: 1409.2749
title: Fourier Magnetic Imaging with Nanoscale Resolution and Compressed Sensing Speed-up using Electronic Spins in Diamond
authors: K. Arai, C. Belthangady, H. Zhang, N. Bar-Gill, S. J. DeVience, P. Cappellaro, A. Yacoby, R. L. Walsworth
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2749
abstract: Optically-detected magnetic resonance using Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) color centres in diamond is a leading modality for nanoscale magnetic field imaging, as it provides single electron spin sensitivity, three-dimensional resolution better than 1 nm, and applicability to a wide range of physical and biological samples under ambient conditions. To date, however, NV-diamond magnetic imaging has been performed using real space techniques, which are either limited by optical diffraction to 250 nm resolution or require slow, point-by-point scanning for nanoscale resolution, e.g., using an atomic force microscope, magnetic tip, or super-resolution optical imaging. Here we introduce an alternative technique of Fourier magnetic imaging using NV-diamond. In analogy with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we employ pulsed magnetic field gradients to phase-encode spatial information on NV electronic spins in wavenumber or k-space followed by a fast Fourier transform to yield real-space images with nanoscale resolution, wide field-of-view (FOV), and compressed sensing speed-up.

id: 1409.2836
title: Two-state wave packet for strong field-free molecular orientation
authors: Sebastian Trippel, Terry Mullins, Nele L. M. M¨¹ller, Jens S. Kienitz, Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, Jochen K¨¹pper
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114 (2015) 103003
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2836
abstract: We demonstrate strong laser-field-free orientation of absolute-ground-state carbonyl sulfide molecules. The molecules are oriented by the combination of a 485-ps-long non-resonant laser pulse and a weak static electric field. The edges of the laser pulse create a coherent superposition of two rotational states resulting in revivals of strong transient molecular orientation after the laser pulse. The experimentally attained degree of orientation of 0.6 corresponds to the theoretical maximum for mixing of the two states. Switching off the dc field would provide the same orientation completely field-free.

id: 1409.2915
title: Two dimensional kicked quantum Ising model: dynamical phase transitions
authors: Carlos Pineda, Toma? Prosen, Eduardo Villase?or
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 123044 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2915
abstract: Using an efficient one and two qubit gate simulator, operating on graphical processing units, we investigate ergodic properties of a quantum Ising spin 1/2 model on a two dimensional lattice, which is periodically driven by a $\delta$-pulsed transverse magnetic field. We consider three different dynamical properties: (i) level density and (ii) level spacing distribution of the Floquet quasienergy spectrum, as well as (iii) time-averaged autocorrelation function of components of the magnetization. Varying the parameters of the model, we found transitions between ordered (non ergodic) and quantum chaotic (ergodic) phases, but the transitions between flat and non-flat spectral density {\em do not} correspond to transitions between ergodic and non-ergodic local observables. Even more surprisingly, we found nice agreement of level spacing distribution with the Wigner surmise of random matrix theory for almost all values of parameters except where the model is essentially noninteracting, even in the regions where local observables are not ergodic or where spectral density is non-flat. These findings put in question the versatility of the interpretation of level spacing distribution in many-body systems and stress the importance of the concept of locality.

id: 1409.2994
title: Energy transmutation in nonequilibrium quantum systems
authors: Mihail Mintchev, Luca Santoni, Paul Sorba
comments: Version to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2994
abstract: We investigate the particle and heat transport in quantum junctions with the geometry of star graphs. The system is in a nonequilibrium steady state, characterized by the different temperatures and chemical potentials of the heat reservoirs connected to the edges of the graph. We explore the Landauer-Buettiker state and its orbit under parity and time reversal transformations. Both particle number and total energy are conserved in these states. However the heat and chemical potential energy are in general not separately conserved, which gives origin to a basic process of energy transmutation among them. We study both directions of this process in detail, introducing appropriate efficiency coefficients. For scale invariant interactions in the junction our results are exact and explicit. They cover the whole parameter space and take into account all nonlinear effects. The energy transmutation depends on the particle statistics.

id: 1409.3056
title: Quench of non-Markovian coherence in the deep sub-Ohmic spin-boson model: A unitary equilibration scheme
authors: Yao Yao
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3056
abstract: The deep sub-Ohmic spin-boson model shows a longstanding non-Markovian coherence at low temperature. Motivating to quench this robust coherence, the thermal effect is unitarily incorporated into the time evolution of the model, which is calculated by the adaptive time-dependent density matrix renormalization group algorithm combined with the orthogonal polynomials theory. Via introducing a unitary heating operator to the bosonic bath, the bath is heated up so that a majority portion of the bosonic excited states is occupied. It is found in this situation the coherence of the spin is quickly quenched even in the coherent regime, in which the non-Markovian feature dominates. With this finding we come up with a novel way to implement the unitary equilibration, the essential term of the eigenstate-thermalization hypothesis, through a short-time evolution of the model.

id: 1409.3073
title: Anyon braiding in semi-analytical fractional quantum Hall lattice models
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen
comments: 5+2 pages, 4 figures, v2: accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 041106(R) (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3073
abstract: It has been demonstrated numerically, mainly by considering ground state properties, that fractional quantum Hall physics can appear in lattice systems, but it is very difficult to study the anyons directly. Here, I propose to solve this problem by using conformal field theory to build semi-analytical fractional quantum Hall lattice models having anyons in their ground states, and I carry out the construction explicitly for the family of bosonic and fermionic Laughlin states. This enables me to show directly that the braiding properties of the anyons are those expected from analytical continuation of the wave functions and to compute properties such as internal structure, size, and charge of the anyons with simple Monte Carlo simulations. The models can also be used to study how the anyons behave when they approach or even pass through the edge of the sample. Finally, I compute the effective magnetic field seen by the anyons, which varies periodically due to the presence of the lattice.

id: 1409.3111
title: Quantum-to-Classical Reduction of Quantum Master Equations
authors: Norikazu Kamiya
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures; To appear in Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2015) 043A02
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3111
abstract: A general method of quantum-to-classical reduction of quantum dynamics is described. The key aspect of our method is the similarity transformation of the Liouvillian, which provides a new perspective. In conventional studies of quantum energy transport, the rotating wave approximation has been frequently regarded as an inappropriate approach because it causes the energy flow through the system to vanish. Our formulation elucidates as to why this unphysical result occurs and provides a solution for the problem. That is, not only the density matrix but also the physical quantity is to be transformed. Moreover, we show that quantum dynamics can be "exactly" replaced with classical equations for the calculation of the transport efficiency.

id: 1409.3234
title: Realizing Exactly Solvable SU(N) Magnets with Thermal Atoms
authors: Michael E. Beverland, Gorjan Alagic, Michael J. Martin, Andrew P. Koller, Ana M. Rey, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures (including supplemental materials)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3234
abstract: We show that $n$ thermal fermionic alkaline-earth atoms in a flat-bottom trap allow one to robustly implement a spin model displaying two symmetries: the $S_n$ symmetry that permutes atoms occupying different vibrational levels of the trap and the SU($N$) symmetry associated with $N$ nuclear spin states. The high symmetry makes the model exactly solvable, which, in turn, enables the analytic study of dynamical processes such as spin diffusion in this SU($N$) system. We also show how to use this system to generate entangled states that allow for Heisenberg-limited metrology. This highly symmetric spin model should be experimentally realizable even when the vibrational levels are occupied according to a high-temperature thermal or an arbitrary non-thermal distribution.

id: 1409.3245
title: Copper waveguide cavities with reduced surface loss for coupling to superconducting qubits
authors: Daniela F. Bogorin, D. T. McClure, Matthew Ware, B. L. T. Plourde
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; published in ISEC 2013 Special Issue of IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity
journal: IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity, 24(4), 1700207 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3245
abstract: Significant improvements in superconducting qubit coherence times have been achieved recently with three-dimensional microwave waveguide cavities coupled to transmon qubits. While many of the measurements in this direction have utilized superconducting aluminum cavities, other recent work has involved qubits coupled to copper cavities with coherence times approaching 0.1 ms. The copper provides a good path for thermalizing the cavity walls and qubit chip, although the substantial cavity loss makes conventional dispersive qubit measurements challenging. We are exploring various approaches for improving the quality factor of three-dimensional copper cavities, including electropolishing and coating with superconducting layers of tin. We have characterized these cavities on multiple cooldowns and found the tin-plating to be robust. In addition, we have performed coherence measurements on transmon qubits in these cavities and observed promising performance.

id: 1409.3295
title: Anisotropic Stark Effect and Electric-Field Noise Suppression for Phosphorus Donor Qubits in Silicon
authors: A. J. Sigillito, A. M. Tyryshkin, S. A. Lyon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3295
abstract: We report the use of novel, capacitively terminated coplanar waveguide (CPW) resonators to measure the quadratic Stark shift of phosphorus donor qubits in Si. We confirm that valley repopulation leads to an anisotropic spin-orbit Stark shift depending on electric and magnetic field orientations relative to the Si crystal. By measuring the linear Stark effect, we estimate the effective electric field due to strain in our samples. We show that in the presence of this strain, electric-field sources of decoherence can be non-negligible. Using our measured values for the Stark shift, we predict magnetic fields for which the spin-orbit Stark effect cancels the hyperfine Stark effect, suppressing decoherence from electric-field noise. We discuss the limitations of these noise-suppression points due to random distributions of strain and propose a method for overcoming them.

id: 1409.3298
title: Cavity QED on a nanofiber using a composite photonic crystal cavity
authors: Ramachandrarao Yalla, Mark Sadgrove, Kali P. Nayak, Kohzo Hakuta
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 143601 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3298
abstract: We demonstrate cavity QED conditions in the Purcell regime for single quantum emitters on the surface of an optical nanofiber. The cavity is formed by combining an optical nanofiber and a nanofabricated grating to create a composite photonic crystal cavity. Using this technique, significant enhancement of the spontaneous emission rate into the nanofiber guided modes is observed for single quantum dots. Our results pave the way for enhanced on-fiber light-matter interfaces with clear applications to quantum networks.

id: 1409.3378
title: Noncommutative quantum mechanics of simple matter systems interacting with circularly polarized gravitational waves
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Anirban Saha, Swarup Saha
comments: 11 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3378
abstract: The response of a test particle, both for the free case and under the harmonic oscillator potential, to circularly polarized gravitational waves is investigated in a noncommutative quantum mechanical setting. The system is quantized following the prescription in \cite{ncgw1}. Standard algebraic techniques are then employed to solve the Hamiltonian of the system. The solutions, in both cases, show signatures of the coordinate noncommutativity. In the harmonic oscillator case, this signature plays a key role in altering the resonance point and the oscillation frequency of the system.

id: 1409.3423
title: Virial coefficients in $(\tilde¦Ì,q)$-Bose gas model related to compositeness of particles and their interaction: temperature-dependence problem
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, Yu.A. Mishchenko
comments: 8 pages, two-column style; v2: Minor revision, two paragraphs and two refs. added, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 052147 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3423
abstract: We establish the relation of the second virial coefficient of certain $(\tilde{\mu},q)$-deformed Bose gas model, recently proposed by the authors in [Ukr. J. Phys., 2013], to the interaction and compositeness parameters when either of these factors is taken into account separately. When the interaction is dealt with, the deformation parameter becomes linked directly to the scattering length, and the effective radius of interaction (in general, to scattering phases). The additionally arising temperature dependence is a new feature absent in the deformed Bose gas model within adopted interpretation of the deformation parameters $\tilde{\mu}$ and $q$. Here the problem of the temperature dependence is analyzed in detail and its possible solution is proposed.

id: 1409.3453
title: A continuum limit for the Kronig-Penney model
authors: Matteo Colangeli, Sokol Ndreca, Aldo Procacci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3453
abstract: We investigate the transmission properties of a quantum one-dimensional periodic system of fixed length $L$, with $N$ barriers of constant height $V$ and width $\lambda$, and $N$ wells of width $\delta$. In particular, we study the behaviour of the transmission coefficient in the limit $N\to \infty$, with $L$ fixed. This is achieved by letting $\delta$ and $\lambda$ both scale as $1/N$, in such a way that their ratio $\gamma= \lambda/\delta$ is a fixed parameter characterizing the model. In this continuum limit the multi-barrier system behaves as it were constituted by a unique barrier of constant height $E_o=(\gamma V)/(1+\gamma)$. The analysis of the dispersion relation of the model shows the presence of forbidden energy bands at any finite $N$.

id: 1409.3539
title: Spontaneous and parametric processes in warm rubidium vapours
authors: Micha? D?browski, Micha? Parniak, Daniel P?cak, Rados?aw Chrapkiewicz, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Latvian Journal of Physics and Technical Sciences
journal: Latvian Journal of Physics and Technical Sciences 51(5), 21-34 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3539
abstract: Warm rubidium vapours are known to be a versatile medium for a variety of experiments in atomic physics and quantum optics. Here we present experimental results on producing the frequency converted light for quantum applications based on spontaneous and stimulated processes in rubidium vapours. In particular, we study the efficiency of spontaneously initiated stimulated Raman scattering in the {\Lambda}-level configuration and conditions of generating the coherent blue light assisted by multi-photon transitions in the diamond-level configuration. Our results will be helpful in search for new types of interfaces between light and atomic quantum memories.

id: 1409.3675
title: Microcontroller-based locking in optics experiments
authors: K. Huang, H. Le Jeannic, J. Ruaudel, O. Morin, J. Laurat
comments: 
journal: Review of Scientific Instruments 85, 123112 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3675
abstract: Optics experiments critically require the stable and accurate locking of relative phases between light beams or the stabilization of Fabry-Perot cavity lengths. Here, we present a simple and inexpensive technique based on a stand-alone microcontroller unit to perform such tasks. Easily programmed in C language, this reconfigurable digital locking system also enables automatic relocking and sequential functioning. Different algorithms are detailed and applied to fringe locking and to low- and high-finesse optical cavity stabilization, without the need of external modulations or error signals. This technique can readily replace a number of analog locking systems advantageously in a variety of optical experiments.

id: 1409.3755
title: Interference of Identical Particles and the Quantum Work Distribution
authors: Zongping Gong, Sebastian Deffner, H. T. Quan
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures; published version
journal: Physical Review E 90, 062121 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3755
abstract: Quantum mechanical particles in a confining potential interfere with each other while undergoing thermodynamic processes far from thermal equilibrium. By evaluating the corresponding transition probabilities between many-particle eigenstates we obtain the quantum work distribution function, for identical Bosons and Fermions, which we compare with the case of distinguishable particles. We find that the quantum work distributions for Bosons and Fermions significantly differ at low temperatures, while, as expected, at high temperatures the work distributions converge to the classical expression. These findings are illustrated with two analytically solvable examples, namely the time-dependent infinite square well and the parametric harmonic oscillator.

id: 1409.3788
title: Solvable non-Hermitian discrete square well with closed-form physical inner product
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 23 pp., 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 435302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3788
abstract: A non-Hermitian $N-$level quantum model with two free real parameters is proposed in which the bound-state energies are given as roots of an elementary trigonometric expression and in which they are, in a physical domain of parameters, all real. The wave function components are expressed as closed-form superpositions of two Chebyshev polynomials. In any eligible physical Hilbert space of finite dimension $N < \infty$ our model is constructed as unitary with respect to an underlying Hilbert-space metric $\Theta \neq I$. The simplest version of the latter metric is finally constructed, at any dimension $N=2,3,\ldots$, in closed form. This version of the model may be perceived as an exactly solvable $N-$site lattice analogue of the $N=\infty$ square well with complex Robin-type boundary conditions. At any $N<\infty$ our closed-form metric becomes trivial (i.e., equal to the most common Dirac's metric $\Theta^{(Dirac)}=I$) at the special, Hermitian-Hamiltonian-limit parameters.

id: 1409.3815
title: Nonsequential double ionization with time-dependent renormalized-natural-orbital theory
authors: M. Brics, J. Rapp, D. Bauer
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX
journal: M. Brics, J. Rapp, and D. Bauer, Phys. Rev. A 90, 053418, (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3815
abstract: Recently introduced time-dependent renormalized natural orbital theory (TDRNOT) is tested on non-sequential double ionization (NSDI) of a numerically exactly solvable one-dimensional model He atom subject to few-cycle, 800-nm laser pulses. NSDI of atoms in strong laser fields is a prime example of non-perturbative, highly correlated electron dynamics. As such, NSDI is an important "worst-case" benchmark for any time-dependent few and many-body technique beyond linear response. It is found that TDRNOT reproduces the celebrated NSDI "knee," i.e., a many-order-of-magnitude enhancement of the double ionization yield (as compared to purely sequential ionization) with only the ten most significant natural orbitals (NOs) per spin. Correlated photoelectron spectra - as "more differential" observables - require more NOs.

id: 1409.3823
title: Quantum simulation of Dirac fermion mode, Majorana fermion mode and Majorana-Weyl fermion mode in cavity QED lattice
authors: Sujit Sarkar
comments: 7 pages, Comments are welcome. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1309.7742
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3823
abstract: Quantum simulation aims to simulate a quantum system using a controble laboratory system that underline the same mathematical model. Cavity QED lattice system is that prescribe system to simulate the relativistic quantum effect. We quantum simulate the Dirac fermion mode, Majorana fermion mode and Majorana-Weyl fermion mode and a crossover between them in cavity QED lattice. We also present the different analytical relations between the field operators for different mode excitations.

id: 1409.3826
title: Two-electron resonances in quasi-one dimensional quantum dots with Gaussian confinement
authors: Arkadiusz Kuro?, Anna Okopi¨½ska
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3826
abstract: We consider a quasi one-dimensional quantum dot composed of two Coulombically interacting electrons confined in a Gaussian trap. Apart from bound states, the system exhibits resonances that are related to the autoionization process. Employing the complex-coordinate rotation method, we determine the resonance widths and energies and discuss their dependence on the longitudinal confinement potential and the lateral radius of the quantum dot. The stability properties of the system are discussed.

id: 1409.3828
title: PT-symmetric interpretation of the electromagnetic self-force
authors: Carl M. Bender, Mariagiovanna Gianfreda
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3828
abstract: In 1980 Englert examined the classic problem of the electromagnetic self-force on an oscillating charged particle. His approach, which was based on an earlier idea of Bateman, was to introduce a charge-conjugate particle and to show that the two-particle system is Hamiltonian. Unfortunately, Englert's model did not solve the problem of runaway modes, and the corresponding quantum theory had ghost states. It is shown here that Englert's Hamiltonian is PT symmetric, and that the problems with his model arise because the PT symmetry is broken at both the classical and quantum level. However, by allowing the charged particles to interact and by adjusting the coupling parameters to put the model into an unbroken PT-symmetric region, one eliminates the classical runaway modes and obtains a corresponding quantum system that is ghost free.

id: 1409.3846
title: Compressed optimization of device architectures
authors: Adam Frees, John King Gamble, Daniel R. Ward, Robin Blume-Kohout, M. A. Eriksson, Mark Friesen, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3846
abstract: Recent advances in nanotechnology have enabled researchers to control individual quantum mechanical objects with unprecedented accuracy, opening the door for both quantum and extreme-scale conventional computing applications. As these devices become larger and more complex, the ability to design them for simple control becomes a daunting and computationally infeasible task. Here, motivated by ideas from compressed sensing, we introduce a protocol for Compressed Optimization of Device Architectures (CODA). It leads naturally to a metric for benchmarking device performance and optimizing device designs, and provides a scheme for automating the control of gate operations and reducing their complexity. Because CODA is both experimentally and computationally efficient, it is readily extensible to large systems. We demonstrate the CODA benchmarking and optimization protocols through simulations of up to eight quantum dots in devices that are currently being developed experimentally for quantum computation.

id: 1409.3878
title: Unification of fluctuation theorems and one-shot statistical mechanics
authors: Nicole Yunger Halpern, Andrew J. P. Garner, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 46 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3878
abstract: Fluctuation-dissipation relations, such as Crooks' Theorem and Jarzynski's Equality, are powerful tools in quantum and classical nonequilibrium statistical mechanics. We link these relations to a newer approach known as "one-shot statistical mechanics." Rooted in one-shot information theory, one-shot statistical mechanics concerns statements true of every implementation of a protocol, not only of averages. We show that two general models for work extraction in the presence of heat baths obey fluctuation relations and one-shot results. We demonstrate the usefulness of this bridge between frameworks in several ways. Using Crooks' Theorem, we derive a bound on one-shot work quantities. These bounds are tighter, in certain parameter regimes, than a bound in the fluctuation literature and a bound in the one-shot literature. Our bounds withstand tests by numerical simulations of an information-theoretic Carnot engine. By analyzing data from DNA-hairpin experiments, we show that experiments used to test fluctuation theorems also test one-shot results. Additionally, we derive one-shot analogs of a known equality between a relative entropy and the average work dissipated as heat. Our unification of experimentally tested fluctuation relations with one-shot statistical mechanics is intended to bridge one-shot theory to applications.

id: 1409.4196
title: The semiclassical propagator in fermionic Fock space
authors: Thomas Engl, Peter Pl??l, Juan Diego Urbina, Klaus Richter
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Theoretical Chemistry Accounts 133, 1563 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4196
abstract: We present a rigorous derivation of a semiclassical propagator for anticommuting (fermionic) degrees of freedom, starting from an exact representation in terms of Grassmann variables. As a key feature of our approach the anticommuting variables are integrated out exactly, and an exact path integral representation of the fermionic propagator in terms of commuting variables is constructed. Since our approach is not based on auxiliary (Hubbard-Stratonovich) fields, it surpasses the calculation of fermionic determinants yielding a standard form $\int {\cal D}[\psi,\psi^{*}] {\rm e}^{i R[\psi,\psi^{*}]}$ with real actions for the propagator. These two features allow us to provide a rigorous definition of the classical limit of interacting fermionic fields and therefore to achieve the long-standing goal of a theoretically sound construction of a semiclassical van Vleck-Gutzwiller propagator in fermionic Fock space. As an application, we use our propagator to investigate how the different universality classes (orthogonal, unitary and symplectic) affect generic many-body interference effects in the transition probabilities between Fock states of interacting fermionic systems.

id: 1409.4206
title: Repulsively interacting fermions in a two-dimensional deformed trap with spin-orbit coupling
authors: O. V. Marchukov, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, A. G. Volosniev, N. T. Zinner
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, revised version
journal: European Physical Journal D, 69, 73 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4206
abstract: We investigate a two-dimensional system of with two values of the internal (spin) degree of freedom. It is confined by a deformed harmonic trap and subject to a Zeeman field, Rashba or Dresselhaus one-body spin-orbit couplings and two-body short range repulsion. We obtain self-consistent mean-field $N$-body solutions as functions of the interaction parameters. Single-particle Spectra and total energies are computed and compared to the results without interaction. We perform a statistical analysis for the distributions of nearest neighbor energy level spacings and show that quantum signatures of chaos are seen in certain parameters regimes. Furthermore, the effects of two-body repulsion on the nearest neighbor distributions are investigated. This repulsion can either promote or destroy the signatures of potential chaotic behavior depending on relative strengths of parameters. Our findings support the suggestion that cold atoms may be used to study quantum chaos both in the presence and absence of interactions.

id: 1409.4224
title: Quantum magnetism in strongly interacting one-dimensional spinor Bose systems
authors: A. S. Dehkharghani, A. G. Volosniev, E. J. Lindgren, J. Rotureau, C. Forss¨¦n, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4224
abstract: Strongly interacting one-dimensional quantum systems often behave in a manner that is distinctly different from their higher-dimensional counterparts. When a particle attempts to move in a one-dimensional environment it will unavoidably have to interact and 'push' other particles in order to execute a pattern of motion, irrespective of whether the particles are fermions or bosons. A present frontier in both theory and experiment are mixed systems of different species and/or particles with multiple internal degrees of freedom. Here we consider trapped two-component bosons with short-range inter-species interactions much larger than their intra-species interactions and show that they have novel energetic and magnetic properties. In the strongly interacting regime, these systems have energies that are fractions of the basic harmonic oscillator trap quantum and have spatially separated ground states with manifestly ferromagnetic wave functions. Furthermore, we predict excited states that have perfect antiferromagnetic ordering. This holds for both balanced and imbalanced systems, and we show that it is a generic feature as one crosses from few- to many-body systems.

id: 1409.4298
title: Universality in the cold and ultracold dynamics of the barrierless D$^{+}$+ H$_2$ reaction
authors: Manuel Lara, P. G. Jambrina, F. J. Aoiz, J.-M. Launay
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, paper
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4298
abstract: We have calculated quantum reactive and elastic cross-sections for D$^{+}+$ para-H$_2$($v$=0, $j$=0) $\rightarrow$ H$^+$ + HD collisons using the hyperspherical quantum reactive scattering method [Chem. Phys. Lett. 1990,169, 473]. The H$_{3}^{+}$ system is the prototype of barrierless ion-molecule reactions, apart from its relevance in astrochemistry. The considered collision energy ranges from the ultracold regime, where only one partial wave is open, up to the Langevin regime, where many of them contribute. At very low kinetic energies, both an accurate description of the long-range (LR) region in the potential energy surface (PES), and long dynamical propagations, up to distances of 10$^{5}$ a0, are required. Accordingly, calculations have been carried out on the PES by Velilla et al. [J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129,084307] which accurately reproduces the LR interactions. Hyperspherical methodology was recently modified in order to allow the accurate inclusion of LR interactions while minimizing the computational expense. Such implementation is shown particularly suitable for systems involving ions, where the $R^{-4}$ behavior largely extends the range of the potential. We find a reaction rate coefficient which remains almost constant in a kinetic energy range of more than ten orders of magnitude. In particular, the value reached in the Wigner regime, where only one partial wave is open, is paradoxically the Langevin classical value (within a few percent) expected at high energies. Results are discussed in terms of {\em universality} and related to the recently published quantum defect theory [Phys. Rev. Lett. 2013, 110, 213202]. Since the system has small exothermicity and a low number of channels, it is possible to test such model in a case where the loss probability at short range is appreciably far from unity.

id: 1409.4427
title: Robust Electron Pairing in the Integer Quantum Hall Effect Regime
authors: Hyungkook Choi, Itamar Sivan, Amir Rosenblatt, Moty Heiblum, Vladimir Umansky, Diana Mahalu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4427
abstract: Electron pairing is a rare phenomenon appearing only in a few unique physical systems; e.g., superconductors and Kondo-correlated quantum dots. Here, we report on an unexpected, but robust, electron "pairing" in the integer quantum Hall effect (IQHE) regime. The pairing takes place within an interfering edge channel circulating in an electronic Fabry-Perot interferometer at a wide range of bulk filling factors, $2<{\nu} _B<5$. The main observations are: (a) High visibility Aharonov-Bohm conductance oscillations with magnetic flux periodicity ${\Delta}{\phi}={\varphi}_0/2=h/2e$ (instead of the ubiquitous $h/e$), with $e$ the electron charge and $h$ the Planck constant; (b) An interfering quasiparticle charge $e ^* {\sim} 2e$ - revealed by quantum shot noise measurements; and (c) Full dephasing of the $h/2e$ periodicity by induced dephasing of the adjacent edge channel (while keeping the interfering edge channel intact) : a clear realization of inter-channel entanglement. While this pairing phenomenon clearly results from inter-channel interaction, the exact mechanism that leads to e-e attraction within a single edge channel is not clear.

id: 1409.4465
title: The thermal statistics of quasi-probabilities' analogs in phase space
authors: Flavia Pennini, Angel Plastino, Mario C. Rocca
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures. Title has changed. Text has changed
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4465
abstract: We investigate the thermal statistics of quasi-probabilities's semi-classical analogs in phase space for the important case of quadratic Hamiltonians, focusing attention in the three more important instances, i.e., those of Wigner, $P$-, and Husimi distributions. Based on the fact that, for all of them, the semiclassical entropy is a function only of the fluctuation product $\Delta x \Delta p$, we are able to ascertain that {\it the semi-classical analog of the $P$-distribution} seems to become un-physical at very low temperatures. The behavior of several other information quantifiers reconfirms such an assertion in manifold ways. We also examine the behavior of the statistical complexity and of thermal quantities like the specific heat.

id: 1409.4598
title: Strong correlations in light propagation beyond the mean-field theory of optics
authors: Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4598
abstract: Laser cooling and trapping together with ready access to massive computer clusters have created the interesting confluence that we now have both the motive and the opportunity to study light propagation in a dense cold atomic gas by means of basically exact numerical simulations. Even faithful atom-by-atom simulations are possible for the smallest samples used in the present experiments. Here we report on a direct comparison between traditional optics, that is, electrodynamics of a polarizable medium (EDPM), and numerical simulations in an elementary problem of light propagating through a slab of matter. The standard optics fails already at quite low atom densities, and the failure becomes dramatic when the average interatomic separation is reduced to around $k^{-1}$, where $k$ is the wave number of resonant light. The difference between the two solutions originates from the strong correlations between the atoms induced by light-mediated dipole-dipole interactions.

id: 1409.4646
title: Electron Spin Decoherence in Silicon Carbide Nuclear Spin Bath
authors: Li-Ping Yang, Christian Burk, Mattias Widmann, Sang-Yun Lee, J?rg Wrachtrup, Nan Zhao
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 241203 R (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4646
abstract: In this paper, we study the electron spin decoherence of single defects in silicon carbide (SiC) nuclear spin bath. We find that, although the natural abundance of $^{29}\rm{Si}$ ($p_{\rm{Si}}=4.7\%$) is about 4 times larger than that of $^{13}{\rm C}$ ($p_{\rm{C}}=1.1\%$), the electron spin coherence time of defect centers in SiC nuclear spin bath in strong magnetic field ($B>300~\rm{Gauss}$) is longer than that of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in $^{13}{\rm C}$ nuclear spin bath in diamond. The reason for this counter-intuitive result is the suppression of heteronuclear-spin flip-flop process in finite magnetic field. Our results show that electron spin of defect centers in SiC are excellent candidates for solid state spin qubit in quantum information processing.

id: 1409.4669
title: Covariant asymmetric wave packet for a field-theoretical description of neutrino oscillations
authors: V.A. Naumov, D.S. Shkirmanov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4669
abstract: We consider a class of models for the relativistic covariant wave packets which can be used as asymptotically free in and out states in the quantum field theoretical formalisms for description of the neutrino flavor oscillation phenomenon. We demonstrate that the new "asymmetric" wave packet (AWP) is an appropriate alternative for the more convenient "symmetric" wave packets, like the so-called relativistic Gaussian packet (RGP) widely used in the QFT-based approaches to neutrino oscillations. We show that RGP is not a particular case of AWP, although many properties of these models are almost identical in the quasistable regime. We discuss some features of AWP distinguishing it from RGP.

id: 1409.4763
title: Sensitivity to small perturbations in systems of large quantum spins
authors: Tarek A. Elsayed, Boris V. Fine
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4763
abstract: We investigate the sensitivity of nonintegrable large-spin quantum lattices to small perturbations with a particular focus on the time reversal experiments known in statistical physics as "Loschmidt echoes" and in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) as "magic echoes". Our numerical simulations of quantum spin-$7\frac{1}{2}$ clusters indicate that there is a regime, where Loschmidt echoes exhibit nearly exponential sensitivity to small perturbations with characteristic constant approximately equal to twice the value of the largest Lyapunov exponent of the corresponding classical spin clusters. The above theoretical results are verifiable by NMR experiments on solids containing large-spin nuclei.

id: 1409.4770
title: Quantum simulation of non-trivial topology
authors: Octavi Boada, Alessio Celi, Maciej Lewenstein, Javier Rodr¨ªguez-Laguna, Jos¨¦ I. Latorre
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4770
abstract: We propose several designs to simulate quantum many-body systems in manifolds with a non-trivial topology. The key idea is to create a synthetic lattice combining real-space and internal degrees of freedom via a suitable use of induced hoppings. The simplest example is the conversion of an open spin-ladder into a closed spin-chain with arbitrary boundary conditions. Further exploitation of the idea leads to the conversion of open chains with internal degrees of freedom into artificial tori and M\"obius strips of different kinds. We show that in synthetic lattices the Hubbard model on sharp and scalable manifolds with non-Euclidean topologies may be realized. We provide a few examples of the effect that a change of topology can have on quantum systems amenable to simulation, both at the single-particle and at the many-body level.

id: 1409.4834
title: Atomic correlation energies and the generalized gradient approximation
authors: Kieron Burke, Antonio Cancio, Tim Gould, Stefano Pittalis
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4834
abstract: Careful extrapolation of atomic correlation energies suggests that $E_c$ tends to $-AZ\log{Z} + BZ$ as $Z$ tends to infinity, where $Z$ is the atomic number, $A$ is known, and $B$ is about 38 milliHartrees. The coefficients roughly agree with those of the high-density limit of the real-space construction of the generalized gradient approximation. An asymptotic coefficient, missed by previous derivations, is included in a revised approximation. The exchange is also corrected, reducing atomic errors considerably.

id: 1409.4840
title: Vacuum fluctuations in the presence of nonlinear boundary conditions
authors: C. D. Fosco, L. E. Oxman
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4840
abstract: We consider a system consisting of a quantum, massless, real scalar field, in the presence of nonlinear mirrors: infinite parallel planes, upon which the field satisfies nonlinear boundary conditions. The latter are implemented by non-quadratic interaction vertices, strictly localized on the mirrors. By using the appropriate perturbative expansions, we obtain approximate expressions for the Casimir energy corresponding to weak coupling, regarding the strength of the interaction terms. We also comment on an alternative expansion scheme that may be useful when the weak coupling expansion is not justified.

id: 1409.4856
title: Complex absorbing potential based Lorentzian fitting scheme and time dependent quantum transport
authors: Hang Xie, Yanho Kwok, Feng Jiang, Xiao Zheng, GuanHua Chen
comments: This paper is about a methodology development on the time dependent quantum transport theory. It has 22 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4856
abstract: Based on the complex absorbing potential (CAP) method, a Lorentzian expansion scheme is developed to express the self-energy. The CAP-based Lorentzian expansion of self-energy is employed to solve efficiently the Liouville-von Neumann equation of one-electron density matrix. The resulting method is applicable for both tight-binding and first-principles models, and is used to simulate the transient currents through graphene nanoribbons and a benzene molecule sandwiched between two carbon-atom-chains.

id: 1409.4930
title: Delayed-response quantum back-action in nanoelectromechanical systems
authors: S. N. Shevchenko, D. G. Rubanov, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 165422 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4930
abstract: We present a semiclassical theory for the delayed response of a quantum dot (QD) to oscillations of a coupled nanomechanical resonator (NR). We prove that the back-action of the QD changes both the resonant frequency and the quality factor of the NR. An increase or decrease in the quality factor of the NR corresponds to either an enhancement or damping of the oscillations, which can also be interpreted as Sisyphus amplification or cooling of the NR by the QD.

id: 1409.4982
title: Nonequilibrium density matrix for simultaneous heat and charge steady-state transport in quantum open systems
authors: H. Ness
comments: accepted (Dec 2014) for publication in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 062119 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.4982
abstract: We suggest a generalisation of the expression of the nonequilibrium density matrix obtained by Hershfield's method for the cases where both heat and charge steady state currents are present in a quantum open system. The finite-size quantum system, connected to two temperature and particle reservoirs, is driven out of equilibrium by the presence of both a temperature gradient and a chemical potential gradient between the two reservoirs. We show that the NE density matrix is given by a generalised Gibbs-like ensemble, and is in full agreement with the general results of the McLennan-Zubarev nonequilibrium ensembles. The extra non-equilibrium terms are related to the entropy production in the system and characterise the fluxes of heat and particle.An explicit example, for the lowest order expansion, is provide for a model system of non-interacting fermions.

id: 1409.5012
title: The effect of patch potentials in Casimir force measurements determined by heterodyne Kelvin probe force microscopy
authors: Joseph L. Garrett, David Somers, Jeremy N. Munday
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27 (2015) 214012
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5012
abstract: Measurements of the Casimir force require the elimination of electrostatic interactions between the surfaces. However, due to electrostatic patch potentials, the voltage required to minimize the total force may not be sufficient to completely nullify the electrostatic interaction. Thus, these surface potential variations cause an additional force, which can obscure the Casimir force signal. In this paper, we inspect the spatially varying surface potential (SP) of e-beamed, sputtered, sputtered and annealed, and template stripped gold surfaces with Heterodyne Amplitude Modulated Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy (HAM-KPFM). It is demonstrated that HAM-KPFM improves the spatial resolution of surface potential measurements compared to Amplitude Modulated Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy (AM-KPFM). We find that patch potentials vary depending on sample preparation, and that the calculated pressure can be similar to the pressure difference between Casimir force calculations employing the plasma and Drude models.

id: 1409.5077
title: Quantum phase transitions in the noncommutative Dirac Oscillator
authors: O. Panella, P. Roy
comments: 26 pages, two figures. Editorial improvements, few references added. Version accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 042111. Published 17 October 2014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5077
abstract: We study the (2+1) dimensional Dirac oscillator in a homogeneous magnetic field in the non-commutative plane. It is shown that the effect of non-commutativity is twofold: $i$) momentum non commuting coordinates simply shift the critical value ($B_{\text{cr}}$) of the magnetic field at which the well known left-right chiral quantum phase transition takes place (in the commuting phase); $ii$) non-commutativity in the space coordinates induces a new critical value of the magnetic field, $B_{\text{cr}}^*$, where there is a second quantum phase transition (right-left), --this critical point disappears in the commutative limit--. The change in chirality associated with the magnitude of the magnetic field is examined in detail for both critical points. The phase transitions are described in terms of the magnetisation of the system. Possible applications to the physics of silicene and graphene are briefly discussed.

id: 1409.5307
title: Self-ordering and collective dynamics of transversely illuminated point-scatterers in a 1D trap
authors: Daniela Holzmann, Matthias Sonnleitner, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5307
abstract: We study point-like polarizable particles confined in a 1D very elongated trap within the evanescent field of an optical nano-fiber or nano-structure. When illuminated transversely by coherent light, collective light scattering into propagating fiber modes induces long range interactions and eventually crystallisation of the particles into regular order. We develop a simple and intuitive scattering-matrix based approach to study these long-range interactions by collective scattering and the resulting light-induced self-ordering. For few particles we derive explicit conditions for self-consistent stable ordering. In the purely dispersive limit with negligible back-scattering, we recover the prediction of an equidistant lattice as previously found for effective dipole-dipole interaction models. We generalize our model to experimentally more realistic configurations including backscattering, absorption and a directional scattering asymmetry. For larger particle ensembles the resulting self-consistent particle-field equations can be numerically solved to study the formation of long-range order and stability limits.

id: 1409.5338
title: Minkowski Spacetime and QED from Ontology of Time
authors: C. Baumgarten
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5338
abstract: Classical mechanics, relativity, electrodynamics and quantum mechanics are often depicted as separate realms of physics, each with its own formalism and notion. This remains unsatisfactory with respect to the unity of nature and to the necessary number of postulates. We uncover the intrinsic connection of these areas of physics and describe them using a common symplectic Hamiltonian formalism. Our approach is based on a proper distinction between variables and constants, i.e. on a basic but rigorous ontology of time and on a simple analysis of the conditions for measurements in physics. The result put the measurement problem of quantum mechanics and the Copenhagen interpretation of the quantum mechanical wavefunction into perspective. Based on this (onto-) logic spacetime can not be fundamental and we show how a geometric interpretation of symplectic dynamics emerges from the isomorphism between corresponding Lie algebra and the representation of a Clifford algebra. We derive the dimensionality of spacetime, the form of Lorentz transformations and fundamental laws of physics as the Lorentz force and with some mild additional assumptions Maxwell electrodynamics and finally the Dirac equation.

id: 1409.5412
title: Non-Hermitian ${\cal PT}$-Symmetric Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonians with Real Energy Eigenvalues in the Magnetic Field
authors: V.N. Rodionov
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, PHHQP2014. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1406.0383, arXiv:1404.0503
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5412
abstract: The modified Dirac-Pauli equations, which is entered by means of ${\gamma_5}$-mass extension of Hamiltonian operators, are considered. We also take into account the interaction of fermions with the intensive homogenous magnetic field focusing attention on (g-2) gyromagnetic factor of particles with spin $1/2$. Without the use of perturbation theory in the external field the exact energy spectra are deduced with regard to spin effects of fermions. We discuss the possible proposals of experimental measuring of properties of new particles which arising in this model.

id: 1409.5436
title: Classifying symmetry-protected topological phases through the anomalous action of the symmetry on the edge
authors: Dominic V. Else, Chetan Nayak
comments: 23 pages + 11 pages of appendices; v2 added references; v3 final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 235137 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5436
abstract: It is well known that (1+1)-D bosonic symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases with symmetry group $G$ can be identified by the projective representation of the symmetry at the edge. Here, we generalize this result to higher dimensions. We assume that the representation of the symmetry on the spatial edge of a ($d+1$)-D SPT is /local/ but not necessarily /on-site/, such that there is an obstruction to its implementation on a region with boundary. We show that such obstructions are classified by the cohomology group $H^{d+1}(G, U(1))$, in agreement with the classification of bosonic SPT phases proposed in [Chen et al, Science 338, 1604 (2012)]. Our analysis allows for a straightforward calculation of the element of $H^{d+1}(G, U(1))$ corresponding to physically meaningful models such as non-linear sigma models with a theta term in the action. SPT phases outside the classification of Chen et al are those in which the symmetry cannot be represented locally on the edge. With some modifications, our framework can also be applied to fermionic systems in (2+1)-D.

id: 1409.5454
title: Simulating (p)reheating after inflation via the DCE?
authors: Wade Naylor
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, submitted to special issue on "Casimir Physics" in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: 
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5454
abstract: We note some close parallels between preheating/perturbative reheating, (p)reheating, models in post-inflationary cosmology and the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) in quantum optics. For the plasma-mirror model we show how the effective plasma mass (arising from conduction electrons) behaves like an oscillating inflaton field, while created photons behave like a scalar field coupled quadratically to the inflaton. Furthermore, the effect of spacetime expansion can also be incorporated by varying the dielectric function. We propose an experiment that could mimic (p)reheating for both narrow and broad parametric resonance, by employing technology already being used in attempts to detect DCE photons via plasma-mirrors.

id: 1409.5545
title: On the application of Jucys-Murphy operators in the Hubbard model
authors: Dorota Jakubczyk, Pawe? Jakubczyk, Yevgen Kravets
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5545
abstract: The operator techniques based on the Jucys-Murphy operators were applied in the procedure of an immediate diagonalization of the one-dimensional Hubbard model. The Young orthogonal basis was given by the irreducible basis of the symmetric group acting on the set of nodes of the magnetic chain. The example of the attractive Hubbard model at the half-filled magnetic rings case was considered where the group $SU(2)\times SU(2)$ acts within the spin and pseudo-spin space. These techniques significantly reduced size of the eigenproblem of the Hubbard Hamiltonian.

id: 1409.5566
title: Zitterbewegung in monolayer silicene in a magnetic field
authors: E. Romera, J. B. Rold¨¢n, F. de los Santos
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 378, 2582-2585 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5566
abstract: We study the Zitterbewegung in monolayer silicene under a perpendicular magnetic field. Using an effective Hamiltonian, we have investigated the autocorrelation function and the density currents in this material. Moreover, we have analyzed other types of periodicities of the system (classical and revival times). Finally, the above results are compared with their counterparts in two other monolayer materials subject to a magnetic field: graphene and MoS$_2$

id: 1409.5619
title: Dynamics-dependent symmetries in Newtonian mechanics
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 89, 015101 (2014)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5619
abstract: We exhibit two symmetries of one-dimensional Newtonian mechanics whereby a solution is built from the history of another solution via a generally nonlinear and complex potential-dependent transformation of the time. One symmetry intertwines the square roots of the kinetic and potential energies and connects solutions of the same dynamical problem (the potential is an invariant function). The other symmetry connects solutions of different dynamical problems (the potential is a scalar function). The existence of corresponding conserved quantities is examined using Noethers theorem and it is shown that the invariant-potential symmetry is correlated with energy conservation. In the Hamilton-Jacobi picture the invariant-potential transformation provides an example of a field-dependent symmetry in point mechanics. It is shown that this transformation is not a symmetry of the Schroedinger equation.

id: 1409.5627
title: The complexity of approximating complex-valued Ising and Tutte partition functions
authors: Leslie Ann Goldberg, Heng Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5627
abstract: We study the complexity of approximately evaluating the Ising and Tutte partition functions with complex parameters. Our results are partly motivated by the study of the quantum complexity classes BQP and IQP. Recent results show how to encode quantum computations as evaluations of classical partition functions. These results rely on interesting and deep results about quantum computation in order to obtain hardness results about the difficulty of (classically) evaluating the partition functions for certain fixed parameters. The motivation for this paper is to study more comprehensively the complexity of (classically) approximating the Ising and Tutte partition functions with complex parameters. Partition functions are combinatorial in nature and quantifying their approximation complexity does not require a detailed understanding of quantum computation. Using combinatorial arguments, we give the first full classification of the complexity of multiplicatively approximating the norm and additively approximating the argument of the Ising partition function for complex edge interactions (as well as of approximating the partition function according to a natural complex metric). We also study the norm approximation problem in the presence of external fields, for which we give a complete dichotomy when the parameters are roots of unity. Previous results were known just for a few such points, and we strengthen these results from BQP-hardness to #P-hardness. Moreover, we show that computing the sign of the Tutte polynomial is #P-hard at certain points related to the simulation of BQP. Using our classifications, we then revisit the connections to quantum computation, drawing conclusions that are a little different from (and incomparable to) ones in the quantum literature, but along similar lines.

id: 1409.5628
title: On systems having Poincar¨¦ and Galileo symmetry
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 351 (2014) 935
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5628
abstract: Using the wave equation in d > or = 1 space dimensions it is illustrated how dynamical equations may be simultaneously Poincar\'e and Galileo covariant with respect to different sets of independent variables. This provides a method to obtain dynamics-dependent representations of the kinematical symmetries. When the field is a displacement function both symmetries have a physical interpretation. For d = 1 the Lorentz structure is utilized to reveal hitherto unnoticed features of the non-relativistic Chaplygin gas, including a relativistic structure with a limiting case that exhibits the Carroll group, and field-dependent symmetries and associated Noether charges. The Lorentz transformations of the potentials naturally associated with the Chaplygin system are given. These results prompt the search for further symmetries and it is shown that the Chaplygin equations support a nonlinear superposition principle. A known spacetime mixing symmetry is shown to decompose into label-time and superposition symmetries. It is shown that a quantum mechanical system in a stationary state behaves as a Chaplygin gas. The extension to d > 1 is used to illustrate how the physical significance of the dual symmetries is contingent on the context by showing that Maxwells equations exhibit an exact Galileo covariant formulation where Lorentz and gauge transformations are represented by field-dependent symmetries. A natural conceptual and formal framework is provided by the Lagrangian and Eulerian pictures of continuum mechanics.

id: 1409.5707
title: The Effect of Multiple Conduction Bands on High Harmonic Emission from Dielectrics
authors: Peter G. Hawkins, Misha Yu. Ivanov, Vladislav S. Yakovlev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5707
abstract: We find that, for sufficiently strong mid-IR fields, transitions between different conduction bands play an important role in the generation of high-order harmonics in a dielectric. The transitions make a significant contribution to the harmonic signal, and they can create a single effective band for the motion of an electron wave packet. We show how high harmonic spectra produced during the interaction of ultrashort laser pulses with periodic solids provide a spectroscopic tool for understanding the effective band structure that controls electron dynamics in these media.

id: 1409.5712
title: Contributions to the Theory of Thermostated Systems
authors: Ronald F. Fox
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5712
abstract: In this paper, a theory for systems in contact with a thermal reservoir is developed. We call such systems "thermostated systems." Interest in these systems has been vigorous for about the last 20 years and is illustrated by the Crooks theorem and the Jarzinski equality, two results for the description of systems in full phase space where all coordinates and momenta may be followed through time. These fundamental results follow from the behavior of Markovian systems in phase space for which path integral expressions can be derived from the Smoluchowski equation valid for Markovian systems.

id: 1409.5850
title: Exact treatment of magnetism-driven ferroelectricity in the one-dimensional compass model
authors: Wen-Long You, Guang-Hua Liu, Peter Horsch, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures, Slight change comparing with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 094413 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5850
abstract: We consider a class of one-dimensional compass models with antisymmetric Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya exchange interaction in an external magnetic field. Based on the exact solution derived by means of Jordan-Wigner transformation, we study the excitation gap, spin correlations, ground-state degeneracy, and critical properties at phase transitions. The phase diagram at finite electric and magnetic field consists of three phases: ferromagnetic, canted antiferromagnetic, and chiral. Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction induces an electrical polarization in the ground state of the chiral phase, where the nonlocal string order and special features of entanglement spectra arise, while strong chiral correlations emerge at finite temperature in the other phases and are controlled by a gap between the nonchiral ground state and the chiral excitations. We further show that the magnetoelectric effects in all phases disappear above a typical temperature corresponding to the total bandwidth of the effective fermionic model. To this end we explore the entropy, specific heat, magnetization, electric polarization, and the magnetoelectric tensor at finite temperature. We identify rather peculiar specific-heat and polarization behavior of the compass model which follows from highly frustrated interactions.

id: 1409.5852
title: Thermometry via Light Shifts in Optical Lattices
authors: Mickey McDonald, Bart H. McGuyer, Geoffrey Z. Iwata, Tanya Zelevinsky
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 023001 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5852
abstract: For atoms or molecules in optical lattices, conventional thermometry methods are often unsuitable due to low particle numbers or a lack of cycling transitions. However, a differential spectroscopic light shift can map temperature onto the line shape with a low sensitivity to trap anharmonicity. We study narrow molecular transitions to demonstrate precise frequency-based lattice thermometry, as well as carrier cooling. This approach should be applicable down to nanokelvin temperatures. We also discuss how the thermal light shift can affect the accuracy of optical lattice clocks.

id: 1409.5875
title: Distributed multipoles from a robust basis-space implementation of the iterated stockholder atoms procedure
authors: Alston J. Misquitta, Anthony J. Stone, Farhang Fazeli
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5875
abstract: The recently developed iterated stockholder atoms (ISA) approach of Lillestolen and Wheatley (Chem. Commun. {\bf 2008}, 5909 (2008)) offers a powerful method for defining atoms in a molecule. However, the real-space algorithm is known to converge very slowly, if at all. Here we present a robust, basis-space algorithm of the ISA method and demonstrate its applicability on a variety of systems. We show that this algorithm exhibits rapid convergence (taking around 10--80 iterations) with the number of iterations needed being unrelated to the system size or basis set used. Further, we show that the multipole moments calculated using this basis-space ISA method are as good as, or better than those obtained from Stone's distributed multipole analysis (J. Chem. Theory Comput. {\bf 1}, 1128 (2005) ), exhibiting better convergence properties and resulting in better behaved penetration energies. This can have significant consequences in the development of intermolecular interaction models.

id: 1409.5889
title: Interference of spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Sh. Mardonov, M. Palmero, M. Modugno, E. Ya. Sherman, J. G. Muga
comments: published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 106, 60004 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5889
abstract: Interference of atomic Bose-Einstein condensates, observed in free expansion experiments, is a basic characteristic of their quantum nature. The ability to produce synthetic spin-orbit coupling in Bose-Einstein condensates has recently opened a new research field. Here we theoretically describe interference of two noninteracting spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates in an external synthetic magnetic field. We demonstrate that the spin-orbit and the Zeeman couplings strongly influence the interference pattern determined by the angle between the spins of the condensates, as can be seen in time-of-flight experiments. We show that a quantum backflow, being a subtle feature of the interference, is, nevertheless, robust against the spin-orbit coupling and applied synthetic magnetic field.

id: 1409.5956
title: A quantum of history
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 
journal: Contemp. Phys. 52, 355 (2011)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5956
abstract: With reference to primary sources it is shown that key claims made regarding the history of the pilot wave theory in Quantum Theory at the Crossroads are not supported by the historical record. It is also argued that the association of de Broglie with just a first-order law of particle motion, and Bohm with a second-order one, has no historical basis.

id: 1409.5961
title: The effect of concurrent geometry and roughness in interacting surfaces
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5961
abstract: We study the interaction energy between two surfaces, one of them flat, the other describable as the composition of a small-amplitude corrugation and a slightly curved, smooth surface. The corrugation, represented by a spatially random variable, involves Fourier wavelengths shorter than the (local) curvature radii of the smooth component of the surface. After averaging the interaction energy over the corrugation distribution, we obtain an expression which only depends on the smooth component. We then approximate that functional by means of a derivative expansion, calculating explicitly the leading and next-to-leading order terms in that approximation scheme. We analyze the resulting interplay between shape and roughness corrections for some specific corrugation models in the cases of electrostatic and Casimir interactions.

id: 1409.5985
title: Relativistic calculations of $C_6$ and $C_8$ coefficients for strontium dimers
authors: S.G. Porsev, M.S. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.5985
abstract: The electric dipole and quadrupole polarizabilities of the $5s5p~^3\!P_1^o$ state and the $C_6$ and $C_8$ coefficients for the $^1\!S_0 +\, ^1\!S_0$ and $^1\!S_0 +\, ^3\!P_1^o$ dimers of strontium are calculated using a high-precision relativistic approach that combines configuration interaction and linearized coupled-cluster methods. Our recommended values of the long range dispersion coefficients for the $0_u$ and $1_u$ energy levels are $C_6(0_u)=3771(32)$ a.u. and $C_6(1_u)= 4001(33)$ a.u., respectively. They are in good agreement with recent results from experimental photoassociation data. We also calculate $C_8$ coefficients for Sr dimers, which are needed for precise determination of long-range interaction potential. We confirm the experimental value for the magic wavelength, where the Stark shift on the $^1\!S_0$-$^3\!P_1^o$ transition vanishes. The accuracy of calculations is analyzed and uncertainties are assigned to all quantities reported in this work.

id: 1409.6089
title: Spin squeezing by tensor twisting and Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick dynamics in a toroidal Bose-Einstein condensate with spatially modulated nonlinearity
authors: Tom¨¢? Opatrn?, Michal Kol¨¢?, Kunal K. Das
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6089
abstract: We propose a scheme for spin-squeezing in the orbital motion of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a toroidal trap. A circular lattice couples two counter-rotating modes and squeezing is generated by the nonlinear interaction spatially modulated at half the lattice period. By varying the amplitude and phase of the modulation, various cases of the twisting tensor can be directly realized, leading to different squeezing regimes. These include one-axis twisting and the two-axis counter-twisting which are often discussed as the most important paradigms for spin squeezing. Our scheme naturally realizes the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model with the freedom to vary all its parameters simultaneously.

id: 1409.6124
title: Atomic properties of Cd-like and Sn-like ions for the development of frequency standards and search for the variation of the fine-structure constant
authors: M. S. Safronova, V. A. Dzuba, V. V. Flambaum, U. I. Safronova, S. G. Porsev, M. G. Kozlov
comments: 13 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1407.8272
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6124
abstract: A high-precision relativistic calculations of Cd-like Nd$^{12+}$, Sm$^{14+}$ and Sn-like Pr$^{9+}$, Nd$^{10+}$ atomic properties is carried out using an approach that combines configuration interaction and a linearized coupled-cluster method. These ions have long-lived metastable states with transitions accessible by laser excitations, relatively simple electronic structure, high sensitivity to $\alpha$ variation, and stable isotopes. Breit and QED corrections were included into the calculations. Energies, transition wavelengths, electric- and magnetic-multipole reduced matrix elements, lifetimes, and sensitivity coefficients $q$ and $K$ to the variation of the fine-structure constant $\alpha$ were obtained. A detailed study of uncertainties was performed. Energies for similar Cd-like Ba$^{8+}$, La$^{9+}$, Ce$^{10+}$, Pr$^{11+}$ and Sn-like Ba$^{6+}$ ions were calculated and compared with experiment for further tests of the accuracy.

id: 1409.6139
title: Exceptional-point avatar of Majorana fermions in one dimension
authors: Sourin Das, Indubala I Satija
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6139
abstract: Majorana bound states appearing in 1-D p-wave superconductor ($\cal{PWS}$) are found to result in exotic quantum holonomy of both eigenvalues and the eigenstates. Induced by a degeneracy hidden in complex Bloch vector space, Majorana states are identified with a pair of exceptional point ($\cal{EP}$) singularities. Characterized by a collapse of the vector space, these singularities are defects in Hilbert space that lead to M$\ddot{\rm o}$bius strip-like structure of the eigenspace and singular quantum metric. The topological phase transition in the language of $\cal{EP}$ is marked by one of the two exception point singularity degenerating to a degeneracy point with non singular quantum metric. This may provide an elegant and useful framework to characterize the topological aspect of Majorana fermions and the topological phase transition.

id: 1409.6166
title: Influence of global features of a Bose-Einstein condensate on the vortex velocity
authors: H. M. Cataldo, D. M. Jezek
comments: Typo (vector product) in eqs. 7, 8, 10, 12 and 13 of the journal version corrected
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 54, 585-590 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6166
abstract: We study the way in which the geometry of the trapping potential affects the vortex velocity in a Bose-Einstein condensate confined by a toroidal trap. We calculate the vortex precession velocity through a simple relationship between such a velocity and the gradient of the numerically obtained vortex energy. We observe that our results correspond very closely to the velocity calculated through time evolution simulations. However, we find that the estimates derived from available velocity field formulas present appreciable differences. To resolve such discrepancies, we further study the induced velocity field, analyzing the effect of global features of the condensate on such a field and on the precession velocity.

id: 1409.6251
title: Fractional angular momentum in cold atom systems
authors: Yuhe Zhang, G. J. Sreejith, N. D. Gemelke, J. K. Jain
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6251
abstract: The quantum statistics of bosons or fermions are manifest through even or odd relative angular momentum of a pair. We show theoretically that, under certain conditions, a pair of certain test particles immersed in a fractional quantum Hall state possesses, effectively, a fractional relative angular momentum, which can be interpreted in terms of fractional braid statistics. We propose that the fractionalization of the angular momentum can be detected directly through the measurement of the pair correlation function in rotating ultra-cold atomic systems in the fractional quantum Hall regime. Such a measurement will also provide direct evidence for the effective magnetic field, resulting from Berry phases arising from attached vortices, and of excitations with fractional particle number, analogous to fractional charge of electron fractional quantum Hall effect.

id: 1409.6292
title: Directly accessible entangling gates for capacitively coupled singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Fernando A. Calderon-Vargas, Jason P. Kestner
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 035301 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6292
abstract: The recent experimental advances in capacitively coupled singlet-triplet qubits, particularly the demonstration of entanglement, opens the question of what type of entangling gates the system's Hamiltonian can produce directly via a single square pulse. We address this question by considering the system's Hamiltonian from first principles and using the representation of its nonlocal properties in terms of local invariants. In the analysis we include the three different ways in which the system can be biased and their effect on the generation of entangling gates. We find that, in one of the possible biasing modes, the Hamiltonian has an especially simple form, which can directly generate a wide range of different entangling gates including the iSWAP gate. Moreover, using the complete form of the Hamiltonian we find that, for any biasing mode, a CNOT gate can be generated directly.

id: 1409.6319
title: Dynamical preparation of Floquet Chern insulators:A no-go theorem, the Bott index, and boundary effects
authors: Luca D'Alessio, Marcos Rigol
comments: 8+6 pages, 5+6 figures. comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6319
abstract: Realizing topological insulators is of great current interest because of their remarkable properties and possible future applications. There are recent proposals, based on Floquet analyses, that one can generate topologically nontrivial insulators by periodically diving topologically trivial ones. Here we address what happens if one follows the dynamics in such systems. Specifically, we present an exact study of the time evolution of a graphene-like system subjected to a circularly polarized electric field. We prove that, for infinite (translationally invariant) systems, the Chern number is conserved under unitary evolution, i.e., one cannot change the topological character of the initial wavefunction. For systems with boundaries, on the other hand, we show that the properly defined topological invariant, the Bott index, can change. Hence, it should be possible to experimentally prepare topological states starting from non-topological ones. We show that the chirality of the edge current in such systems can be controlled by adjusting the filling.

id: 1409.6341
title: Dissipative preparation of Chern insulators
authors: Jan Carl Budich, Peter Zoller, Sebastian Diehl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042117 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6341
abstract: Engineered dissipation can be employed to prepare interesting quantum many body states in a non-equilibrium fashion. The basic idea is to obtain the state of interest as the unique steady state of a quantum master equation, irrespective of the initial state. Due to a fundamental competition of topology and locality, the dissipative preparation of gapped topological phases with a non-vanishing Chern number has so far remained elusive. Here, we study the open quantum system dynamics of fermions on a two-dimensional lattice in the framework of a Lindblad master equation. In particular, we discover a mechanism to dissipatively prepare a topological steady state with non-zero Chern number by means of short-range system bath interaction. Quite remarkably, this gives rise to a stable topological phase in a non-equilibrium phase diagram. We demonstrate how our theoretical construction can be implemented in a microscopic model that is experimentally feasible with cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1409.6458
title: Paired carriers as a way to reduce quantum noise of multi-carrier gravitational-wave detectors
authors: Mikhail Korobko, Nikita Voronchev, Haixing Miao, Farid Ya.Khalili
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 042004 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6458
abstract: We explore new regimes of laser interferometric gravitational-wave detectors with multiple optical carriers which allow to reduce the quantum noise of these detectors. In particular, we show that using two carriers with the opposite detunings, homodyne angles, and squeezing angles, but identical other parameters (the antisymmetric carriers), one can suppress the quantum noise in such a way that its spectrum follows the Standard Quantum Limit (SQL) at low frequencies. Relaxing this antisymmetry condition, it is also possible to slightly overcome the SQL in broadband. Combining several such pairs in the xylophone configuration, it is possible to shape the quantum noise spectrum flexibly.

id: 1409.6461
title: Non-linear Nyquist theorem: A conjecture
authors: Navinder Singh
comments: 9 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6461
abstract: Thermodynamics of equilibrium states is well established. However, in nonequilibrium few general results are known. One prime and important example is that of Nyquist theorem. It relates equilibrium tiny voltage fluctuations across a conductor with its resistance. In linear systems it was proved in its generality in a beautiful piece of work by Callen and Welton (in 1950s\cite{cw}). However Callen-Welton's formalism has not been extended to nonlinear systems up to now, although alternative methods exist (like Kubo's approach) that leads to formal and implicit expressions {\it at nonlinear order} with no practical consequence. Here--using a brute-force method--we conjecture "a non-linear Nyquist theorem". This is an explicit formula much like Nyquist's original one. Our conjecture is based upon tests of the conjectured explicit formula in specific systems. We conjecture that higher moments of {\it equilibrium} fluctuations bear a relation to {\it nonlinear} admittance very similar to Nyquist's relation. Thus one can easily compute nonlinear admittance from the character of {\it equilibrium} fluctuations. Our relation will have great practical applicability, for example for electronic devices that operate under nonlinear response.

id: 1409.6521
title: Influence of Hyperfine Interaction on the Entanglement of Photons Generated by Biexciton Recombination
authors: Erik Welander, Julia Hildmann, Guido Burkard
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, supplement 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6521
abstract: The quantum state of the emitted light from the cascade recombination of a biexciton in a quantum dot is theoretically investigated including exciton fine structure splitting (FSS) and electron-nuclear spin hyperfine interactions. In an ideal situation, the emitted photons are entangled in polarization making the biexciton recombination process a candidate source of entangled photons necessary for the growing field of quantum communication and computation. The coherence of the exciton states in real quantum dots is affected by a finite FSS and the hyperfine interactions via the effective magnetic field known as the Overhauser field. We investigate the influence of both sources of decoherence and find that the FSS combined with a stochastic exciton lifetime is responsible for the main loss of entanglement. Furthermore, we examine the possibility of reducing the decoherence from the Overhauser field by partially polarizing the nuclear spins and applying an external magnetic field. We find that an increase in entanglement depends on the degree as well as the direction of the nuclear spin polarization.

id: 1409.6695
title: Minimal Realizations of Supersymmetry for Matrix Hamiltonians
authors: Alexander A. Andrianov, Andrey V. Sokolov
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 379:4 (2015) pp. 279-283
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6695
abstract: The notions of weak and strong minimizability of a matrix intertwining operator are introduced. Criterion of strong minimizability of a matrix intertwining operator is revealed. Criterion and sufficient condition of existence of a constant symmetry matrix for a matrix Hamiltonian are presented. A method of constructing of a matrix Hamiltonian with a given constant symmetry matrix in terms of a set of arbitrary scalar functions and eigen- and associated vectors of this matrix is offered. Examples of constructing of $2\times2$ matrix Hamiltonians with given symmetry matrices for the cases of different structure of Jordan form of these matrices are elucidated.

id: 1409.6753
title: Horizon complementarity in elliptic de Sitter space
authors: Lucas Hackl, Yasha Neiman
comments: 23 pages + 5 pages of appendices, 6 figures; v2: PRD version, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6753
abstract: We study a quantum field in elliptic de Sitter space dS_4/Z_2 - the spacetime obtained from identifying antipodal points in dS_4. We find that the operator algebra and Hilbert space cannot be defined for the entire space, but only for observable causal patches. This makes the system into an explicit realization of the horizon complementarity principle. In the absence of a global quantum theory, we propose a recipe for translating operators and states between observers. This translation involves information loss, in accordance with the fact that two observers see different patches of the spacetime. As a check, we recover the thermal state at the de Sitter temperature as a state that appears the same to all observers. This thermal state arises from the same functional that, in ordinary dS_4, describes the Bunch-Davies vacuum.

id: 1409.6776
title: Small quench dynamics as a probe for trapped ultracold atoms
authors: Sunil Yeshwanth, Marcos Rigol, Stephan Haas, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6776
abstract: Finite systems of bosons and/or fermions described by the Hubbard model can be realized using ultracold atoms confined in optical lattices. The ground states of these systems often exhibit a coexistence of compressible superfluid and incompressible Mott insulating regimes. We analyze such systems by studying the out-of-equilibrium dynamics following a weak sudden quench of the trapping potential. In particular, we show how the temporal variance of the site occupations reveals the location of spatial boundaries between compressible and incompressible regions. The feasibility of this approach is demonstrated for several models using numerical simulations. We first consider integrable systems, hard-core bosons (spinless fermions) confined by a harmonic potential, where space separated Mott and superfluid phases coexist. Then, we analyze a nonintegrable system, a $J-V-V'$ model with coexisting charge density wave and superfluid phases. We find that the temporal variance of the site occupations is a more effective measure than other standard indicators of phase boundaries such as a local compressibility. Based on these examples, we argue that analyzing temporal fluctuations is a valuable experimental tool for exploring phase boundaries in trapped atom systems.

id: 1409.6817
title: Quantum field theory of relic nonequilibrium systems
authors: Nicolas G. Underwood, Antony Valentini
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures. Corrected figures 3 and 10 in v2, minor changes elsewhere
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6817
abstract: In terms of the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave formulation of quantum theory, we develop field-theoretical models of quantum nonequilibrium systems which could exist today as relics from the very early universe. We consider relic excited states generated by inflaton decay, as well as relic vacuum modes, for particle species that decoupled close to the Planck temperature. Simple estimates suggest that, at least in principle, quantum nonequilibrium could survive to the present day for some relic systems. The main focus of this paper is to describe the behaviour of such systems in terms of field theory, with the aim of understanding how relic quantum nonequilibrium might manifest experimentally. We show by explicit calculation that simple perturbative couplings will transfer quantum nonequilibrium from one field to another (for example from the inflaton field to its decay products). We also show that fields in a state of quantum nonequilibrium will generate anomalous spectra for standard energy measurements. Possible connections to current astrophysical observations are briefly addressed.

id: 1409.6860
title: Efficient algorithm for many-electron angular momentum and spin diagonalization on atomic subshells
authors: Christian B. Mendl
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6860
abstract: We devise an efficient algorithm for the symbolic calculation of irreducible angular momentum and spin (LS) eigenspaces within the n-fold antisymmetrized tensor product $\wedge^n V_u$, where n is the number of electrons and u = s, p, d, ... denotes the atomic subshell. This is an essential step for dimension reduction in configuration-interaction (CI) methods applied to atomic many-electron quantum systems. The algorithm relies on the observation that each $L_z$ eigenstate with maximal eigenvalue is also an $L^2$ eigenstate (equivalently for $S_z$ and $S^2$), as well as the traversal of LS eigenstates using the lowering operators $L_-$ and $S_-$. Iterative application to the remaining states in $\wedge^n V_u$ leads to an implicit simultaneous diagonalization. A detailed complexity analysis for fixed n and increasing subshell number u yields running time $O(u^{3n-2})$. A symbolic computer algebra implementation is available online.

id: 1409.6871
title: An alternative solution of Diatomic Molecules
authors: Ozgur Oztemel, Eser Olgar
comments: 
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys., 12(2),2014,103-110
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6871
abstract: The spectrum of r-1 and r-2 type potentials of diatomic molecules in radial Schrodinger equation are calculated by using the formalism of asymptotic iteration method. The alternative method is used to solve eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of Mie potential, Kratzer-Fues potential, Coulomb potential, and Pseudoharmonic potential by determining the ?alpha, beta, gama and sigma? parameters.

id: 1409.7036
title: Schroedinger vs. Navier-Stokes
authors: P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J.M. Isidro, J. Vazquez Molina
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7036
abstract: Quantum mechanics has been argued to be a coarse-graining of some underlying deterministic theory. Here we support this view by establishing a map between certain solutions of the Schroedinger equation, and the corresponding solutions of the irrotational Navier-Stokes equation for viscous fluid flow. As a physical model for the fluid itself we propose the quantum probability fluid. It turns out that the (state-dependent) viscosity of this fluid is proportional to Planck's constant, while the volume density of entropy is proportional to Boltzmann's constant. Stationary states have zero viscosity and a vanishing time rate of entropy density. On the other hand, the nonzero viscosity of nonstationary states provides an information-loss mechanism whereby a deterministic theory (a classical fluid governed by the Navier-Stokes equation) gives rise to an emergent theory (a quantum particle governed by the Schroedinger equation).

id: 1409.7067
title: Entanglement and spin squeezing in non-Hermitian phase transitions
authors: Tony E. Lee, Florentin Reiter, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 5 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 250401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7067
abstract: We show that non-Hermitian dynamics generate substantial entanglement in many-body systems. We consider the non-Hermitian Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and show that its phase transition occurs with maximum multiparticle entanglement: there is full N-particle entanglement at the transition, in contrast to the Hermitian case. The non-Hermitian model also exhibits more spin squeezing than the Hermitian model, showing that non-Hermitian dynamics are useful for quantum metrology. Experimental implementations with trapped ions and cavity QED are discussed.

id: 1409.7130
title: Atom interferometry in an optical cavity
authors: Paul Hamilton, Matt Jaffe, Justin M. Brown, Lothar Maisenbacher, Brian Estey, Holger M¨¹ller
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 100405 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7130
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a new scheme for atom interferometry, using light pulses inside an optical cavity as matter wave beamsplitters. The cavity provides power enhancement, spatial filtering, and a precise beam geometry, enabling new techniques such as low power beamsplitters ($<100 \mathrm{\mu W}$), large momentum transfer beamsplitters with modest power, or new self-aligned interferometer geometries utilizing the transverse modes of the optical cavity. As a first demonstration, we obtain Ramsey-Raman fringes with $>75\%$ contrast and measure the acceleration due to gravity, $\mathit{g}$, to $60 \mathrm{\mu \mathit{g} / \sqrt{Hz}}$ resolution in a Mach-Zehnder geometry. We use $>10^7$ cesium atoms in the compact mode volume ($600 \mathrm{\mu m}$ $1/e^2$ waist) of the cavity and show trapping of atoms in higher transverse modes. This work paves the way toward compact, high sensitivity, multi-axis interferometry.

id: 1409.7262
title: Bloch-Landau-Zener dynamics in single-particle Wannier-Zeeman systems
authors: Yongguan Ke, Xizhou Qin, Honghua Zhong, Jiahao Huang, Chunshan He, Chaohong Lee
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 053409 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7262
abstract: Stimulated by the experimental realization of spin-dependent tunneling via gradient magnetic field [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 225301 (2013); Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 185301 (2013)], we investigate dynamics of Bloch oscillations and Landau-Zener tunneling of single spin-half particles in a periodic potential under the influence of a spin-dependent constant force. In analogy to the Wannier-Stark system, we call our system as the Wannier-Zeeman system. If there is no coupling between the two spin states, the system can be described by two crossing Wannier-Stark ladders with opposite tilts. The spatial crossing between two Wannier-Stark ladders becomes a spatial anti-crossing if the two spin states are coupled by external fields. For a wave-packet away from the spatial anti-crossing, due to the spin-dependent constant force, it will undergo spatial Landau-Zener transitions assisted by the intrinsic intra-band Bloch oscillations, which we call the Bloch-Landau-Zener dynamics. If the inter-spin coupling is sufficiently strong, the system undergoes adiabatic Bloch-Landau-Zener dynamics, in which the spin dynamics follows the local dressed states. Otherwise, for non-strong inter-spin couplings, the system undergoes non-adiabatic Bloch-Landau-Zener dynamics.

id: 1409.7267
title: Investigation of Noise Reduction and SNR Enhancement in Search Coil Magnetometers at Low Frequencies
authors: Abolghasem Nourmohammadi, Seyed Mohammad Hassan Feiz, Mohammad Hassan Asteraki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7267
abstract: Here, a generalized induction coil sensor model, more generalized than other models, has been considered and the equivalent magnetic field of the coil thermal noise and the sensor signal to noise ratio are calculated theoretically based on the dimensions and geometry of the coil winding and its core. Our calculations indicate that the equivalent magnetic field of the thermal noise can be minimized by the coil to core weight ratio. Moreover, it is found that the sensor signal to noise ratio can be maximized with only a special value of core aspect ratio length to diameter of core ratio. The calculation results here exhibit good agreement with the experimentally measured noise data.

id: 1409.7358
title: Compact wavefunctions from compressed imaginary time evolution
authors: Jarrod R. McClean, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7358
abstract: Simulation of quantum systems promises to deliver physical and chemical predictions for the frontiers of technology. Unfortunately, the exact representation of these systems is plagued by the exponential growth of dimension with the number of particles, or colloquially, the curse of dimensionality. The success of approximation methods has hinged on the relative simplicity of physical systems with respect to the exponentially complex worst case. Exploiting this relative simplicity has required detailed knowledge of the physical system under study. In this work, we introduce a general and efficient black box method for many-body quantum systems that utilizes technology from compressed sensing to find the most compact wavefunction possible without detailed knowledge of the system. It is a Multicomponent Adaptive Greedy Iterative Compression (MAGIC) scheme. No knowledge is assumed in the structure of the problem other than correct particle statistics. This method can be applied to many quantum systems such as spins, qubits, oscillators, or electronic systems. As an application, we use this technique to compute ground state electronic wavefunctions of hydrogen fluoride and recover 98% of the basis set correlation energy or equivalently 99.996% of the total energy with $50$ configurations out of a possible $10^7$. Building from this compactness, we introduce the idea of nuclear union configuration interaction for improving the description of reaction coordinates and use it to study the dissociation of hydrogen fluoride and the helium dimer.

id: 1409.7414
title: Towards Quantum Simulating QCD
authors: Uwe-Jens Wiese
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, plenary talk at Quark Matter 2014, submitted as a proceedings contribution to Nuclear Physics A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7414
abstract: Quantum link models provide an alternative non-perturbative formulation of Abelian and non-Abelian lattice gauge theories. They are ideally suited for quantum simulation, for example, using ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. This holds the promise to address currently unsolvable problems, such as the real-time and high-density dynamics of strongly interacting matter, first in toy-model gauge theories, and ultimately in QCD.

id: 1409.7439
title: Quasi-exact-solvability of the $A_{2}/G_2$ Elliptic model: algebraic forms, $sl(3)/g^{(2)}$ hidden algebra, polynomial eigenfunctions
authors: Vladimir V. Sokolov, Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 18 pages, the solution of G_2 elliptic model added, title changed (slightly) and also abstract, some references added,
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7439
abstract: The potential of the $A_2$ quantum elliptic model (3-body Calogero-Moser elliptic model) is defined by the pairwise three-body interaction through Weierstrass $\wp$-function and has a single coupling constant. A change of variables has been found, which are $A_2$ elliptic invariants, such that the potential becomes a rational function, while the flat space metric as well as its associated vector are polynomials in two variables. It is shown that the model possesses the hidden $sl(3)$ algebra - the Hamiltonian is an element of the universal enveloping algebra $U_{sl(3)}$ for arbitrary coupling constant - thus, it is equivalent to $sl(3)$-quantum Euler-Arnold top. The integral, in a form of the third order differential operator with polynomial, is constructed explicitly, being also an element of $U_{sl(3)}$. It is shown that there exists a discrete sequence of the coupling constants for which a finite number of polynomial eigenfunctions, up to a (non-singular) gauge factor occur. The potential of the $G_2$ quantum elliptic model (3-body Wolfes elliptic model) is defined by the pairwise and three-body interactions through Weierstrass $\wp$-function and has two coupling constants. A change of variables has been found, which are $G_2$ elliptic invariants, such that the potential becomes a rational function, while the flat space metric as well as its associated vector are polynomials in two variables. It is shown the model possesses the hidden $g^{(2)}$ algebra. It is shown that there exists a discrete family of the coupling constants for which a finite number of polynomial eigenfunctions up to a (non-singular) gauge factor occur.

id: 1409.7467
title: Trans-Planckian fluctuations and the stability of quantum mechanics
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 33 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7467
abstract: We present arguments suggesting that deviations from the Born probability rule could be generated for trans-Planckian field modes during inflation. Such deviations are theoretically possible in the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave formulation of quantum mechanics, according to which the Born rule describes a state of statistical equilibrium. We suggest that a stable equilibrium state can exist only in restricted conditions: on a classical background spacetime that is globally hyperbolic or in a mild quantum-gravity regime in which there is an effective Schr\"odinger equation with a well-defined time parameter. These arguments suggest that quantum equilibrium will be unstable at the Planck scale. We construct a model in which quantum nonequilibrium is generated by a time-dependent regulator for pilot-wave dynamics, where the regulator is introduced to eliminate phase singularities. Applying our model to trans-Planckian modes that exit the Planck radius, we calculate the corrected primordial power spectrum and show that it displays a power excess (above a critical wavenumber). We briefly consider how our proposals could be tested by measurements of the cosmic microwave background.

id: 1409.7727
title: Development of a broadband reflective T-filter for voltage biasing high-Q superconducting microwave cavities
authors: Yu Hao, Francisco Rouxinol, M. D. LaHaye
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 222603 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7727
abstract: We present the design of a reflective stop-band filter based on quasi-lumped elements that can be utilized to introduce large dc and low-frequency voltage biases into a low-loss superconducting coplanar waveguide (CPW) cavity. Transmission measurements of the filter are seen to be in good agreement with simulations and demonstrate insertion losses greater than $20\,{\rm dB}$ in the range of ${\rm 3\,to\,10\,GHz}$. Moreover, transmission measurements of the CPW's fundamental mode demonstrate that loaded quality factors exceeding $10^5$ can be achieved with this design for dc voltages as large as ${\rm 20\,V}$ and for the cavity operated in the single-photon regime. This makes the design suitable for use in a number of applications including qubit-coupled mechanical systems and circuit QED.

id: 1409.7737
title: Stable dilute supersolid of two-dimensional dipolar bosons
authors: Zhen-Kai Lu, D. S. Petrov, G. V. Shlyapnikov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7737
abstract: We consider two-dimensional bosonic dipoles oriented perpendicularly to the plane. On top of the usual two-body contact and long-range dipolar interactions we add a contact three-body repulsion as expected, in particular, for dipoles in the bilayer geometry with tunneling. We show that this model allows for stable continuous space supersolid states in the dilute regime and calculate the zero-temperature phase diagram. The three-body repulsion is crucial for stabilizing the system and, combined with the two-body attraction, can lead to self-trapped supersolid droplets.

id: 1409.7775
title: Quantum optics: Push-button photon entanglement
authors: Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: News & Views, submitted version
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 174-176 (2014)
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7775
abstract: A source of entangled photons that emits one, and only one, pair of photons on demand has now been realized in a semiconductor chip. The solid-state source will be a useful resource for experiments in optical quantum information.

id: 1409.7853
title: Quantum correction with three codes
authors: Aziz Mouzali, Fatiha Merazka
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7853
abstract: In this paper, we provise an implementation of five, seven and nine-qubits error correcting codes on a classical computer using the quantum simulator Feynman program. We also compare the three codes by computing the fidelity when double errors occurs in a depolarizing channel. As triple errors and more are considered very unlikely, it has negligible effect on the next results

id: 1409.7943
title: Optimization of Schwinger pair production in colliding laser pulses
authors: Florian Hebenstreit, Fran?ois Fillion-Gourdeau
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.B739:189-195,2014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7943
abstract: Recent studies of Schwinger pair production have demonstrated that the asymptotic particle spectrum is extremely sensitive to the applied field profile. We extend the idea of the dynamically assisted Schwinger effect from single pulse profiles to more realistic field configurations to be generated in an all-optical experiment searching for pair creation. We use the quantum kinetic approach to study the particle production and employ a multi-start method, combined with optimal control theory, to determine a set of parameters for which the particle yield in the forward direction in momentum space is maximized. We argue that this strategy can be used to enhance the signal of pair production on a given detector in an experimental setup.

id: 1409.7990
title: Many-Body Delocalization in Strongly Disordered System with Long-Range Interactions: Finite Size Scaling
authors: Alexander L. Burin
comments: Accepted for publication in the Physical Review B. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1410.7858
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.7990
abstract: Many-body localization in a disordered system of interacting spins coupled by the long-range interaction $1/R^{\alpha}$ is investigated combining analytical theory considering resonant interactions and a finite size scaling of exact numerical solutions with a number of spins $N$. The numerical results for a one-dimensional system are consistent with the general expectations of analytical theory for $d$-dimensional system including the absence of localization in the infinite system at $\alpha<2d$ and a universal scaling of a critical energy disordering $W_{c} \propto N^{\frac{2d-\alpha}{d}}$. %The finite size effect on the interaction stimulated delocalization of energy in the ensemble of interacting two level systems in amorphous solids at low temperature is discussed.

id: 1409.8238
title: Supersymmetry and non-Abelian geometric phase for a free particle on a circle with point-like interactions
authors: Satoshi Ohya
comments: 9 pages, talk given at the XXIInd International Conference on Integrable Systems and Quantum Symmetries (ISQS-22), Prague, Czech Republic, 23-29 June 2014
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.563:012021,2014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8238
abstract: Though not so widely appreciated in the literature, supersymmetric quantum mechanics provides an ideal playground for studying non-Abelian geometric phase, because supersymmetry always guarantees degeneracies in energy levels. In this paper we first present a simple supersymmetric model for a free particle on a circle with point-like interactions that exhibits $\mathscr{N} = 2$ supersymmetry and doubly degenerate energy levels. We then show that Berry's connection in this model is given by the Wu-Yang-like magnetic monopole in SU(2) Yang-Mills gauge theory. This article is largely based on our recent work [arXiv:1406.4857].

id: 1409.8282
title: Topological Polaritons and Excitons in Garden Variety Systems
authors: Charles-Edouard Bardyn, Torsten Karzig, Gil Refael, Timothy C. H. Liew
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; v2: improved figures and text, with added details regarding achievable topological gaps
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8282
abstract: Topological polaritons (aka topolaritons) present a new frontier for topological behavior in solid-state systems. They combine light and matter, which allows to probe and manipulate them in a variety of ways. They can also be made strongly interacting, due to their excitonic component. So far, however, their realization was deemed rather challenging. Here we present a scheme which allows to realize topolaritons in garden variety zinc-blende quantum wells. Our proposal requires a moderate magnetic field and a potential landscape which can be implemented, e.g., via surface acoustic waves or patterning. We identify indirect excitons in double quantum wells as a particularly appealing alternative for topological states in exciton-based systems. Indirect excitons are robust and long lived (with lifetimes up to milliseconds), and, therefore, provide a flexible platform for the realization, probing, and utilization of topological coupled light-matter states.

id: 1409.8301
title: Controlling quantum critical dynamics of isolated systems
authors: A. del Campo, K. Sengupta
comments: Second version of invited review article submitted to EPJ-ST. References added, typos corrected. 3 figures, 14 pp
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 224, 189 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8301
abstract: Controlling the non adiabatic dynamics of isolated quantum systems driven through a critical point is of interest in a variety of fields ranging from quantum simulation to finite-time thermodynamics. We briefly review the different methods for designing protocols which minimize excitation (defect) production in a closed quantum critical system driven out of equilibrium. We chart out the role of specific driving schemes for this procedure, point out their experimental relevance, and discuss their implementation in the context of ultracold atom and spin systems.

id: 1409.8399
title: Diffraction-unlimited position measurement of quantum particles
authors: Yuto Ashida, Masahito Ueda
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8399
abstract: We consider a method of high-fidelity, spatially resolved position measurement of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. We show that the atom-number distribution can be nondestructively determined at a spatial resolution beyond the diffraction limit by tracking the progressive evolution of the many-body wavefunction collapse into a Fock state. We predict that the Pauli exclusion principle accelerates the rate of wavefunction collapse of fermions in comparison with bosons. A possible application of our principle of surpassing the diffraction limit to other imaging systems is discussed.

id: 1409.8574
title: Scattering Amplitudes for Multi-indexed Extensions of Soliton Potential and Extended KdV Integer Solitons
authors: Jen-Chi Lee
comments: 12 pages, no figure. work presented at ISQS-22 at Prague, Czech 2014, and XOP conference at Segovia, Spain 2014. v2 refs [5],[6] added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8574
abstract: We calculate quantum mechanical scattering problems for multi-indexed extensions of soliton potential by Darboux transformations in terms of pseudo virtual wavefunctions. As an application, we calculate infinite set of higher integer KdV solitons by the inverse scattering transform method of KdV equation.

id: 1409.8610
title: Energy conservation, counting statistics, and return to equilibrium
authors: Vojkan Jaksic, Jane Panangaden, Annalisa Panati, Claude-Alain Pillet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8610
abstract: We study a microscopic Hamiltonian model describing an N-level quantum system S coupled to an infinitely extended thermal reservoir R. Initially, the system S is in an arbitrary state while the reservoir is in thermal equilibrium at temperature T. Assuming that the coupled system S+R is mixing with respect to the joint thermal equilibrium state, we study the Full Counting Statistics (FCS) of the energy transfers S->R and R->S in the process of return to equilibrium. The first FCS describes the increase of the energy of the system S. It is an atomic probability measure, denoted $P_{S,\lambda,t}$, concentrated on the set of energy differences $\sigma(H_S)-\sigma(H_S)$ ($\sigma(H_S)$ is the spectrum of the Hamiltonian of S, $t$ is the length of the time interval during which the measurement of the energy transfer is performed, and $\lambda$ is the strength of the interaction between S and R). The second FCS, $P_{R,\lambda,t}$, describes the decrease of the energy of the reservoir R and is typically a continuous probability measure whose support is the whole real line. We study the large time limit $t\rightarrow\infty$ of these two measures followed by the weak coupling limit $\lambda\rightarrow 0$ and prove that the limiting measures coincide. This result strengthens the first law of thermodynamics for open quantum systems. The proofs are based on modular theory of operator algebras and on a representation of $P_{R,\lambda,t}$ by quantum transfer operators.

id: 1409.8385
title: Novel representation of the general Heun's functions. Back to the beginning
authors: Plamen P. Fiziev
comments: 5 pages, tex file, no figures, Proceedings of the International Conference DAYS on DIFFRACTION 2014
journal: Proceedings of the International Conference DAYS on DIFFRACTION 2014, pp. 76-79
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8385
abstract: We study a novel type of solutions of the general Heun's equation, based on its symmetric form. We derive the symmetry group of this equation which is a proper extension of the Mobius group. The new series solution treat simultaneously and on an equal footing all singular points.

id: 1409.3345
title: Torus as phase space: Weyl quantization, dequantization and Wigner formalism
authors: Marilena Ligab¨°
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3345
abstract: The Weyl quantization of classical observables on the torus (as phase space) without regularity assumptions is explicitly computed. The equivalence class of symbols yielding the same Weyl operator is characterized. The Heisenberg equation for the dynamics of general quantum observables is written through the Moyal brackets on the torus and the support of the Wigner transform is characterized. Finally, a dequantization procedure is introduced that applies, for instance, to the Pauli matrices. As a result we obtain the corresponding classical symbols.

id: 1409.8127
title: Efimov like phase of a three stranded DNA (Efimov-DNA) and the renormalization group limit cycle
authors: Tanmoy Pal, Poulomi Sadhukhan, Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, almost published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 042105 (2015)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.8127
abstract: A three-stranded DNA with short range base pairings only is known to exhibit a classical analog of the quantum Efimov effect, viz., a three chain bound state at the two chain melting point where no two are bound. By using a non-perturbative renormalization group method for a rigid duplex DNA and a flexible third strand, with base pairings and strand exchange, we show that the Efimov-DNA is associated with a limit cycle type behavior of the flow of an effective three chain interaction. The analysis also shows that thermally generated bubbles play an essential role in producing the effect. A toy model for the flow equations shows the limit cycle in an extended three dimensional parameter space of the two-chain coupling and a complex three chain interaction.

id: 1409.1915
title: Possible sharp quantum relaxation times in "classical" fluids: theory and experiment
authors: Z. Nussinov, F. Nogueira, M. Blodgett, K. F. Kelton
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures. This version is more detailed than the two earlier ones and will be soon be submitted for publication. Comments will be welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1915
abstract: Quantum effects in material systems are often pronounced at low energies and become insignificant at high temperatures. We find that, perhaps counterintuitively, certain quantum effects may follow the opposite route and become sharp when extrapolated to high temperature within a "classical" liquid phase. In the current work, we suggest basic quantum bounds on relaxation (and thermalization) times, examine kinetic theory by taking into account such possible fundamental quantum time scales, find new general equalities connecting semi-classical dynamics and thermodynamics to Planck's constant, and compute current correlation functions. Our analysis suggests that, on average, the extrapolated high temperature dynamical viscosity of general liquids may tend to a value set by the product of the particle number density ${\sf n}$ and Planck's constant $h$. We compare this theoretical result with experimental measurements of an ensemble of 23 metallic fluids where this seems to indeed be the case. The extrapolated high temperature viscosity of each of these liquids $\eta$ divided (for each respective fluid by its value of ${\sf n} h$) veers towards a Gaussian with an ensemble average value that is close to unity up to an error of size $0.6 \%$. We invoke similar ideas to discuss other transport properties and demonstrate how simple behaviors including resistivity saturation and linear $T$ resistivity may appear very naturally. Our approach suggests that minimal time lags may be present in fluid dynamics (which in the continuum follow the Navier-Stokes equation).

