id: 1410.0550
title: Invariance in quantum walks with time-dependent coin operators
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0550
abstract: In this paper we unveil some features of a discrete-time quantum walk on the line whose coin depends on the temporal variable. After considering the most general form of the unitary coin operator, we focus on the role played by the two phase factors that one can incorporate there, and show how both terms influence the evolution of the system. A closer analysis reveals that the probabilistic properties of the motion of the walker remain unaltered when the update rule of these phases is chosen adequately. This invariance is based on a symmetry with consequences not yet fully explored.

id: 1410.1434
title: Quantum attacks against iterated block ciphers
authors: Marc Kaplan
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1434
abstract: We study the amplification of security against quantum attacks provided by iteration of block ciphers. In the classical case, the Meet-in-the-middle attack is a generic attack against those constructions. This attack reduces the time required to break double iterations to only twice the time it takes to attack a single block cipher, given that the attacker has access to a large amount of memory. More abstractly, it shows that security by composition does not achieve exact multiplicative amplification. We present a quantized version of this attack based on an optimal quantum algorithm for the Element Distinctness problem. We then use the generalized adversary method to prove the optimality of the attack. An interesting corollary is that the time-space tradeoff for quantum attacks is very different from what classical attacks allow. This first result seems to indicate that composition resists better to quantum attacks than to classical ones because it prevents the quadratic speedup achieved by quantizing an exhaustive search. We investigate security amplification by composition further by examining the case of four iterations. We quantize a recent technique called the dissection attack using the framework of quantum walks. Surprisingly, this leads to better gains over classical attacks than for double iterations, which seems to indicate that when the number of iterations grows, the resistance against quantum attacks decreases.

id: 1410.2407
title: Experimental realization of a generalized measuring device via a one-dimensional photonic quantum walk
authors: Zhihao Bian, Rong Zhang, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Jian Li, Peng Xue
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2407
abstract: We demonstrate an implementation of unambiguous state discrimination of two equally probable single-qubit states via a one-dimensional photonic quantum walk experimentally. Furthermore we experimentally realize a quantum walk algorithm for implementing a generalized measurement in terms of positive operator value measurement on a single qubit. The measurement of the single-photons' positions corresponds to a measurement of an element of the positive operator value measurement on the polarizations of the single-photons.

id: 1410.4759
title: Massless Dirac Equation from Fibonacci Discrete-Time Quantum Walk
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Lauchlan Honter, Ben B. Luo, Tatsuaki Wada, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4759
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks can be regarded as quantum dynamical simulators since they can simulate spatially discretized Schr\"{o}dinger, massive Dirac, and Klein-Gordon equations. Here, two different types of Fibonacci discrete-time quantum walks are studied analytically. The first is the Fibonacci coin sequence with a generalized Hadamard coin and demonstrates six-step periodic dynamics. The other model is assumed to have three- or six-step periodic dynamics with the Fibonacci sequence. We analytically show that these models have ballistic transportation properties and continuous limits identical to those of the massless Dirac equation with coin basis change.

id: 1410.6032
title: Discrete Feynman propagator for the Weyl quantum walk in 2+1 dimensions
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, N. Mosco, P. Perinotti, A. Tosini
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6032
abstract: Recently quantum walks have been considered as a possible fundamental description of the dynamics of relativistic quantum fields. Within this scenario we derive the analytical solution of the Weyl walk in 2+1 dimensions. We present a discrete path-integral formulation of the Feynman propagator based on the binary encoding of paths on the lattice. The derivation exploits a special feature of the Weyl walk, that occurs also in other dimensions, that is closure under multiplication of the set of the walk transition matrices. This result opens the perspective of a similar solution in the 3+1 case.

id: 1410.7651
title: The non-uniform stationary measure for discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno, Masato Takei
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7651
abstract: We consider stationary measures of the one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks (QWs) with two chiralities, which is defined by a 2 times 2 unitary matrix U. In our previous paper [15], we proved that any uniform measure becomes the stationary measure of the QW by solving the corresponding eigenvalue problem. This paper reports that non-uniform measures are also stationary measures of the QW except U is diagonal. For diagonal matrices, we show that any stationary measure is uniform. Moreover, we prove that any uniform measure becomes a stationary measure for more general QWs not by solving the eigenvalue problem but by a simple argument.

id: 1410.8019
title: Bounding the seed length of Miller and Shi's unbounded randomness expansion protocol
authors: Renan Gross, Scott Aaronson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8019
abstract: Recent randomness expansion protocols have been proposed which are able to generate an unbounded amount of randomness from a finite amount of truly random initial seed. One such protocol, given by Miller and Shi, uses a pair of non-signaling untrusted quantum mechanical devices. These play XOR games with inputs given by the user in order to generate an output. Here we present an analysis of the required seed size, giving explicit upper bounds for the number of initial random bits needed to jump-start the protocol. The bits output from such a protocol are $\varepsilon$-close to uniform even against quantum adversaries. Our analysis yields that for a statistical distance of $\varepsilon=10^{-1}$ and $\varepsilon=10^{-6}$ from uniformity, the number of required bits is smaller than 225,000 and 715,000, respectively; in general it grows as $O(\log\frac{1}{\varepsilon})$.

id: 1410.7034
title: On the Relation between Random Walks and Quantum Walks
authors: Stefan Boettcher, Stefan Falkner, Renato Portugal
comments: 8 pages, RevTex4-1; for related information, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7034
abstract: We propose a general relation between the walk dimensions $d_{w}$ of random walks and quantum walks, which illuminates fundamental aspects of the walk dynamics, such as its mean-square displacement. To this end, we extend the renormalization group analysis (RG) of the stochastic master equation to one with a unitary propagator. As in the classical case, the solution $\rho(x,t)$ in space and time of this quantum walk equation exhibits a scaling collapse for the variable $x^{d_{w}}/t$. In all cases studied, we find that $d_{w}$ of the discrete-time quantum walk with the Grover coin takes on exactly half the value found for the random walk on the same geometry, irrespective of whether it is a homogeneous lattice or a heterogeneous network. We demonstrate this circumstance for several networks with distinct properties using exact RG and confirm the collapse in each case with extensive numerical simulation.

