id: 1410.0012
title: Time ordering effects in the generation of entangled photons using nonlinear optical processes
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada, J. E. Sipe
comments: 6+4 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0012
abstract: We study the effects of time ordering in photon generation processes such as spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) and four wave mixing (SFWM). The results presented here are used to construct an intuitive picture that allows us to predict when time ordering effects significantly modify the joint spectral amplitude (JSA) of the photons generated in SPDC and SFWM. These effects become important only when the photons being generated lie with the pump beam that travels through the non-linear material for a significant amount of time. Thus sources of spectrally separable photons are ideal candidates for the observation of modifications of the JSA due to time ordering.

id: 1410.0037
title: Scalable Quantum Computing Architecture with Mixed Species Ion Chains
authors: John Wright, Carolyn Auchter, Chen-Kuan Chou, Richard D. Graham, Thomas W. Noel, Tomasz Sakrejda, Zichao Zhou, Boris B. Blinov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0037
abstract: We report on progress towards implementing mixed ion species quantum information processing for a scalable ion trap architecture. Mixed species chains may help solve several problems with scaling ion trap quantum computation to large numbers of qubits. Initial temperature measurements of linear Coulomb crystals containing barium and ytterbium ions indicate that the mass difference does not significantly impede cooling at low ion numbers. Average motional occupation numbers are estimated to be $\bar{n} \approx 130$ quanta per mode for chains with small numbers of ions, which is within a factor of three of the Doppler limit for barium ions in our trap. We also discuss generation of ion-photon entanglement with barium ions with a fidelity of $F \ge 0.84$, which is an initial step towards remote ion-ion coupling in a more scalable quantum information architecture. Further, we are working to implement these techniques in surface traps in order to exercise greater control over ion chain ordering and positioning.

id: 1410.0059
title: Counterdiabatic driving of the quantum Ising model
authors: Bogdan Damski
comments: 11 pages, version accepted in JSTAT
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P12019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0059
abstract: The system undergoes adiabatic evolution when its population in the instantaneous eigenbasis of its time-dependent Hamiltonian changes only negligibly. Realization of such dynamics requires slow-enough changes of the parameters of the Hamiltonian, a task that can be hard to achieve near quantum critical points. A powerful alternative is provided by the counterdiabatic modification of the Hamiltonian allowing for an arbitrarily quick implementation of the adiabatic dynamics. Such a counterdiabatic driving protocol has been recently proposed for the quantum Ising model [A. del Campo et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 115703 (2012)]. We derive an exact closed-form expression for all the coefficients of the counterdiabatic Ising Hamiltonian. We also discuss two approximations to the exact counterdiabatic Ising Hamiltonian quantifying their efficiency of the dynamical preparation of the desired ground state. In particular, these studies show how quantum criticality enhances finite-size effects in the counterdiabatic dynamics.

id: 1410.0069
title: Universal transversal gates with color codes - a simplified approach
authors: Aleksander Kubica, Michael E. Beverland
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032330 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0069
abstract: We provide a simplified, yet rigorous presentation of the ideas from Bomb\'{i}n's paper "Gauge Color Codes" [arXiv:1311.0879v3]. Our presentation is self-contained, and assumes only basic concepts from quantum error correction. We provide an explicit construction of a family of color codes in arbitrary dimensions and describe some of their crucial properties. Within this framework, we explicitly show how to transversally implement the generalized phase gate $R_n=\text{diag}(1,e^{2\pi i/2^n})$, which deviates from the method in "Gauge Color Codes", allowing an arguably simpler proof. We describe how to implement the Hadamard gate $H$ fault-tolerantly using code switching. In three dimensions, this yields, together with the transversal $CNOT$, a fault-tolerant universal gate set $\{H,CNOT,R_3\}$ without state-distillation.

id: 1410.0070
title: Proposal for an Optomechanical Microwave Sensor at the Subphoton Level
authors: Keye Zhang, Francesco Bariani, Ying Dong, Weiping Zhang, Pierre Meystre
comments: 14 pages, 6 pages for the main text and 8 pages for the supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 113601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0070
abstract: Because of their low energy content, microwave signals at the single-photon level are extremely challenging to measure. Guided by recent progress in single-photon optomechanics and hybrid optomechanical systems, we propose a multimode optomechanical transducer that can detect intensities significantly below the single-photon level via adiabatic transfer of the microwave signal to the optical frequency domain where the measurement is then performed. The influence of intrinsic quantum and thermal fluctuations is also discussed.

id: 1410.0074
title: Imperfect cloning operations in algebraic quantum theory
authors: Yuichiro Kitajima
comments: to be published in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0074
abstract: No-cloning theorem says that there is no unitary operation that makes perfect clones of non-orthogonal quantum states. The objective of the present paper is to examine whether an imperfect cloning operation exists or not in a C*-algebraic framework. We define a universal $\epsilon$-imperfect cloning operation which tolerates a finite loss $\epsilon$ of fidelity in the cloned state, and show that an individual system's algebra of observables is Abelian if and only if there is a universal $\epsilon$-imperfect cloning operation in the case where the loss of fidelity is less than 1/4. Therefore, in this case no universal $\epsilon$-imperfect cloning operation is possible in algebraic quantum theory.

id: 1410.0087
title: Highly efficient entanglement swapping and teleportation at telecom wavelength
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Masahiro Takeoka, Utako Takagi, Ryosuke Shimizu, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 9333 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0087
abstract: Entanglement swapping at telecom wavelengths is at the heart of quantum networking in optical fiber infrastructures. Although entanglement swapping has been demonstrated experimentally so far using various types of entangled photon sources both in near-infrared and telecom wavelength regions, the rate of swapping operation has been too low to be applied to practical quantum protocols, due to limited efficiency of entangled photon sources and photon detectors. Here we demonstrate drastic improvement of the efficiency at telecom wavelength by using two ultra-bright entangled photon sources and four highly efficient superconducting nanowire single photon detectors.We have attained a four-fold coincidence count rate of 108 counts per second, which is three orders higher than the previous experiments at telecom wavelengths. A raw (net) visibility in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference between the two independent entangled sources was 73.3 $\pm$ 1.0% (85.1 $\pm$ 0.8%). We performed the teleportation and entanglement swapping, and obtained a fidelity of 76.3% in the swapping test.Our results on the coincidence count rates are comparable with the ones ever recorded in teleportation/swaping and multi-photon entanglement generation experiments at around 800\,nm wavelengths. Our setup opens the way to practical implementation of device-independent quantum key distribution and its distance extension by the entanglement swapping as well as multi-photon entangled state generation in telecom band infrastructures with both space and fiber links.

id: 1410.0089
title: Internal Spin Control, Squeezing and Decoherence in Ensembles of Alkali Atomic Spins
authors: Leigh M. Norris
comments: PhD Thesis, 182 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0089
abstract: This dissertation studies spin squeezing, entanglement and decoherence in large ensembles of cold, trapped alkali atoms with hyperfine spin f interacting with optical fields. Restricting the state of each atom to a qutrit embedded in the 2f+1 dimensional hyperfine spin enables us to efficiently model the coherent and dissipative dynamics of the ensemble. This formalism also allows us to explore the effects of local control on the internal hyperfine spins of the atoms. State preparation using such control increases the entangling power of the atom-light interface for f>1/2. Subsequent control of the internal spins converts entanglement into metrologically relevant spin squeezing. In the case of squeezing by quantum nondemolition measurement, we employ a numerical search to find state preparations that maximize spin squeezing in the presence of decoherence. Dissipative dynamics on our system include optical pumping due to spontaneous emission. While most works ignore optical pumping or treat it phenomenologically, we employ a master equation derived from first principles. This work is extended to the case of an atomic ensemble interacting with a non-homogeneous paraxial probe. The geometries of the ensemble and the probe are optimized to maximize both spatial mode matching and spin squeezing.

id: 1410.0096
title: Violating the Modified Helstrom Bound with Nonprojective Measurements
authors: Justin Dressel, Todd A. Brun, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 040301 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0096
abstract: We consider the discrimination of two pure quantum states with three allowed outcomes: a correct guess, an incorrect guess, and a non-guess. To find an optimum measurement procedure, we define a tunable cost that penalizes the incorrect guess and non-guess outcomes. Minimizing this cost over all projective measurements produces a rigorous cost bound that includes the usual Helstrom discrimination bound as a special case. We then show that nonprojective measurements can outperform this modified Helstrom bound for certain choices of cost function. The Ivanovic-Dieks-Peres unambiguous state discrimination protocol is recovered as a special case of this improvement. Notably, while the cost advantage of the latter protocol is destroyed with the introduction of any amount of experimental noise, other choices of cost function have optima for which nonprojective measurements robustly show an appreciable, and thus experimentally measurable, cost advantage. Such an experiment would be an unambiguous demonstration of a benefit from nonprojective measurements.

id: 1410.0165
title: Quantum potential energy as concealed motion
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 8 pages. V2 cosmetic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0165
abstract: It is known that the Schroedinger equation may be derived from a hydrodynamic model in which the Lagrangian position coordinates of a continuum of particles represent the quantum state. Using Routh\s method of ignorable coordinates it is shown that the quantum potential energy of particle interaction that represents quantum effects in this model may be regarded as the kinetic energy of additional concealed freedoms. The method brings an alternative perspective to Planck\s constant, which plays the role of a hidden variable, and to the canonical quantization procedure, since what is termed kinetic energy in quantum mechanics may be regarded literally as energy due to motion.

id: 1410.0257
title: Revealing Quantum Advantage in a Quantum Network
authors: Kaushiki Mukherjee, Biswajit Paul, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, revtex, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0257
abstract: The assumption of source independence was used to reveal nonlocal (apart from standard Bell-CHSH scenario) nature of correlations generated in entanglement swapping experiments. In this work, we have derived a set of sufficient criteria, imposed on the states (produced by the sources) under which source independence can reveal nonbilocal nature of correlations in a quantum network. To show this, we have considered real two qubit X states thereby discussing the various utilities of assuming source independence in a quantum network.

id: 1410.0270
title: Testing the limits of quantum mechanical superpositions
authors: Markus Arndt, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 16 pages, 4 Figures; published version differs by minor editorial changes
journal: Nature Physics 10, 271 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0270
abstract: Quantum physics has intrigued scientists and philosophers alike, because it challenges our notions of reality and locality--concepts that we have grown to rely on in our macroscopic world. It is an intriguing open question whether the linearity of quantum mechanics extends into the macroscopic domain. Scientific progress over the last decades inspires hope that this debate may be decided by table-top experiments.

id: 1410.0294
title: Photonic lattice simulation of dissipation-induced correlations in bosonic systems
authors: Amit Rai, Changhyoup Lee, Changsuk Noh, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 8438 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0294
abstract: We propose an optical simulation of dissipation-induced correlations in one-dimensional (1D) interacting bosonic systems, using a two-dimensional (2D) array of linear photonic waveguides and only classical light. We show that for the case of two bosons in a 1D lattice, one can simulate on-site two-body dissipative dynamics using a linear 2D waveguide array with lossy diagonal waveguides. The intensity distribution of the propagating light directly maps out the wave function, allowing one to observe the dissipation-induced correlations with simple measurements. Beyond the on-site model, we also show that a generalised model containing nearest-neighbour dissipative interaction can be engineered and probed in the proposed set-up.

id: 1410.0304
title: Hierarchical equations for open system dynamics in fermionic and bosonic environments
authors: Daniel Suess, Walter T. Strunz, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0304
abstract: We present novel approaches to the dynamics of an open quantum system coupled linearly to a non-Markovian fermionic or bosonic environment. In the first approach, we obtain a hierarchy of stochastic evolution equations of the diffusion type. For the bosonic case such a hierarchy has been derived and proven suitable for efficient numerical simulations recently [arXiv:1402.4647]. The stochastic fermionic hierarchy derived here contains Grassmannian noise, which makes it difficult to simulate numerically due to its anti-commutative multiplication. Therefore, in our second approach we eliminate the noise by deriving a related hierarchy of density matrices. A similar reformulation of the bosonic hierarchy of pure states to a master equation hierarchy is also presented.

id: 1410.0370
title: Efficient readout of a single spin state in diamond via spin-to-charge conversion
authors: B. J. Shields, Q. P. Unterreithmeier, N. P. de Leon, H. Park, M. D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 136402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0370
abstract: Efficient readout of individual electronic spins associated with atom-like impurities in the solid state is essential for applications in quantum information processing and quantum metrology. We demonstrate a new method for efficient spin readout of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. The method is based on conversion of the electronic spin state of the NV to a charge state distribution, followed by single-shot readout of the charge state. Conversion is achieved through a spin-dependent photoionization process in diamond at room temperature. Using NVs in nanofabricated diamond beams, we demonstrate that the resulting spin readout noise is within a factor of three of the spin projection noise level. Applications of this technique for nanoscale magnetic sensing are discussed.

id: 1410.0378
title: Construction and properties of a class of private states in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Adam Rutkowski, Micha? Studzi¨½ski, Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012335 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0378
abstract: We present a construction of quantum states in dimension $d$ that has at least 1 dit of ideal key, called private dits (pdits), which covers most of the known examples of private bits (pbits) $d=2$. We examine properties of this class of states, focusing mostly on its distance to the set of separable states $\mathcal{SEP}$, showing that for a fixed dimension of key part $d_k$ the distance increases with $d_s$. We provide explicit examples of PPT states (in $d$ dimensions) which are nearly as far from separable ones as possible. Precisely, the distance from the set of $\mathcal{SEP}$ is $2 - \epsilon$, where $d$ scales with $\epsilon$ as $d \propto 1/\epsilon^3$, as opposed to $d \propto 2^{(log(4/\epsilon))^2}$ obtained in [Badzi\c{a}g et al., Phys. Rev. A 90, 012301 (2014)]. We do not use boosting (taking many copies of pdits to boost the distance) as in Badzi\c{a}g et al. paper.

id: 1410.0381
title: Comment on 'How the result of a single coin toss can turn out to be 100 heads'
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Daniel Rohrlich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0381
abstract: The "anomalous" values of C. Ferrie and J. Combes in Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014) say nothing about quantum - or even classical - physics. They are not analogues of the weak values that emerge when we describe the quantum world via an initial state evolving forwards in time and a final state evolving backwards in time, and couple this world weakly to realistic measuring devices.

id: 1410.0399
title: 2D Schr?dinger Equation with Mixed Potential in Noncommutaive Complex space
authors: Slimane Zaim, Hakim Guelmamene, Abdelkader Bahache
comments: 8 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1409.5703
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0399
abstract: We obtain exact solutions of the 2D Schr\"odinger equation for Hydrogen atom with the lenear and Harmonic Potentials in noncommutative complex space, using the Power-series expansion method. Hence we can say that the Schr\"odinger equation in noncommutative complex space describes to the particles with spin (1/2)in an external uniform magnitic field. Where the noncommutativity play the role of magnetic field with created the total magnetic moment of particle with spin 1/2, who in turn shifted the spectrum of energy. Such effects are similar to the Zeeman splitting in a commutative space.

id: 1410.0409
title: Unsharp eigenvalues and quantum contextuality
authors: F. De Zela
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0409
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem, Bell inequalities, and several other tests that were designed to rule out hidden-variable theories, assume the existence of observables having infinitely sharp eigenvalues. A paradigmatic example is spin-1/2. It is measured with a Stern-Gerlach array whose outputs are divided into two classes, spin-up and spin-down, in correspondence to the two spots observed on a detection screen. The spot's finite size is attributed to imperfections of the measuring device. This assumption turns the experimental output into a dichotomic, discrete one, thereby allowing the assignment of each spot to an infinitely sharp eigenvalue. Alternatively, one can assume that the spot's finite size stems from eigenvalues spanning a continuous range. Can we disprove such an assumption? Can we rule out hidden-variable theories that reproduce quantum predictions by assuming that, e.g., the electron's magnetic moment is not exactly the same for all electrons? We address these questions by focusing on the Peres-Mermin version of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem. It is shown that the assumption of unsharp eigenvalues precludes ruling out non-contextual hidden-variable theories and hence quantum contextuality does not arise. Analogous results hold for Bell-like inequalities. This represents a new loophole that spoils several fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and issues the challenge to close it.

id: 1410.0433
title: A simple scheme for universal linear optics quantum computing with constant experimental complexity using fiber-loops
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012306 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0433
abstract: Recently, Motes, Gilchrist, Dowling & Rohde [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120501 (2014)] presented a scheme for photonic boson-sampling using a fiber-loop architecture. Here we show that the same architecture can be modified to implement full, universal linear optics quantum computing, in various incarnations. The scheme employs two embedded fiber-loops, a single push-button photon source, three dynamically controlled beamsplitters, and a single time-resolved photo-detector. The architecture has only a single point of interference, and thus may be significantly easier to align than other schemes. The experimental complexity of the scheme is constant, irrespective of the size of the computation, limited only by fiber lengths and their respective loss rates.

id: 1410.0468
title: Spin Operators for Massive Particles
authors: Taeseung Choi, Sam Young Cho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0468
abstract: How to define a proper relativistic spin operator, as a long-standing problem, has by now become a central task for providing proper concepts and applications of spin in relativistic and non-relativistic quantum mechanics as well as solving emergent inconsistencies in rapidly developing research areas. We rigorously {\it derive} a relativistic spin operator for an arbitrary spin massive particle on the two requirements that a proper spin operator should satisfy (i) the $\mathfrak{su}(2)$ algebra and (ii) the Lorentz-transformation properties as a second-rank spin tensor. These requirements lead to two spin operators, properly giving the second Casimir invariant operator in the Poincar\'e (inhomogeneous Lorentz) group, that provide the two inequivalent representations of Poincar\'e group. We find that the two inequivalent representations are the left-handed and the right-handed representations. Each of the two spin operators generates a Wigner little group whose representation space is composed of spin-$s$ spin states. In the case that the Poincar\'e group is extended by parity, only nonchiral $(s,s)$ representations and direct-sum $(s,s') \oplus (s',s)$ representations are allowed. In the $(1/2,0)\oplus (0,1/2)$ representation, we redrive the covariant Dirac equation by using the covariant parity operator defined by the two spin operators. This derivation deepens our understanding how the Dirac equation describes the spin-$1/2$ massive relativistic particle successfully. We have also discussed some important properties of our relativistic spin operators with arbitrary spin.

id: 1410.0472
title: Demonstration of a fully tuneable entangling gate for continuous-variable one-way quantum computation
authors: Shota Yokoyama, Ryuji Ukai, Seiji C. Armstrong, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0472
abstract: We introduce a fully tuneable entangling gate for continuous-variable one-way quantum computation. We present a proof-of-principle demonstration by propagating two independent optical inputs through a three-mode linear cluster state and applying the gate in various regimes. The genuine quantum nature of the gate is confirmed by verifying the entanglement strength in the output state. Our protocol can be readily incorporated into efficient multi-mode interaction operations in the context of large-scale one-way quantum computation, as our tuning process is the generalisation of cluster state shaping.

id: 1410.0516
title: Landau-Zener transitions in a two-level system coupled to a finite-temperature harmonic oscillator
authors: S. Ashhab
comments: 7 pages (two-column), 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0516
abstract: We analyze the dynamics and final populations in a Landau-Zener problem for a two level system (or qubit) when this system interacts with one harmonic oscillator mode that is initially set to a finite-temperature thermal equilibrium state. The harmonic oscillator could represent an external mode that is strongly coupled to the qubit, e.g. an ionic oscillation mode in a molecule, or it could represent a prototypical uncontrolled environment. We analyze the qubit's occupation probabilities at the final time in a number of different regimes, varying the qubit and oscillator frequencies, their coupling strength and the temperature. In particular we find some surprising non-monotonic dependence on the coupling strength and temperature.

id: 1410.0530
title: Quantum Noise from a Bohmian perspective: fundamental understanding and practical computation in electron devices
authors: Damiano Marian, Enrique Colom¨¦s, Zhen Zhan, Xavier Oriols
comments: Journal of Computational Electronics, Special Issue on Noise Modeling. 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Computational Electronics, March 2015, Volume 14, Issue 1, pp 114-128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0530
abstract: In the literature, the study of electron transport in quantum devices is mainly devoted to DC properties. The fluctuations of the electrical current around these DC values, the so-called quantum noise, are much less analyzed. The computation of quantum noise is intrinsically linked (by temporal correlations) to our ability to understand/compute the time-evolution of a quantum system that is measured several times. There are several quantum theories that provide different (but empirically equivalent) ways of understanding/computing the perturbation of the wave function when it is measured. In this work, quantum noise associated to an electron impinging upon a semitransparent barrier is explained using Bohmian mechanics (which deals with wave functions and point-like particles). From this result, the fundamental understanding and practical computation of quantum noise with Bohmian trajectories are discussed. Numerical simulations of low and high frequency features of quantum shot noise in a resonant tunneling diode are presented (through the BITLLES simulator), showing the usefulness of the Bohmian approach.

id: 1410.0538
title: Multiparticle distributions and intercepts of $r$-particle correlation functions in the symmetric Tamm-Dancoff type $q$-Bose gas model
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, Yu.A. Mishchenko
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0538
abstract: Symmetric Tamm-Dancoff (STD) type $q$-deformed quantum oscillators are used as the base for constructing the respective STD type $q$-Bose gas model. In this letter, within the STD $q$-deformed Bose gas model we derive explicit analytic expressions for the $r$-particle momentum distribution functions, and for the (momentum) correlation function intercepts of 2nd, 3rd, and any $r$th order. Besides, we obtain large-momentum asymptotic formulas for the $r$th order intercepts which show dependence on the $q$-parameter only. The obtained formulas provide new example, in addition to already known two cases, of exact results for $r$-particle distributions and the correlation function intercepts in deformed analogs of Bose gas model.

id: 1410.0550
title: Invariance in quantum walks with time-dependent coin operators
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062312 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0550
abstract: In this paper we unveil some features of a discrete-time quantum walk on the line whose coin depends on the temporal variable. After considering the most general form of the unitary coin operator, we focus on the role played by the two phase factors that one can incorporate there, and show how both terms influence the evolution of the system. A closer analysis reveals that the probabilistic properties of the motion of the walker remain unaltered when the update rule of these phases is chosen adequately. This invariance is based on a symmetry with consequences not yet fully explored.

id: 1410.0556
title: Practical sharing of quantum secrets over untrusted channels
authors: Anne Marin, Damian Markham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0556
abstract: In this work we address the issue of sharing a quantum secret over untrusted channels between the dealer and players. Existing methods require entanglement over a number of systems which scales with the security parameter, quickly becoming impractical. We present protocols (interactive and a non-interactive) where single copy encodings are sufficient. Our protocols work for all quantum secret sharing schemes and access structures, and are implementable with current experimental set ups. For a single authorised player, our protocols act as quantum authentication protocols.

id: 1410.0570
title: A comment on the paper "How can a Result of a Single Coin Toss Turn Out to be 100 Heads" by C. Ferrie and J. Combes
authors: D. Sokolovski
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0570
abstract: The authors of a recent paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014)] suggest that "weak values are not inherently quantum but rather a purely statistical feature of pre- and postselection with disturbance". We argue that this claim is erroneous, since such values require averaging with distributions which change sign. This type of averaging arises naturally in quantum mechanics, but may not occur in classical statistics.

id: 1410.0578
title: Quantum entanglement of two harmonically trapped dipolar particles
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 5 pages,2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0578
abstract: We study systems of two identical dipolar particles confined in quasi one-dimensional harmonic traps. Numerical results for the dependencies of the entanglement on the control parameters of the systems are provided and discussed in detail. In the limit of a strong interaction between the particles, the occupancies and the von Neumann entropies of the bosonic and fermionic ground states are derived in closed analytic forms by applying the harmonic approximation. The strong correlation regimes of the system with the dipolar bosons and the system with the charged ones are compared with each other in regard to aspects of their entanglement.

id: 1410.0602
title: A probabilistic evolutionary optimization approach to compute quasiparticle braids
authors: Roberto Santana, Ross B. McDonald, Helmut G. Katzgraber
comments: 9 pages,7 figures. Accepted at SEAL 2014
journal: Simulated Evolution and Learning, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 8886, 13 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0602
abstract: Topological quantum computing is an alternative framework for avoiding the quantum decoherence problem in quantum computation. The problem of executing a gate in this framework can be posed as the problem of braiding quasiparticles. Because these are not Abelian, the problem can be reduced to finding an optimal product of braid generators where the optimality is defined in terms of the gate approximation and the braid's length. In this paper we propose the use of different variants of estimation of distribution algorithms to deal with the problem. Furthermore, we investigate how the regularities of the braid optimization problem can be translated into statistical regularities by means of the Boltzmann distribution. We show that our best algorithm is able to produce many solutions that approximates the target gate with an accuracy in the order of $10^{-6}$, and have lengths up to 9 times shorter than those expected from braids of the same accuracy obtained with other methods.

id: 1410.0656
title: Impact of Raman scattered noise from multiple telecom channels on fiber-optic quantum key distribution systems
authors: Thiago Ferreira da Silva, Guilherme B. Xavier, Guilherme P. Tempor?o, Jean Pierre von der Weid
comments: Typos were fixed in a couple of equations which do not affect the results in the paper
journal: J. Lightwave Technol 32, 2332-2339 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0656
abstract: In this paper we analyze the impact of the spontaneous Raman scattered noise generated from multiple optical classical channels on a single quantum key distribution channel, all within the telecom C-band. We experimentally measure the noise generated from up to 14 continuous lasers with different wavelengths using the dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) standard, in both propagation directions in respect to the QKD channel, over different standard SMF-28 fiber lengths. We then simulate the expected secure key generation rate for a decoy-states-based system as a function of distance under the presence of simultaneous telecom traffic with different modulation techniques, and show a severe penalty growing with the number of classical channels present. Our results show that, for in-band coexistence, the telecom channels should be distributed as close as possible from the quantum channel to avoid the Raman noise peaks. Operation far from the zero dispersion wavelength of the fiber is also beneficial as it greatly reduces the generation of four-wave mixing inside the quantum channel. Furthermore, narrow spectral filtering on the quantum channels is required due to the harsh limitations of performing QKD under real telecom environments, with the quantum and several classical channels coexisting in the same ITU-T C-band.

id: 1410.0663
title: Phase-noise limitations on single-photon cross-phase modulation with differing group velocities
authors: Justin Dove, Christopher Chudzicki, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0663
abstract: A framework is established for evaluating {\sc cphase} gates that use single-photon cross-phase modulation (XPM) originating from the Kerr nonlinearity. Prior work Phys. Rev. A {\bf 73,} 062305 (2006)], which assumed that the control and target pulses propagated at the same group velocity, showed that the causality-induced phase noise required by a non-instantaneous XPM response function precluded the possibility of high-fidelity $\pi$-radian conditional phase shifts. The framework presented herein incorporates the more realistic case of group-velocity disparity between the control and target pulses, as employed in existing XPM-based fiber-optical switches. Nevertheless, the causality-induced phase noise identified in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 73,} 062305 (2006)] still rules out high-fidelity $\pi$-radian conditional phase shifts. This is shown to be so for both a reasonable theoretical model for the XPM response function and for the experimentally-measured XPM response function of silica-core fiber.

id: 1410.0664
title: Quantum conditional mutual information and approximate Markov chains
authors: Omar Fawzi, Renato Renner
comments: v3: 31 pages, corrected error in dimension factor for the application to squashed entanglement (Corollary D.3) and added some clarifications and remarks. v2: 30 pages, improved introduction and added application to squashed entanglement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0664
abstract: A state on a tripartite quantum system $A \otimes B \otimes C$ forms a Markov chain if it can be reconstructed from its marginal on $A \otimes B$ by a quantum operation from $B$ to $B \otimes C$. We show that the quantum conditional mutual information $I(A: C | B)$ of an arbitrary state is an upper bound on its distance to the closest reconstructed state. It thus quantifies how well the Markov chain property is approximated.

id: 1410.0701
title: Safeguarding Quantum Key Distribution through Detection Randomization
authors: Thiago Ferreira da Silva, Gustavo C. do Amaral, Guilherme B. Xavier, Guilherme P. Tempor?o, Jean Pierre von der Weid
comments: Accepted for publication in the Special Issue on Quantum Communication and Cryptography of the IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics (JSTQE)
journal: IEEE J. Sel. Topics Quantum Electron., Vol. 21, Issue 3, pp.1-9, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0701
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a scheme to render the detection apparatus of a Quantum Key Distribution system immune to the main classes of hacking attacks in which the eavesdropper explores the back-door opened by the single-photon detectors. The countermeasure is based on the creation of modes that are not deterministically accessible to the eavesdropper. We experimentally show that the use of beamsplitters and extra single-photon detectors at the receiver station passively creates randomized spatial modes that erase any knowledge the eavesdropper might have gained when using bright-light faked states. Additionally, we experimentally show a detector-scrambling approach where the random selection of the detector used for each measurement - equivalent to an active spatial mode randomization - hashes out the side-channel open by the detection efficiency mismatch-based attacks. The proposed combined countermeasure represents a practical and readily implementable solution against the main classes of quantum hacking attacks aimed on the single-photon detector so far, without intervening on the inner working of the devices.

id: 1410.0703
title: On complexity of the quantum Ising model
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Matthew Hastings
comments: 48 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0703
abstract: We study complexity of several problems related to the Transverse field Ising Model (TIM). First, we consider the problem of estimating the ground state energy known as the Local Hamiltonian Problem (LHP). It is shown that the LHP for TIM on degree-3 graphs is equivalent modulo polynomial reductions to the LHP for general k-local `stoquastic' Hamiltonians with any constant $k\ge 2$. This result implies that estimating the ground state energy of TIM on degree-3 graphs is a complete problem for the complexity class StoqMA - an extension of the classical class MA. As a corollary, we complete the complexity classification of 2-local Hamiltonians with a fixed set of interactions proposed recently by Cubitt and Montanaro. Secondly, we study quantum annealing algorithms for finding ground states of classical spin Hamiltonians associated with hard optimization problems. We prove that the quantum annealing with TIM Hamiltonians is equivalent modulo polynomial reductions to the quantum annealing with a certain subclass of k-local stoquastic Hamiltonians. This subclass includes all Hamiltonians representable as a sum of a k-local diagonal Hamiltonian and a 2-local stoquastic Hamiltonian.

id: 1410.0710
title: The Classical Bloch Equations
authors: Martin Frimmer, Lukas Novotny
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0710
abstract: Coherent control of a quantum mechanical two-level system is at the heart of magnetic resonance imaging, quantum information processing, and quantum optics. Among the most prominent phenomena in quantum coherent control are Rabi oscillations, Ramsey fringes and Hahn echoes. We demonstrate that these phenomena can be derived classically by use of a simple coupled harmonic oscillator model. The classical problem can be cast in a form that is formally equivalent to the quantum mechanical Bloch equations with the exception that the longitudinal and the transverse relaxation times ($T_1$ and $T_2$) are equal. The classical analysis is intuitive and well suited for familiarizing students with the basic concepts of quantum coherent control, while at the same time highlighting the fundamental differences between classical and quantum theories.

id: 1410.0716
title: Could Gaussian regenerative stations act as quantum repeaters?
authors: Ryo Namiki, Oleg Gittsovich, Saikat Guha, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0716
abstract: Higher transmission loss diminishes the performance of optical communication|be it the rate at which classical or quantum data can be sent reliably, or the secure key generation rate of quantum key distribution (QKD). Loss compounds with distance|exponentially in an optical fiber, and inverse-square with distance for a free-space channel. In order to boost classical communication rates over long distances, it is customary to introduce regenerative relays at intermediate points along the channel. It is therefore natural to speculate whether untended regenerative stations, such as phase-insensitive or phase-sensitive optical amplifiers, could serve as repeaters for long-distance QKD. The primary result of this paper rules out all bosonic Gaussian channels to be useful as QKD repeaters, which include phase-insensitive and phase-sensitive amplifiers as special cases, for any QKD protocol. We also delineate the conditions under which a Gaussian relay renders a lossy channel entanglement breaking, which in turn makes the channel useless for QKD.

id: 1410.0724
title: Post-Processing Free Spatio-Temporal Optical Random Number Generator Resilient to Hardware Failure and Signal Injection Attacks
authors: Mario Stip?evi?, John Bowers
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, 1 tablem 10 equations
journal: Optics Express, 23, 11619-11631 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0724
abstract: We present a random number generator based on quantum effects in photonic emission and detection. It is unique in simultaneous use of both spatial and temporal quantum information contained in the system which makes it resilient to hardware failure and signal injection attacks. We show that its deviation from randomness cam be estimated based on simple measurements. Generated numbers pass NIST Statistical test suite without post-processing.

id: 1410.0728
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a single-mode cavity strongly coupled to an inhomogeneously broadened spin ensemble
authors: Dmitry O. Krimer, Stefan Putz, Johannes Majer, Stefan Rotter
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043852 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0728
abstract: We study the dynamics of a spin ensemble strongly coupled to a single-mode resonator driven by external pulses. When the mean frequency of the spin ensemble is in resonance with the cavity mode, damped Rabi oscillations are found between the spin ensemble and the cavity mode which we describe very accurately, including the dephasing effect of the inhomogeneous spin broadening. We demonstrate that a precise knowledge of this broadening is crucial both for a qualitative and a quantitative understanding of the temporal spin-cavity dynamics. On this basis we show that coherent oscillations between the spin ensemble and the cavity can be enhanced by a few orders of magnitude, when driving the system with pulses that match special resonance conditions. Our theoretical approach is tested successfully with an experiment based on an ensemble of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond strongly coupled to a superconducting coplanar single-mode waveguide resonator.

id: 1410.0787
title: Weak Value and the Wave-Particle Duality
authors: Takuya Mori, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0787
abstract: The weak value, introduced by Aharonov et al. to extend the conventional scope of physical observables in quantum mechanics, is an intriguing concept which sheds new light on quantum foundations and is also useful for precision measurement, but it poses serious questions on its physical meaning due to the unconventional features including the complexity of its value. In this paper we point out that the weak value has a direct connection with the wave-particle duality, in the sense that the wave nature manifests itself in the imaginary part while the particle nature in the real part. This is illustrated by the double slit experiment, where we argue, with no conflict with complementarity, that the trajectory of the particle can be inferred based on the weak value without destroying the interference.

id: 1410.0877
title: Matrix Product States approach to non-Markovian processes
authors: Descamps Benoit
comments: mostly notes, additional comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0877
abstract: A matrix product state approach to non-Markovian, classical and quantum processes is discussed. In the classical case, the Radon-Nikodym derivative of all processes can be embedded into quantum measurement procedure. In the both cases, quantum and classical, the master equation can be derived from a projecting a quantum Markovian process onto a lower dimensional subspace.

id: 1410.0916
title: A Quantum Theory of Angle and Relative Phase Measurement
authors: Scott Roger Shepard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0916
abstract: The complementarity between time and energy, as well as between an angle and a component of angular momentum, is described at three different layers of understanding. The phenomena of super-resolution are readily apparent in the quantum phase representation which also reveals that entanglement is not required. We modify Schwinger's harmonic oscillator model of angular momentum to include the case of photons. Therein the quantum angle measurement is shown to be equivalent to the measurement of the relative phase between the two oscillators. Two reasonable ways of dealing with degeneracy are shown to correspond to: a conditional measurement which takes a snapshot in absolute time (corresponding to adding probability amplitudes); and a marginal measurement which takes an average in absolute time (corresponding to adding probabilities). The sense in which distinguishability is a "matter of how long we look" is discussed and the meaning of the general theory is illustrated by taking the two oscillators to be circularly polarized photons. It is shown that an odd number of x-polarized photons will never have an angle in correspondence with the y-axis; but an even number of x-polarized photons always can! The behavior of an x-polarized coherent state is examined and the snapshot angular distributions are seen to evolve into two counter-rotating peaks resulting in considerable correspondence with the y-axis at the time for which a classical linear polarization vector would shrink to zero length. We also demonstrate how the probability distribution of absolute time (herein a measurable quantity, rather than just a parameter) has an influence on how these snapshot angular distributions evolve into a quantum version of the polarization ellipse.

id: 1410.0919
title: Generation of entangled matter qubits in two opposing parabolic mirrors
authors: N. Trautmann, J. Z. Bern¨¢d, M. Sondermann, G. Alber, L. L. S¨¢nchez-Soto, G. Leuchs
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063814 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0919
abstract: We propose a scheme for the remote preparation of entangled matter qubits in free space. For this purpose, a setup of two opposing parabolic mirrors is considered, each one with a single ion trapped at its focus. To get the required entanglement in this extreme multimode scenario, we take advantage of the spontaneous decay, which is usually considered as an apparent nuisance. Using semiclassical methods, we derive an efficient photon-path representation to deal with this problem. We also present a thorough examination of the experimental feasibility of the scheme. The vulnerabilities arising in realistic implementations reduce the success probability, but leave the fidelity of the generated state unaltered. Our proposal thus allows for the generation of high-fidelity entangled matter qubits with high rate.

id: 1410.0932
title: Upper bounds on quantum query complexity inspired by the Elitzur-Vaidman bomb tester
authors: Cedric Yen-Yu Lin, Han-Hsuan Lin
comments: 32 pages. Minor revisions and corrections. Regev and Schiff's proof that P(OR) = \Omega(N) removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0932
abstract: Inspired by the Elitzur-Vaidman bomb testing problem [arXiv:hep-th/9305002], we introduce a new query complexity model, which we call bomb query complexity $B(f)$. We investigate its relationship with the usual quantum query complexity $Q(f)$, and show that $B(f)=\Theta(Q(f)^2)$. This result gives a new method to upper bound the quantum query complexity: we give a method of finding bomb query algorithms from classical algorithms, which then provide nonconstructive upper bounds on $Q(f)=\Theta(\sqrt{B(f)})$. We subsequently were able to give explicit quantum algorithms matching our upper bound method. We apply this method on the single-source shortest paths problem on unweighted graphs, obtaining an algorithm with $O(n^{1.5})$ quantum query complexity, improving the best known algorithm of $O(n^{1.5}\sqrt{\log n})$ [arXiv:quant-ph/0606127]. Applying this method to the maximum bipartite matching problem gives an $O(n^{1.75})$ algorithm, improving the best known trivial $O(n^2)$ upper bound.

id: 1410.0937
title: Experimental Realization of a Quantum Integer-Spin Chain with Controllable Interactions
authors: C. Senko, P. Richerme, J. Smith, A. Lee, I. Cohen, A. Retzker, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0937
abstract: The physics of interacting integer-spin chains has been a topic of intense theoretical interest, particularly in the context of symmetry-protected topological phases. However, there has not been a controllable model system to study this physics experimentally. We demonstrate how spin-dependent forces on trapped ions can be used to engineer an effective system of interacting spin-1 particles. Our system evolves coherently under an applied spin-1 XY Hamiltonian with tunable, long-range couplings, and all three quantum levels at each site participate in the dynamics. We observe the time evolution of the system and verify its coherence by entangling a pair of effective three-level particles (`qutrits') with 86% fidelity. By adiabatically ramping a global field, we produce ground states of the XY model, and we demonstrate an instance where the ground state cannot be created without breaking the same symmetries that protect the topological Haldane phase. This experimental platform enables future studies of symmetry-protected order in spin-1 systems and their use in quantum applications.

id: 1410.0940
title: Dominant Strategies in Two Qubit Quantum Computations
authors: Faisal Shah Khan
comments: The abstract has been re-written and technical details added to section 5 in version 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0940
abstract: Nash equilibrium is a solution concept in non-strictly competitive, non-cooperative game theory that finds applications in various scientific and engineering disciplines. A non-strictly competitive, non-cooperative game model is presented here for two qubit quantum computations that allows for the characterization of Nash equilibrium in these computations via the inner product of their state space. Nash equilibrium outcomes are optimal under given constraints and therefore offer a game-theoretic measure of constrained optimization of two qubit quantum computations.

id: 1410.0941
title: Enhancing Heralding Efficiency and Biphoton Rate in Type-I Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Hannah E. Guilbert, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0941
abstract: The nonlinear optical process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) is widely studied for applications in quantum information science due to its ability to produce two photons that can be entangled in many degrees of freedom. For applications in quantum communication, two metrics of this process are particularly important: heralding efficiency and total joint rate. Here, we derive expressions for both quantities for a variety of different beam geometries and frequencies. We pay specific attention to the spectrum of both biphotons and individual photons. We reveal the underlying mechanisms responsible for the spectral shape and show they differ for different geometries and frequencies. We then use these spectra to calculate heralding efficiency and joint count rate and examine how each of these metrics changes with different geometries, frequencies, and spectral filtering and beam parameters. Interestingly, we find very high heralding efficiencies are achievable for collinear geometries, while noncollinear geometries require spectral filtering for high heralding efficiency, ultimately limiting the joint count rate. We also find that the the spectrum is narrower in nondegenerate cases, leading to lower joint count rates and higher heralding efficiency in the noncollinear case. In addition to the theory, we verify selected predictions with experimental results.

id: 1410.0943
title: Weak Values are Interference Phenomena
authors: Justin Dressel
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, lots of references; v2 considerably expanded for pedagogical clarity; v3 minor typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032116 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0943
abstract: Weak values arise experimentally as conditioned averages of weak (noisy) observable measurements that minimally disturb an initial quantum state, and also as dynamical variables for reduced quantum state evolution even in the absence of measurement. These averages can exceed the eigenvalue range of the observable ostensibly being estimated, which has prompted considerable debate regarding their interpretation. Classical conditioned averages of noisy signals only show such anomalies if the quantity being measured is also disturbed prior to conditioning. This fact has recently been rediscovered, along with the question whether anomalous weak values are merely classical disturbance effects. Here we carefully review the role of the weak value as both a conditioned observable estimation and a dynamical variable, and clarify why classical disturbance models will be insufficient to explain the weak value unless they can also simulate other quantum interference phenomena.

id: 1410.0947
title: No quantum realization of extremal no-signaling boxes
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Jan Tuziemski, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0947
abstract: Pure states are very important in any theory since they represent states of maximal information about the system within the theory. Here, we show that no non-trivial (not local realistic) extremal states (boxes) of general no-signaling theories can be realized within quantum theory. We then explore three interesting consequences of this fact. Firstly, since the pure states are uncorrelated from the environment, the statement forms a no-go result against the most straightforward device-independent protocol for randomness or secure key generation against general no-signaling adversaries. It also leads to the interesting question whether all non-extremal boxes allow for non-local correlations with the adversary. Secondly, in addition to the fact that new information-theoretic principles (designed to pick out the set of quantum correlations from among all non signaling ones) can in consequence be tested on arbitrary non-local vertices to check their validity, it also allows the possibility of excluding from the quantum set any box of no-signaling correlations that can be distilled to a non-local vertex. Finally, it also forms a sufficient condition to identify non-local games with no quantum winning strategy, when one can show that the game has a single unique non-signaling winning strategy. We illustrate each of these consequences with the example of generalized Popescu-Rohrlich boxes.

id: 1410.0951
title: Local tests of global entanglement and a counterexample to the generalized area law
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Aram W. Harrow, Zeph Landau, Daniel Nagaj, Mario Szegedy, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 21 pages, to appear FOCS 2014
journal: Proc. of FOCS 2014, pp. 246-255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0951
abstract: We introduce a technique for applying quantum expanders in a distributed fashion, and use it to solve two basic questions: testing whether a bipartite quantum state shared by two parties is the maximally entangled state and disproving a generalized area law. In the process these two questions which appear completely unrelated turn out to be two sides of the same coin. Strikingly in both cases a constant amount of resources are used to verify a global property.

id: 1410.0955
title: Quasiprobability Based Criterion for Classicality and Separability of States of Spin-1/2 Particles
authors: R.R. Puri
comments: 16 pages
journal: Physical Review A86, 052111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0955
abstract: A sufficient condition for a quantum state of a system of spin-1/2 particles (spin-1/2s) to admit a local hidden variable (LHV) description i.e. to be classical is the separability of the density matrix characterizing its state, but not all classical states are separable. This leads one to infer that separability and classicality are two different concepts. These concepts are examined here in the framework of a criterion for identifying classicality of a system of spin-1/2s based on the concept of joint quasiprobability (JQP) for the eigevalues of spin components. The said criterion identifies a state as classical if a suitably defined JQP of the eigenvalues of spin components in suitably chosen three or two orthogonal directions is non-negative. In agreement with other approaches, the JQP based criterion leads to the result that all non-factorizable pure states of two spin-1/2s are non-classical. Furthermore, the validity of the criterion is confirmed by comparing its predictions with those arrived at by other methods when applied to several mixed states of two spin-1/2s and the Werner like state of three spin-1/2s (G.Toth and A.Acin,Phys.Rev. A74, 030306(R) (2006)). The JQP based approach, formulated as it is along the lines of the P-function approach for identifying classical states of the electromagnetic field, offers a unified approach for systems of arbitrary number of spin-1/2s and the possibility of linking classicality with the nature of the measurement process.

id: 1410.0974
title: Ground state forms of 1D symmetry protected topological phases and their utility as resource states for measurement based quantum computation
authors: Abhishodh Prakash, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, mistake in previous version corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0974
abstract: The program of classifying symmetry protected topological (SPT) phases in 1D has been recently completed and has opened the doors to study closely the properties of systems belonging to these phases. It was recently found that being able to constrain the form of ground states based on symmetry properties, crucial in the classification scheme, also allows to explore novel resource states for processing of quantum information. In this paper, we generalize the consideration of [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240505 (2012)] where it was shown that the ground-state form of spin-1 chains protected by $Z_2 \otimes Z_2$ symmetry supports perfect operation of the identity gate, important also for long-distance transmission of quantum information. We develop a formalism to constrain the ground-state form of arbitrary SPT phases with finite symmetry, use it to examine several SPT ground states for similar gate protections and identify the phases that allow it. We also construct a model Hamiltonian with $A_4$ and inversion symmetry and study its phase diagram and ground state properties. Even though the results do not necessarily hold for generic Hamiltonians belonging to the phase protected by these symmetries, we find several interesting features, such as an extended region in phase space where the ground states are exactly the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki state which allows universal single-qubit gates, as well as symmetry breaking of non-trivial $A_4$ SPT phase into non-trivial $Z_2 \otimes Z_2$ SPT phase. The aim of our work is to make progress towards answering the question "Can universal quantum computation be supported as a generic feature of an appropriate SPT phase?"

id: 1410.0999
title: Quantum criticality of the sub-Ohmic spin-boson model within displaced Fock states
authors: Shu He, Liwei Duan, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0999
abstract: The spin-boson model is analytically studied using displaced Fock states (DFS) without discretization of the continuum bath. In the orthogonal displaced Fock basis, the ground-state wavefunction can be systematically improved in a controllable way. Interestingly, the zeroth-order DFS reproduces exactly the well known Silbey-Harris results. In the framework of the second-order DFS, the magnetization and the entanglement entropy are exactly calculated. It is found that the magnetic critical exponent $\beta$ is converged to $0.5$ in the whole sub-Ohmic bath regime $0<s<1$, compared with that by the exactly solvable generalized Silbey-Harris ansatz. It is strongly suggested that the system with sub-Ohmic bath is always above its upper critical dimension, in sharp contrast with the previous findings. This is the first evidence of the violation of the quantum-classical Mapping for $% 1/2<s<1$.

id: 1410.1010
title: Posmon spectrosopy of quantum state on a circle
authors: Q. H. Liu
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1010
abstract: Developing the analysis of the distribution of the particle's position-momentum dot product, the so-called \textit{posmom} $\mathbf{x}% \cdot \mathbf{p}$\textbf{,} to quantum states on a circular circle on two-dimensional Cartesian coordinates, we give its posmometry (introduced recently by Y. A. Bernard and P. M. W. Gill, Posmom: The Unobserved Observable, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 1\textbf{(}2010\textbf{)}1254) for eigenstates of the free motion on the circle, i.e., $z$-axis component of the angular momentum. The posmom has two parity symmetries, specifically, invariant under two operations $m_{x}$ and $m_{y}$ representing mirror symmetry about $x$ and $y$ axis respectively. The complete eigenfunction set of the posmom is then four-valued and consists of four basic parts each of them is defined within a distinct quadrant of the circle. The results are not only potentially experimentally testable, but also reflect a fact that the embedding of the circle $S^{1}$ in two-dimensional flat space $R^{2}$ is physically reasonable.

id: 1410.1021
title: Excitations of photon-number states in Kerr nonlinear resonator at finite temperatures
authors: G.H. Hovsepyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1406.1057
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1021
abstract: We investigate temperature reservoir effects in a lossy Kerr nonlinear resonator considering selective excitation of ooscillatory mode driven by a sequence of Gaussian pulses. In this way, we analyze time-dependent populations of photon-number states and quantum statistics on the base of second-order photon correlation function in one-photon and two-photon transitions. The effects coming from thermal reservoirs are interesting for performing more realistic approach to generate Fock states and for study phenomena connecting quantum engineering and temperature. We also study the role of pulse-shaping effects during selective excitation.

id: 1410.1041
title: Continuous variable quantum teleportation and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering
authors: M. D. Reid, Q. Y. He
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1041
abstract: We revisit continuous variable quantum teleportation to establish the link with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox ("steering") correlations. We generalize traditional protocols by allowing non-unity classical gains, thus considering quantum tele-amplification of a coherent state. By matching the choice of classical gain to the asymmetry in the entanglement of the resource, and employing a local pre-amplification or attenuation, we find that one can enhance the fidelity of teleportation and greatly broaden the class of entangled Gaussian states that are useful for CV quantum teleportation. High fidelity (no-cloning) teleportation is possible using a large subset of Gaussian two-way steerable states. Surprisingly, we find that fidelity can be optimized without maximal entanglement.

id: 1410.1047
title: Phonon counting and intensity interferometry of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Justin D. Cohen, Sean M. Meenehan, Gregory S. MacCabe, Simon Groblacher, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Francesco Marsili, Matthew D. Shaw, Oskar Painter
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nature, 520, pg. 523 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1047
abstract: Using an optical probe along with single photon detection we have performed effective phonon counting measurements of the acoustic emission and absorption processes in a nanomechanical resonator. Applying these measurements in a Hanbury Brown and Twiss set-up, phonon correlations of the nanomechanical resonator are explored from below to above threshold of a parametric instability leading to self-oscillation of the resonator. Discussion of the results in terms of a "phonon laser", and analysis of the sensitivity of the phonon counting technique are presented.

id: 1410.1054
title: Experimental Realization of Quantum Artificial Intelligence
authors: Li Zhaokai, Liu Xiaomei, Xu Nanyang, Du jiangfeng
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140504 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1054
abstract: Machines are possible to have some artificial intelligence like human beings owing to particular algorithms or software. Such machines could learn knowledge from what people taught them and do works according to the knowledge. In practical learning cases, the data is often extremely complicated and large, thus classical learning machines often need huge computational resources. Quantum machine learning algorithm, on the other hand, could be exponentially faster than classical machines using quantum parallelism. Here, we demonstrate a quantum machine learning algorithm on a four-qubit NMR test bench to solve an optical character recognition problem, also known as the handwriting recognition. The quantum machine learns standard character fonts and then recognize handwritten characters from a set with two candidates. To our best knowledge, this is the first artificial intelligence realized on a quantum processor. Due to the widespreading importance of artificial intelligence and its tremendous consuming of computational resources, quantum speedup would be extremely attractive against the challenges from the Big Data.

id: 1410.1073
title: Symmetric angular momentum coupling, the quantum volume operator and the 7-spin network: a computational perspective
authors: Dimitri Marinelli, Annalisa Marzuoli, Vincenzo Aquilanti, Roger W. Anderson, Ana Carla P. Bitencourt, Mirco Ragni
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, presented at ICCSA 2014, 14th International Conference on Computational Science and Applications
journal: Journal Reference: Lectures Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 8579, 508-521 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1073
abstract: A unified vision of the symmetric coupling of angular momenta and of the quantum mechanical volume operator is illustrated. The focus is on the quantum mechanical angular momentum theory of Wigner's 6j symbols and on the volume operator of the symmetric coupling in spin network approaches: here, crucial to our presentation are an appreciation of the role of the Racah sum rule and the simplification arising from the use of Regge symmetry. The projective geometry approach permits the introduction of a symmetric representation of a network of seven spins or angular momenta. Results of extensive computational investigations are summarized, presented and briefly discussed.

id: 1410.1099
title: Linear-optical generation of eigenstates of the two-site XY model
authors: Stefanie Barz, Borivoje Dakic, Yannick Ole Lipp, Frank Verstraete, James D. Whitfield, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 021010 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1099
abstract: Much of the anticipation accompanying the development of a quantum computer relates to its application to simulating dynamics of another quantum system of interest. Here we study the building blocks for simulating quantum spin systems with linear optics. We experimentally generate the eigenstates of the XY Hamiltonian under an external magnetic field. The implemented quantum circuit consists of two CNOT gates, which are realized experimentally by harnessing entanglement from a photon source and by applying a CPhase gate. We tune the ratio of coupling constants and magnetic field by changing local parameters. This implementation of the XY model using linear quantum optics might open the door to the future studies of quenching dynamics using linear optics.

id: 1410.1148
title: Joint measurability, steering and entropic uncertainty
authors: H. S. Karthik, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, 1 pdf figure, Comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012115 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1148
abstract: The notion of incompatibility of measurements in quantum theory is in stark contrast with the corresponding classical perspective, where all physical observables are jointly measurable. It is of interest to examine if the results of two or more measurements in the quantum scenario can be perceived from a classical point of view or they still exhibit non-classical features. Clearly, commuting observables can be measured jointly using projective measurements and their statistical outcomes can be discerned classically. However, such simple minded association of compatibility of measurements with commutativity turns out to be limited in an extended framework, where the usual notion of sharp projective valued measurements of self adjoint observables gets broadened to include unsharp measurements of generalized observables constituting positive operator valued measures (POVM). There is a surge of research activity recently towards gaining new physical insights on the emergence of classical behavior via joint measurability of unsharp observables. Here, we explore the entropic uncertainty relation for a pair of discrete observables (of Alice's system) when an entangled quantum memory of Bob is restricted to record outcomes of jointly measurable POVMs only. Within the joint measurability regime, the sum of entropies associated with Alice's measurement outcomes - conditioned by the results registered at Bob's end - are constrained to obey an entropic steering inequality. In this case, Bob's non-steerability reflects itself as his inability in predicting the outcomes of Alice's pair of non-commuting observables with better precision, even when they share an entangled state. As a further consequence, the quantum advantage envisaged for the construction of security proofs in key distribution is lost, when Bob's measurements are restricted to the joint measurability regime.

id: 1410.1196
title: Control power in perfect controlled teleportation via partially entangled channels
authors: Xi-Han Li, Shohini Ghose
comments: 5 page, Physical Review A 2014
journal: Physical Review A 90, 052305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1196
abstract: We analyze and evaluate perfect controlled teleportation via three-qubit entangled channels from the point of view of the controller. The key idea in controlled teleportation is that the teleportation is performed only with the participation of the controller. We calculate a quantitative measure of the controller's power and establish a lower bound on the control power required for controlled teleportation. We show that the maximally entangled GHZ state is a suitable channel for controlled teleportation of arbitrary single qubits - the controller's power meets the bound and the teleportation fidelity without the controller's permission is no better than the fidelity of a classical channel. We also construct partially entangled channels that exceed the bound for controlled teleportation of a restricted set of states called the equatorial states. We calculate the minimum entanglement required in these channels to exceed the bound. Moreover, we find that in these restricted controlled teleportation schemes, the partially entangled channels can outperform maximally entangled channels with respect to the controller's power. Our results provide a new perspective on controlled teleportation schemes and are of practical interest since we propose useful partially entangled channels.

id: 1410.1296
title: Equal-fidelity surface for a qubit state via equal-distance extended Bloch vectors and derivatives
authors: Sang Min Lee, Heonoh Kim, Han Seb Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1296
abstract: We introduce a distance between two quantum states. The distance is defined as the Euclidean distance between the extended Bloch vectors in $\mathbb{R}^{N^2}$, where N is the dimension of the Hilbert space. When N=2, we obtain an equal-fidelity surface in Bloch space via equal-distance extended Bloch vectors. The distance is a genuine distance according to the definition and is related to other distances between quantum states.

id: 1410.1299
title: Double-Fock Superposition Interferometry for Differential Diagnosis of Decoherence
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Young-Sik Ra, Hyang-Tag Lim, Clemens Gneiting, Yoon-Ho Kim, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, accepted version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 023008 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1299
abstract: Interferometric signals are degraded by decoherence, which encompasses dephasing, mixing and any distinguishing which-path information. These three paradigmatic processes are fundamentally different, but, for coherent, single-photon and $N00N$-states, they degrade interferometric visibility in the very same way, which impedes the diagnosis of the cause for reduced visibility in a single experiment. We introduce a versatile formalism for many-boson interferometry based on double-sided Feynman diagrams, which we apply to a protocol for differential decoherence diagnosis: Twin-Fock states |N,N> with $N \ge 2$ reveal to which extent decoherence is due to path distinguishability or to mixing, while double-Fock superpositions $|N:M> = (|N,M> + |M,N>)/\sqrt{2} $ with $N > M >0$ additionally witness the degree of dephasing. Hence, double-Fock superposition interferometry permits the differential diagnosis of decoherence processes in a single experiment, indispensable for the assessment of interferometers.

id: 1410.1319
title: Gaussian Entanglement Distribution via Satellite
authors: Nedasadat Hosseinidehaj, Robert Malaney
comments: Closer to published version (to appear in Phys. Rev. A) 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022304 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1319
abstract: In this work we analyse three quantum communication schemes for the generation of Gaussian entanglement between two ground stations. Communication occurs via a satellite over two independent atmospheric fading channels dominated by turbulence-induced beam wander. In our first scheme the engineering complexity remains largely on the ground transceivers, with the satellite acting simply as a reflector. Although the channel state information of the two atmospheric channels remains unknown in this scheme, the Gaussian entanglement generation between the ground stations can still be determined. On the ground, distillation and Gaussification procedures can be applied, leading to a refined Gaussian entanglement generation rate between the ground stations. We compare the rates produced by this first scheme with two competing schemes in which quantum complexity is added to the satellite, thereby illustrating the trade-off between space-based engineering complexity and the rate of ground-station entanglement generation.

id: 1410.1330
title: Deformed entropic and information inequalities for X - states of two-qubit and single qudit states
authors: V.I. Man'ko, L.A Markovich
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1330
abstract: The q-deformed entropies of quantum and classical systems are discussed. Standard and q-deformed entropic inequalities for X - states of the two-qubit and a state of single qudit with $j=3/2$ are presented.

id: 1410.1338
title: Coherent Distributions and Quantization
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: Based on the research proposal 338620ERC-2013-ADG
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1338
abstract: This work presents a selective review of results concerning the mathematical interface between the classical and quantum aspects encountered in problems such as the nuclear mean-field dynamics or quantum Brownian motion. It is shown that the main difference between classical and quantum behaviour arises from the coherence properties of the phase-space distributions known as "action waves" and Wigner functions.

id: 1410.1355
title: All-optical initialization, readout, and coherent preparation of single silicon-vacancy spins in diamond
authors: Lachlan J. Rogers, Kay D. Jahnke, Mathias H. Metsch, Alp Sipahigil, Jan M. Binder, Tokuyuki Teraji, Hitoshi Sumiya, Junichi Isoya, Mikhail D. Lukin, Philip Hemmer, Fedor Jelezko
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1355
abstract: The silicon-vacancy ($\mathrm{SiV}^-$) color center in diamond has attracted attention due to its unique optical properties. It exhibits spectral stability and indistinguishability that facilitate efficient generation of photons capable of demonstrating quantum interference. Here we show high fidelity optical initialization and readout of electronic spin in a single $\mathrm{SiV}^-$ center with a spin relaxation time of $T_1=2.4\pm0.2$ ms. Coherent population trapping (CPT) is used to demonstrate coherent preparation of dark superposition states with a spin coherence time of $T_2^\star=35\pm3$ ns. This is fundamentally limited by orbital relaxation, and an understanding of this process opens the way to extend coherences by engineering interactions with phonons. These results establish the $\mathrm{SiV}^-$ center as a solid-state spin-photon interface.

id: 1410.1422
title: Quantum key distribution with untrusted detectors
authors: P. Gonzalez, L. Rebon, T. Ferreira da Silva, M. Figueroa, C. Saavedra, M. Curty, G. Lima, G. B. Xavier, W. A. T. Nogueira
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Updated references and security assumptions, typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1422
abstract: Side-channel attacks currently constitute the main challenge for quantum key distribution (QKD) to bridge theory with practice. So far two main approaches have been introduced to address this problem, (full) device-independent QKD and measurement-device-independent QKD. Here we present a third solution that might exceed the performance and practicality of the previous two in circumventing detector side-channel attacks, which arguably, is the most hazardous part of QKD implementations. We prove its security in the high-loss regime against a particular class of attacks, and we present a proof-of-principle experiment that demonstrates the feasibility of the protocol.

id: 1410.1434
title: Quantum attacks against iterated block ciphers
authors: Marc Kaplan
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1434
abstract: We study the amplification of security against quantum attacks provided by iteration of block ciphers. In the classical case, the Meet-in-the-middle attack is a generic attack against those constructions. This attack reduces the time required to break double iterations to only twice the time it takes to attack a single block cipher, given that the attacker has access to a large amount of memory. More abstractly, it shows that security by composition does not achieve exact multiplicative amplification. We present a quantized version of this attack based on an optimal quantum algorithm for the Element Distinctness problem. We then use the generalized adversary method to prove the optimality of the attack. An interesting corollary is that the time-space tradeoff for quantum attacks is very different from what classical attacks allow. This first result seems to indicate that composition resists better to quantum attacks than to classical ones because it prevents the quadratic speedup achieved by quantizing an exhaustive search. We investigate security amplification by composition further by examining the case of four iterations. We quantize a recent technique called the dissection attack using the framework of quantum walks. Surprisingly, this leads to better gains over classical attacks than for double iterations, which seems to indicate that when the number of iterations grows, the resistance against quantum attacks decreases.

id: 1410.1441
title: Fidelity of recovery, geometric squashed entanglement, and measurement recoverability
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v7: 44 pages, 2 figures, updated with corrections and additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1441
abstract: This paper defines the fidelity of recovery of a quantum state on systems $A$, $B$, and $C$ as a measure of how well one can recover the full state on all three systems if system $A$ is lost and a recovery operation is performed on system $C$ alone. The surprisal of the fidelity of recovery (its negative logarithm) is an information quantity which obeys nearly all of the properties of the conditional quantum mutual information $I(A;B|C)$, including non-negativity, monotonicity with respect to local operations, duality, invariance with respect to local isometries, a dimension bound, and continuity. We then define a (pseudo) entanglement measure based on this quantity, which we call the geometric squashed entanglement. We prove that the geometric squashed entanglement is a 1-LOCC monotone, that it vanishes if and only if the state on which it is evaluated is unentangled, and that it reduces to the geometric measure of entanglement if the state is pure. We also show that it is invariant with respect to local isometries, subadditive, continuous, and normalized on maximally entangled states. We next define the surprisal of measurement recoverability, which is an information quantity in the spirit of quantum discord, characterizing how well one can recover a share of a bipartite state if it is measured. We prove that this discord-like quantity satisfies several properties, including non-negativity, faithfulness on classical-quantum states, invariance with respect to local isometries, a dimension bound, and normalization on maximally entangled states. This quantity combined with a recent breakthrough of Fawzi and Renner allows to characterize states with discord nearly equal to zero as being approximate fixed points of entanglement breaking channels. Finally, we discuss a multipartite fidelity of recovery and several of its properties.

id: 1410.1443
title: R¨¦nyi squashed entanglement, discord, and relative entropy differences
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Mario Berta, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 39 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1443
abstract: In a previous work arXiv:1403.6102, we recently proposed R\'enyi generalizations of the conditional quantum mutual information, which were shown to satisfy some properties that hold for the original quantity, such as non-negativity, duality, and monotonicity under local operations on the system $B$ (with it being left open to show that the R\'enyi quantity is monotone under local operations on system $A$). We also defined a R\'enyi squashed entanglement and a R\'enyi quantum discord based upon a R\'enyi conditional quantum mutual information. Here, we investigate these quantities in more detail. Taking as a conjecture that the R\'enyi conditional quantum mutual information is monotone under local operations on both systems $A$ and $B$, we prove that the R\'enyi squashed entanglement and the R\'enyi quantum discord defined in our prior work satisfy many of the properties of the respective original von Neumann entropy-based quantities. In arXiv:1403.6102, we also detailed a procedure to obtain R\'enyi generalizations of any quantum information measure that is equal to a linear combination of von Neumann entropies with coefficients chosen from the set $\{-1,0,1\}$. Here, we extend this procedure to include differences of relative entropies. Using the extended procedure and a conjectured monotonicity of the R\'enyi generalizations in the R\'enyi parameter, we discuss potential remainder terms for well known inequalities such as monotonicity of the relative entropy, joint convexity of the relative entropy, and the Holevo bound.

id: 1410.1445
title: Position and Spin Operators, Wigner Rotation and the Origin of Hidden Momentum Forces
authors: R.F.O'Connell
comments: Proceedings of Wigner 111 Symposium to open the Wigner Research Institute, Budapest
journal: EPJ (European Physics Journal) Web of Conferences 78, 02002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1445
abstract: Using a position operator obtained for spin 1 particles by the present author and Wigner, we obtain a quantum relativistic result for the hidden momentum force experienced by particles with structure. In particular, our result applies to the hidden magnetic forces manifest in some problems of electromagnetism. We also discuss spin and orbital angular momentum operators, as well as Wigner rotation.

id: 1410.1446
title: Exact solutions of open integrable quantum spin chains
authors: Enej Ilievski
comments: PhD thesis, 169 pages, 1 figure, few minor corrections made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1446
abstract: In the thesis we present an analytic approach towards exact description for steady state density operators of nonequilibrium quantum dynamics in the framework of open systems. We employ the so-called quantum Markovian semi-group evolution, i.e. a general form of time-autonomous positivity and trace-preserving dynamical equation for reduced density operators, by only allowing unitarity-breaking dissipative terms acting at the boundaries of a system. Such setup enables to simulate macroscopic reservoirs for different values of effective thermodynamic potentials, causing incoherent transitions between quantum states which are modeled with aid of the Lindblad operators. This serves as a simple minimalistic model for studying quantum transport properties, either in the linear response domain or in more general regimes far from canonical equilibrium. We are mainly exploring possibilities of identifying nonequilibrium situations which are amenable to exact description within matrix product state representation, by exclusively focusing on steady states, i.e. fixed points of the Lindblad equation, of certain prototypic interacting integrable spin chains driven by incoherent polarizing processes. Finally, we define a concept of pseudo-local extensive almost-conserved quantities by allowing a violation of time-invariance up to boundary-localized terms. We elucidate the role of such quantities on non-ergodic behaviour of temporal correlation functions rendering anomalous transport properties. It turns out that such conservation laws can be generated by means of boundary universal quantum transfer operators of the fundamental integrable models.

id: 1410.1472
title: On total correlations in a bipartite quantum joint probability distribution
authors: C. Jebarathinam
comments: Revised version, 8 pages, RevTeX 4-1, all comments are welcome. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1407.3170
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1472
abstract: We discuss the problem of separating the total correlations in a given quantum joint probability distribution into nonlocality, contextuality and classical correlations. Bell discord and Mermin discord which qunatify nonlocality and contextuality of quantum correlations are interpreted as distance measures in the nonsignaling polytope. A measure of total correlations is introduced to divide the total amount of correlations into a purely nonclassical part and a classical part. We show that quantum correlations satisfy additivity relations among these three measures.

id: 1410.1492
title: Vacuum Casimir energy densities and field divergences at boundaries
authors: Nicola Bartolo, Salvatore Butera, Margherita Lattuca, Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, special issue of Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter on Casimir Forces
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27, 214015 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1492
abstract: We consider and review the emergence of singular energy densities and field fluctuations at sharp boundaries or point-like field sources in the vacuum. The presence of singular energy densities of a field may be relevant from a conceptual point of view, because they contribute to the self-energy of the system. They should also generate significant gravitational effects. We first consider the case of the interface between a metallic boundary and the vacuum, and obtain the structure of the singular electric and magnetic energy densities at the interface through an appropriate limit from a dielectric to an ideal conductor. Then, we consider the case of a point-like source of the electromagnetic field, and show that also in this case the electric and magnetic energy densities show a singular structure at the source position. We discuss how, in both cases, these singularities give an essential contribution to the electromagnetic self-energy of the system; moreover, they solve an apparent inconsistency between the space integral of the field energy density and the average value of the field Hamiltonian. The singular behavior we find is softened, or even eliminated, for boundaries fluctuating in space and for extended field sources. We discuss in detail the case in which a reflecting boundary is not fixed in space but is allowed to move around an equilibrium position, under the effect of quantum fluctuations of its position. Specifically, we consider the simple case of a one-dimensional massless scalar field in a cavity with one fixed and one mobile wall described quantum-mechanically. We investigate how the possible motion of the wall changes the vacuum fluctuations and the energy density of the field, compared with the fixed-wall case. Also, we explicitly show how the fluctuating motion of the wall smears out the singular behaviour of the field energy density at the boundary.

id: 1410.1506
title: Partial indistinguishability theory for multi-photon experiments in multiport devices
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. Published in Physical Review A 91, 013844 (2015)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1506
abstract: We generalize an approach for description of multi-photon experiments with multi-port unitary linear optical devices, initiated in \textit{Phys. Rev. A \textbf{89}, 022333 (2014)} for the case of single photons in mixed spectral states, to arbitrary (multi-photon) input and arbitrary photon detectors. We give a physical interpretation of a non-negative definite Hermitian matrix, the matrix of a quadratic form giving output probabilities, as the partial indistinguishability matrix. We show that output probabilities are \textit{always} given in terms of the matrix permanents of the Hadamard product of network matrix and matrices depending on spectral state of photons and spectral sensitivities of detectors. Moreover, in case of input with up to one photon per mode, the output probabilities are given by a sum (or integral) with each term being the absolute value squared of such a matrix permanent. We conjecture that, for an arbitrary multi-photon input, zero output probability of an output configuration is \textit{always} the result of an exact cancellation of quantum transition amplitudes of completely indistinguishable photons (a subset of all input photons) and, moreover, \textit{does not depend} on coherence between only partially indistinguishable photons. The conjecture is supported by examples. Furthermore, we propose a measure of partial indistinguishability of photons which generalizes Mandel's observation, and find the law of degradation of quantum coherence in a realistic Boson-Sampling device with increase of the total number of photons and/or their "classicality parameter".

id: 1410.1509
title: A simple method for characterization of the magnetic field in an ion trap using Be+ ions
authors: Jianwei Shen, Andrii Borodin, Stephan Schiller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1509
abstract: We demonstrate a simple method for the determination of the magnetic field in an ion trap using laser-cooled Be+ ions. The method is not based on magnetic resonance and thus does not require delivering radiofrequency (RF) radiation to the trap. Instead, stimulated Raman spectroscopy is used, and only an easily generated optical sideband of the laser cooling wave is required. The d.c. magnetic vector, averaged over the Be+ ion ensemble, is determined. Furthermore, the field strength can be minimized and an upper limit for the field gradient can be determined. The resolution of the method is 0.04 G at present. The relevance for precision rovibrational spectroscopy of molecular hydrogen ions is briefly discussed.

id: 1410.1516
title: Dirac Equations with Confining Potentials
authors: J. H. Noble, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 11 pages; RevTeX
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A 30 (2015) 1550002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1516
abstract: This paper is devoted to a study of relativistic eigenstates of Dirac particles which are simultaneously bound by a static Coulomb potential and added linear confining potentials. It has recently been shown that, despite the addition of radially symmetric, linear confining potentials, some specific bound-state energies surprisingly retain their exact Dirac--Coulomb values (in the sense of an "exact symmetry"). This observation raises pertinent questions as to the generality of the cancellation mechanism. A Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation is used to find the relevant nonrelativistic physical degrees of freedom, which include additional spin-orbit couplings induced by the linear confining potentials. The matrix elements of the effective operators obtained from the scalar, and time-like confining potentials mutually cancel for specific ratios of the prefactors of the effective operators, which must be tailored to the cancellation mechanism. The result of the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation is used to explicitly show that the cancellation is accidental and restricted (for a given Hamiltonian) to only one reference state, rather than traceable to a more general relationship among the obtained effective low-energy operators. Furthermore, we show that the cancellation mechanism does not affect anti-particle (negative-energy) states.

id: 1410.1522
title: The quantum Cheshire Cat experiment of Denkmayr et al
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein, Timothy McDevitt
comments: 15 pages total, 2 figures. The paper has been refined as a result of many exchanges with Denkmayr et al
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1522
abstract: In a July 2014 Nature Communications paper, Denkmayr et al. made the spectacular claim that in their interferometer experiment "the neutron and its spin are spatially separated." They support their claim via their so-called "weak values" in this experiment. Herein, we show that the authors' own theory and experimental outcomes, along with the quantum mechanical explanation of the weak values in this experiment, combine unambiguously to refute their spectacular claim.

id: 1410.1555
title: Shortcut to Adiabaticity in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: Steve Campbell, Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro, G. Massimo Palma, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4+3 pages, 4+1 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 177206 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1555
abstract: We study transitionless quantum driving in an infinite-range many-body system described by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. Despite the correlation length being always infinite the closing of the gap at the critical point makes the driving Hamiltonian of increasing complexity also in this case. To this aim we develop a hybrid strategy combining shortcut to adiabaticity and optimal control that allows us to achieve remarkably good performance in suppressing the defect production across the phase transition.

id: 1410.1567
title: Curved spacetimes in the lab
authors: Nikodem Szpak
comments: Essay written for the Gravity Research Foundation 2014 Awards for Essays on Gravitation, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1567
abstract: We present some new ideas on how to design analogue models of quantum fields living in curved spacetimes using ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices. We discuss various types of static and dynamical curved spacetimes achievable by simple manipulations of the optical setup. Examples presented here contain two-dimensional spaces of positive and negative curvature as well as homogeneous cosmological models and metric waves. Most of them are extendable to three spatial dimensions. We mention some interesting phenomena of quantum field theory in curved spacetimes which might be simulated in such optical lattices loaded with bosonic or fermionic ultra-cold atoms. We also argue that methods of differential geometry can be used, as an alternative mathematical approach, for dealing with realistic inhomogeneous optical lattices.

id: 1410.1624
title: Walsh-synthesized noise-filtering quantum logic
authors: H. Ball, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related manuscripts here: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1624
abstract: We study a novel class of open-loop control protocols constructed to perform arbitrary nontrivial single-qubit logic operations robust against time-dependent non-Markovian noise. Amplitude and phase modulation protocols are crafted leveraging insights from functional synthesis and the basis set of Walsh functions. We employ the experimentally validated generalized filter-transfer function formalism in order to find optimized control protocols for target operations in SU(2) by defining a cost function for the filter-transfer function to be minimized through the applied modulation. Our work details the various techniques by which we define and then optimize the filter-synthesis process in the Walsh basis, including the definition of specific analytic design rules which serve to efficiently constrain the available synthesis space. This approach yields modulated-gate constructions consisting of chains of discrete pulse-segments of arbitrary form, whose modulation envelopes possess intrinsic compatibility with digital logic and clocking. We derive novel families of Walsh-modulated noise filters designed to suppress dephasing and coherent amplitude-damping noise, and describe how well-known sequences derived in NMR also fall within the Walsh-synthesis framework. Finally, our work considers the effects of realistic experimental constraints such as limited modulation bandwidth on achievable filter performance.

id: 1410.1636
title: Relativistic pseudo-Gaussian oscillators
authors: Felix Iacob
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A Volume: 374 Issue: 11-12 Pages: 1332-1335 Published: MAR 1 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1636
abstract: The quantum models of a massive scalar particle inside of an open bag generated by a pseudo-Gaussian conformaly flat (1+1) metrics are investigated. The potential of a free moving test particle, in the generated metric, has Gaussian asymptotic behavior, approaching to the potential of harmonic oscillator in the limit of zero. The energy levels are calculated using numerical methods, calculations are based on efficient method of generating functionals.

id: 1410.1637
title: Quantification of Gaussian quantum steering
authors: Ioannis Kogias, Antony R. Lee, Sammy Ragy, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 060403 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1637
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering incarnates a useful nonclassical correlation which sits between entanglement and Bell nonlocality. While a number of qualitative steering criteria exist, very little has been achieved for what concerns quantifying steerability. We introduce a computable measure of steering for arbitrary bipartite Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. For two-mode Gaussian states, the measure reduces to a form of coherent information, which is proven never to exceed entanglement, and to reduce to it on pure states. We provide an operational connection between our measure and the key rate in one-sided device-independent quantum key distribution. We further prove that Peres' conjecture holds in its stronger form within the fully Gaussian regime: namely, steering bound entangled Gaussian states by Gaussian measurements is impossible.

id: 1410.1649
title: Spectral characterization of the hydrogen like atoms confined by oscillating systems
authors: Felix Iacob
comments: 
journal: Central European Journal of Physics Volume: 12 Issue: 9 Pages: 628-636 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1649
abstract: The spectral characterization of Coulomb systems confined by the homogeneous pseudo-Gaussian oscillator is investigated. This is made using the efficient computational method of generating functional. Also, the method is used for the spectral characterization of homogeneous harmonic oscillator confinement, found as a particular case of pseudo-Gaussian oscillator confinement. Finally the aspect of confinement with an impenetrable sphere of finite radius is considered by studying its conjugate effect along with harmonic oscillator upon the atom.

id: 1410.1650
title: Quantum dynamics of a two-level emitter with modulated transition frequency
authors: Mihai Macovei, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90. 043838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1650
abstract: The resonant quantum dynamics of an excited two-level emitter is investigated via classical modulation of its transition frequency while simultaneously the radiator interacts with a broadband electromagnetic field reservoir. The frequency of modulation is selected to be of the order of the bare-state spontaneous decay rate. In this way, one can induce quantum interference effects and, consequently, quantum coherences among multiple decaying transition pathways. Depending on the modulation depth and its absolute phase, both the spontaneous emission and the frequency shift may be conveniently modified and controlled.

id: 1410.1666
title: Quantum spin chains and random matrix theory
authors: Huw J Wells
comments: PhD dissertation, 265 pages, compressed figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1666
abstract: The spectral statistics and entanglement within the eigenstates of generic spin chain Hamiltonians are analysed. A class of random matrix ensembles is defined which include the most general nearest-neighbour qubit chain Hamiltonians. For these ensembles, and their generalisations, it is seen that the long chain limiting spectral density is a Gaussian and that this convergence holds on the level of individual Hamiltonians. The rate of this convergence is numerically seen to be slow. Higher eigenvalue correlation statistics are also considered, the canonical nearest-neighbour level spacing statistics being numerically observed and linked with ensemble symmetries. A heuristic argument is given for a conjectured form of the full joint probability density function for the eigenvalues of a wide class of such ensembles. This is numerically verified in a particular case. For many translationally-invariant nearest-neighbour qubit Hamiltonians it is shown that there exists a complete orthonormal set of eigenstates for which the entanglement present in a generic member, between a fixed length block of qubits and the rest of the chain, approaches its maximal value as the chain length increases. Many such Hamiltonians are seen to exhibit a simple spectrum so that their eigenstates are unique up to phase. The entanglement within the eigenstates contrasts the spectral density for such Hamiltonians, which is that seen for a non-interacting chain of qubits. For such non-interacting chains, their always exists a basis of eigenstates for which there is no entanglement present.

id: 1410.1672
title: Photon distribution function for propagation of two-photon pulses in waveguide-qubit systems
authors: Oleksandr O. Chumak, Evgeniy V. Stolyarov
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063832 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1672
abstract: Propagation of a two-photon pulse in a waveguide coupled to a two-level system (TLS) is studied. The pulse is formed by two spatially separated identical wavepackets. A set of equations governing the dynamics of the photon distribution in the configuration-momentum space is derived and solved. It is shown that the distribution function can be negative that manifests its quasiprobability nature. A spectrum of the reflected light is found to be narrower than that of the transmitted light that features a pronounced filtering effect. Average numbers of the transmitted and reflected photons and their variances are shown to be dependent not only on the pulse widths and the light-TLS interaction but also on the pulse separation that can serve as an effective controlling parameter. Our approach is generalized for the case of an n-photon Fock state.

id: 1410.1675
title: Imaging the collective excitations of an ultracold gas using statistical correlations
authors: Romain Dubessy, Camilla De Rossi, Thomas Badr, Laurent Longchambon, H¨¦l¨¨ne Perrin
comments: See also the supplementary material and the video abstract
journal: New Journal of Physics, Institute of Physics: Open Access Journals, 2014, 16, pp.122001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1675
abstract: Advanced data analysis techniques have proved to be crucial for extracting information from noisy images. Here we show that principal component analysis can be successfully applied to ultracold gases to unveil their collective excitations. By analyzing the correlations in a series of images we are able to identify the collective modes which are excited, determine their population, image their eigenfunction, and measure their frequency. Our method allows to discriminate the relevant modes from other noise components and is robust with respect to the data sampling procedure. It can be extended to other dynamical systems including cavity polariton quantum gases or trapped ions.

id: 1410.1694
title: Nonlinear Spectroscopy of Trapped Ions
authors: Frank Schlawin, Manuel Gessner, Shaul Mukamel, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1694
abstract: Nonlinear spectroscopy employs a series of laser pulses to interrogate dynamics in large interacting many-body systems, and has become a highly successful method for experiments in chemical physics. Current quantum optical experiments approach system sizes and levels of complexity which require the development of efficient techniques to assess spectral and dynamical features with scalable experimental overhead. However, established methods from optical spectroscopy of macroscopic ensembles cannot be applied straightforwardly to few-atom systems. Based on the ideas proposed in [M. Gessner et al. New J. Phys. 16 092001 (2014)], we develop a diagrammatic approach to construct nonlinear measurement protocols for controlled quantum systems and discuss experimental implementations with trapped ion technology in detail. These methods in combination with distinct features of ultra-cold matter systems allow us to monitor and analyze excitation dynamics in both the electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom. They are independent of system size, and can therefore reliably probe systems where, e.g., quantum state tomography becomes prohibitively expensive. We propose signals that can probe steady state currents, detect the influence of anharmonicities on phonon transport, and identify signatures of chaotic dynamics near a quantum phase transition in an Ising-type spin chain.

id: 1410.1702
title: A hidden-variables version of Gisin's theorem
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, Koichiro Umetsu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1702
abstract: It is generally assumed that {\em local realism} represented by a noncontextual and local hidden-variables model in $d=4$ such as the one used by Bell always gives rise to CHSH inequality $|\langle B\rangle|\leq 2$. On the other hand, the contraposition of Gisin's theorem states that the inequality $|\langle B\rangle|\leq 2$ for arbitrary parameters implies (pure) separable quantum states. The fact that local realism can describe only pure separable quantum states is naturally established in hidden-variables models, and it is quantified by $G({\bf a},{\bf b})= 4[\langle \psi|P({\bf a})\otimes P({\bf b})|\psi\rangle-\langle \psi|P({\bf a})\otimes{\bf 1}|\psi\rangle\langle \psi|{\bf 1}\otimes P({\bf b})|\psi\rangle]=0$ for any two projection operators $P({\bf a})$ and $P({\bf b})$. The test of local realism by the deviation of $G({\bf a},{\bf b})$ from $G({\bf a},{\bf b})=0$ is shown to be very efficient using the past experimental setup of Aspect and his collaborators in 1981.

id: 1410.1707
title: Weak Interaction Processes: Which Quantum Information is revealed?
authors: B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, version 2: title changed, minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1707
abstract: We analyze the achievable limits of the quantum information processing of the weak interaction revealed by hyperons with spin. We find that the weak decay process corresponds to an interferometric device with a fixed visibility and fixed phase difference for each hyperon. Nature chooses rather low visibilities expressing a preference to parity conserving or violating processes (except for the decay $\Sigma^+\longrightarrow p \pi^0$). The decay process can be considered as an open quantum channel that carries the information of the hyperon spin to the angular distribution of the momentum of the daughter particles. We find a simple geometrical information theoretic interpretation of this process: two quantization axes are chosen spontaneously with probabilities $\frac{1\pm\alpha}{2}$ where $\alpha$ is proportional to the visibility times the real part of the phase shift. Differently stated the weak interaction process corresponds to spin measurements with an imperfect Stern-Gerlach apparatus. Equipped with this information theoretic insight we show how entanglement can be measured in these systems and why Bell's nonlocality (in contradiction to common misconception in literature) cannot be revealed in hyperon decays. We study also under which circumstances contextuality can be revealed.

id: 1410.1850
title: Detector-Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Charles Ci Wen Lim, Boris Korzh, Anthony Martin, Felix Bussieres, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 5 pages + 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 221112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1850
abstract: Recently, a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme based on entanglement swapping, called measurement-device-independent QKD (mdiQKD), was proposed to bypass all detector side-channel attacks. While mdiQKD is conceptually elegant and offers a supreme level of security, the experimental complexity is challenging for practical systems. For instance, it requires interference between two widely separated independent single-photon sources, and the rates are dependent on detecting two photons - one from each source. Here we experimentally demonstrate a QKD scheme that removes the need for a two-photon system and instead uses the idea of a two-qubit single-photon (TQSP) to significantly simplify the implementation and improve the efficiency of mdiQKD in several aspects.

id: 1410.1857
title: Analysis of N-qubit perfectly controlled teleportation schemes from the controller's point of view
authors: Xi-Han Li, Shohini Ghose
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1857
abstract: We quantitatively analyze and evaluate the controller's power in $N$-qubit controlled teleportation schemes. We calculate the minimum control power required to ensure the controller's authority such that the teleportation fidelity without the controller's permission is no more than the classical bound. We revisit several typical controlled teleportation schemes from the controller's point of view and evaluate the control power in these schemes. We find that for teleporting arbitrary N-qubit states, each controller should control at least N bits of useful information to ensure his/her authority over the protocol. We also discuss the general rules that must be satisfied by controlled teleportation schemes to ensure both teleportation fidelity and control power.

id: 1410.1877
title: Clock Quantum Monte Carlo: an imaginary-time method for real-time quantum dynamics
authors: Jarrod R. McClean, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012311 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1877
abstract: In quantum information theory, there is an explicit mapping between general unitary dynamics and Hermitian ground state eigenvalue problems known as the Feynman-Kitaev Clock. A prominent family of methods for the study of quantum ground states are quantum Monte Carlo methods, and recently the full configuration interaction quantum Monte Carlo (FCIQMC) method has demonstrated great promise for practical systems. We combine the Feynman-Kitaev Clock with FCIQMC to formulate a new technique for the study of quantum dynamics problems. Numerical examples using quantum circuits are provided as well as a technique to further mitigate the sign problem through time-dependent basis rotations. Moreover, this method allows one to combine the parallelism of Monte Carlo techniques with the locality of time to yield an effective parallel-in-time simulation technique.

id: 1410.1882
title: General dynamical description of quasi-adiabatically encircling exceptional points
authors: Thomas J. Milburn, J?rg Doppler, Catherine A. Holmes, Stefano Portolan, Stefan Rotter, Peter Rabl
comments: Main text: 5 pages; 3 figures. Supplemental material: 7 pages; 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1882
abstract: The appearance of so-called exceptional points in the complex spectra of non-Hermitian systems is often associated with phenomena that contradict our physical intuition. One example of particular interest is the state-exchange process predicted for an adiabatic encircling of an exceptional point. In this work we analyze this process for the generic system of two coupled oscillator modes with loss or gain. We identify a characteristic system evolution consisting of periods of quasi-stationarity interrupted by abrupt non-adiabatic transitions. Our findings explain the breakdown of the adiabatic theorem as well as the chiral behavior noticed previously in this context, and we provide a unified framework to describe quasi-adiabatic dynamical effects in non-Hermitian systems in a qualitative and quantitative way.

id: 1410.1928
title: Gapped spin Hamiltonian motivated by quantum teleportation
authors: Ari Mizel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1928
abstract: We construct a Hamiltonian whose ground state encodes a time-independent emulation of quan- tum teleportation. We calculate properties of the Hamiltonian, using exact diagonalization and a mean-field theory, and argue that it has a gap. The system exhibits an illuminating relationship to the well-known AKLT (Affleck, Lieb, Kennedy and Tasaki) model.

id: 1410.1936
title: Correlation control for pure and efficiently generated heralded single photons
authors: Jefferson Fl¨®rez, Omar Calder¨®n, Clara I. Osorio, Alejandra Valencia
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013819 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1936
abstract: We present a detailed study on the properties of single photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) when both the spectral and spatial degrees of freedom are controlled by means of filters. Our results show that it is possible to obtain pure heralded single photons with high heralding efficiency despite the use of filters. Moreover, we report an asymmetry on the single photon properties exhibited in type-II SPDC sources that depends on choosing the signal or the idler photon as the heralding one.

id: 1410.1965
title: Generalized rotating-wave approximation to the two-qubit and cavity coupling system
authors: Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 6 pages,2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013814 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1965
abstract: The generalized rotating-wave approximation (GRWA) is presented for the two-qubit and cavity coipling system . The analytical expressions in the zeroth order approximation recover the previous adiabatic ones. The counterrotating-wave terms can be eliminated by performing the first order corrections. An effective solvable Hamiltonian with the same form as the ordinary RWA one are then obtained, giving a significantly accurate eigenvalues and eigenstates. Energy levels in the present GRWA are in accordant with the numerical exact diagonalization ones in the a wide range of coupling strength. The atomic population inversion in the GRWA is in quantitative agreement with the numerical results for different detunings in the ultrastrong coupling regime.

id: 1410.2014
title: Bohm's "quantum potential" can be considered falsified by experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1311.7486
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2014
abstract: A Michelson-Morley-type experiment is described, which exploits two-photon interference between entangled photons instead of classical light interference. In this experimental context, the negative result (no shift in the detection rates) rules out David Bohm's postulate of an infinite-speed time-ordered "quantum potential", and thereby upholds the timeless standard quantum collapse.

id: 1410.2040
title: Lower and upper probabilities in the distributive lattice of subsystems
authors: A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A47, 345203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2040
abstract: The set of subsystems of a finite quantum system (with variables in Z(n)) together with logical connectives, is a distributive lattice. With regard to this lattice, the (where P(m) is the projector to) obeys a supermodularity inequality, and it is interpreted as a lower probability in the sense of the Dempster-Shafer theory, and not as a Kolmogorov probability. It is shown that the basic concepts of the Dempster-Shafer theory (lower and upper probabilities and the Dempster multivaluedness) are pertinent to the quantum formalism of finite systems.

id: 1410.2044
title: Quantum probabilities as Dempster-Shafer probabilities in the lattice of subspaces
authors: A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 082107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2044
abstract: The orthocomplemented modular lattice of subspaces L[H(d)], of a quantum system with d- dimensional Hilbert space H(d), is considered. A generalized additivity relation which holds for Kolmogorov probabilities, is violated by quantum probabilities in the full lattice L[H(d)] (it is only valid within the Boolean subalgebras of L[H(d)]). This suggests the use of more general (than Kolmogorov) probability theories, and here the Dempster-Shafer probability theory is adopted. An operator D(H1,H2), which quantifies deviations from Kolmogorov probability theory is introduced, and it is shown to be intimately related to the commutator of the projectors P(H1),P(H2), to the subspaces H1,H2. As an application, it is shown that the proof of CHSH inequalities for a system of two spin 1/2 particles, is valid for Kolmogorov probabilities, but it is not valid for Dempster- Shafer probabilities. The violation of these inequalities in experiments, supports the interpretation of quantum probabilities as Dempster-Shafer probabilities.

id: 1410.2104
title: Phase transitions in Wick-rotated $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric optics
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: final version, to be published in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2104
abstract: $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric models with a Wick rotation of time ($ t \rightarrow \pm i t$) show spectral phase transitions that are similar to those of dissipative systems driven out of equilibrium. Optics can provide an accessible test bed to explore spectral phase transitions of Wick-rotated $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric models. This is shown by considering the transverse dynamics of laser light in optical cavities with variable reflectivity and tilted mirrors. As examples, we discuss in details the optical analogue of the hydrodynamic Squire model of vorticity and the Wick-rotated $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric nonlinear dimer model.

id: 1410.2134
title: Complex Hadamard matrices for prime number
authors: Petre Di??
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2134
abstract: In this paper we disprove the Haagerup statement that all complex Hadamard matrices of order five are equivalent with the Fourier matrix $F_5$ by constructing circulant matrices that lead to new Hadamard matrices. An important item is the construction of new mutually unbiased bases that are a basic concept of quantum theory and play an essential role in quantum tomography, quantum cryptografy, teleportation, construction of dense coding schemes, classical signal proccesing, etc.

id: 1410.2138
title: Time-dependent generalized-active-space configuration-interaction approach to photoionization dynamics of atoms and molecules
authors: Sebastian Bauch, Lasse Kragh S?rensen, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062508 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2138
abstract: We present a wave-function based method to solve the time-dependent many-electron Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) with special emphasis on strong-field ionization phenomena. The theory builds on the configuration-interaction (CI) approach supplemented by the generalized-active-space (GAS) concept from quantum chemistry. The latter allows for a controllable reduction in the number of configurations in the CI expansion by imposing restrictions on the active orbital space. The method is similar to the recently formulated time-dependent restricted-active-space (TD-RAS) CI method [D. Hochstuhl, and M. Bonitz, Phys. Rev. A 86, 053424 (2012)]. We present details of our implementation and address convergence properties with respect to the active spaces and the associated account of electron correlation in both ground state and excitation scenarios. We apply the TD-GASCI theory to strong-field ionization of polar diatomic molecules and illustrate how the method allows us to uncover a strong correlation-induced shift of the preferred direction of emission of photoelectrons.

id: 1410.2245
title: Multi-qubit gates protected by adiabaticity and dynamical decoupling applicable to donor qubits in silicon
authors: Wayne M. Witzel, Richard P. Muller, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: fixed references with missing page numbers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2245
abstract: We present a strategy for producing multi-qubit gates that promise high fidelity with minimal tuning requirements. Our strategy combines gap protection from the adiabatic theorem with dynamical decoupling in a complementary manner. To avoid degenerate states and maximize the benefit of the gap protection, the scheme is best suited when there are two different kinds of qubits (not mutually resonant). Furthermore, we require a robust operating point in control space where the qubits interact with little sensitivity to noise. This allows us to circumvent a No-Go theorem that prevents block-box dynamically corrected gates [Phys. Rev. A 80, 032314 (2009)]. We show how to apply our strategy to an architecture in Si with P donors where we assume we can shuttle electrons between different donors. Electron spins act as mobile ancillary qubits and P nuclear spins act as long-lived data qubits. This system can have a very robust operating point where the electron spin is bound to a donor in the quadratic Stark shift regime. High fidelity single qubit gates may be performed using well-established global magnetic resonance pulse sequences. Single electron spin preparation and measurement has also been demonstrated. Putting this all together, we present a robust universal gate set for quantum computation.

id: 1410.2261
title: On the dynamics of fluctuations in time crystals
authors: Esteban Castillo, Benjamin Koch, Gonzalo Palma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2261
abstract: We study the evolution of quantum fluctuations in systems known as time crystals, hypothetical systems for which the lowest energy state performs a periodic motion. We first discuss some general properties shared by time crystals, and deduce the effective field theory parametrizing the evolution of their fluctuations. We show that these fluctuations fall into categories analogous to acoustic and optical phonons, encountered in conventional crystals. The acoustic phonons correspond to gapless Goldstone boson modes parametrizing the broken time translation invariance of the crystal, whereas the optical phonons are identified with modes perpendicular to the broken symmetry of the system, which generically remain gapped. We study how these two modes decay and interact together, and discuss some observable features that could be tested in experimental realizations of time crystals.

id: 1410.2267
title: Observation of a classical cheshire cat in an optical interferometer
authors: David P. Atherton, Gambhir Ranjit, Andrew A. Geraci, Jonathan D. Weinstein
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 40, 879-881 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2267
abstract: A recent neutron interferometry experiment claims to demonstrate a paradoxical phenomena dubbed the "quantum Cheshire Cat" \cite{Denkmayr2014}. We have reproduced and extended these results with an equivalent optical interferometer. The results suggest that the photon travels through one arm of the interferometer, while its polarization travels through the other. However, we show that these experimental results belong to the domain where quantum and classical wave theories coincide; there is nothing uniquely quantum about the illusion of this cheshire cat.

id: 1410.2303
title: The Instability of a Quantum Superposition of Time Dilations
authors: Louk Rademaker, Tom van der Reep, Nick Van den Broeck, Bob van Waarde, Marc de Voogd, Tjerk Oosterkamp
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2303
abstract: Using the relativistic concept of time dilation we show that a superposition of gravitational potentials can lead to nonunitary time evolution. For sufficiently weak gravitational potentials one can still define, for all intents and purposes, a global coordinate system. A probe particle in a superposition of weak gravitational fields will, however, experience dephasing due to the different time dilations. The corresponding instability timescale is accessible to experiments, and can be used as a degree of macroscopicity. Finally, we suggest an experiment with smoothly tunable amplification in a microwave interferometer that allows a quantitative study of the quantum to classical boundary.

id: 1410.2313
title: The optimal bound of quantum erasure with limited means
authors: Filippo M. Miatto, Kevin Pich¨¦, Thomas Brougham, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2313
abstract: In practical applications of quantum information science, quantum systems can have non-negligible interactions with the environment, and this generally degrades the power of quantum protocols as it introduces noise. Counteracting this by appropriately measuring the environment (and therefore projecting its state) would require access all the necessary degrees of freedom, which in practice can be far too hard to achieve. To better understand one's limitations, we calculate the upper bound of optimal quantum erasure (i.e. the highest recoverable visibility, or "coherence"), when erasure is realistically limited to an accessible subspace of the whole environment. In the particular case of a two-dimensional accessible environment, the bound is given by the sub-fidelity of two particular states of the \emph{inaccessible} environment, which opens a new window into understanding the connection between correlated systems. We also provide an analytical solution for a three-dimensional accessible environment. This result provides also an interesting operational interpretation of sub-fidelity. We end with a statistical analysis of the expected visibility of an optimally erased random state and we find that 1) if one picks a random pure state of 2 qubits, there is an optimal measurement that allows one to distill a 1-qubit state with almost 90\% visibility and 2) if one picks a random pure state of 2 qubits in an inaccessible environment, there is an optimal measurement that allows one to distill a 1-qubit state with almost twice its initial visibility.

id: 1410.2338
title: Quantifying the quantum gate fidelity of single-atom spin qubits in silicon by randomized benchmarking
authors: J. T. Muhonen, A. Laucht, S. Simmons, J. P. Dehollain, R. Kalra, F. E. Hudson, S. Freer, K. M. Itoh, D. N. Jamieson, J. C. McCallum, A. S. Dzurak, A. Morello
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27 (2015) 154205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2338
abstract: Building upon the demonstration of coherent control and single-shot readout of the electron and nuclear spins of individual 31-P atoms in silicon, we present here a systematic experimental estimate of quantum gate fidelities using randomized benchmarking of 1-qubit gates in the Clifford group. We apply this analysis to the electron and the ionized 31-P nucleus of a single P donor in isotopically purified 28-Si. We find average gate fidelities of 99.95 % for the electron, and 99.99 % for the nuclear spin. These values are above certain error correction thresholds, and demonstrate the potential of donor-based quantum computing in silicon. By studying the influence of the shape and power of the control pulses, we find evidence that the present limitation to the gate fidelity is mostly related to the external hardware, and not the intrinsic behaviour of the qubit.

id: 1410.2367
title: Genuine Multipartite Entanglement without Multipartite Correlations
authors: Christian Schwemmer, Lukas Knips, Minh Cong Tran, Anna de Rosier, Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 180501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2367
abstract: Non-classical correlations between measurement results make entanglement the essence of quantum physics and the main resource for quantum information applications. Surprisingly, there are $n$-particle states which do not exhibit $n$-partite correlations at all but still are genuinely $n$-partite entangled. We introduce a general construction principle for such states, implement them in a multiphoton experiment and analyze their properties in detail. Remarkably, even without $n$-partite correlations, these states do violate Bell inequalities showing that there is no classical, i.e., local realistic model describing their properties.

id: 1410.2401
title: Relativistic tunneling picture of electron-positron pair creation
authors: Anton W?llert, Michael Klaiber, Heiko Bauke, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 065022 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2401
abstract: The common tunneling picture of electron-positron pair creation in a strong electric field is generalized to pair creation in combined crossed electric and magnetic fields. This enhanced picture, being symmetric for electrons and positrons, is formulated in a gauge-invariant and Lorentz-invariant manner for quasistatic fields. It may be used to infer qualitative features of the pair creation process. In particular, it allows for an intuitive interpretation of how the presence of a magnetic field modifies and, in particular cases, even enhances pair creation. The creation of electrons and positrons from the vacuum may be assisted by an energetic photon, which can also be incorporated into this picture of pair creation.

id: 1410.2407
title: Experimental realization of a generalized measuring device via a one-dimensional photonic quantum walk
authors: Zhihao Bian, Rong Zhang, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Jian Li, Peng Xue
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2407
abstract: We demonstrate an implementation of unambiguous state discrimination of two equally probable single-qubit states via a one-dimensional photonic quantum walk experimentally. Furthermore we experimentally realize a quantum walk algorithm for implementing a generalized measurement in terms of positive operator value measurement on a single qubit. The measurement of the single-photons' positions corresponds to a measurement of an element of the positive operator value measurement on the polarizations of the single-photons.

id: 1410.2435
title: Quantum fully homomorphic encryption scheme based on universal quantum circuit
authors: Min Liang
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2435
abstract: Fully homomorphic encryption enables arbitrary computation on encrypted data without decrypting the data. Here it is studied in the context of quantum information processing. Based on universal quantum circuit, we present a quantum fully homomorphic encryption (QFHE) scheme, which permits arbitrary quantum transformation on an encrypted data. The QFHE scheme is proved to be perfectly secure. In the scheme, the decryption key is different from the encryption key, however, the encryption key cannot be public. Moreover, the evaluate algorithm of the scheme is independent of the encryption key, so it is very applicable in delegated quantum computing between two parties.

id: 1410.2440
title: Quantum state tomography of large nuclear spins in a semiconductor quantum well: Robustness against errors as quantified by condition numbers
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Sahin K. Ozdemir, Jiri Bajer, Go Yusa, Nobuyuki Imoto, Yoshiro Hirayama, Franco Nori
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2440
abstract: We discuss methods of quantum state tomography for solid-state systems with a large nuclear spin $I=3/2$ in nanometer-scale semiconductors devices based on a quantum well. Due to quadrupolar interactions, the Zeeman levels of these nuclear-spin devices become nonequidistant, forming a controllable four-level quantum system (known as quartit or ququart). The occupation of these levels can be selectively and coherently manipulated by multiphoton transitions using the techniques of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) [Yusa et al., Nature (London) 434, 101 (2005)]. These methods are based on an unconventional approach to NMR, where the longitudinal magnetization $M_z$ is directly measured. This is in contrast to the standard NMR experiments and tomographic methods, where the transverse magnetization $M_{xy}$ is detected. The robustness against errors in the measured data is analyzed by using condition numbers. We propose several methods with optimized sets of rotations. The optimization is applied to decrease the number of NMR readouts and to improve the robustness against errors, as quantified by condition numbers. An example of state reconstruction, using Monte Carlo methods, is presented. Tomographic methods for quadrupolar nuclei with higher-spin numbers (including $I=7/2$) are also described.

id: 1410.2504
title: Non-Markovianity through flow of information between a system and an environment
authors: S. Haseli, G. Karpat, S. Salimi, A.S. Khorashad, F. F. Fanchini, B. ?akmak, G. H. Aguilar, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 052118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2504
abstract: Exchange of information between a quantum system and its surrounding environment plays a fundamental role in the study of the dynamics of open quantum systems. Here we discuss the role of the information exchange in the non-Markovian behavior of dynamical quantum processes following the decoherence approach, where we consider a quantum system that is initially correlated with its measurement apparatus, which in turn interacts with the environment. We introduce a new way of looking at the information exchange between the system and environment using the quantum loss, which is shown to be closely related to the measure of non-Markovianity based on the quantum mutual information. We also extend the results of [Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 210402 (2014)] by Fanchini et al. in several directions, providing a more detailed investigation of the use of the accessible information for quantifying the backflow of information from the environment to the system. Moreover, we reveal a clear conceptual relation between the entanglement and mutual information based measures of non-Markovianity in terms of the quantum loss and accessible information. We compare different ways of studying the information flow in two theoretical examples. We also present experimental results on the investigation of the quantum loss and accessible information for a two-level system undergoing a zero temperature amplitude damping process. We use an optical approach that allows full access to the state of the environment.

id: 1410.2723
title: Counterfactuality of "counterfactual" communication
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Critical analysis of arXiv:1206.2042 and Phys. Rev. A 89, 052334
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2723
abstract: The counterfactuality of the recently proposed protocols for direct quantum communication is analyzed. It is argued that the protocols can be counterfactual only for one value of the transmitted bit. The protocols achieve a reduced probability of detection of the particle in the transmission channel by increasing the number of paths in the channel, but it is not below the probability of detection of a particle actually passing through such a multi-path channel.

id: 1410.2732
title: Local numerical range for a class of $2\otimes d$ hermitian operators
authors: J. Jurkowski, A. Rutkowski, D. Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics 17 (04), 347-359, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2732
abstract: A local numerical range is analyzed for a family of circulant observables and states of composite $2 \otimes d$ systems. It is shown that for any $2\otimes d$ circulant operator $\cal O$ there exists a basis giving rise to the matrix representation with real non-negative off-diagonal elements. In this basis the problem of finding extremum of $\cal O$ on product vectors $\ket{x}\otimes \ket{y} \in \mathbb{C}^2\otimes \mathbb{C}^d$ reduces to the corresponding problem in $\mathbb{R}^2\otimes \mathbb{R}^d$. The final analytical result for $d=2$ is presented.

id: 1410.2746
title: Casimir forces
authors: S. Reynaud, A. Lambrecht
comments: Notes corresponding to the lectures given at Les Houches 101th summer school on "Quantum Optics and Nanophotonics", August 2013. To appear in the proceedings of the school, to be published by Oxford University Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2746
abstract: The present notes are organized as the lectures given at the Les Houches Summer School "Quantum Optics and Nanophotonics" in August 2013. The first section contains an introduction and a description of the current state-of-the-art for Casimir force measurements and their comparison with theory. The second and third sections are a pedagogical presentation of the main features of the theory of Casimir forces for 1-dimensional model systems and for mirrors in 3-dimensional space.

id: 1410.2769
title: Improved Direct Counterfactual Quantum Communication
authors: Sheng Zhang, Bo Zhang, Xing-tong Liu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2769
abstract: Recently, a novel direct counterfactual quantum communication protocol was proposed using chained quantum Zeno effect. We found that this protocol is far from being widely used in practical channels, due to the side effect of 'chained', which leads to a dramatic increase of the equivalent optical distance between Alice and Bob. Therefore, not only the transmission time of a single bit increases in multiple times, but also the protocol is more sensitive to the noise. Here, we proposed an improved protocol, in which quantum interference is employed to destroy the nested structure induced by 'chained' effect. Moreover, we proved that a better counterfactuality is easier to be achieved, and showed that our protocol outperforms the former in the presence of noises.

id: 1410.2779
title: Quantization of the Location Stage of Hotelling Model
authors: Yuannan Chen, Gan Qin, An Min Wang
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2779
abstract: We present the classical Hotelling model we want to quantize, and investigate the quantum consequences of the game. Our results demonstrate that the quantum game give higher profit for both players, and that with the quantum entanglement parameter increasing, the quantum benefit over the classical increases too. Then we extend the model to a more general form, and quantum advantage keeps unchanged.

id: 1410.2790
title: A self-testing quantum random number generator
authors: Tommaso Lunghi, Jonatan Bohr Brask, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Quentin Lavigne, Joseph Bowles, Anthony Martin, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, including appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 150501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2790
abstract: A central issue in randomness generation is to estimate the entropy of the output data generated by a given device. Here we present a protocol for self-testing quantum random number generation, in which the entropy of the raw data can be monitored in real-time. In turn, this allows the user to adapt the randomness extraction procedure, in order to continuously generate high quality random bits. Using a fully optical implementation, we demonstrate that our protocol is practical and efficient, and illustrate its self-testing capacity.

id: 1410.2797
title: Entanglement witnesses for $d \otimes d$ systems and new classes of entangled qudit states
authors: D. Chru?ci¨½ski, A. Rutkowski
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 62, 273-277 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2797
abstract: We provide a new class of entanglement witnesses for $d \ot d$ systems (two qudits). Our construction generalizes the one proposed recently by Jafarizadeh et al. for $d=3$ and $d=4$ on the basis of semidefinite linear programming. Moreover, we provide a new class of PPT entangled states detected by our witnesses which generalizes well known family of states constructed by Horodecki et al. for $d=3$.

id: 1410.2863
title: Quantum coherence in ultrastrong optomechanics
authors: D. Hu, S.-Y. Huang, J.-Q. Liao, L. Tian, H.-S. Goan
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013812 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2863
abstract: Ultrastrong light-matter interaction in an optomechanical system can result in nonlinear optical effects such as photon blockade. The system-bath couplings in such systems play an essential role in observing these effects. Here we study the quantum coherence of an optomechanical system with a dressed-state master equation approach. Our master equation includes photon-number-dependent terms that induce dephasing in this system. Cavity dephasing, second-order photon correlation, and two-cavity entanglement are studied with the dressed-state master equation.

id: 1410.2882
title: QMA with subset state witnesses
authors: Alex B. Grilo, Iordanis Kerenidis, Jamie Sikora
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2882
abstract: The class QMA plays a fundamental role in quantum complexity theory and it has found surprising connections to condensed matter physics and in particular in the study of the minimum energy of quantum systems. In this paper, we further investigate the class QMA and its related class QCMA by asking what makes quantum witnesses potentially more powerful than classical ones. We provide a definition of a new class, SQMA, where we restrict the possible quantum witnesses to the "simpler" subset states, i.e. a uniform superposition over the elements of a subset of n-bit strings. Surprisingly, we prove that this class is equal to QMA, hence providing a new characterisation of the class QMA. We also prove the analogous result for QMA(2) and describe a new complete problem for QMA and a stronger lower bound for the class QMA$_1$.

id: 1410.2928
title: Highly Efficient Quantum Key Distribution Immune to All Detector Attacks
authors: Wen-Fei Cao, Yi-Zheng Zhen, Yu-Lin Zheng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Nai-Le Liu, Kai Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2928
abstract: Vulnerabilities and imperfections of single-photon detectors have been shown to compromise security for quantum key distribution (QKD). The measurement-device-independent QKD (MDI-QKD) appears to be the most appealing solution to solve the issues. However, in practice one faces severe obstacles of having significantly lower key generation rate, difficult two photon interferences, and remote synchronization etc. In this letter, we propose a highly efficient and simple quantum key distribution scheme to remove all of these drawbacks. Our proposal can be implemented with only small modifications over the standard decoy BB84 system. Remarkably it enjoys both the advantages of high key generation rate (being almost two orders of magnitude higher than that based on conventional MDI-QKD) comparable to the normal decoy system, and security against any detector side channel attacks. Most favorably one can achieve complete Bell state measurements with resort to single photon interference, which reduces significantly experimental costs. Our approach enables utilization of high speed and efficient secure communication, particularly in real-life scenario of both metropolitan and intercity QKD network, with an attack free fashion from arbitrary detector side channels.

id: 1410.2968
title: The effect of dissipation in direct communication scheme
authors: Fu Li, Jun-Xiang Zhang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2968
abstract: The effect of the dissipation and finite number of beam splitters are discussed. A method using balanced dissipation to improve the communication for finite beam splitters, which greatly increases communication reliability with an expense of decreasing communication efficiency.

id: 1410.2982
title: Entropic and information inequality for nonlinearly transformed two-qubit X-states
authors: V.I. Man'ko, R.S. Puzko
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2982
abstract: The entropic and information inequalities for two qubit X-states transformed by the nonlinear channels are given in explicit form. The subadditivity condition and nonnegativity of von Neumann quantum information are studied for both initial X-state and the state after action of the nonlinear channel. Partial case of Werner state is considered in detail. We shown that the von Neumann information increases due to action of the nonlinear channel. We generalize the results obtained for Werner state in our earlier article [J. Russ. Laser Res., \textbf{35}, iss. 3 (2014)] to the case of X-state of two qubit system. We study the influence of nonlinear channel acting on X-state of two qubit system onto von Neumann mutual information.

id: 1410.3029
title: Compressed sensing for Hamiltonian reconstruction
authors: Kenneth Rudinger, Robert Joynt
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3029
abstract: In engineered quantum systems, the Hamiltonian is often not completely known and needs to be determined experimentally with accuracy and efficiency. We show that this may be done at temperatures that are greater than the characteristic interaction energies, but not too much greater. The condition for this is that there are not too many interactions: the Hamiltonian is sparse in a well-defined sense. The protocol that accomplishes this is related to compressed sensing methods of classical signal processing; in this case applied to sparse rather than low-rank matrices.

id: 1410.3031
title: Near optimal bounds on quantum communication complexity of single-shot quantum state redistribution
authors: Anurag Anshu, Vamsi Krishna Devabathini, Rahul Jain
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3031
abstract: We show near optimal bounds on the worst case quantum communication of single-shot entanglement-assisted one-way quantum communication protocols for the {\em quantum state redistribution} task and for the sub-tasks {\em quantum state splitting} and {\em quantum state merging}. Our bounds are tighter than previously known best bounds for the latter two sub-tasks. A key technical tool that we use is a {\em convex-split} lemma which may be of independent interest.

id: 1410.3047
title: Single-step transfer or exchange of multipartite quantum entanglement with minimum resources
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Shi-Biao Zheng, Siyuan Han
comments: 45 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3047
abstract: The transfer or exchange of multipartite quantum states is critical to the realization of large-scale quantum information processing and quantum communication. A challenging question in this context is: What is the minimum resource required and how to simultaneously transfer or exchange multipartite quantum entanglement between two sets of qubits. Finding the answer to these questions is of great importance to quantum information science. In this work, we demonstrate that by using a single quantum two-level system - the simplest quantum object - as a coupler arbitrary multipartite quantum states (either entangled or separable) can be transferred or exchanged simultaneously between two sets of qubits. Our findings offer the potential to significantly reduce the resources needed to construct and operate large-scale quantum information networks consisting of many multi-qubit registers, memory cells, and processing units.

id: 1410.3049
title: Circuit QED: Implementation of the three-qubit refined Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithm
authors: Qi-Ping Su, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables, accepted by Quantum Information Processing. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.1375
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3049
abstract: We propose a protocol to construct the 35 $f$-controlled phase gates of a three-qubit refined Deutsch-Jozsa (DJ) algorithm, by using single-qubit $\sigma_z$ gates, two-qubit controlled phase gates, and two-target-qubit controlled phase gates. Using this protocol, we discuss how to implement the three-qubit refined DJ algorithm with superconducting transmon qutrits resonantly coupled to a single cavity. Our numerical calculation shows that implementation of this quantum algorithm is feasible within the present circuit QED technique. The experimental realization of this algorithm would be an important step toward more complex quantum computation in circuit QED.

id: 1410.3057
title: Generating multipartite entangled states of qubits distributed in different cavities
authors: Xiao-Ling He, Qi-Ping Su, Feng-Yang Zhang, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1307.2503
journal: Quantum Information Processing 13, 1381 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3057
abstract: Cavity-based large-scale quantum information processing (QIP) needs a large number of qubits and placing all of them in a single cavity quickly runs into many fundamental and practical problems such as the increase of cavity decay rate and decrease of qubit-cavity coupling strength. Therefore, future QIP most likely will require quantum networks consisting of a large number of cavities, each hosting and coupled to multiple qubits. In this work, we propose a way to prepare a $W$-class entangled state of spatially-separated multiple qubits in different cavities, which are connected to a coupler qubit. Because no cavity photon is excited, decoherence caused by the cavity decay is greatly suppressed during the entanglement preparation. This proposal needs only one coupler qubit and one operational step, and does not require using a classical pulse, so that the engineering complexity is much reduced and the operation is greatly simplified. As an example of the experimental implementation, we further give a numerical analysis, which shows that high-fidelity generation of the $W$ state using three superconducting phase qubits each embedded in a one-dimensional transmission line resonator is feasible within the present circuit QED technique. The proposal is quite general and can be applied to accomplish the same task with other types of qubits such as superconducting flux qubits, charge qubits, quantum dots, nitrogen-vacancy centers and atoms.

id: 1410.3068
title: Effect of phase shifts on EPR entanglement generated on two propagating Gaussian fields via coherent feedback
authors: Zhan Shi, Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures. Condensed version of this paper to appear in Proceedings of the 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Los Angeles, CA, Dec. 15-17, 2014. Continues upon the earlier work in this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3068
abstract: Recent work has shown that deploying two nondegenerate optical parametric amplifiers (NOPAs) separately at two distant parties in a coherent feedback loop generates stronger Einstein-Podolski-Rosen (EPR) entanglement between two propagating continuous-mode output fields than a single NOPA under same pump power, decay rate and transmission losses. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the stability and EPR entanglement of a dual-NOPA coherent feedback system under the effect of phase shifts in the transmission channel between two distant parties. It is shown that, in the presence of phase shifts, EPR entanglement worsens or can vanish, but can be improved to some extent in certain scenarios by adding a phase shifter at each output with a certain value of phase shift. In ideal cases, in the absence of transmission and amplification losses, existence of EPR entanglement and whether the original EPR entanglement can be recovered by the additional phase shifters are decided by values of the phase shifts in the path.

id: 1410.3105
title: Quantum state tomography of orbital angular momentum photonics qubits via a projection-based technique
authors: Adrien Nicolas, Lucile Veissier, Elisabeth Giacobino, Dominik Maxein, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 17, 033037 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3105
abstract: While measuring the orbital angular momentum state of bright light beams can be performed using imaging techniques, a full characterization at the single-photon level is challenging. For applications to quantum optics and quantum information science, such characterization is an essential capability. Here, we present a setup to perform the quantum state tomography of photonic qubits encoded in this degree of freedom. The method is based on a projective technique using spatial mode projection via fork holograms and single-mode fibers inserted into an interferometer. The alignment and calibration of the device is detailed as well as the measurement sequence to reconstruct the associated density matrix. Possible extensions to higher-dimensional spaces are discussed.

id: 1410.3113
title: A dynamical equation for a maser with non-poissonian injection statistics
authors: Michael Fleischhauer
comments: contribution to Festschrift for Berge Englert
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3113
abstract: A derivation of the coarse grained dynamical equation for a maser with periodic injection of atoms suggested by Briegel and Englert [Phys.Rev.A. {\bf 52}, 2361 (1995)] from the microscopic masterequation is presented.

id: 1410.3130
title: Entanglement Generation by Electric Field Background
authors: Zahra Ebadi, Behrouz Mirza
comments: 10 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 351 (2014) 363-381
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3130
abstract: The quantum vacuum is unstable under the influence of an external electric field and decays into pairs of charged particles, a process which is known as the Schwinger pair production. We propose and demonstrate that this electric field can generate entanglement. Using the Schwinger pair production for constant and pulsed electric fields, we study entanglement for scalar particles with zero spins and Dirac fermions. One can observe the variation of the entanglement produced for bosonic and fermionic modes with respect to different parameters.

id: 1410.3142
title: Stochastic Differential Equations for Quantum Dynamics of Spin-Boson Networks
authors: Stephan Mandt, Darius Sadri, Andrew A. Houck, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3142
abstract: The quantum dynamics of open many-body systems poses a challenge for computational approaches. Here we develop a stochastic scheme based on the positive P phase-space representation to study the nonequilibrium dynamics of coupled spin-boson networks that are driven and dissipative. Such problems are at the forefront of experimental research in cavity and solid state realizations of quantum optics, as well as cold atom physics, trapped ions and superconducting circuits. We demonstrate and test our method on a driven, dissipative two-site system, each site involving a spin coupled to a photonic mode, with photons hopping between the sites, where we find good agreement with Monte Carlo Wavefunction simulations. In addition to numerically reproducing features recently observed in an experiment [Phys. Rev. X 4, 031043 (2014)], we also predict a novel steady state quantum dynamical phase transition for an asymmetric configuration of drive and dissipation.

id: 1410.3189
title: Generalized von Neumann measurement with Hermite-Gaussian and Laguerre-Gaussian pointer states
authors: Yusuf Turek, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Tomotada Akutsu, Chang. Pu. Sun, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3189
abstract: Using post-selection followed by von Neumann interaction, we can extract not only an eigenvalue of an observable on the measured system but also an off-diagonal element of the observable such as the weak value. In this generalized von Neumann measurement, the initial pointer state of the measuring device is assumed to be a fundamental Gaussian wave function. Considering the optical implementation of the generalized von Neumann measurement, higher-order Gaussian modes can be used. In this paper, we consider the Hermite-Gaussian (HG) and the Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) modes as pointer states. We calculate the average shift of the pointer states of the generalized von Neumann measurement assuming the system observable $\hat{A}$ with $\hat{A}^{2}=\hat{I}$ and $\hat{A}^{2}=\hat{A}$ for an arbitrary interaction strength, where $\hat{I}$ represents the identity operator. Our results show that the HG and LG pointer states for a given coupling direction have no advantages over the fundamental Gaussian mode for improving the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). However, because the LG pointer state is not factorized in the two-dimensional plane, the pointer state can be shifted orthogonally along the coupling direction. In the weak coupling regime, we find that the SNR for this orthogonal direction can be drastically improved by increasing the azimuthal indices $l$ in the $\hat{A}^{2}=\hat{A}$ case; however, the SNR has an upper bound in the $\hat{A}^{2}=\hat{I}$ case.

id: 1410.3209
title: A Geometrical Derivation of a Family of Quantum Speed Limit Results
authors: Benjamin Russell, Susan Stepney
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3209
abstract: We derive a family of quantum speed limit results in time independent systems with pure states and a finite dimensional state space, by using a geometric method based on right invariant action functionals on SU(N). The method relates speed limits for implementing quantum gates to bounds on orthogonality times. We reproduce the known result of the Margolus-Levitin theorem, and a known generalisation of the Margolis-Levitin theorem, as special cases of our method, which produces a rich family of other similar speed limit formulas corresponding to positive homogeneous functions on su(n). We discuss the general relationship between speed limits for controlling a quantum state and a system's time evolution operator.

id: 1410.3217
title: Discrete-phase-randomized coherent state source and its application in quantum key distribution
authors: Zhu Cao, Zhen Zhang, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 17 053014 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3217
abstract: Coherent state photon sources are widely used in quantum information processing. In many applications, such as quantum key distribution (QKD), a coherent state is functioned as a mixture of Fock states by assuming its phase is continuously randomized. In practice, such a crucial assumption is often not satisfied and, therefore, the security of existing QKD experiments is not guaranteed. To bridge this gap, we provide a rigorous security proof of QKD with discrete-phase-randomized coherent state sources. Our results show that the performance of the discrete-phase randomization case is close to its continuous counterpart with only a small number (say, 10) of discrete phases. Comparing to the conventional continuous phase randomization case, where an infinite amount of random bits are required, our result shows that only a small amount (say, 4 bits) of randomness is needed.

id: 1410.3224
title: High-speed quantum networking by ship
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Andrew D. Greentree, Ashley M. Stephens, Rodney Van Meter
comments: 7 Pages, 2 Figures 1 Table. Comments Welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3224
abstract: Quantum communication will improve the security of cryptographic systems and decision-making algorithms, support secure client-server computation, and improve the sensitivity of scientific instruments. As these applications consume quantum entanglement, a method for replenishing networked entanglement is essential. Direct transmission of quantum signals over long distances is prevented by fibre attenuation and the no-cloning theorem. This has motivated the development of quantum repeaters, which are designed to purify entanglement and extend its range. Quantum repeaters have been demonstrated over short distances, but an error-corrected repeater network with sufficient bandwidth over global distances will require new technology. In particular, no proposed hardware appears suitable for deployment along undersea cables, leaving the prospect of isolated metropolitan networks. Here we show that error-corrected quantum memories installed in cargo containers and carried by ship could provide a flexible and scalable connection between local networks, enabling low-latency, high-fidelity quantum communication across global distances. With recent demonstrations of quantum technology with sufficient fidelity to enable topological error correction, implementation of the necessary quantum memories is within reach, and effective bandwidth will increase with improvements in fabrication. Thus, our architecture provides a new approach to quantum networking that avoids many of the technological requirements of undersea quantum repeaters, providing an alternate path to a worldwide Quantum Internet.

id: 1410.3265
title: Improved statistical fluctuation analysis for measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with three-intensity decoy-state method
authors: Zong-Wen Yu, Yi-Heng Zhou, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 11 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3265
abstract: We present an improved statistical fluctuation analysis for measurement device independent quantum key distribution with three-intensity decoy-state method. Taking the statistical fluctuations for different sources jointly, we present more tightened formulas for some key quantities used in calculating the secure final key. Numerical simulation shows that, given the total number of pulses $10^{12}$, our method improves the key rate by about 97\% for a distance of 50kms compared with the result given by Xu., et al. (Phys. Rev. A 89, 052333); and improves the key rate by $146\%$ for a distance of 100kms compared with the result from full optimization of all parameters but treating the statistical fluctuations traditionally, i.e., treating the fluctuations for different sources separately.

id: 1410.3281
title: Multipartite entanglement dynamics in a cavity
authors: J G Amaro, C Pineda
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Scr., 9:068019, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3281
abstract: We study the dynamics of two kinds of entanglement, and there interplay. On one hand, the intrinsic entanglement within a central system composed by three two level atoms, and measured by multipartite concurrence; on the other, the entanglement between the central system and a cavity, acting as an environment, and measured with purity. Using dipole-dipole and Ising interactions between atoms we propose two Hamiltonians, a homogeneous and a quasi-homogeneous one. We find an upper bound for concurrence as a function of purity, associated to the evolution of the $W$ state. A lower bound is also observed for the homogeneous case. In both situations, we show the existence of critical values of the interaction, for which the dynamics of entanglement seem complex.

id: 1410.3372
title: Entanglement of neutral-atom chains by spin-exchange Rydberg interaction
authors: Xiao-Feng Shi, F. Bariani, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062327 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3372
abstract: Conditions to achieve an unusually strong Rydberg spin-exchange interaction are investigated and proposed as a means to generate pairwise entanglement and realize a SWAP-like quantum gate for neutral atoms. Ground-state entanglement is created by mapping entangled Rydberg states to ground states using optical techniques. A protocol involving SWAP gate and pairwise entanglement operations is predicted to create global entanglement of a chain of $N$ atoms in a time that is independent of $N$.

id: 1410.3388
title: Designing Frustrated Quantum Magnets with Laser-Dressed Rydberg Atoms
authors: Alexander W. Glaetzle, Marcello Dalmonte, Rejish Nath, Christian Gross, Immanuel Bloch, Peter Zoller
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 173002 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3388
abstract: We show how a broad class of lattice spin-1/2 models with angular- and distance-dependent couplings can be realized with cold alkali atoms stored in optical or magnetic trap arrays. The effective spin-1/2 is represented by a pair of atomic ground states, and spin-spin interactions are obtained by admixing van der Waals interactions between fine-structure split Rydberg states with laser light. The strengths of the diagonal spin interactions as well as the "flip-flop", and "flip-flip" and "flop-flop" interactions can be tuned by exploiting quantum interference, thus realizing different spin symmetries. The resulting energy scales of interactions compare well with typical temperatures and decoherence time-scales, making the exploration of exotic forms of quantum magnetism, including emergent gauge theories and compass models, accessible within state-of-the-art experiments.

id: 1410.3430
title: Quantum Parameter Space of Dissipative Directed Transport
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 010903(R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3430
abstract: Quantum manifestations of isoperiodic stable structures (QISSs) have a crucial role in the current behavior of quantum dissipative ratchets. In this context, the simple shape of the ISSs has been conjectured to be an almost exclusive feature of the classical system. This has drastic consequences for many properties of the directed currents, the most important one being that it imposes a significant reduction in their maximum values, thus affecting the attainable efficiency at the quantum level. In this work we prove this conjecture by means of comprehensive numerical explorations and statistical analysis of the quantum states. We are able to describe the quantum parameter space of a paradigmatic system for different values of $\hbar_{\rm eff}$ in great detail. Moreover, thanks to this we provide evidence on a mechanism that we call parametric tunneling by which the sharp classical borders of the regions in parameter space become blurred in the quantum counterpart. We expect this to be a common property of generic dissipative quantum systems.

id: 1410.3443
title: Experimental quantum randomness generation invulnerable to the detection loophole
authors: Gustavo Ca?as, Jaime Cari?e, Esteban S. G¨®mez, Johanna F. Barra, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Guilherme B. Xavier, Gustavo Lima, Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3443
abstract: Random numbers are essential for multiple applications, including cryptography, financial security, digital rights management and scientific simulations. However, producing random numbers from a finite state machine, such as a classical computer, is impossible. One option is to use conventional quantum random number generators (QRNGs) based on the intrinsic uncertainty of quantum measurement outcomes. The problem in this case is that private randomness relies on assumptions on the internal functioning of the measurement devices. "Device-independent" QRNGs not relying on devices inner workings assumptions can be built but are impractical. They require a detection efficiency that, so far, has only be achieved with trapped ions and with photons detected with transition-edge superconducting sensors. Here we introduce a novel protocol for quantum private randomness generation that makes no assumption on the functioning of the devices and works even with very low detection efficiency. We implement the protocol using weak coherent states and standard single-photon detectors. Our results pave the way towards a second generation of more secure practical QRNGs.

id: 1410.3466
title: Nearly-linear light cones in long-range interacting quantum systems
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Charles W. Clark, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and Supplemental Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 157201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3466
abstract: In non-relativistic quantum theories with short-range Hamiltonians, a velocity $v$ can be chosen such that the influence of any local perturbation is approximately confined to within a distance $r$ until a time $t \sim r/v$, thereby defining a linear light cone and giving rise to an emergent notion of locality. In systems with power-law ($1/r^{\alpha}$) interactions, when $\alpha$ exceeds the dimension $D$, an analogous bound confines influences to within a distance $r$ only until a time $t\sim(\alpha/v)\log r$, suggesting that the velocity, as calculated from the slope of the light cone, may grow exponentially in time. We rule out this possibility; light cones of power-law interacting systems are algebraic for $\alpha>2D$, becoming linear as $\alpha\rightarrow\infty$. Our results impose strong new constraints on the growth of correlations and the production of entangled states in a variety of rapidly emerging, long-range interacting atomic, molecular, and optical systems.

id: 1410.3562
title: Theorem on the existence of a nonzero energy gap in adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Da-Jian Zhang, Xiao-Dong Yu, D. M. Tong
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 0423321, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3562
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation, based on the adiabatic theorem, is a promising alternative to conventional quantum computation. The validity of an adiabatic algorithm depends on the existence of a nonzero energy gap between the ground and excited states. However, it is difficult to ascertain the exact value of the energy gap. In this paper, we put forward a theorem on the existence of nonzero energy gap for the Hamiltonians used in adiabatic quantum computation. It can help to effectively identify a large class of the Hamiltonians without energy-level crossing between the ground and excited states.

id: 1410.3583
title: PT-symmetric model with an interplay between kinematical and dynamical non-localities
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 195303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3583
abstract: A new family of non-Hermitian PT-symmetric quantum models is proposed in which the Hamiltonians $H=T+V$ are finite-dimensional and in which the dynamical-input potential $V$ is multi-parametric and non-local. The choice is supported by the exact solvability of Schr\"{o}dinger equation and by the well known fact that in PT-symmetric models a non-locality is already present due to the generic kinematical non-diagonality of the Hermitizing metrics $\Theta$. For a subfamily of our $H$s, also {\em all\,} of the eligible metrics $\Theta$ appear obtainable in closed form.

id: 1410.3600
title: Entanglement generation between two spinor Bose-Einstein condensates with cavity QED
authors: Daniel Rosseau, Qianqian Ha, Tim Byrnes
comments: accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3600
abstract: We analyze a scheme for generating entanglement between two spinor Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). The BECs are off-resonantly coupled to a common photon mode and are controlled by external lasers to induce a $ S^z S^z $ interaction, where $ S^z $ is the total spin of the BEC. We directly simulate the scheme numerically for small systems and show the performance of the scheme. The scaling of the entanglement to large scale systems under realistic conditions of spontaneous emission and cavity photon loss is analyzed. It is shown that both entanglement in the beyond-continuous variables regime can be generated, where the entanglement is of the order of the maximal entanglement between the systems.

id: 1410.3602
title: Macroscopic quantum information processing using spin coherent states
authors: Tim Byrnes, Daniel Rosseau, Megha Khosla, Alexey Pyrkov, Andreas Thomasen, Tetsuya Mukai, Shinsuke Koyama, Ahmed Abdelrahman, Ebubechukwu Ilo-Okeke
comments: published in Optics Communication August 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3602
abstract: Previously a new scheme of quantum information processing based on spin coherent states of two component Bose-Einstein condensates was proposed (Byrnes {\it et al.} Phys. Rev. A 85, 40306(R)). In this paper we give a more detailed exposition of the scheme, expanding on several aspects that were not discussed in full previously. The basic concept of the scheme is that spin coherent states are used instead of qubits to encode qubit information, and manipulated using collective spin operators. The scheme goes beyond the continuous variable regime such that the full space of the Bloch sphere is used. We construct a general framework for quantum algorithms to be executed using multiple spin coherent states, which are individually controlled. We illustrate the scheme by applications to quantum information protocols, and discuss possible experimental implementations. Decoherence effects are analyzed under both general conditions and for the experimental implementation proposed.

id: 1410.3605
title: Locality and Classicality: role of entropic inequalities
authors: J. Batle, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, C. H. Raymond Ooi, S. Abdalla, Y. Al-hedeethi
comments: To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3605
abstract: The use of the so-called entropic inequalities is revisited in the light of new quantum correlation measures, specially nonlocality. We introduce the concept of {\it classicality} as the non-violation of these classical inequalities by quantum states of several multiqubit systems and compare it with the non-violation of Bell inequalities, that is, {\it locality}. We explore --numerically and analytically-- the relationship between several other quantum measures and discover the deep connection existing between them. The results are surprising due to the fact that these measures are very different in their nature and application. The cases for $n=2,3,4$ qubits and a generalization to systems with arbitrary number of qubits are studied here when discriminated according to their degree of mixture.

id: 1410.3627
title: Full analysis of multi-photon pair effects in spontaneous parametric down conversion based photonic quantum information processing
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Rui-Bo Jin, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 043030 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3627
abstract: In spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) based quantum information processing (QIP) experiments, there is a tradeoff between the coincide count rates (i.e. the pumping power of the SPDC), which limits the rate of the protocol, and the visibility of the quantum interference, which limits the quality of the protocol. This tradeoff is mainly caused by the multi-photon pair emissions from the SPDCs. In theory, the problem is how to model the experiments without truncating these multi-photon emissions while including practical imperfections. In this paper, we establish a method to theoretically simulate SPDC based QIPs which fully incorporates the effect of multi-photon emissions and various practical imperfections. The key ingredient in our method is the application of the characteristic function formalism which has been used in continuous variable QIPs. We apply our method to three examples, the Hong-Ou-Mandel interference and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen interference experiments, and the concatenated entanglement swapping protocol. For the first two examples, we show that our theoretical results quantitatively agree with the recent experimental results. Also we provide the closed expressions for these the interference visibilities with the full multi-photon components and various imperfections. For the last example, we provide the general theoretical form of the concatenated entanglement swapping protocol in our method and show the numerical results up to 5 concatenations. Our method requires only a small computation resource (few minutes by a commercially available computer) which was not possible by the previous theoretical approach. Our method will have applications in a wide range of SPDC based QIP protocols with high accuracy and a reasonable computation resource.

id: 1410.3631
title: Entanglement gives rise to Pareto optimality in the generalised quantum Hawk-Dove Game
authors: E. A. B. Lindsell, K. Wiesner
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, submitted for review, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3631
abstract: We quantise the generalised Hawk-Dove Game. By restricting the strategy space available to the players, we show that every game of this type can be extended into the quantum realm to produce a Pareto optimal evolutionarily stable strategy. This equilibrium replaces the inefficient classical one when the entanglement prepared in the game exceeds a critical threshold value, which we derive analytically.

id: 1410.3639
title: Quantum Minimax Theorem
authors: Fuyuhiko Tanaka
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3639
abstract: Recently, many fundamental and important results in statistical decision theory have been extended to the quantum system. Quantum Hunt-Stein theorem and quantum locally asymptotic normality are typical successful examples. In the present paper, we show quantum minimax theorem, which is also an extension of a well-known result, minimax theorem in statistical decision theory, first shown by Wald and generalized by LeCam. Our assertions hold for every closed convex set of measurements and for general parametric models of density operator. On the other hand, Bayesian analysis based on least favorable priors has been widely used in classical statistics and is expected to play a crucial role in quantum statistics. According to this trend, we also show the existence of least favorable priors, which seems to be new even in classical statistics.

id: 1410.3640
title: The Effect of Decoherence on the Contextual and Nonlocal Properties of a Biphoton
authors: A. Shaham, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: Main text: 5 pages, 2 figures. Supplementary material: 1 page, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022123 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3640
abstract: Quantum contextuality is a nonintuitive property of quantum mechanics, that distinguishes it from any classical theory. A complementary quantum property is quantum nonlocality, which is an essential resource for many quantum information tasks. Here we experimentally study the contextual and nonlocal properties of polarization biphotons. First, we investigate the ability of the biphotons to exhibit contextuality by testing the violation of the KCBS inequality. In order to do so, we used the original protocol suggested in the KCBS paper, and adjusted it to the real scenario, where some of the biphotons are distinguishable. Second, we transmitted the biphotons through different unital channels with controlled amount of noise. We measured the decohered output states, and demonstrated that the ability to exhibit quantum contextuality using the KCBS inequality is more fragile to noise than the ability to exhibit nonlocality.

id: 1410.3664
title: Concerning Infeasibility of the Wave Functions of the Universe
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: The version accepted for publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics. The final publication is available at Springer via this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3664
abstract: Difficulties with finding the general exact solutions to the Wheeler-DeWitt equation, i.e. the wave functions of the Universe, are known and well documented. However, the present paper draws attention to a completely different matter, which is rarely if ever discussed in relation to this equation, namely, the time complexity of the Wheeler-DeWitt equation, that is, the time required to exactly solve the equation for a given universe. As it is shown in the paper, whatever generic exact algorithm is used to solve the equation, most likely such an algorithm cannot be faster than brute force, which makes the wave functions of the Universe infeasible.

id: 1410.3672
title: Quantum networks generation based on four-wave mixing
authors: Yin Cai, Jingliang Feng, Hailong Wang, Giulia Ferrini, Xinye Xu, Jietai Jing, Nicolas Treps
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, Quantum optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3672
abstract: We present a scheme to realize versatile quantum networks by cascading several four-wave mixing (FWM) processes in warm rubidium vapors. FWM is an efficient $\chi^{(3)}$ nonlinear process, already used as a resource for multimode quantum state generation and which has been proved to be a promising candidate for applications to quantum information processing. We analyze theoretically the multimode output of cascaded FWM systems, derive its independent squeezed modes and show how, with phase controlled homodyne detection and digital post-processing, they can be turned into a versatile source of continuous variable cluster states.

id: 1410.3676
title: Can the wave function in configuration space be replaced by single-particle wave functions in physical space?
authors: Travis Norsen, Damiano Marian, Xavier Oriols
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Synthese Special Issue: Space-time and the wave function
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3676
abstract: The ontology of Bohmian mechanics includes both the universal wave function (living in 3N-dimensional configuration space) and particles (living in ordinary 3-dimensional physical space). Proposals for understanding the physical significance of the wave function in this theory have included the idea of regarding it as a physically-real field in its 3N-dimensional space, as well as the idea of regarding it as a law of nature. Here we introduce and explore a third possibility in which the configuration space wave function is simply eliminated -- replaced by a set of single-particle pilot-wave fields living in ordinary physical space. Such a re-formulation of the Bohmian pilot-wave theory can exactly reproduce the statistical predictions of ordinary quantum theory. But this comes at the rather high ontological price of introducing an infinite network of interacting potential fields (living in 3-dimensional space) which influence the particles' motion through the pilot-wave fields. We thus introduce an alternative approach which aims at achieving empirical adequacy (like that enjoyed by GRW type theories) with a more modest ontological complexity, and provide some preliminary evidence for optimism regarding the (once popular but prematurely-abandoned) program of trying to replace the (philosophically puzzling) configuration space wave function with a (totally unproblematic) set of fields in ordinary physical space.

id: 1410.3678
title: Experimental on-demand recovery of entanglement by local operations within non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Adeline Orieux, Antonio d'Arrigo, Giacomo Ferranti, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuliano Benenti, Elisabetta Paladino, Giuseppe Falci, Fabio Sciarrino, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 8575 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3678
abstract: In many applications entanglement must be distributed through noisy communication channels that unavoidably degrade it. Entanglement cannot be generated by local operations and classical communication (LOCC), implying that once it has been distributed it is not possible to recreate it by LOCC. Recovery of entanglement by purely local control is however not forbidden in the presence of non-Markovian dynamics, and here we demonstrate in two all-optical experiments that such entanglement restoration can even be achieved on-demand. First, we implement an open-loop control scheme based on a purely local operation, without acquiring any information on the environment; then, we use a closed-loop scheme in which the environment is measured, the outcome controling the local operations on the system. The restored entanglement is a manifestation of "hidden" quantum correlations resumed by the local control. Relying on local control, both schemes improve the efficiency of entanglement sharing in distributed quantum networks.

id: 1410.3685
title: Trustworthiness of detectors in quantum key distribution with untrusted detectors
authors: Bing Qi
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 020303 (R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3685
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol has been demonstrated as a viable solution to detector side-channel attacks. One of the main advantages of MDI-QKD is that the security can be proved without making any assumptions about how the measurement device works. The price to pay is the relatively low secure key rate comparing with conventional quantum key distribution (QKD), such as the decoy-state BB84 protocol. Recently a new QKD protocol, aiming at bridging the strong security of MDI-QKD with the high efficiency of conventional QKD, has been proposed. In this protocol, the legitimate receiver employs a trusted linear optics network to encode information on photons received from an insecure quantum channel, and then performs a Bell state measurement (BSM) using untrusted detectors. One crucial assumption made in most of these studies is that the untrusted BSM located inside the receiver's laboratory cannot send any unwanted information to the outside. Here, we show that if the BSM is completely untrusted, a simple scheme would allow the BSM to send information to the outside. Combined with Trojan horse attacks, this scheme could allow Eve to gain information of the quantum key without being detected. To prevent the above attack, either countermeasures to Trojan horse attacks or some trustworthiness to the "untrusted" BSM device is required.

id: 1410.3720
title: From three-photon GHZ states to universal ballistic quantum computation
authors: Mercedes Gimeno-Segovia, Pete Shadbolt, Dan E. Browne, Terry Rudolph
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures. Updated with supplementary material included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3720
abstract: Single photons, manipulated using integrated linear optics, constitute a promising platform for universal quantum computation. A series of increasingly efficient proposals have shown linear-optical quantum computing to be formally scalable. However, existing schemes typically require extensive adaptive switching, which is experimentally challenging and noisy, thousands of photon sources per renormalized qubit, and/or large quantum memories for repeat-until-success strategies. Our work overcomes all these problems. We present a scheme to construct a cluster state universal for quantum computation, which uses no adaptive switching, no large memories, and which is at least an order of magnitude more resource-efficient than previous passive schemes. Unlike previous proposals, it is constructed entirely from loss-detecting gates and offers a robustness to photon loss. Even without the use of an active loss-tolerant encoding, our scheme naturally tolerates a total loss rate of $\sim 1.6\%$ in the photons detected in the gates. This scheme uses only 3-GHZ states as a resource, together with a passive linear-optical network. We fully describe and model the iterative process of cluster generation, including photon loss and gate failure. This demonstrates that building a linear optical quantum computer need be less challenging than previously thought.

id: 1410.3750
title: Magnetic resonance detection of individual proton spins using a quantum reporter network
authors: Alexander O. Sushkov, Igor Lovchinsky, Nicholas Chisholm, Ronald L. Walsworth, Hongkun Park, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3750
abstract: We demonstrate a method of magnetic resonance imaging with single nuclear-spin sensitivity under ambient conditions. It employs a network of isolated electronic-spin quantum bits (qubits) that act as quantum reporters on the surface of high purity diamond. The reporter spins are localized with nanometer-scale uncertainty, and their quantum state is coherently manipulated and measured optically via a proximal nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center located a few nanometers below the diamond surface. The quantum reporter network is then used for sensing, coherent coupling and imaging individual proton spins on the diamond surface with angstrom resolution. This approach may enable direct structural imaging of complex molecules that cannot be accessed from bulk studies. It realizes a new platform for probing novel materials, monitoring chemical reactions, and manipulation of complex systems on surfaces at a quantum level.

id: 1410.3753
title: Near-deterministic creation of universal cluster states with probabilistic Bell measurements and 3-qubit resource states
authors: Hussain Zaidi, Chris Dawson, Peter van Loock, Terry Rudolph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042301 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3753
abstract: We develop a scheme for generating a universal qubit cluster state using probabilistic Bell measurements without the need for feed-forward or long-time quantum memories. Borrowing ideas from percolation theory we numerically show that using unambiguous Bell measurements that succeed with 75% success probability, one could build a cluster state with an underlying pyrochlore geometry such that the probability of having a spanning cluster in a chosen direction approaches unity in the limit of an infinite lattice size. The initial resources required for the generation of a universal state in our protocol are 3-qubit cluster states that are within experimental reach and are a minimal resource for a Bell-measurement-based percolation proposal. Since single and multi-photon losses can be detected in Bell measurements, our protocol raises the prospect of a fully error-robust scheme.

id: 1410.3781
title: Coherent coupling between ferromagnetic magnon and superconducting qubit
authors: Yutaka Tabuchi, Seiichiro Ishino, Atsushi Noguchi, Toyofumi Ishikawa, Rekishu Yamazaki, Koji Usami, Yasunobu Nakamura
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3781
abstract: Rigidity of an ordered phase in condensed matter results in collective excitation modes spatially extending in macroscopic dimensions. Magnon is a quantum of an elementary excitation in the ordered spin system, such as ferromagnet. Being low dissipative, dynamics of magnons in ferromagnetic insulators has been extensively studied and widely applied for decades in the contexts of ferromagnetic resonance, and more recently of Bose-Einstein condensation as well as spintronics. Moreover, towards hybrid systems for quantum memories and transducers, coupling of magnons and microwave photons in a resonator have been investigated. However, quantum-state manipulation at the single-magnon level has remained elusive because of the lack of anharmonic element in the system. Here we demonstrate coherent coupling between a magnon excitation in a millimetre-sized ferromagnetic sphere and a superconducting qubit, where the interaction is mediated by the virtual photon excitation in a microwave cavity. We obtain the coupling strength far exceeding the damping rates, thus bringing the hybrid system into the strong coupling regime. Furthermore, we find a tunable magnon-qubit coupling scheme utilising a parametric drive with a microwave. Our approach provides a versatile tool for quantum control and measurement of the magnon excitations and thus opens a new discipline of quantum magnonics.

id: 1410.3810
title: Excess optical quantum noise in atomic sensors
authors: Irina Novikova, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Yanhong Xiao
comments: 4 page, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3810
abstract: Enhanced nonlinear optical response of a coherent atomic medium is the basis for many atomic sensors, and their performance is ultimately limited by the quantum fluctuations of the optical read-out. Here we demonstrate that off-resonant interactions can significantly modify the quantum noise of the optical field, even when their effect on the mean signal is negligible. We illustrate this concept by using an atomic magnetometer based on the nonlinear Faraday effect: the rotation of the light polarization is mainly determined by the resonant light-induced spin alignment, which alone does not change the photon statistics of the optical probe. Yet, we found that the minimum noise of output polarization rotation measurements is above the expected shot noise limit. This excess quantum noise is due to off-resonant coupling and grows with atomic density. We also show that the detection scheme can be modified to reduce the measured quantum noise (even below the shot-noise limit) but only at the expense of the reduced rotational sensitivity. These results show the existence of previously unnoticed factors in fundamental limitations in atomic magnetometry and could have impacts in many other atom-light based precision measurements.

id: 1410.3826
title: Perfect Zeno-like effect through imperfect measurements at a finite frequency
authors: David Layden, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Achim Kempf
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX 4.1. v2: Updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022106 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3826
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect is usually thought to require infinitely frequent and perfect projective measurements to freeze the dynamics of quantum states. We show that perfect freezing of quantum states can also be achieved by more realistic non-projective measurements performed at a finite frequency.

id: 1410.3859
title: Experimental Realization of a One-way Quantum Computer Algorithm Solving Simon's Problem
authors: M. S. Tame, B. A. Bell, C. Di Franco, W. J. Wadsworth, J. G. Rarity
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 200501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3859
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of a one-way implementation of a quantum algorithm solving Simon's Problem - a black box period-finding problem which has an exponential gap between the classical and quantum runtime. Using an all-optical setup and modifying the bases of single-qubit measurements on a five-qubit cluster state, key representative functions of the logical two-qubit version's black box can be queried and solved. To the best of our knowledge, this work represents the first experimental realization of the quantum algorithm solving Simon's Problem. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with the theoretical model, demonstrating the successful performance of the algorithm. With a view to scaling up to larger numbers of qubits, we analyze the resource requirements for an n-qubit version. This work helps highlight how one-way quantum computing provides a practical route to experimentally investigating the quantum-classical gap in the query complexity model.

id: 1410.3891
title: Accurate and robust unitary transformation of a high-dimensional quantum system
authors: B. E. Anderson, H. Sosa-Martinez, C. A. Riofr¨ªo, I. H. Deutsch, P. S. Jessen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3891
abstract: Quantum control in large dimensional Hilbert spaces is essential for realizing the power of quantum information processing. For closed quantum systems the relevant input/output maps are unitary transformations, and the fundamental challenge becomes how to implement these with high fidelity in the presence of experimental imperfections and decoherence. For two-level systems (qubits) most aspects of unitary control are well understood, but for systems with Hilbert space dimension d>2 (qudits), many questions remain regarding the optimal design of control Hamiltonians and the feasibility of robust implementation. Here we show that arbitrary, randomly chosen unitary transformations can be efficiently designed and implemented in a large dimensional Hilbert space (d=16) associated with the electronic ground state of atomic 133Cs, achieving fidelities above 0.98 as measured by randomized benchmarking. Generalizing the concepts of inhomogeneous control and dynamical decoupling to d>2 systems, we further demonstrate that these qudit unitary maps can be made robust to both static and dynamic perturbations. Potential applications include improved fault-tolerance in universal quantum computation, nonclassical state preparation for high-precision metrology, implementation of quantum simulations, and the study of fundamental physics related to open quantum systems and quantum chaos.

id: 1410.3904
title: Local unitary symmetries of hypergraph states
authors: David W. Lyons, Daniel J. Upchurch, Scott N. Walck, Chase D. Yetter
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures, version 2 corrects several typos, corrects statement of Proposition 7.16, updates several references
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 48(9):095301, February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3904
abstract: Hypergraph states are multiqubit states whose combinatorial description and entanglement properties generalize the well-studied class of graph states. Graph states are important in applications such as measurement-based quantum computation and quantum error correction. The study of hypergraph states, with their richer multipartite entanglement and other nonlocal properties, has a promising outlook for new insight into multipartite entanglement. We present results analyzing local unitary symmetries of hypergraph states, including both continuous and discrete families of symmetries. In particular, we show how entanglement types can be detected and distinguished by certain configurations in the hypergraphs from which hypergraph states are constructed.

id: 1410.3912
title: Laser under ultrastrong electromagnetic interaction with matter
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3912
abstract: The conventional picture of the light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (laser) is broken under the ultrastrong interaction between the electromagnetic fields and matter, and distinct dynamics of the electric field and of the magnetic one make the "laser" qualitatively different from the conventional laser, which has been described simply without the distinction. The "laser" in the ultrastrong regime can show a rich variety of behaviors with spontaneous appearance of coherence. We found that the "laser" generally accompanies odd-order harmonics of the electromagnetic fields both inside and outside the cavity and a synchronization with an oscillation of atomic population. A bistability is also demonstrated in a simple model under two-level and single-mode approximations.

id: 1410.3918
title: Privacy Amplification in the Isolated Qubits Model
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: v2: 24 pages, stronger security definition, better proof technique, improved presentation
journal: EUROCRYPT 2015, Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 9057, pp.785-814
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3918
abstract: Isolated qubits are a special class of quantum devices, which can be used to implement tamper-resistant cryptographic hardware such as one-time memories (OTM's). Unfortunately, these OTM constructions leak some information, and standard methods for privacy amplification cannot be applied here, because the adversary has advance knowledge of the hash function that the honest parties will use. In this paper we show a stronger form of privacy amplification that solves this problem, using a fixed hash function that is secure against all possible adversaries in the isolated qubits model. This allows us to construct single-bit OTM's which only leak an exponentially small amount of information. We then study a natural generalization of the isolated qubits model, where the adversary is allowed to perform a polynomially-bounded number of entangling gates, in addition to unbounded local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We show that our technique for privacy amplification is also secure in this setting.

id: 1410.3922
title: Isotope engineering of silicon and diamond for quantum computing and sensing applications
authors: Kohei M. Itoh, Hideyuki Watanabe
comments: Perspective article for MRS Communications. 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3922
abstract: Some of the stable isotopes of silicon and carbon have zero nuclear spin, whereas many of the other elements that constitute semiconductors consist entirely of stable isotopes that have nuclear spins. Silicon and diamond crystals composed of nuclear-spin-free stable isotopes (Si-28, Si-30, or C-12) are considered to be ideal host matrixes to place spin quantum bits (qubits) for quntum computing and sensing applications because their coherent properties are not disrupted thanks to the absence of host nuclear spins. The present article describes the state-of-the-art and future perspective of silicon and diamond isotope engineering for development of quantum information processing devices.

id: 1410.3940
title: Experimental Quantum Hamiltonian Identification from Measurement Time Traces
authors: Shi-yao Hou, Hang Li, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 5 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3940
abstract: Identifying Hamiltonian of a quantum system is of vital importance for quantum information processing. In this Letter, we realized and benchmarked a quantum Hamiltonian identification algorithm recently proposed [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{113}, 080401 (2014)]. we realized the algorithm on liquid nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor using two different working media with different forms of Hamiltonian. Our experiment realized the quantum identification algorithm based on free induction decay signals. We also showed how to process data obtained in practical experiment. We studied the influence of decoherence by numerical simulations. Our experiments and simulations demonstrate that the algorithm is effective and robust.

id: 1410.3941
title: Quantum Data Compression of a Qubit Ensemble
authors: Lee A. Rozema, Dylan H. Mahler, Alex Hayat, Peter S. Turner, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3941
abstract: Data compression is a ubiquitous aspect of modern information technology, and the advent of quantum information raises the question of what types of compression are feasible for quantum data, where it is especially relevant given the extreme difficulty involved in creating reliable quantum memories. We present a protocol in which an ensemble of quantum bits (qubits) can in principle be perfectly compressed into exponentially fewer qubits. We then experimentally implement our algorithm, compressing three photonic qubits into two. This protocol sheds light on the subtle differences between quantum and classical information. Furthermore, since data compression stores all of the available information about the quantum state in fewer physical qubits, it could provide a vast reduction in the amount of quantum memory required to store a quantum ensemble, making even today's limited quantum memories far more powerful than previously recognized.

id: 1410.3949
title: Body-assisted van der Waals interaction between excited atoms
authors: Hassan Safari, Mohammad Reza Karimpour
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 013201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3949
abstract: We present a formula for the body-assisted van der Waals interaction potential between two atoms, one or both being prepared in an excited energy eigenstate. The presence of arbitrary arrangement for material environment is taken into account via the Green function. The resulting formula supports one of two conflicting findings recorded. The consistency of our formula is investigated by applying it for the case of two atoms in free space and comparing the resulting expression with the one found from the limiting Casimir-Polder potential between an excited atom and a small dielectric sphere.

id: 1410.3979
title: Boson-sampling with photons of arbitrary spectral structure
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012307 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3979
abstract: Boson-sampling has attracted much interest as a simplified approach to implementing a subset of optical quantum computing. Boson-sampling requires indistinguishable photons, but far fewer of them than universal optical quantum computing architectures. In reality, photons are never indistinguishable, and exhibit a rich spectral structure. Here we consider the operation of boson-sampling with photons of arbitrary spectral structure and relate the sampling statistics of the device to matrix permanents. This sheds light on the computational complexity of different regimes of the photons' spectral characteristics, and provides very general results for the operation of linear optics interferometers in the presence of partially distinguishable photons. Our results apply to both the cases of spectrally resolving and non-spectrally resolving detectors.

id: 1410.4004
title: On determining which quantum measurement performs better for state estimation
authors: Jaroslav Rehacek, Yong Siah Teo, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4004
abstract: We introduce an operational and statistically meaningful measure, the quantum tomographic transfer function, that possesses important physical invariance properties for judging whether a given informationally complete quantum measurement performs better tomographically in quantum-state estimation relative to other informationally complete measurements. This function is independent of the unknown true state of the quantum source, and is directly related to the average optimal tomographic accuracy of an unbiased state estimator for the measurement in the limit of many sampling events. For the experimentally-appealing minimally complete measurements, the transfer function is an extremely simple formula. We also give an explicit expression for this transfer function in terms of an ordered expansion that is readily computable and illustrate its usage with numerical simulations, and its consistency with some known results.

id: 1410.4008
title: Quantum Illumination at the Microwave Wavelengths
authors: Shabir Barzanjeh, Saikat Guha, Christian Weedbrook, David Vitali, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Stefano Pirandola
comments: In press on Physical Review Letters. Long version of the manuscript, including both the Letter and the Supplemental Material (15 pages total)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 080503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4008
abstract: Quantum illumination is a quantum-optical sensing technique in which an entangled source is exploited to improve the detection of a low-reflectivity object that is immersed in a bright thermal background. Here we describe and analyze a system for applying this technique at microwave frequencies, a more appropriate spectral region for target detection than the optical, due to the naturally-occurring bright thermal background in the microwave regime. We use an electro-optomechanical converter to entangle microwave signal and optical idler fields, with the former being sent to probe the target region and the latter being retained at the source. The microwave radiation collected from the target region is then phase conjugated and upconverted into an optical field that is combined with the retained idler in a joint-detection quantum measurement. The error probability of this microwave quantum-illumination system, or quantum radar, is shown to be superior to that of any classical microwave radar of equal transmitted energy.

id: 1410.4016
title: Collective Modes in the Cooperative Jahn-Teller Model: Path Integral Approach
authors: Peter A Ivanov
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4016
abstract: We discuss analytical approximations to the ground-state phase diagram and the elementary excitations of the cooperative Jahn-Teller model describing strongly correlated spin-boson system on a lattice in various quantum optical systems. Based on the mean-field theory approach we show that the system exhibits quantum magnetic structural phase transition which leads to magnetic ordering of the spins and formation of the bosonic condensates. We determine existing of one gapless Goldstone mode and two gapped amplitude modes inside the symmetry-broken phase.

id: 1410.4024
title: Microwave Photodetection with Electro-Opto-Mechanical Systems
authors: Shabir Barzanjeh, M. C. de Oliveira, Stefano Pirandola
comments: 4pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4024
abstract: While detection of optical photons is today achieved with very high efficiencies, the detection of microwave fields at the photon level still poses non-trivial experimental challenges. In this Letter we propose a model of microwave photodetector which is based on the use of an electro-opto-mechanical system. Using state of the art technology, we show how single microwave photons can efficiently be converted into optical photons which are then measured by standard optics. The overall quantum efficiency of our microwave detector tends to one for achievable values of the optical and microwave cooperativity parameters. Our scheme could be used for sensing and scanning very faint microwave fields, as they may occur in radio astronomy, satellite and deep space communications.

id: 1410.4129
title: Realistic Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics and Encounter-Delayed-Choice Experiment
authors: Gui-Lu Long, Wei Qin, Zhe Yang, Jun-Lin Li
comments: 7 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4129
abstract: A realistic interpretation(REIN) of wave function in quantum mechanics is briefly presented in this work. In REIN, the wave function of a microscopic object is just its real existence rather than a mere mathematical description. Quantum object can exist in disjoint regions of space which just as the wave function distributes, travels at a finite speed, and collapses instantly upon a measurement. The single photon interference in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer is analyzed using REIN. In particular, we proposed and experimentally implemented a generalized delayed-choice experiment, the encounter-delayed-choice(EDC) experiment, in which the second beam splitter is inserted at the encounter of the two sub-waves from the two arms. In the EDC experiment, the front parts of wave functions before the beam splitter insertion do not interfere and show the particle nature, and the back parts of the wave functions will interfere and show a wave nature. The predicted phenomenon is clearly demonstrated in the experiment, and supports the REIN idea.

id: 1410.4146
title: Direct Experimental Determination of Spectral Densities of Molecular Complexes
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Paul Brumer
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 141, 174102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4146
abstract: Determining the spectral density of a molecular system immersed in a proteomic scaffold and in contact to a solvent is a fundamental challenge in the coarse-grained description of, e.g., electron and energy transfer dynamics. Once the spectral density is characterized, all the time scales are captured and no artificial separation between fast and slow processes need be invoked. Based on the fluorescence Stokes shift function, we utilize a simple and robust strategy to extract the spectral density of a number of molecular complexes from available experimental data. Specifically, we show that experimental data for dye molecules in several solvents, amino acid proteins in water, and some photochemical systems (e.g., rhodopsin and green fluorescence proteins), are well described by a three-parameter family of sub-Ohmic spectral densities that are characterized by a fast initial Gaussian-like decay followed by a slow algebraic-like decay rate at long times.

id: 1410.4184
title: Squashed entanglement, k-extendibility, quantum Markov chains, and recovery maps
authors: Ke Li, Andreas Winter
comments: 4+1+1 pages, revtex4. In v2 we have removed the claim about multi-party squashed entanglement (see new Appendix B for why) and corrected other smaller mistakes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4184
abstract: Squashed entanglement [Christandl/Winter, JMP 45(3):829-840 (2004)] is a monogamous entanglement measure, which implies that highly extendible states have small value of the squashed entanglement. Here, invoking a recent inequality for the quantum conditional mutual information [Fawzi/Renner, arXiv:1410.0664], we show the converse, that a small value of squashed entanglement implies that the state is close to a highly extendible state. As a corollary, we establish an alternative proof of the faithfulness of squashed entanglement [Brandao/Christandl/Yard, CMP 306:805-830 (2011)]. We briefly discuss the pre-history of the Fawzi-Renner bound and related conjectures, and close by advertising a potentially far-reaching generalization to the monotonicity of the relative entropy.

id: 1410.4195
title: High visibility two photon interference of frequency time entangled photons generated in a quasi phase matched AlGaAs waveguide
authors: Peyman Sarrafi, Eric Y. Zhu, Barry M. Holmes, David C. Hutchings, Stewart Aitchison, Li Qian
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 39, No. 17, September 1, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4195
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the frequency time entanglement of photon pairs produced in a CW pumped quasi phased matched AlGaAs superlattice waveguide. A visibility of 96.0+-0.7% without background subtraction has been achieved, which corresponds the violation of Bell inequality by 52 standard deviations.

id: 1410.4257
title: Magneto-optical properties of paramagnetic superrotors
authors: A. A. Milner, A. Korobenko, J. Flo?, I. Sh. Averbukh, V. Milner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4257
abstract: We study the dynamics of paramagnetic molecular superrotors in an external magnetic field. Optical centrifuge is used to create dense ensembles of oxygen molecules in ultra-high rotational states. It is shown for the first time, that the gas of rotating molecules becomes optically birefringent in the presence of magnetic field. The discovered effect of "magneto-rotational" birefringence indicates preferential alignment of molecular axes along the field direction. Our experimental observations are supported by numerical calculations and explained by means of an intuitive qualitative model, in which the influence of the applied magnetic field on the distribution of molecular axes is mediated by the spin-rotation coupling. We show the magnetic reversal of the rotational Raman signal, as well as investigate the robustness of the induced magneto-rotational birefringence with respect to collisions.

id: 1410.4285
title: Negativity of quantumness and non-Markovianity in a qubit coupled to a thermal Ising spin bath system
authors: Zheng-Da Hu, Yixin Zhang, Ye-Qi Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 62 (2014) 634
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4285
abstract: We propose a scheme to characterize the non-Markovian dynamics and quantify the non-Markovianity via the non-classicality measured by the negativity of quantumness. By considering a qubit in contact with a critical Ising spin bath and introducing an ancilla, we show that revivals of negativity of quantumness indicate the non-Markovian dynamics. Furthermore, a normalized measure of non-Markovianity based on the negativity of quantumness is introduced and the influences of bath criticality, bath temperature and bath size on the non-Markovianity are discussed. It is shown that, at the critical point, the decay of non-Markovianity versus the size of spin bath is fastest and the non-Markovianity is exactly zero only in the thermodynamic limit. Besides, non-trivial behaviours of negativity of quantumness such as sudden change, double sudden changes and keeping constant are found for different relations between parameters of the initial state. Finally, how the non-classicality of the system is affected by a series of bang-bang pulses is also examined.

id: 1410.4297
title: Quantum Bit Commitment Combinbing with BB84 Protocol
authors: Linxi Zhang, Changhua Zhu, Nan Zhao, Changxing Pei
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4297
abstract: We proposed a new quantum bit commitment scheme in which secret key need not to be provided by other quantum key distribution system. We can get the bit commitment with probability p by adding a waiting time in a frame during operating the BB84 protocol. Then the measurement outcomes can be encrypted by one-time pad with the key generated by BB84 protocol. We can also obtain the redundant secret keys to encrypt other information in this quantum key distribution system.

id: 1410.4318
title: Experimental implementation of optimal linear-optical controlled-unitary gates
authors: Karel Lemr, Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Miloslav Du?ek, Jan Soubusta
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 153602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4318
abstract: We show that it is possible to reduce the number of two-qubit gates needed for the construction of an arbitrary controlled-unitary transformation by up to two times using a tunable controlled-phase gate. On the platform of linear optics, where two-qubit gates can only be achieved probabilistically, our method significantly reduces the amount of components and increases success probability of a two-qubit gate. The experimental implementation of our technique presented in this paper for a controlled single-qubit unitary gate demonstrates that only one tunable controlled-phase gate is needed instead of two standard controlled-NOT gates. Thus, not only do we increase success probability by about one order of magnitude (with the same resources), but also avoid the need for conducting quantum non-demolition measurement otherwise required to join two probabilistic gates. Subsequently, we generalize our method to a higher order, showing that n-times controlled gates can be optimized by replacing blocks of controlled-NOT gates with tunable controlled-phase gates.

id: 1410.4349
title: Informatic error-disturbance relation in the qubit case
authors: Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4349
abstract: In 1927, Heisenberg heuristically disclosed the tradeoff between the error in the measurement and the caused disturbance on another complementary observable. In the quantum theory, most of uncertainty relations are proposed to reveal the amount of unavoidable uncertainty in the measuring process. In this paper, we study the error-disturbance relation from the information viewpoint. We ask how much information, rather than how much uncertainty, can be obtained during the two sequential measurements. To achieve optimal information gain, we argue that the strategy for the "intelligent" prior apparatus is to clone the unknown state, and for the posterior one is to perform the swapping operation. We propose the coarse-grained random access code, and therein information causality as a physical principle can be exploited for deriving the upper-bound of information gain. Finally, we conjecture the information gain of measuring the position and momentum of a quantum object in the coarse-grained way.

id: 1410.4367
title: The Quantum Liouville Equation is non-Liouvillian
authors: Dimitris Kakofengitis, Ole Steuernagel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4367
abstract: The Hamiltonian flow of a classical, time-independent, conservative system is incompressible, it is Liouvillian. The analog of Hamilton's equations of motion for a quantum-mechanical system is the quantum-Liouville equation. It is shown that its associated quantum flow in phase space, Wigner flow, is not incompressible. It gives rise to a quantum analog of classical Hamiltonian vector fields: the Wigner phase space velocity field~$\bm w$, the divergence of which can be unbounded. The loci of such unbounded divergence form lines in phase space which coincide with the lines of zero of the Wigner function. Along these lines exist characteristic pinch points which coincide with stagnation points of the Wigner flow.

id: 1410.4371
title: Bidirectional and tunable single-photons multi-channel quantum router between microwave and optical light
authors: Peng-Cheng Ma, Jian-Qi Zhang, Mang Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1109.4361 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4371
abstract: Routing of photon play a key role in optical communication and quantum networks. Although the quantum routing of signals has been investigated in various systems both in theory and experiment. However, no current theory can route quantum signals between microwave and optical light. Here, we propose an experimentally accessible tunable multi-channel quantum routing proposal using photon-phonon translation in a hybrid opto-electromechanical system. It is the first demonstration that the single-photon of optical frequency can be routed into three different output ports by adjusting microwave power. More important, the two output signals can be selected according to microwave power. Meanwhile, we also demonstrate the vacuum and thermal noise will be insignificant for the optical performance of the single-photon router at temperature of the order of 20 mK. Our proposal may have paved a new avenue towards multi-channel router and quantum network.

id: 1410.4389
title: Photon-pair generation in nonlinear metal-dielectric 1D photonic structures
authors: Dalibor Jav?rek, Jan Pe?ina Jr., Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4389
abstract: Nonlinear metal-dielectric layered structures are shown to be able to efficiently generate entangled photon pairs using spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Increase of electric-field amplitudes in these structures enhanced by the presence of metal layers is sufficient to compensate for losses inside thin metal layers. As an example, photon pairs emitted from a structure composed of alternating nonlinear dielectric GaN layers and metal Ag layers are analyzed in spectral, temporal as well as spatial domains. Also correlations and entanglement between two photons in a pair are determined. Very narrow photon-pair spectra together with strong directionality of photon-pair emission are observed making the photons suitable for photon-atom interactions. Highly enhanced electric-field amplitudes provide high photon-pair generation efficiencies.

id: 1410.4397
title: Parallel Repetition of Free Entangled Games: Simplification and Improvements
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Giannicola Scarpa
comments: 17 pages, this paper is a follow up and supersedes our previous paper 'Parallel Repetition of Entangled Games with Exponential Decay via the Superposed Information Cost' [CS14, arXiv:1310.7787] v2: updated GS affiliation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4397
abstract: In a two-player game, two cooperating but non communicating players, Alice and Bob, receive inputs taken from a probability distribution. Each of them produces an output and they win the game if they satisfy some predicate on their inputs/outputs. The entangled value $\omega^*(G)$ of a game $G$ is the maximum probability that Alice and Bob can win the game if they are allowed to share an entangled state prior to receiving their inputs. The $n$-fold parallel repetition $G^n$ of $G$ consists of $n$ instances of $G$ where Alice and Bob receive all the inputs at the same time and must produce all the outputs at the same time. They win $G^n$ if they win each instance of $G$. Recently, there has been a series of works showing parallel repetition with exponential decay for projection games [DSV13], games on the uniform distribution [CS14] and for free games, i.e. games on a product distribution [JPY13]. This article is meant to be a follow up of [CS14], where we improve and simplify several parts of our previous paper. Our main result is that for any free game $G$ with value $\omega^*(G)=1-\varepsilon$, we have $\omega^*(G^n) \le (1 - \varepsilon^2)^{\Omega(\frac{n}{\log(l)})}$ where $l$ is the size of the output set of the game. This result improves on both the results in [JPY13] and [CS14]. The framework we use can also be extended to free projection games. We show that for a free projection game $G$ with value $\omega^*(G)=1-\varepsilon$, we have $\omega^*(G^n) \le (1 - \varepsilon)^{\Omega(n)}$.

id: 1410.4472
title: Mirror-induced decoherence in hybrid quantum-classical theory
authors: Aniello Lampo, Lorenzo Fratino, Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 90, 042120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4472
abstract: We re-analyse the optomechanical interferometer experiment proposed by Marshall, Simon, Penrose and Bouwmeester with the help of a recently developed quantum-classical hybrid theory. This leads to an alternative evaluation of the mirror induced decoherence. Surprisingly, we find that it behaves essentially in the same way for suitable initial conditions and experimentally relevant parameters, no matter whether the mirror is considered a classical or quantum mechanical object. We discuss the parameter ranges where this result holds and possible implications for a test of spontaneous collapse models, for which this experiment has been designed.

id: 1410.4476
title: Apparatus for measuring the thermal Casimir force at large distances
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 5 pages, 3 encapsulated figures. Revised version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 240405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4476
abstract: We describe a Casimir apparatus based on a differential force measurement between a Au-coated sphere and a planar slab divided in two regions, one of which is made of high-resistivity (dielectric) Si, and the other of Au. The crucial feature of the setup is a semi-transparent plane parallel conducting over-layer, covering both regions. The setup offers two important advantages over existing Casimir setups. On one hand it leads to a large amplification of the difference between the Drude and the plasma prescriptions that are currently used to compute the thermal Casimir force. On the other hand, thanks to the screening power of the over-layer, it is in principle immune from electrostatic forces caused by potential patches on the plates surfaces, that plague present large distance Casimir experiments. If a semi-transparent conductive over-layer with identical patch structure over the Au-Si regions of the plate can be manufactured, similar to the opaque over-layers used in recent searches of non-newtonian gravitational forces based on the isoelectronic technique, the way will be paved for a clear observation of the thermal Casimir force up to separations of several microns, and an unambiguous discrimination between the Drude and the plasma prescriptions.

id: 1410.4478
title: Improved HDRG decoders for qudit and non-Abelian quantum error correction
authors: Adrian Hutter, Daniel Loss, James R. Wootton
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures; v2: to appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 035017 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4478
abstract: Hard-decision renormalization group (HDRG) decoders are an important class of decoding algorithms for topological quantum error correction. Due to their versatility, they have been used to decode systems with fractal logical operators, color codes, qudit topological codes, and non-Abelian systems. In this work, we develop a method of performing HDRG decoding which combines strenghts of existing decoders and further improves upon them. In particular, we increase the minimal number of errors necessary for a logical error in a system of linear size $L$ from $\Theta(L^{2/3})$ to $\Omega(L^{1-\epsilon})$ for any $\epsilon>0$. We apply our algorithm to decoding $D(\mathbb{Z}_d)$ quantum double models and a non-Abelian anyon model with Fibonacci-like fusion rules, and show that it indeed significantly outperforms previous HDRG decoders. Furthermore, we provide the first study of continuous error correction with imperfect syndrome measurements for the $D(\mathbb{Z}_d)$ quantum double models. The parallelized runtime of our algorithm is $\text{poly}(\log L)$ for the perfect measurement case. In the continuous case with imperfect syndrome measurements, the averaged runtime is $O(1)$ for Abelian systems, while continuous error correction for non-Abelian anyons stays an open problem.

id: 1410.4484
title: Interferometric detection of Chern numbers in topological optical lattices
authors: Jian Xu, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4484
abstract: Topological states of matter emergent as a new type of quantum phases, which can be distinguished by their associated topological invariants, e.g., Chern numbers. Currently, there is increasing in-terests toward the physically detection of the new predicted topological phases. Here, we propose an interferometric approach to directly measure the Chern number in a topological optical lattice via detecting the associated Zak phase. We show that this interferometric approach can distinguish Zak phases of plus or minus 2{\pi} from 0 in the first Brillouin zone, and thus provides a new tool to directly detect the Chern number of topological systems. In addition, we demonstrate that this method is feasible under realistic experimental conditions and widely applicable for many systems. Finally, this scheme can be readily generalized to detect high Chern number systems.

id: 1410.4499
title: Spectral Noise Correlations of an Ultrafast Frequency Comb
authors: Roman Schmeissner, Jonathan Roslund, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4499
abstract: Cavity-based noise detection schemes are combined with ultrafast pulse shaping as a means to diagnose the spectral correlations of both the amplitude and phase noise of an ultrafast frequency comb. The comb is divided into ten spectral regions, and the distribution of noise as well as the correlations between all pairs of spectral regions are measured against the quantum limit. These correlations are then represented in the form of classical noise matrices, which furnish a complete description of the underlying comb dynamics. Their eigendecomposition reveals a set of theoretically predicted, decoupled noise modes that govern the dynamics of the comb. Finally, the matrices contain the information necessary to deduce macroscopic noise properties of the comb.

id: 1410.4524
title: Ultrafast time-division demultiplexing of polarization-entangled photons
authors: John M. Donohue, Jonathan Lavoie, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 4 pages main body, 2 pages references, 5 pages supplemental material. 4 figures in main body, 2 figures and 2 tables in supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 163602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4524
abstract: Maximizing the information transmission rate through quantum channels is essential for practical implementation of quantum communication. Time-division multiplexing is an approach for which the ultimate rate requires the ability to manipulate and detect single photons on ultrafast timescales while preserving their quantum correlations. Here we demonstrate the demultiplexing of a train of pulsed single photons using time-to-frequency conversion while preserving their polarization entanglement with a partner photon. Our technique converts a pulse train with 2.69 ps spacing to a frequency comb with 307 GHz spacing which may be resolved using diffraction techniques. Our work enables ultrafast multiplexing of quantum information with commercially available single-photon detectors.

id: 1410.4554
title: Tunable single-photon multi-channel quantum router based on a hybrid optomechanical system
authors: Peng-Cheng Ma, Jian-Qi Zhang, Yin Xiao, Mang Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1410.4371; and text overlap with arXiv:1109.4361 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4554
abstract: Routing of photon play a key role in optical communication networks and quantum networks. Although the quantum routing of signals has been investigated in various systems both in theory and experiment, the general form of quantum routing with multi-output terminals still needs to be explored. Here, we propose an experimentally accessible tunable single-photon multi-channel routing scheme using a optomechanics cavity coulomb coupling to a nanomechanical resonator. The router can extract a single-photon from the coherent input signal directly modulate into three different output channels. More important, the two output signal frequencies can be selected by adjusting Coulomb coupling strength. We also demonstrate the vacuum and thermal noise will be insignificant for the optical performance of the single-photon router at temperature of the order of 20 mK. Our proposal may have paved a new avenue towards multi-channel router and quantum network.

id: 1410.4572
title: Quantum coherence, time-translation symmetry and thermodynamics
authors: Matteo Lostaglio, Kamil Korzekwa, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Published version. Improved and expanded discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 021001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4572
abstract: The first law of thermodynamics imposes not just a constraint on the energy-content of systems in extreme quantum regimes, but also symmetry-constraints related to the thermodynamic processing of quantum coherence. We show that this thermodynamic symmetry decomposes any quantum state into mode operators that quantify the coherence present in the state. We then establish general upper and lower bounds for the evolution of quantum coherence under arbitrary thermal operations, valid for any temperature. We identify primitive coherence manipulations and show that the transfer of coherence between energy levels manifests irreversibility not captured by free energy. Moreover, the recently developed thermo-majorization relations on block-diagonal quantum states are observed to be special cases of this symmetry analysis.

id: 1410.4575
title: Incoherent on-off keying with classical and non-classical light
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Piotr Kuszaj, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Express 23(3), 3170-3175 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4575
abstract: We analyze the performance of on-off keying (OOK) and its restricted version pulse position modulation (PPM) over a lossy narrowband optical channel under the constraint of a low average photon number, when direct detection is used at the output. An analytical approximation for the maximum PPM transmission rate is derived, quantifying the effects of photon statistics on the communication efficiency in terms of the $g^{(2)}$ second-order intensity correlation function of the light source. Enhancement attainable through the use of sub-Poissonian light is discussed.

id: 1410.4621
title: Increase of entanglement by local PT -symmetric operations
authors: Shin-Liang Chen, Guang-Yin Chen, Yueh-Nan Chen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, to appear in PRA (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 054301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4621
abstract: Entanglement plays a central role in the field of quantum information science. It is well known that the degree of entanglement cannot be increased under local operations. Here, we show that the concurrence of a bipartite entangled state can be increased under the local PT -symmetric operation. This violates the property of entanglement monotonicity. We also use the Bell-CHSH and steering inequalities to explore this phenomenon.

id: 1410.4623
title: Information-theoretic Bell inequalities based on Tsallis entropy
authors: Marek Wajs, Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4623
abstract: We numerically investigate entropic Bell inequalities for a pair of entangled qutrits using information-theoretic distances. We show that for this class of inequalities Tsallis entropy is more suitable than Shannon as it reveals non-classicality for a larger set of quantum states. Finally, we find that like probability based inequalities, entropic ones are maximally violated by the non-maximally entangled qutrit state.

id: 1410.4640
title: Precision Measurements Using Squeezed Spin States via Two-axis Counter-twisting Interactions
authors: Emi Yukawa, Gerard Milburn, Masahito Ueda, Kae Nemoto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062132 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4640
abstract: We show that the two-axis counter twisting interaction squeezes a coherent spin state into three states of interest in quantum information, namely, the twin-Fock state, the equally-weighted superposition state, and the state that achieves the Heisenberg limit of optimal sensitivity defined by the Cramer-Rao inequality in addition to the well-known Heisenberg-limited state of spin fluctuations.

id: 1410.4668
title: Sub-diffraction optical manipulation of the chargestate of nitrogen vacancy center in diamond
authors: Xiangdong Chen, Changling Zou, Zhaojun Gong, Chunhua Dong, Guangcan Guo, Fangwen Sun
comments: 21 pages including 5 figs and Supplementary material; Accepted by Light: Science & Applications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4668
abstract: As a potential candidate for quantum computation and metrology, the nitrogen vacancy (NV)center in diamond presented both challenges and opportunities resulted from charge state conversion. By utilizing different lasers for the photon-induced charge state conversion, we achieved the sub-diffraction charge state manipulation. The charge state depletion (CSD) microscopy resolution was improved to 4.1 nm by optimizing the laser pulse sequences. Subsequently, the electron spin state dynamics of adjacent NV centers were selectively detected via the CSD. The experimental results demonstrated that the CSD can improve the spatial resolution of the measurement of NV centers for nanoscale sensing and quantum information.

id: 1410.4678
title: $PT$ symmetry and a dynamical realization of the SU(1,1) algebra
authors: Rabin Banerjee, Pradip Mukherjee
comments: 13 pages. enlarged version explaining quantization procedure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4678
abstract: We show that the elementary modes of the planar harmonic oscillator can be quantised in the framework of quantum mechanics based on pseudo-hermitian hamiltonians. These quantised modes are demonstrated to act as dynamical structures behind a new Jordan - Schwinger realization of the SU(1,1) algebra. This analysis complements the conventional Jordan - Schwinger construction of the SU(2) algebra based on hermitian hamiltonians of a doublet of oscillators.

id: 1410.4702
title: Stochastic extensions of the regularized Schr?dinger-Newton equation
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections, equivalent to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 024016 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4702
abstract: We show that the Schr\"{o}dinger-Newton equation, which describes the nonlinear time evolution of self-gravitating quantum matter, can be made compatible with the no-signaling requirement by elevating it to a stochastic differential equation. In the deterministic form of the equation, as studied so far, the nonlinearity would lead to diverging energy corrections for localized wave packets and would create observable correlations admitting faster-than-light communication. By regularizing the divergencies and adding specific random jumps or a specific Brownian noise process, the effect of the nonlinearity vanishes in the stochastic average and gives rise to a linear and Galilean invariant evolution of the density operator.

id: 1410.4748
title: Quantum data locking for high-rate private communication
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Seth Lloyd
comments: v3: Title is changed. Typos corrected. Close to the published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033022 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4748
abstract: We show that, if the accessible information is used as a security quantifier, quantum channels with a certain symmetry can convey private messages at a tremendously high rate, as high as less than one bit below the rate of non-private classical communication. This result is obtained by exploiting the quantum data locking effect. The price to pay to achieve such a high private communication rate is that accessible information security is in general not composable. However, composable security holds against an eavesdropper who is forced to measure her share of the quantum system within a finite time after she gets it.

id: 1410.4756
title: Photon exchange and entanglement formation during the transmission through a rectangular quantum barrier
authors: Georg Sulyok, Katharina Durstberger-Rennhofer, Johann Summhammer
comments: 6 pages (double column), 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4756
abstract: When a quantum particle traverses a rectangular potential created by a quantum field both photon exchange and entanglement between particle and field take place. We present analytic results for the transition amplitudes of any possible photon exchange processes for an incoming plane wave and initial Fock, thermal and coherent field states. We show that for coherent field states the entanglement correlates the particle's position to the photon number in the field instead of the particle's energy as usual. Besides entanglement formation, remarkable differences to the classical field treatment also appear with respect to the symmetry between photon emission and absorption, resonance effects and if the field initially occupies the vacuum state.

id: 1410.4759
title: Massless Dirac Equation from Fibonacci Discrete-Time Quantum Walk
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Lauchlan Honter, Ben B. Luo, Tatsuaki Wada, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4759
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks can be regarded as quantum dynamical simulators since they can simulate spatially discretized Schr\"{o}dinger, massive Dirac, and Klein-Gordon equations. Here, two different types of Fibonacci discrete-time quantum walks are studied analytically. The first is the Fibonacci coin sequence with a generalized Hadamard coin and demonstrates six-step periodic dynamics. The other model is assumed to have three- or six-step periodic dynamics with the Fibonacci sequence. We analytically show that these models have ballistic transportation properties and continuous limits identical to those of the massless Dirac equation with coin basis change.

id: 1410.4769
title: Electromagnetic space-time crystals. I. Fundamental solution of the Dirac equation
authors: G. N. Borzdov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4769
abstract: The fundamental solution of the Dirac equation for an electron in an electromagnetic field with harmonic dependence on space-time coordinates is obtained. The field is composed of three standing plane harmonic waves with mutually orthogonal phase planes and the same frequency. Each standing wave consists of two eigenwaves with different complex amplitudes and opposite directions of propagation. The fundamental solution is obtained in the form of the projection operator defining the subspace of solutions to the Dirac equation.

id: 1410.4861
title: Efficient Bell state analyzer for time-bin qubits with fast-recovery WSi superconducting single photon detectors
authors: Raju Valivarthi, Itzel Lucio-Martinez, Allison Rubenok, Philip Chan, Francesco Marsili, Varun B.Verma, Matthew D.Shaw, J.A.Stern, Joshua A.Slater, Daniel Oblak, Sae Woo Nam, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 20, pp. 24497-24506 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4861
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a high-efficiency Bell state measurement for time-bin qubits that employs two superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors with short dead-times, allowing projections onto two Bell states, |Psi>- and |Psi+>. Compared to previous implementations for time-bin qubits, this yields an increase in the efficiency of Bell state analysis by a factor of thirty.

id: 1410.4899
title: Non-Gaussian features from Excited Squeezed Vacuum State
authors: Xubing Tang, Fang Gao, Yaoxiong Wan, Jianguang Wu, Feng Shuang
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4899
abstract: In this work, we introduce a non-Gaussian quantum state named excited squeezed vacuum state (ESVS), which can be ustilized to describe quantum light field emitted from the multiphoton quantum process occurred in some restricted quantum systems. We investigate its nonclassical properties such as Wigner distribution in phase space, photon number distribution, the second-order autocorrelation and the quadrature fluctuations. By virtue of the Hilbert-Schmidt distance method, we quantify the non-Gaussianity of the ESVS. Due to the similar photon statistics, we examine the fidelity between the ESVS and the photon-subtraction squeezed vacuum state (PSSVS), and then find the optimal fidelity by monitoring the relevant parameters.

id: 1410.4906
title: Geometric analysis of minimum time trajectories for a two-level quantum system
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: 27 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 90, 062302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4906
abstract: We consider the problem of controlling in minimum time a two-level quantum system which can be subject to a drift. The control is assumed to be bounded in magnitude, and to affect two or three independent generators of the dynamics. We describe the time optimal trajectories in $SU(2)$, the Lie group of possible evolutions for the system, by means of a particularly simple parametrization of the group. A key ingredient of our analysis is the introduction of the optimal front line. This tool allows us to fully characterize the time-evolution of the reachable sets, and to derive the worst-case operators and the corresponding times. The analysis is performed in any regime: controlled dynamics stronger, of the same magnitude or weaker than the drift term, and gives a method to synthesize quantum logic operations on a two-level system in minimum time.

id: 1410.4935
title: Mathematical and physical meaning of the Bell inequalities
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4935
abstract: It is shown that the Bell inequalities are closely related to the triangle inequalities involving distance functions amongst pairs of random variables with values {0,1} . A hidden variables model may be defined as a mapping between a set of quantum projection operators and a set of random variables. The model is noncontextual if there is a joint probability distribution. The Bell inequalities are necessary conditions for its existence. The inequalities are most relevant when measurements are performed at space-like separation, a possibility showing a conflict between quantum mechanics and local realism (Bell's theorem).

id: 1410.4957
title: Transport in a harmonic trap: shortcuts to adiabaticity and robust protocols
authors: D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063425 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4957
abstract: We study the fast transport of a particle or a Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic potential. An exact expression for the final excitation energy in terms of the Fourier transform of the trap acceleration is used to engineer optimal transport protocols (with no final excitation) that are robust with respect to spring-constant errors. The same technique provides a way to design the simultaneous and robust transport of a few non-interacting species that experience different harmonic trap frequencies in the same trap.

id: 1410.4975
title: Algebraic synthesis of time-optimal unitaries in SU(2) with alternating controls
authors: Clarice D. Aiello, Michele Allegra, Boerge Hemmerling, Xiaoting Wang, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4975
abstract: We present an algebraic framework to study the time-optimal synthesis of arbitrary unitaries in SU(2), when the control set is restricted to rotations around two non-parallel axes in the Bloch sphere. Our method bypasses commonly used control-theoretical techniques, and easily imposes necessary conditions on time-optimal sequences. In a straightforward fashion, we prove that time-optimal sequences are solely parametrized by three rotation angles and derive general bounds on those angles as a function of the relative rotation speed of each control and the angle between the axes. Results are substantially different whether both clockwise and counterclockwise rotations about the given axes are allowed, or only clockwise rotations. In the first case, we prove that any finite time-optimal sequence is composed at most of five control concatenations, while for the more restrictive case, we present scaling laws on the maximum length of any finite time-optimal sequence. The bounds we find for both cases are stricter than previously published ones and severely constrain the structure of time-optimal sequences, allowing for an efficient numerical search of the time-optimal solution. Our results can be used to find the time-optimal evolution of qubit systems under the action of the considered control set, and thus potentially increase the number of realizable unitaries before decoherence.

id: 1410.5017
title: Nonlinear quantum optics in the (ultra)strong light-matter coupling
authors: Eduardo S¨¢nchez-Burillo, Juanjo Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Luis Mart¨ªn-Moreno, David Zueco
comments: Comments are wellcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 263604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5017
abstract: The propagation of $N$ photons in one dimensional waveguides coupled to $M$ qubits is discussed, both in the strong and ultrastrong qubit-waveguide coupling. Special emphasis is placed on the characterisation of the nonlinear response and its linear limit for the scattered photons as a function of $N$, $M$, qubit inter distance and light-matter coupling. The quantum evolution is numerically solved via the Matrix Product States technique. Both the time evolution for the field and qubits is computed. The nonlinear character (as a function of $N/M$) depends on the computed observable. While perfect reflection is obtained for $N/M \cong 1$, photon-photon correlations are still resolved for ratios $N/M= 2/20$. Inter-qubit distance enhances the nonlinear response. Moving to the ultrastrong coupling regime, we observe that inelastic processes are \emph{robust} against the number of qubits and that the qubit-qubit interaction mediated by the photons is qualitatively modified. The theory developed in this work modelises experiments in circuit QED, photonic crystals and dielectric waveguides.

id: 1410.5041
title: On the Lorentz invariance of the Square root Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: Mohammad Javad Kazemi, Mohammad H.Barati, Jafar Khodagholizadeh, Alireza Babazadeh
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5041
abstract: We show that the Born's rule is incompatible with Lorentz symmetry of the Square Root Klein-Gordon equation (SRKG equation). It has been demonstrated that the Born rule must be modified in relativistic regime if one wishes to keep the SRKG equation as the correct equation for describing quantum behavior.

id: 1410.5049
title: Exploring maximally multipartite entanglement of even n qubits with N-tangle
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Jian-Xia Qi, Yun-Guang Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5049
abstract: A necessary condition of the maximally multipartite entangled states (MMES) is given via n-tangle. The condition shows that the n-tangle equal zero for the four-, and eight-qubit of MMESs and the n-tangle equal 1 for two- and six- qubits of MMESs. Furthermore,we give the theoretical limitation for maximally ten-qubit and twelve-qubit entangled states. We conjecture that 4n-qubit states of MMES should have n-tangle equal zero and 4n+2-qubit states of MMES should have n-tangle equal one.

id: 1410.5057
title: Signature of Non-Abelian to Abelian Transition in Spin Systems Through Geometric Phase
authors: Debashis De Munshi, Manas Mukherjee
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5057
abstract: Abelian and Non-Abelian evolution of a quantum system manifests differently in the geometric phase acquired by the system under such evolutions. In this work we develop and study, using dressed state techniques, an experimentally realizable spin system which allows us to transit smoothly from non-Abelian to Abelian evolutions by changing externally controllable parameters. The study provides insights into the underlying physical phenomenon governing such a transition allowing us greater control on phase generation in a quantum system. The robustness of geometric phase against fluctuations of the external parameters of the system has also been studied in this work. The noise analysis has direct consequence on the present search for fault tolerant quantum gates using geometric phase.

id: 1410.5059
title: EPR and Nonlocality: Understood in terms of Kuramoto Synchronisation
authors: Antony Tambyrajah
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5059
abstract: A new way of understanding the non local correlation effects observed in the 'Twin Photon' EPR experiment is presented. The theory is based on a vector version of the Kuramoto sychronisation for coupled non linear oscillators. EPR correlation is obtained without the use of superluminal signals. Bell's inequality is used to confirm that the local theory developed can still violate the inequality resolving the non local nature of the correlation.

id: 1410.5079
title: Cryptanalysis and improvement of a quantum-communication-based online shopping mechanism
authors: Wei Huang, Ying-Hui Yang, Heng-Yue Jia
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5079
abstract: Recently, Chou et al. [Electron Commer Res, DOI 10.1007/s10660-014-9143-6] presented a novel controlled quantum secure direct communication protocol which can be used for online shopping. The authors claimed that their protocol was immune to the attacks from both external eavesdropper and internal betrayer. However, we find that this protocol is vulnerable to the attack from internal betrayer. In this paper, we analyze the security of this protocol to show that the controller in this protocol is able to eavesdrop the secret information of the sender (i.e., the customer's shopping information), which indicates that it cannot be used for secure online shopping as the authors expected. Moreover, an improvement to resist the controller's attack is proposed.

id: 1410.5124
title: Resource optimization for fault-tolerant quantum computing
authors: Adam Paetznick
comments: 231 pages, Ph.D. thesis, University of Waterloo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5124
abstract: In this thesis we examine a variety of techniques for reducing the resources required for fault-tolerant quantum computation. First, we show how to simplify universal encoded computation by using only transversal gates and standard error correction procedures, circumventing existing no-go theorems. We then show how to simplify ancilla preparation, reducing the cost of error correction by more than a factor of four. Using this optimized ancilla preparation, we develop improved techniques for proving rigorous lower bounds on the noise threshold. Additional overhead can be incurred because quantum algorithms must be translated into sequences of gates that are actually available in the quantum computer. In particular, arbitrary single-qubit rotations must be decomposed into a discrete set of fault-tolerant gates. We find that by using a special class of non-deterministic circuits, the cost of decomposition can be reduced by as much as a factor of four over state-of-the-art techniques, which typically use deterministic circuits. Finally, we examine global optimization of fault-tolerant quantum circuits under physical connectivity constraints. We adapt techniques from VLSI in order to minimize time and space usage for computations in the surface code, and we develop a software prototype to demonstrate the potential savings.

id: 1410.5126
title: Strongly Secure Quantum Ramp Secret Sharing Constructed from Algebraic Curves over Finite Fields
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: svjour3.cls, 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5126
abstract: The first construction of strongly secure quantum ramp secret sharing by Zhang and Matsumoto had an undesirable feature that the dimension of quantum shares must be larger than the number of shares. By using algebraic curves over finite fields, we propose a new construction in which the number of shares can become arbitrarily large for fixed dimension of shares.

id: 1410.5147
title: Electromagnetic space-time crystals. II. Fractal computational approach
authors: G. N. Borzdov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5147
abstract: A fractal approach to numerical analysis of electromagnetic space-time crystals, created by three standing plane harmonic waves with mutually orthogonal phase planes and the same frequency, is presented. Finite models of electromagnetic crystals are introduced, which make possible to obtain various approximate solutions of the Dirac equation. A criterion for evaluating accuracy of these approximate solutions is suggested.

id: 1410.5148
title: Algebraic and group structure for bipartite three dimensional anisotropic Ising model on a non-local basis
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5148
abstract: Entanglement is considered as a basic physical resource for modern quantum applications in Quantum Information and Quantum Computation theories. Interactions able to generate and sustain entanglement are subject to deep research in order to have understanding and control on it, based on specific physical systems. Atoms, ions or quantum dots are considered a key piece in quantum applications because is a basic piece of developments towards a scalable spin-based quantum computer through universal and basic quantum operations. Ising model is a type of interaction which generates and modi?es entanglement properties of quantum systems based on matter. In this work, a general anisotropic three dimensional Ising model including an inhomogeneous magnetic field is analyzed to obtain their evolution and then, their algebraic properties which are controlled through a set of physical parameters. Evolution denote remarkable group properties when is analyzed in a non local basis, in particular those related with entanglement. These properties give a fruitful arena for further quantum applications and their control.

id: 1410.5171
title: Generating genuine multipartite entanglement via XY-interaction and via projective measurements
authors: Mazhar Ali
comments: 
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 23, No. 12, 120307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5171
abstract: We have studied the generation of multipartite entangled states for the superconducting phase qubits. The experiments performed in this direction have the capacity to generate several specific multipartite entangled states for three and four qubits. Our studies are also important as we have used a computable measure of genuine multipartite entanglement whereas all previous studies analyzed certain probability amplitudes. As a comparison, we have reviewed the generation of multipartite entangled states via von Neumann projective measurements.

id: 1410.5177
title: Entropic uncertainty relations for multiple measurements
authors: Shang Liu, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 11 pages (including the appendix), 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042133 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5177
abstract: We present the entropic uncertainty relations for multiple measurement settings in quantum mechanics. Those uncertainty relations are obtained for both cases with and without the presence of quantum memory. They take concise forms which can be proven in a unified method and easy to calculate. Our results recover the well known entropic uncertainty relations for two observables, which show the uncertainties about the outcomes of two incompatible measurements. Those uncertainty relations are applicable in both foundations of quantum theory and the security of many quantum cryptographic protocols.

id: 1410.5180
title: Minimum guesswork discrimination between quantum states
authors: Weien Chen, Yongzhi Cao, Hanpin Wang, Yuan Feng
comments: 28 pages
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.15, No.9&10 (2015): 0737-0758
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5180
abstract: Error probability is a popular and well-studied optimization criterion in discriminating non-orthogonal quantum states. It captures the threat from an adversary who can only query the actual state once. However, when the adversary is able to use a brute-force strategy to query the state, discrimination measurement with minimum error probability does not necessarily minimize the number of queries to get the actual state. In light of this, we take Massey's guesswork as the underlying optimization criterion and study the problem of minimum guesswork discrimination. We show that this problem can be reduced to a semidefinite programming problem. Necessary and sufficient conditions when a measurement achieves minimum guesswork are presented. We also reveal the relation between minimum guesswork and minimum error probability. We show that the two criteria generally disagree with each other, except for the special case with two states. Both upper and lower information-theoretic bounds on minimum guesswork are given. For geometrically uniform quantum states, we provide sufficient conditions when a measurement achieves minimum guesswork. Moreover, we give the necessary and sufficient condition under which making no measurement at all would be the optimal strategy.

id: 1410.5221
title: Conditions for Anomalous Weak Value
authors: Arun Kumar Pati, Junde Wu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5221
abstract: We show that the weak value of any observable in pre- and post-selected states can be expressed as the sum of the average of the observable in the pre-selected state and an anomalous part. We argue that at a fundamental level the anomalous nature of the weak values arises due to the interference between the post-selected state and another quantum state which is orthogonal to the pre-selected state. This provides a necessary and sufficient condition for the anomalous nature of the weak value of a quantum observable. Furthermore, we prove that for two non-commuting observables the product of their anomalous parts cannot be arbitrarily large.

id: 1410.5260
title: Quantum key distribution with key extracted from basis information
authors: Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5260
abstract: In conventional quantum key distribution protocols, the secure key is normally extracted from the measurement outcomes of the system. Here, a different approach is proposed, where the secure key is extracted from the measurement bases, rather than outcomes. Compared to the original Bennett-Brassard-1984 protocol, the proposed protocol involves no hardware change but modifications in data postprocessing. We show that this protocol is more robust against detector efficiency attacks and photon-number-splitting attacks when practical detectors and photon sources are used.

id: 1410.5278
title: A unidirectional invisible PT-symmetric complex crystal with arbitrary thickness
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 figures, to appear in the Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 485302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5278
abstract: We introduce a new class of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric complex crystals which are almost transparent and one-way reflectionless over a broad frequency range around the Bragg frequency, i.e. unidirectionally invisible, regardless of the thickness $L$ of the crystal. The $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric complex crystal is synthesized by a supersymmetric transformation of an Hermitian square well potential, and exact analytical expressions of transmission and reflection coefficients are given. As $L$ is increased, the transmittance and reflectance from one side remain close to one and zero, respectively, whereas the reflectance from the other side secularly grows like $ \sim L^2$ owing to unidirectional Bragg scattering. This is a distinctive feature as compared to the previously studied case of the complex sinusoidal $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potential $V(x)=V_0 \exp(-2i k_ox)$ at the symmetry breaking point, where transparency breaks down as $L \rightarrow \infty$.

id: 1410.5281
title: Critical quasienergy states in driven many-body systems
authors: Victor Manuel Bastidas, Georg Engelhardt, Pedro Perez-Fernandez, Malte Vogl, Tobias Brandes
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5281
abstract: We discuss singularities in the spectrum of driven many-body spin systems. In contrast to undriven models, the driving allows us to control the geometry of the quasienergy landscape. As a consequence, one can engineer singularities in the density of quasienergy states by tuning an external control. We show that the density of levels exhibits logarithmic divergences at the saddle points, while jumps are due to local minima of the quasienergy landscape. We discuss the characteristic signatures of these divergences in observables like the magnetization, which should be measurable with current technology.

id: 1410.5282
title: Gaussian states and geometrically uniform symmetry
authors: Gianfranco Cariolaro, Roberto Corvaja, Gianfranco Pierobon
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 90, No. 4, Oct. 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5282
abstract: Quantum Gaussian states can be considered as the majority of the practical quantum states used in quantum communications and more generally in quantum information. Here we consider their properties in relation with the geometrically uniform symmetry, a property of quantum states that greatly simplifies the derivation of the optimal decision by means of the square root measurements. In a general framework of the $N$-mode Gaussian states we show the general properties of this symmetry and the application of the optimal quantum measurements. An application example is presented, to quantum communication systems employing pulse position modulation. We prove that the geometrically uniform symmetry can be applied to the general class of multimode Gaussian states.

id: 1410.5345
title: Efficient Quantum Filtering for Quantum Feedback Control
authors: Pierre Rouchon, Jason F. Ralph
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, updated to address comments from reviewer and to correct minor typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012118, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5345
abstract: We discuss an efficient numerical scheme for the recursive filtering of diffusive quantum stochastic master equations. We show that the resultant quantum trajectory is robust and may be used for feedback based on inefficient measurements. The proposed numerical scheme is amenable to approximation, which can be used to further reduce the computational burden associated with calculating quantum trajectories and may allow real-time quantum filtering. We provide a two-qubit example where feedback control of entanglement may be within the scope of current experimental systems.

id: 1410.5353
title: Joint estimation of phase and phase diffusion for quantum metrology
authors: Mihai D. Vidrighin, Gaia Donati, Marco G. Genoni, Xian-Min Jin, W. Steven Kolthammer, M.S. Kim, Animesh Datta, Marco Barbieri, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: Published in Nature Communications. Supplementary Information available at this http URL
journal: Nat. Commun. 5:3532 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5353
abstract: Phase estimation, at the heart of many quantum metrology and communication schemes, can be strongly affected by noise, whose amplitude may not be known, or might be subject to drift. Here, we investigate the joint estimation of a phase shift and the amplitude of phase diffusion, at the quantum limit. For several relevant instances, this multiparameter estimation problem can be effectively reshaped as a two-dimensional Hilbert space model, encompassing the description of an interferometer phase probed with relevant quantum states -- split single-photons, coherent states or N00N states. For these cases, we obtain a trade-off bound on the statistical variances for the joint estimation of phase and phase diffusion, as well as optimum measurement schemes. We use this bound to quantify the effectiveness of an actual experimental setup for joint parameter estimation for polarimetry. We conclude by discussing the form of the trade-off relations for more general states and measurements.

id: 1410.5360
title: Photoionization microscopy in terms of local frame transformation theory
authors: P. Giannakeas, F. Robicheaux, Chris H. Greene
comments: corrected typos, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5360
abstract: Two-photon ionization of an alkali-metal atom in the presence of a uniform electric field is investigated using a standardized form of local frame transformation and generalized quantum defect theory. The relevant long-range quantum defect parameters in the combined Coulombic plus Stark potential is calculated with eigenchannel R-matrix theory applied in the downstream parabolic coordinate $\eta$. The present formulation permits us to express the corresponding microscopy observables in terms of the local frame transformation, and it gives a critical test of the accuracy of the Harmin-Fano theory permitting a scholastic investigation of the claims presented in Zhao {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. A 86, 053413 (2012)].

id: 1410.5384
title: Entanglement over global distances via quantum repeaters with satellite links
authors: K. Boone, J.-P. Bourgoin, E. Meyer-Scott, K. Heshami, T. Jennewein, C. Simon
comments: 5+3 pages, 3+2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5384
abstract: We study entanglement creation over global distances based on a quantum repeater architecture that uses low-earth orbit satellites equipped with entangled photon sources, as well as ground stations equipped with quantum non-demolition detectors and quantum memories. We show that this approach allows entanglement creation at viable rates over distances that are inaccessible via direct transmission through optical fibers or even from very distant satellites.

id: 1410.5388
title: Resonance Scattering of Fast Electrons in a Single Crystal
authors: Gennady V. Kovalev, Nikolay P. Kalashnikov
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: JETP Letters, 1979, Vol. 29, No.6, pp. 302-307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5388
abstract: It is shown that resonance scattering of fast ($pL > >pR > > 1$, $p$ is the particle momentum, $L$ is the longitudinal dimension of the potential, and $R$ is its transverse dimension) charged particles occurs in the extended potential. The data on small-angle scattering of fast electrons in the crystal are interpreted on the basis of the examined effect.

id: 1410.5417
title: Characterization of Electron Density of States in Laser-superposed Channeling Regime
authors: Vesna Berec
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures, Laser and Particle Beams, Cambridge Journals, 2014
journal: Laser and Particle Beams,Volume 33, Issue 01, 2015, pp 1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5417
abstract: We present low-dimensional functionalization and characterization of electron density of states (DOS) using highly correlated/precisely guided proton beam trajectories and a silicon nanocrystal as a target, representing at a same time a versatile nanolaser technique capable for coherent control of atomic quantum states and for scanning the interior of an atom with resolution comparable to 10% of the Bohr radius.

id: 1410.5418
title: The Dirac equation without zitterbewegung
authors: Michael B. Heaney
comments: submitted to Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5418
abstract: This paper presents a relativistic symmetrical interpretation of the Dirac equation in 1+1 dimensions which predicts no zitterbewegung for a free spin-1/2 particle. This could resolve the longstanding puzzle of zitterbewegung in relativistic quantum mechanics, and help clarify the physical meaning of the zitterbewegung currently under investigation in many-particle systems. Together with an earlier paper describing a relativistic symmetrical interpretation of the Klein-Gordon equation \cite{Heaney1}, this new interpretation resolves some inconsistencies in the conventional interpretations of both equations. This new interpretation also makes several experimental predictions that differ from the conventional interpretation of the Dirac equation.

id: 1410.5444
title: Simulating long-distance entanglement in quantum spin chains by superconducting flux qubits
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Miroslav Grajcar, Evgeni Il'ichev, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures. Final manuscript, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022315 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5444
abstract: We investigate the performance of superconducting flux qubits for the adiabatic quantum simulation of long distance entanglement (LDE), namely a finite ground-state entanglement between the end spins of a quantum spin chain with open boundary conditions. As such, LDE can be considered an elementary precursor of edge modes and topological order. We discuss two possible implementations which simulate open chains with uniform bulk and weak end bonds, either with Ising or with XX nearest-neighbor interactions. In both cases we discuss a suitable protocol for the adiabatic preparation of the ground state in the physical regimes featuring LDE. In the first case the adiabatic manipulation and the Ising interactions are realized using dc currents, while in the second case microwaves fields are used to control the smoothness of the transformation and to realize the effective XX interactions. We demonstrate the adiabatic preparation of the end-to-end entanglement in chains of four qubits with realistic parameters and on a relatively fast time scale.

id: 1410.5451
title: Probing angular momentum coherence in a twin-atom interferometer
authors: Carlos R. de Carvalho, Ginette Jalbert, Fran?ois Impens, J. Robert, Aline Medina, F. Zappa, N. V. de Castro Faria
comments: 5 pages, 2 Figures. Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5451
abstract: We propose to use a double longitudinal Stern-Gerlach atom interferometer in order to investigate quantitatively the angular momentum coherence of molecular fragments. Assuming that the dissociated molecule has a null total angular momentum, we investigate the propagation of the corresponding atomic fragments in the apparatus. We show that the envisioned interferometer enables one to distinguish unambiguously a spin-coherent from a spin-incoherent dissociation, as well as to estimate the purity of the angular momentum density matrix associated with the fragments. This setup, which may be seen as an atomic analogue of a twin-photon interferometer, can be used to investigate the suitability of molecule dissociation processes -- such as the metastable hydrogen atoms H($2^2 S$)-H($2^2 S$) dissociation - for coherent twin-atom optics.

id: 1410.5455
title: Chain rules for quantum R¨¦nyi entropies
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis
comments: Same as published version, different formatting
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol 56, number 2, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5455
abstract: We present chain rules for a new definition of the quantum R\'enyi conditional entropy sometimes called the "sandwiched" R\'enyi conditional entropy. More precisely, we prove analogues of the equation $H(AB|C) = H(A|BC) + H(B|C)$, which holds as an identity for the von Neumann conditional entropy. In the case of the R\'enyi entropy, this relation no longer holds as an equality, but survives as an inequality of the form $H_{\alpha}(AB|C) \geqslant H_{\beta}(A|BC) + H_{\gamma}(B|C)$, where the parameters $\alpha, \beta, \gamma$ obey the relation $\frac{\alpha}{\alpha-1} = \frac{\beta}{\beta-1} + \frac{\gamma}{\gamma-1}$ and $(\alpha-1)(\beta-1)(\gamma-1) > 1$; if $(\alpha-1)(\beta-1)(\gamma-1) < 1$, the direction of the inequality is reversed.

id: 1410.5457
title: Upper-bounded and sliced Jaynes- and anti-Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonians and Liouvillians in cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: W. Rosado, G. D. de Moraes Neto, F. O. Prado, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5457
abstract: In this paper, we present a protocol to engineer upper-bounded and sliced Jaynes-Cummings and anti-Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonians in cavity quantum electrodynamics. In the upper-bounded Hamiltonians, the atom-field interaction is confined to a subspace of Fock states ranging from $\left\vert 0\right\rangle $ up to $\left\vert 4\right\rangle $, while in the sliced interaction the Fock subspace ranges from $\left\vert M\right\rangle $ up to $\left\vert M+4\right\rangle $. We also show how to build upper-bounded and sliced Liouvillians irrespective of engineering Hamiltonians. The upper-bounded and sliced Hamiltonians and Liouvillians can be used, among other applications, to generate steady Fock states of a cavity mode and for the implementation of a quantum-scissors device for optical state truncation.

id: 1410.5487
title: Quantum error suppression with commuting Hamiltonians: Two-local is too local
authors: Iman Marvian, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages+5 pages supplementary material, Minor clean up in the appendix and references in v2
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5487
abstract: We consider error suppression schemes in which quantum information is encoded into the ground subspace of a Hamiltonian comprising a sum of commuting terms. Since such Hamiltonians are gapped they are considered natural candidates for protection of quantum information and topological or adiabatic quantum computation. However, we prove that they cannot be used to this end in the 2-local case. By making the favorable assumption that the gap is infinite we show that single-site perturbations can generate a degeneracy splitting in the ground subspace of this type of Hamiltonians which is of the same order as the magnitude of the perturbation, and is independent of the number of interacting sites and their Hilbert space dimensions, just as in the absence of the protecting Hamiltonian. This splitting results in decoherence of the ground subspace, and we demonstrate that for natural noise models the coherence time is proportional to the inverse of the degeneracy splitting. Our proof involves a new version of the no-hiding theorem which shows that quantum information cannot be approximately hidden in the correlations between two quantum systems, and should be of independent interest. The main reason that 2-local commuting Hamiltonians cannot be used for quantum error suppression is that their ground subspaces have only short-range (two-body) entanglement.

id: 1410.5515
title: Generation of non-local evolution loops and exchange operations for quantum control in three dimensional anisotropic Ising model
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5515
abstract: Control of quantum entanglement has been considered as elemental physical resource for quantum applications in Quantum Information and Quantum Computation. Control of entangled states on a couple of atoms, ions or quantum dots are milestones in almost all quantum applications towards a scalable spin-based quantum computers or quantum devices. For magnetic systems, Ising model is an interaction which generates and modi?es entanglement properties of quantum systems based on matter. In addition, when this interaction includes driven magnetic ?elds, it can be controlled to sustain, characterize or modify entanglement and other quantum properties. In this work, recent results about evolution in a general anisotropic three dimensional Ising model including an inhomogeneous magnetic ?eld is considered to obtain some general quantum control e?ects for their sustainability, programmed evolution or transformation: Evolution loops and Exchange operations. This control is achievable through a set of physical parameters, whose prescriptions are reported. The use of a non local basis in the model to express time evolution lets take advantage to describe and control the system, in particular with those issues associated with entanglement and operations mentioned before. Finally, some analysis about equivalent gates based on our development is made including an example with teleportation, using one of the gates constructed.

id: 1410.5530
title: Transparency of PT-symmetric complex potentials for coherent injection
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Joseph Amal Nathan
comments: Ten pages, 4 Figures (11 parts). This new and totally revised manuscript is after we have withdrawn (1308.1270 [quant-ph])
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5530
abstract: It is known that when two identical waves are injected from left and right on a complex PT-symmetric scattering potential the two-port s-matrix can have uni-modular eigenvalues. If this happens for all energies, there occurs a perfect emission of waves at both ends. We call this phenomenon transparency. Using the versatile PT-Symmetric complex Scarf II potential, we demonstrate analytically that the transparency occurs when the potential has real discrete spectrum i.e., when PT-symmetry is exact(unbroken). Next, we find that exactness of PT-symmetry is only sufficient but not necessary for the transparency. Two other PT-symmetric domains of Scarf II reveal transparency without the PT-symmetry being exact. In these two cases there exist only scattering states. In one case the real part of the potential is a well devoid of real discrete spectrum and in the other real part is a barrier. Other numerically solved models also support our findings.

id: 1410.5536
title: Electromagnetic space-time crystals. III. Dispersion relations for partial solutions
authors: G. N. Borzdov
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5536
abstract: Partial solutions of the Dirac equation describing an electron motion in electromagnetic crystals created by plane waves with linear and circular polarizations are treated. It is shown that the electromagnetic crystal formed by circularly polarized waves possesses the spin birefringence.

id: 1410.5592
title: Generalised Virial theorems in Classical and Quantum Physics
authors: C.V.Sukumar
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5592
abstract: Generalisations of the virial theorm in Classical Mechanics and Quantum Mechanics are examined. It is shown that the generalised virial theorem in Quantum Mechanics leads to certain relations between matrix elements. The differences between the generalisations in Classical and Quantum Mechanics are identified. Some results arising from the radial Schr\"odinger equation in Quantum Mechanics are discussed. It is also shown that the generalisations of the virial theorem may be extended to arbitrary number of dimensions.

id: 1410.5594
title: Equivalent power law potentials
authors: C.V.Sukumar
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5594
abstract: It is shown that the radial Schroedinger equation for a power law potential and a particular angular momentum may be transformed using a change of variable into another Schroedinger equation for a different power law potential and a different angular momentum. It is shown that this leads to a mapping of the spectra of the two related power law potentials. It is shown that a similar correspondence between the classical orbits in the two related power law potentials exists. The well known correspondence of the Coulomb and oscillator spectra is a special case of a more general correspondence between power law potentials.

id: 1410.5603
title: Photon Long-Range Repulsive Interaction in the Jaynes-Cummings Lattice with Rydberg Atoms
authors: Yuanwei Zhang, Jingtao Fan, J.-Q. Liang, Jie Ma, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5603
abstract: We propose how to realize a strong photon long-range repulsive interaction by controlling the van der Waals repulsive force between Rydberg atoms located in different cavities in extended Jaynes-Cumings-Hubbard lattices. We find that this photon long-range repulsive interaction can generate complex quantum phases, some of which have no analogy in condensed-matter and atomic physics. For example, without photon hopping, a photon devil's staircase induced by the breaking of long-range translation symmetry can emerge. If photon hopping occurs, we predict a photon-floating solid phase, due to the motion of particle- and hole-like defects. More importantly, for a large chemical potential in the resonant case, the photon hopping can detected by measuring the number of polaritons via resonance fluorescence.

id: 1410.5606
title: Exact solutions for time-optimal control of spin I=1 by NMR
authors: V.P. Shauro
comments: 12 pages, 2 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5606
abstract: We consider the problem of time-optimal control of quadrupole nucleus with the spin I=1 by NMR. In contrast to the conventional methods based on selective pulses, the control is implemented using nonselective pulses separated by free evolution intervals. Using the Cartan decomposition, the system of equations is obtained for finding parameters of a control field. Partial time-optimal solutions for the important single-qutrit gates (selective rotations and quantum Fourier transform) are found. The analytical values of minimum gate implementation times are consistent with the numerical data.

id: 1410.5641
title: The NV center as a quantum actuator: time-optimal control of nuclear spins
authors: Clarice D. Aiello, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5641
abstract: Indirect control of qubits by a quantum actuator has been proposed as an appealing strategy to manipulate qubits that couple only weakly to external fields. While universal quantum control can be easily achieved when the actuator-qubit coupling is anisotropic, the efficiency of this approach is less clear. Here we analyze the time-efficiency of the quantum actuator control. We describe a strategy to find time-optimal control sequence by the quantum actuator and compare their gate times with direct driving, identifying regimes where the actuator control performs faster. As an example, we focus on a specific implementation based on the Nitrogen-Vacancy center electronic spin in diamond (the actuator) and nearby carbon-13 nuclear spins (the qubits).

id: 1410.5653
title: Quantum mechanics as a deterministic theory of a continuum of worlds
authors: Kim Joris Bostr?m
comments: second revision; this paper is a thoroughly reworked and enhanced formulation of ideas published in arXiv1208.5632
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5653
abstract: A non-relativistic quantum mechanical theory is proposed that describes the universe as a continuum of worlds whose mutual interference gives rise to quantum phenomena. A logical framework is introduced to properly deal with propositions about objects in a multiplicity of worlds. In this logical framework, the continuum of worlds is treated similarly to the continuum of time points; both "time" and "world" are considered as mutually independent modes of existence. The theory combines elements of Bohmian mechanics and of Everett's many-worlds interpretation; it has a clear ontology and a set of precisely defined postulates from where the predictions of standard quantum mechanics can be derived. Probability as given by the Born rule emerges as a consequence of insufficient knowledge of observers about which world it is that they live in. The theory describes a continuum of worlds rather than a single world or a discrete set of worlds, so it is similar in spirit to many-worlds interpretations based on Everett's approach, without being actually reducible to these. In particular, there is no splitting of worlds, which is a typical feature of Everett-type theories. Altogether, the theory explains 1) the subjective occurrence of probabilities, 2) their quantitative value as given by the Born rule, and 3) the apparently random "collapse of the wavefunction" caused by the measurement, while still being an objectively deterministic theory.

id: 1410.5664
title: Efficient quantum key distribution scheme with pre-announcing the basis
authors: Jingliang Gao, Changhua Zhu, Heling Xiao
comments: 
journal: EPL (Europhysics Letters), 2014, 105(6): 60003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5664
abstract: We devise a new quantum key distribution scheme that is more efficient than the BB84 protocol. By pre-announcing basis, Alice and Bob are more likely to use the same basis to prepare and measure the qubits, thus achieves a higher efficiency. The error analysis is revised and its security against any eavesdropping is proven briefly. Furthermore we show that, compared with the LCA scheme, our modification can be applied in more quantum channels.

id: 1410.5672
title: Coherence area profiling in multi-spatial-mode squeezed states
authors: B.J. Lawrie, R.C. Pooser, N. Otterstrom
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5672
abstract: The presence of multiple bipartite entangled modes in squeezed states generated by four wave mixing in atomic vapors enables ultra-trace sensing, imaging, and metrology applications that are impossible to achieve with single-spatial-mode squeezed states. For Gaussian seed beams, the spatial distribution of bipartite entangled modes, or coherence areas, across each beam is largely dependent on the spatial modes present in the pump beam, but it has proven difficult to map the distribution of these coherence areas in frequency and space. We demonstrate an accessible method to map the distribution of the coherence areas within these twin beams. We also show that the pump shape can impart different noise properties to each coherence area, and that it is possible to select and detect coherence areas with optimal squeezing with this approach.

id: 1410.5674
title: Estimating the eigenstates of an unknown density operator without damaging it
authors: Jingliang Gao, Feng Cai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5674
abstract: Given n qubits prepared according to the same unknown density operator, we propose a nondestructive measuring method which approximately yields the eigenstates. It is shown that, for any plane which passes through the center point of the Bloch sphere, there exists corresponding projective measurement. By performing these measurements, we can scan the whole Bloch sphere like radar to search for the orientation of and determine the eigenstates. We show the convergency of the measurements. This result actually reveals a mathematical structure of the n-fold Hilbert space .

id: 1410.5688
title: Sequential projective measurements
authors: Jingliang Gao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5688
abstract: We present a general theory for sequential projective measurement. Two bounds are provided for estimating the disturbance accumulation when the measurements are sequentially performed on a quantum state. As an application of the theory, we also show that the Holevo bound can be asymptotically achieved via sequential projective measurements.

id: 1410.5689
title: Quantum entropy-typical subspace and universal data compression
authors: Jingliang Gao, Yanbo Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5689
abstract: The quantum entropy-typical subspace theory is specified. It is shown that any mixed state with von Neumann entropy less than h can be preserved approximately by the entropy-typical subspace with entropy= h. This result implies an universal compression scheme for the case that the von Neumann entropy of the source does not exceed h.

id: 1410.5755
title: Quantum Bochner's theorem for phase spaces built on projective representations
authors: Ninnat Dangniam, Christopher Ferrie
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 115305 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5755
abstract: Bochner's theorem gives the necessary and sufficient conditions on a function such that its Fourier transform corresponds to a true probability density function. In the Wigner phase space picture, quantum Bochner's theorem gives the necessary and sufficient conditions on a function such that it is a quantum characteristic function of a valid (and possibly mixed) quantum state and such that its Fourier transform is a true probability density. We extend this theorem to discrete phase space representations which possess enough symmetry. More precisely, we show that discrete phase space representations that are built on projective unitary representations of abelian groups, with a slight restriction on admissible 2-cocycles, enable a quantum Bochner's theorem.

id: 1410.5771
title: Noisy quantum teleportation: An experimental study on the influence of local environments
authors: Laura T. Knoll, Christian T. Schmiegelow, Miguel A. Larotonda
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5771
abstract: We report experimental results on the action of selected local environments on the fidelity of the quantum teleportation protocol, taking into account non-ideal, realistic entangled resources. Different working conditions are theoretically identified, where a noisy protocol can be made almost insensitive to further addition of noise. We put to test these conditions on a photonic implementation of the quantum teleportation algorithm, where two polarization entangled qubits act as the entangled resource and a path qubit on Alice encodes the state to be teleported. Bob's path qubit is used to implement a local environment, while the environment on Alice's qubit is simulated as a weighed average of different pure states. We obtain a good agreement with the theoretical predictions, we experimentally recreate the conditions to obtain a noise-induced enhancement of the protocol fidelity, and we identify parameter regions of increased insensibility to interactions with specific noisy environments.

id: 1410.5773
title: Introduction to foundations of probability and randomness (for students in physics), Lectures given at the Institute of Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of Science, Lecture-1: Kolmogorov and von Mises
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5773
abstract: The education system for students in physics suffers (worldwide) from the absence of a deep course in probability and randomness. This is the real problem for students interested in quantum information theory, quantum optics, and quantum foundations. Here the primitive treatment of probability and randomness may lead to deep misunderstandings of theory and wrong interpretations of experimental results. Since during my visits (in 2013 and 2014) to IQOQI a number of students (experimenters!) asked me permanently about foundational problems of probability and randomness, especially inter-relation between classical and quantum structures, this year I gave two lectures on these problems. Surprisingly the interest of experiment-oriented students to mathematical peculiarities was very high. This (as well as permanent reminding of prof. Zeilinger) motivated me to write a text based on these lectures which were originally presented in the traditional black-board form. I hope that this might be useful for students from IQOQI as well as other young physicists.

id: 1410.5776
title: Statistical moments for classical and quantum dynamics: formalism and generalized uncertainty relations
authors: David Brizuela
comments: 14 pages. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 085027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5776
abstract: The classical and quantum evolution of a generic probability distribution is analyzed. To that end, a formalism based on the decomposition of the distribution in terms of its statistical moments is used, which makes explicit the differences between the classical and quantum dynamics. In particular, there are two different sources of quantum effects. Distributional effects, which are also present in the classical evolution of an extended distribution, are due to the fact that all moments can not be vanishing because of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. In addition, the non-commutativity of the basic quantum operators add some terms to the quantum equations of motion that explicitly depend on the Planck constant and are not present in the classical setting. These are thus purely-quantum effects. Some particular Hamiltonians are analyzed that have very special properties regarding the evolution they generate in the classical and quantum sector. In addition, a large class of inequalities obeyed by high-order statistical moments, and in particular uncertainty relations that bound the information that is possible to obtain from a quantum system, are derived.

id: 1410.5793
title: UCSB final report for the CSQ program: Review of decoherence and materials physics for superconducting qubits
authors: John M. Martinis, A. Megrant
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5793
abstract: We review progress at UCSB on understanding the physics of decoherence in superconducting qubits. Although many decoherence mechanisms were studied and fixed in the last 5 years, the most important ones are two-level state defects in amorphous dielectrics, non-equilibrium quasiparticles generated from stray infrared light, and radiation to slotline modes. With improved design, the performance of integrated circuit transmons using the Xmon design are now close to world record performance: these devices have the advantage of retaining coherence when scaled up to 9 qubits.

id: 1410.5813
title: Small-energy series for one-dimensional quantum-mechanical models with non-symmetric potentials
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5813
abstract: We generalize a recently proposed small-energy expansion for one-dimensional quantum-mechanical models. The original approach was devised to treat symmetric potentials and here we show how to extend it to non-symmetric ones. Present approach is based on matching the logarithmic derivatives for the left and right solutions to the Schr\"odinger equation at the origin (or any other point chosen conveniently) . As in the original method, each logarithmic derivative can be expanded in a small-energy series by straightforward perturbation theory. We test the new approach on four simple models, one of which is not exactly solvable. The perturbation expansion converges in all the illustrative examples so that one obtains the ground-state energy with an accuracy determined by the number of available perturbation corrections.

id: 1410.5826
title: Characterizing quantum dynamics with initial system-environment correlations
authors: Martin Ringbauer, Christopher J. Wood, Kavan Modi, Alexei Gilchrist, Andrew G. White, Alessandro Fedrizzi
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5826
abstract: We fully characterize the reduced dynamics of an open quantum system initially correlated with its environment. Using a photonic qubit coupled to a simulated environment we tomographically reconstruct a superchannel---a generalised channel that treats preparation procedures as inputs---from measurement of the system alone, despite its coupling to the environment. We introduce novel quantitative measures for determining the strength of initial correlations, and to allow an experiment to be optimised in regards to its environment.

id: 1410.5891
title: Factorization of unitary matrices induced by 3D anisotropic Ising interaction
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5891
abstract: Quantum computation is a continuously growing research area which is based on nature and resources of quantum mechanics, as superposition and entanglement. In its quantum circuits version, the use of convenient and appropriate gates is essential. But while those gates adopt convenient forms for computational algorithms, their design depends on speci?c quantum systems and stu? being used. These gates need manage quantum systems based on physical interactions ruled by quantum Hamiltonians. With this, gates design is restricted to properties and limitations of interactions and physical elements being involved. This work shows how anisotropic Ising interactions, written in a non local basis, lets reproduce elementary operations in terms of which unitary processes can be factorized. In this sense, gates could be written as a sequence of pulses ruled by that interaction driven by magnetic fields, stating alternative results in quantum gates design for magnetic systems.

id: 1410.5916
title: First-Person Plural Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 41 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5916
abstract: Doing justice to quantum mechanics calls for a deeper examination of the relations between our experience, its objects, and its subjects than either third-person interpretations or the first-person singular interpretation of the QBist permit. The metaphysical space opened by Bohr's employment of the "Kantian wedge" between the objective world, about which we can communicate, and the world "in itself" allows quantum mechanics to unfold its metaphysical potential. This in turn makes it possible to go a long way towards bridging the epistemological gap between the empirical and transcendental conceptions of reality.

id: 1410.5924
title: Reaching Quantum Consensus with Directed Links: Missing Symmetry and Switching Interactions
authors: Guodong Shi, Shuangshuang Fu, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5924
abstract: In this paper, we study consensus seeking of quantum networks under directed interactions defined by a set of permutation operators among a network of qubits. The state evolution of the quantum network is described by a continuous-time master equation, for which we establish an unconditional convergence result indicating that the network state always converges with the limit determined by the generating subgroup of the permutations making use of the Perron-Frobenius theory. We also give a tight graphical criterion regarding when such limit admits a reduced-state consensus. Further, we provide a clear description to the missing symmetry in the reduced-state consensus from a graphical point of view, where the information-flow hierarchy in quantum permutation operators is characterized by different layers of information-induced graphs. Finally, we investigate quantum synchronization in the presence of network Hamiltonian, study quantum consensus conditions under switching interactions, and present a few numerical examples illustrating the obtained results.

id: 1410.5972
title: A Fabry-Perot interferometer with quantum mirrors: nonlinear light transport and rectification
authors: F. Fratini, E. Mascarenhas, L. Safari, J-Ph. Poizat, D. Valente, A. Auff¨¨ves, D. Gerace, M. F. Santos
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 243601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5972
abstract: Optical transport represents a natural route towards fast communications, and it is currently used in large scale data transfer. The progressive miniaturization of devices for information processing calls for the microscopic tailoring of light transport and confinement at length scales appropriate for the upcoming technologies. With this goal in mind, we present a theoretical analysis of a one-dimensional Fabry-Perot interferometer built with two highly saturable nonlinear mirrors: a pair of two-level systems. Our approach captures non-linear and non-reciprocal effects of light transport that were not reported previously. Remarkably, we show that such an elementary device can operate as a microscopic integrated optical rectifier.

id: 1410.5974
title: Some applications of uncertainty relations in quantum information
authors: Archan S. Majumdar, Tanumoy Pramanik
comments: Based on review talk given at the International Programme on Quantum Information, Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar, February 2014. To be published as Conference Proceedings in IJQI style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5974
abstract: We discuss some applications of various versions of uncertainty relations for both discrete and continuous variables in the context of quantum information theory. The Heisenberg uncertainty relation enables demonstration of the EPR paradox. Entropic uncertainty relations are used to reveal quantum steering for non-Gaussian continuous variable states. Entropic uncertainty relations for discrete variables are studied in the context of quantum memory where fine-graining yields the optimum lower bound of uncertainty. The fine-grained uncertainty relation is used to obtain connections between uncertainty and the nonlocality of retrieval games for bipartite and tipartite systems. The Robertson-Schrodinger uncertainty relation is applied for distinguishing pure and mixed states of discrete variables.

id: 1410.6007
title: Generalized mean field description of entanglement in dimerized spin systems
authors: A. Boette, R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa, J. M. Matera
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures. Final version
journal: Physical Review B 91, 064428 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6007
abstract: We discuss a generalized self-consistent mean field (MF) treatment, based on the selection of an arbitrary subset of operators for representing the system density matrix, and its application to the problem of entanglement evaluation in composite quantum systems. As a specific example, we examine in detail a pair MF approach to the ground state (GS) of dimerized spin 1/2 systems with anisotropic ferromagnetic-type XY and XYZ couplings in a transverse field, including chains and arrays with first neighbor and also longer range couplings. The approach is fully analytic and able to capture the main features of the GS of these systems, in contrast with the conventional single spin MF. Its phase diagram differs significantly from that of the latter, exhibiting (Sz) parity breaking just in a finite field window if the coupling between pairs is sufficiently weak, together with a fully dimerized phase below this window and a partially aligned phase above it. It is then shown that through symmetry restoration, the approach is able to correctly predict not only the concurrence of a pair, but also its entanglement with the rest of the chain, which shows a pronounced peak in the parity breaking window. Perturbative corrections allow to reproduce more subtle observables like the entanglement between weakly coupled spins and the low lying energy spectrum. All predictions are tested against exact results for finite systems.

id: 1410.6008
title: Deterministic superreplication of one-parameter unitary transformations
authors: W. D¨¹r, P. Sekatski, M. Skotiniotis
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. The title has changed from Deterministic Super-replication of unitary operators to Deterministic Superreplication of One-Parameter Unitary Transformations to reflect the title of the published version. Version 2 is the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120503 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6008
abstract: We show that one can deterministically generate out of $N$ copies of an unknown unitary operation up to $N^2$ almost perfect copies. The result holds for all operations generated by a Hamiltonian with an unknown interaction strength. This generalizes a similar result in the context of phase covariant cloning where, however, super-replication comes at the price of an exponentially reduced probability of success. We also show that multiple copies of unitary operations can be emulated by operations acting on a much smaller space, e.g., a magnetic field acting on a single $n$-level system allows one to emulate the action of the field on $n^2$ qubits.

id: 1410.6032
title: Discrete Feynman propagator for the Weyl quantum walk in 2+1 dimensions
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, N. Mosco, P. Perinotti, A. Tosini
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6032
abstract: Recently quantum walks have been considered as a possible fundamental description of the dynamics of relativistic quantum fields. Within this scenario we derive the analytical solution of the Weyl walk in 2+1 dimensions. We present a discrete path-integral formulation of the Feynman propagator based on the binary encoding of paths on the lattice. The derivation exploits a special feature of the Weyl walk, that occurs also in other dimensions, that is closure under multiplication of the set of the walk transition matrices. This result opens the perspective of a similar solution in the 3+1 case.

id: 1410.6112
title: Calculation of two-centre two-electron integrals over Slater-type orbitals revisited. I. Coulomb and hybrid integrals
authors: Micha? Lesiuk, Robert Moszynski
comments: 
journal: M. Lesiuk and R. Moszynski, Phys. Rev. E 90, 063318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6112
abstract: In this paper, which constitutes the first part of the series, we consider calculation of two-centre Coulomb and hybrid integrals over Slater-type orbitals (STOs). General formulae for these integrals are derived with no restrictions on the values of the quantum numbers and nonlinear parameters. Direct integration over the coordinates of one of the electrons leaves us with the set of overlap-like integrals which are evaluated by using two distinct methods. The first one is based on the transformation to the ellipsoidal coordinates system and the second utilises a recursive scheme for consecutive increase of the angular momenta in the integrand. In both methods simple one-dimensional numerical integrations are used in order to avoid severe digital erosion connected with the straightforward use of the alternative analytical formulae. It is discussed that the numerical integration does not introduce a large computational overhead since the integrands are well-behaved functions, calculated recursively with decent speed. Special attention is paid to the numerical stability of the algorithms. Applicability of the resulting scheme over a large range of the nonlinear parameters is tested on examples of the most difficult integrals appearing in the actual calculations including at most 7i-type functions (l=6).

id: 1410.6113
title: Calculation of two-centre two-electron integrals over Slater-type orbitals revisited. II. Neumann expansion of the exchange integrals
authors: Micha? Lesiuk, Robert Moszynski
comments: 
journal: M. Lesiuk and R. Moszynski, Phys. Rev. E 90, 063319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6113
abstract: In this paper we consider calculation of two-centre exchange integrals over Slater-type orbitals (STOs). We apply the Neumann expansion of the Coulomb interaction potential and consider calculation of all basic quantities which appear in the resulting expression. Analytical closed-form equations for all auxiliary quantities have already been known but they suffer from large digital erosion when some of the parameters are large or small. We derive two differential equations which are obeyed by the most di?cult basic integrals. Taking them as a starting point, useful series expansions for small parameter values or asymptotic expansions for large parameter values are systematically derived. The resulting novel expansions replace the corresponding analytical expressions when the latter introduce significant cancellations. Additionally, we reconsider numerical integration of some necessary quantities and present a new way to calculate the integrand with a controlled precision. All proposed methods are combined to lead to a general, stable algorithm. We perform extensive numerical tests of the introduced expressions to verify their validity and usefulness. Advances reported here provide methodology to compute two-electron exchange integrals over STOs for a broad range of the nonlinear parameters and large angular momenta.

id: 1410.6191
title: Measurement and control of a mechanical oscillator at its thermal decoherence rate
authors: D. J. Wilson, V. Sudhir, N. Piro, R. Schilling, A. Ghadimi, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures; typos corrected in main text and figure 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6191
abstract: In real-time quantum feedback protocols, the record of a continuous measurement is used to stabilize a desired quantum state. Recent years have seen highly successful applications in a variety of well-isolated micro-systems, including microwave photons and superconducting qubits. By contrast, the ability to stabilize the quantum state of a tangibly massive object, such as a nanomechanical oscillator, remains a difficult challenge: The main obstacle is environmental decoherence, which places stringent requirements on the timescale in which the state must be measured. Here we describe a position sensor that is capable of resolving the zero-point motion of a solid-state, nanomechanical oscillator in the timescale of its thermal decoherence, a critical requirement for preparing its ground state using feedback. The sensor is based on cavity optomechanical coupling, and realizes a measurement of the oscillator's displacement with an imprecision 40 dB below that at the standard quantum limit, while maintaining an imprecision-back-action product within a factor of 5 of the Heisenberg uncertainty limit. Using the measurement as an error signal and radiation pressure as an actuator, we demonstrate active feedback cooling (cold-damping) of the 4.3 MHz oscillator from a cryogenic bath temperature of 4.4 K to an effective value of 1.1$\pm$0.1 mK, corresponding to a mean phonon number of 5.3$\pm$0.6 (i.e., a ground state probability of 16%). Our results set a new benchmark for the performance of a linear position sensor, and signal the emergence of engineered mechanical oscillators as practical subjects for measurement-based quantum control.

id: 1410.6220
title: Quantum algorithms for shortest paths problems in structured instances
authors: Aran Nayebi, Virginia Vassilevska Williams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6220
abstract: We consider the quantum time complexity of the all pairs shortest paths (APSP) problem and some of its variants. The trivial classical algorithm for APSP and most all pairs path problems runs in $O(n^3)$ time, while the trivial algorithm in the quantum setting runs in $\tilde{O}(n^{2.5})$ time, using Grover search. A major open problem in classical algorithms is to obtain a truly subcubic time algorithm for APSP, i.e. an algorithm running in $O(n^{3-\varepsilon})$ time for constant $\varepsilon>0$. To approach this problem, many truly subcubic time classical algorithms have been devised for APSP and its variants for structured inputs. Some examples of such problems are APSP in geometrically weighted graphs, graphs with small integer edge weights or a small number of weights incident to each vertex, and the all pairs earliest arrivals problem. In this paper we revisit these problems in the quantum setting and obtain the first nontrivial (i.e. $O(n^{2.5-\varepsilon})$ time) quantum algorithms for the problems.

id: 1410.6239
title: Laser threshold magnetometer reaching attotesla precision
authors: Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures + appendix, references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6239
abstract: We propose a new type of sensor, which uses diamond containing the optically active nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centres as a laser medium. The magnetometer can be operated at room-temperature and generates light that can be readily fibre coupled, thereby permitting use in industrial applications and remote sensing. By combining laser pumping with a radio-frequency Rabi-drive field, an external magnetic field changes the fluorescence of the NV centres. We use this change in fluorescence level to push the laser above threshold, turning it on with an intensity controlled by the external magnetic field, which provides a coherent amplification of the readout signal with very high contrast. This provides the advantage over conventional NV-based magnetometers which use fluorescence measurements, based on incoherent photon emission, and are currently experimentally limited to few $\rm{nT}/\sqrt{\rm{Hz}}$. By contrast we predict that an NV-based laser threshold magnetometer with a volume of 1mm$^3$ can achieve shot-noise limited d.c.~sensitivity of $1.42~\rm{aT}/\sqrt{\rm{Hz}}$ and a.c.~sensitivity of $2.34~\rm{aT}/\sqrt{\rm{Hz}}$. We term our approach laser threshold magnetometry (LTM).

id: 1410.6252
title: Weak-value amplification: state of play
authors: George C. Knee, Joshua Combes, Christopher Ferrie, Erik M. Gauger
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6252
abstract: Weak values arise in quantum theory when the result of a weak measurement is conditioned on a subsequent strong measurement. The majority of the trials are discarded, leaving only very few successful events. Intriguingly those can display a substantial signal amplification. This raises the question of whether weak values carry potential to improve the performance of quantum sensors, and indeed a number of impressive experimental results suggested this may be the case. By contrast, recent theoretical studies have found the opposite: using weak-values to obtain an amplification generally worsens metrological performance. This survey summarises the implications of those studies, which call for a reappraisal of weak values' utility and for further work to reconcile theory and experiment.

id: 1410.6254
title: Local Unitary Invariants for Multipartite Quantum Systems
authors: Jing Wang, Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. v62, No. 14427, p 673-p676 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6254
abstract: We present an approach of constructing invariants under local unitary transformations for multipartite quantum systems. The invariants constructed in this way can be complement to that in [Science 340 (2013) 1205-1208]. Detailed examples are given to compute such invariant in detail. It is shown that these invariants can be used to detect the local unitary equivalence of degenerated quantum states.

id: 1410.6304
title: Near-infrared single-photon spectroscopy of a whispering gallery mode resonator using energy-resolving transition edge sensors
authors: Michael F?rtsch, Thomas Gerrits, Martin J. Stevens, Dmitry Strekalov, Gerhard Schunk, Josef U. F¨¹rst, Ulrich Vogl, Florian Sedlmeir, Harald G. L. Schwefel, Gerd Leuchs, Sae Woo Nam, Christoph Marquardt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6304
abstract: We demonstrate a method to perform spectroscopy of near-infrared single photons without the need of dispersive elements. This method is based on a photon energy resolving transition edge sensor and is applied for the characterization of widely wavelength tunable narrow-band single photons emitted from a crystalline whispering gallery mode resonator. We measure the emission wavelength of the generated signal and idler photons with an uncertainty of up to 2 nm.

id: 1410.6312
title: Non-equilibrium thermodynamics approach to open quantum systems
authors: Vitalii Semin, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 052112 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6312
abstract: Open quantum systems are studied from the thermodynamical point of view unifying the principle of maximum informational entropy and the hypothesis of relaxation times hierarchy. The result of the unification is a non-Markovian and local in time master equation that provides a direct connection of dynamical and thermodynamical properties of open quantum systems. The power of the approach is illustrated with the application to the damped harmonic oscillator and the damped driven two-level system resulting in analytical expressions for the non-Markovian and non-equilibrium entropy and inverse temperature.

id: 1410.6317
title: Quantum correlations of two qubits interacting with a macroscopic medium
authors: Yan Liu, Jing Lu, Lan Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6317
abstract: We consider two particles of spin-1/2 interacting with a one-dimensional N-spin array, which is an exactly solvable model. The dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord (QD) of the spins of the two particles is investigated by regarding the 1D N-spin array as the environment. It is found that although the entanglement may suffers a sudden death and a sudden birth in the evolution, it can neither be generated nor become larger than its initial value. Different from the entanglement dynamics, QD can be amplified, and even be generated by the interaction between particles and the common environment. We also observe that QD decays asymptotically to zero and later experiences a rival when the average number of excitation in the 1D N-spin array becomes larger in the case of nonzero inter-distance between two particles.

id: 1410.6325
title: Classical dynamical localization
authors: Italo Guarneri, Giulio Casati, Volker Karle
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 174101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6325
abstract: We consider classical models of the kicked rotor type, with piecewise linear kicking potentials designed so that momentum changes only by multiples of a given constant. Their dynamics display quasi-localization of momentum, or quadratic growth of energy, depending on the arithmetic nature of the constant. Such purely classical features mimic paradigmatic features of the {\it quantum} kicked rotor, notably dynamical localization in momentum, or quantum resonances. We present a heuristic explanation, based on a classical phase space generalization of a well known argument, that maps the quantum kicked rotor on a tight-binding model with disorder. Such results suggest reconsideration of generally accepted views, that dynamical localization and quantum resonances are a pure result of quantum coherence.

id: 1410.6346
title: Concentrating Information
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Soojoon Lee, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6346
abstract: We introduce the concentrated information of tripartite quantum states. For three parties Alice, Bob and Charlie, it is defined as the maximal mutual information achievable between Alice and Charlie via local operations and classical communication performed by Charlie and Bob. The gap between classical and quantum concentrated information is shown to be an operational figure of merit for a state merging protocol involving shared mixed states and no distributed entanglement. We derive upper and lower bounds on the concentrated information, and obtain a closed expression for arbitrary pure tripartite states in the asymptotic setting. In this situation, one-way classical communication is shown to be sufficient for optimal information concentration.

id: 1410.6370
title: Dissipative Quantum Metrology with Spin Cat States
authors: Jiahao Huang, Xizhou Qin, Honghua Zhong, Yongguan Ke, Chaohong Lee
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6370
abstract: The maximally entangled states are excellent candidates for achieving Heisenberg-limited measurements in ideal quantum metrology, however, they are fragile against dissipation such as particle losses and their achievable precisions may become even worse than the standard quantum limit (SQL). Here we present a robust high-precision measurement scheme via spin cat states (a kind of non-Gaussian entangled states in superposition of two spin coherent states) in the presence of particle losses. The input spin cat states are of excellent robustness against particle losses and their achievable precisions may still beat the SQL. For realistic measurements based upon our scheme, comparing with the population measurement, the parity measurement is more suitable for yielding higher precisions. In phase measurement with realistic dissipative systems of bosons, our scheme provides a robust and realizable way to achieve high-precision measurements beyond the SQL.

id: 1410.6380
title: Entanglement generation in the ultra-strongly coupled Rabi model
authors: Matteo Bina, Stefano Maffezzoli Felis, Stefano Olivares
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; submitted to the special issue of International Journal of Quantum Information as contribution to the Quantum 2014 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6380
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of the quantum Rabi model for two qubits interacting through a common bosonic field mode (resonator), focusing on the generation and detection of maximally entangled Bell states. We obtain analytical results for the unitary dynamics of this system in the slow-qubit (or degenerate) regime, considering ultra-strong coupling between qubits and resonator mode, for which the rotating wave approximation is no longer applicable. We also numerically investigate the dynamics beyond the slow-qubit condition in order to study the validity of the model in the presence of less strict conditions.

id: 1410.6383
title: Quantum spin dynamics
authors: Robert Wieser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6383
abstract: The classical Landau-Lifshitz equation has been derived from quantum mechanics. Starting point is the assumption of a non-Hermitian Hamilton operator to take the energy dissipation into account. The corresponding quantum mechanical time dependent Schr\"odinger, Liouville and Heisenberg equation have been described and the similarities and differences between classical and quantum mechanical spin dynamics have been discussed. Furthermore, a time dependent Schr\"odinger equation corresponding to the classical Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation and two ways to include temperature into the quantum mechanical spin dynamics have been proposed.

id: 1410.6419
title: Detecting arbitrary quantum errors via stabilizer measurements on a sublattice of the surface code
authors: A. D. C¨®rcoles, Easwar Magesan, Srikanth J. Srinivasan, Andrew W. Cross, M. Steffen, Jay M. Gambetta, Jerry M. Chow
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6419
abstract: To build a fault-tolerant quantum computer, it is necessary to implement a quantum error correcting code. Such codes rely on the ability to extract information about the quantum error syndrome while not destroying the quantum information encoded in the system. Stabilizer codes are attractive solutions to this problem, as they are analogous to classical linear codes, have simple and easily computed encoding networks, and allow efficient syndrome extraction. In these codes, syndrome extraction is performed via multi-qubit stabilizer measurements, which are bit and phase parity checks up to local operations. Previously, stabilizer codes have been realized in nuclei, trapped-ions, and superconducting qubits. However these implementations lack the ability to perform fault-tolerant syndrome extraction which continues to be a challenge for all physical quantum computing systems. Here we experimentally demonstrate a key step towards this problem by using a two-by-two lattice of superconducting qubits to perform syndrome extraction and arbitrary error detection via simultaneous quantum non-demolition stabilizer measurements. This lattice represents a primitive tile for the surface code, which is a promising stabilizer code for scalable quantum computing. Furthermore, we successfully show the preservation of an entangled state in the presence of an arbitrary applied error through high-fidelity syndrome measurement. Our results bolster the promise of employing lattices of superconducting qubits for larger-scale fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: 1410.6471
title: Efficient Test to Demonstrate Genuine Nonlocality in Multipartite Scenario
authors: Kaushiki Mukherjee, Biswajit Paul, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, revtex, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6471
abstract: According to the studies of genuine tripartite nonlocality in discrete variable quantum systems conducted so far, Svetlichny inequality is considered as the best Bell-type inequality to detect genuine (three way) nonlocality of pure tripartite genuine entangled states. In the present work, we have considered another Bell-type inequality (which has been reported as the $99$-th facet of $NS_2$ local polytope in (J.-D. Bancal, et.al.,Phys. Rev.A \textbf{88}, 014102 (2013)), to reveal genuine tripartite nonlocality of GGHZ class and a subclass of extended GHZ class states. We compare the violation of this inequality with Svetlichny inequality which reveals the efficiency of the former inequality over the latter to demonstrate genuine nonlocality using the above classes of quantum states. Even in some cases discord monogamy score can be used as a better measure of quantum correlation over Svetlichny inequality for those classes of pure states. Besides, the $99$-th facet inequality is found efficient not only for revealing genuine nonlocal behavior of correlations emerging in systems using pure entangled states but also in some cases of mixed entangled states.

id: 1410.6510
title: Antibunching and unconventional photon blockade with Gaussian squeezed states
authors: Marc-Antoine Lemonde, Nicolas Didier, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063824 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6510
abstract: Photon antibunching is a quantum phenomenon typically observed in strongly nonlinear systems where photon blockade suppresses the probability for detecting two photons at the same time. Antibunching has also been reported with Gaussian states, where optimized amplitude squeezing yields classically forbidden values of the intensity correlation, $g^{(2)}(0)<1$. As a consequence, observing antibunching is not necessarily a signature of photon-photon interactions. To clarify the significance of the intensity correlations, we derive a sufficient condition for deducing if a field is non-Gaussian based on a $g^{(2)}(0)$ measurement. We then show that the Gaussian antibunching obtained with a degenerate parametric amplifier is close to the ideal case reached using dissipative squeezing protocols. We finally shed light on the so-called unconventional photon blockade effect predicted in a driven two-cavity setup with surprisingly weak Kerr nonlinearities, stressing that it is a particular realization of optimized Gaussian amplitude squeezing.

id: 1410.6525
title: Quantum Darwinism and Computability Theory
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6525
abstract: This paper examines whether unitary evolution alone is sufficient to explain emergence of the classical world from the perspective of computability theory. Specifically, it looks at the problem of how the choice related to the measurement is made by the observer viewed as a quantum system. In interpretations where the system together with the observers is completely described by unitary transformations, the observer cannot make any choices and so measurement is impossible. From the perspective of computability theory, a quantum machine cannot halt and so it cannot observe the computed state, indicating that unitarity alone does not explain all matter processes. Further it is argued that the consideration of information and observation requires an overarching system of knowledge and expectations about outcomes.

id: 1410.6550
title: One-Way Deficit of Two Qubit X States
authors: Yao-Kun Wang, Naihuan Jing, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6550
abstract: Quantum deficit originates in questions regarding work extraction from quantum systems coupled to a heat bath [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 180402 (2002)]. It links quantum correlations with quantum thermodynamics and provides a new standpoint for understanding quantum non-locality. In this paper, we propose a new method to evaluate the one-way deficit for a class of two-qubit states. The dynamic behavior of the one-way deficit under decoherence channel is investigated and it is shown that the one-way deficit of the X states with five parameters is more robust against the decoherence than the entanglement.

id: 1410.6565
title: Macroscopic quantum superposition of spin ensembles with ultra-long coherence times via superradiant masing
authors: Liang Jin, Sen Yang, J?rg Wrachtrup, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6565
abstract: Macroscopic quantum phenomena such as lasers, Bose-Einstein condensates, superfluids, and superconductors are of great importance in foundations and applications of quantum mechanics. In particular, quantum superposition of a large number of spins in solids is highly desirable for both quantum information processing and ultrasensitive magnetometry. Spin ensembles in solids, however, have rather short collective coherence time (typically less than microseconds). Here we demonstrate that under realistic conditions it is possible to maintain macroscopic quantum superposition of a large spin ensemble (such as about ~10^{14} nitrogen-vacancy center electron spins in diamond) with an extremely long coherence time ~10^8 sec under readily accessible conditions. The scheme, following the mechanism of superradiant lasers, is based on superradiant masing due to coherent coupling between collective spin excitations (magnons) and microwave cavity photons. The coherence time of the macroscopic quantum superposition is the sum of the magnon life time and the cavity lifetime, further elongated by the total number of coherent magnons and photons, which have macroscopic values when masing occurs. The macroscopic quantum coherence of spin ensembles can be exploited for magnetometry with sensitivity ~10 fT/(Hz)^{1/2}. The long-living collective states of spin ensembles in solids will provide a new platform for studying macroscopic quantum phenomena and are useful for quantum technologies.

id: 1410.6579
title: Feedback Policies for Measurement-based Quantum State Manipulation
authors: Shuangshuang Fu, Guodong Shi, Alexandre Proutiere, Matthew R. James
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6579
abstract: In this paper, we propose feedback designs for manipulating a quantum state to a target state by performing sequential measurements. In light of Belavkin's quantum feedback control theory, for a given set of (projective or non-projective) measurements and a given time horizon, we show that finding the measurement selection policy that maximizes the probability of successful state manipulation is an optimal control problem for a controlled Markovian process. The optimal policy is Markovian and can be solved by dynamical programming. Numerical examples indicate that making use of feedback information significantly improves the success probability compared to classical scheme without taking feedback. We also consider other objective functionals including maximizing the expected fidelity to the target state as well as minimizing the expected arrival time. The connections and differences among these objectives are also discussed.

id: 1410.6623
title: Position probability density function for a system of mutually exclusive particles in one dimension
authors: Rasool Kheiry, Shahram Salehi
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6623
abstract: Position probability distribution of a set of massy mutually exclusive particles in one dimension has been defined. Examples with a given two mutually exclusive particles system are considered. It is emphasized that quantum particles at finite potentials can not be regarded as a mutually exclusive system or they are indistinguishable. Afterward it is attempted to ascribe a mutually exclusive system to continuous mass densities of a rigid body to calculate average values. We do this by applying correspondence principle with regard to probability densities. It is found interesting to divide quantum probability density by that of classical, both for the same potential. On calculating, computational language Maple is being used. Finally it is argued that such systems are including semiclassical particles. This agrees with investigations that emphasizes; statistical nature of wave function in its classical limit should settle in an ensemble instead of one particle.

id: 1410.6644
title: Multi-frequency modes in superconducting resonators: Bridging frequency gaps in off-resonant couplings
authors: Christian Kraglund Andersen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023828 - Published 23 February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6644
abstract: A Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) inserted in a superconducting waveguide resonator imposes current and voltage boundary conditions that makes it suitable as a tuning element for the resonator modes. If such a SQUID element is subject to a periodically varying magnetic flux, the resonator modes acquire frequency side bands. In this work we calculate the multi-frequency eigenmodes of resonators coupled to periodically driven SQUIDs and we use the Lagrange formalism to propose a theory for their quantization. The elementary excitations of a multi-frequency mode can couple resonantly to physical systems with different transition frequencies and this makes the resonator an efficient quantum bus for state transfer and coherent quantum operations in hybrid quantum systems. As an example of the application of our multi-frequency modes, we determine their coupling to transmon qubits with different frequencies and we present a bi-chromatic scheme for entanglement and gate operations.

id: 1410.6647
title: Pulse propagation, population transfer and light storage in five-level media
authors: G. Grigoryan, V. Chaltykyan, E. Gazazyan, O. Tikhova, V. Paturyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023802 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6647
abstract: We consider adiabatic interaction of five-level atomic systems and their media with four short laser pulses under the condition of all two-photon detunings being zero. We derive analytical expressions for eigenvalues of the system's Hamiltonian and determine conditions of adiabaticity for both the atom and the medium. We analyse, in detail, the system's behaviour when the eigenvalue with non-vanishing energy is realized. As distinct from the usual dark state of a five-level system (corresponding to zero eigenvalue), which is a superposition of three states, in our case the superposition of four states does work. This seemingly unfavourable case is nevertheless demonstrated to imitate completely a three-level system not only for a single atom but also in the medium, since the propagation equations are also split into those for three- and two-level media separately. We show that, under certain conditions, all the coherent effects observed in three-level media, such as population transfer, light slowing, light storage, and so on, may efficiently be realized in five-level media. This has an important advantage that the light storage can be performed twice in the same medium, i.e., the second pulse can be stored without retrieving the first one, and then the two pulses can be retrieved in any desired sequence.

id: 1410.6658
title: Schmidt modes in the angular spectrum of bright squeezed vacuum
authors: Polina R. Sharapova, Angela M. Perez, Olga V. Tikhonova, Maria V. Chekhova
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6658
abstract: We study the spatial properties of high-gain parametric down-conversion (PDC). From the Hamiltonian we find the Schmidt modes, apply the Bloch-Messiah reduction, and calculate analytically the measurable quantities, such as the angular distributions of photon numbers and photon-number correlations. Our approach shows that the Schmidt modes of PDC radiation can be considered the same as for the low-gain (biphoton) case while the Schmidt eigenvalues strongly depend on the parametric gain. Its validity is confirmed by comparison with several experimental results, obtained by us and by other groups.

id: 1410.6720
title: Universal Set of Gates for Microwave Dressed-State Quantum Computing
authors: Gatis Mikelsons, Itsik Cohen, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6720
abstract: We propose a set of techniques that enable universal quantum computing to be carried out using dressed states. This applies in particular to the effort of realising quantum computation experimentally in trapped ions using long-wavelength radiation. We show how the presence of dressing fields enables the construction of robust single and multi-qubit gates despite the unavoidable presence of magnetic noise, an approach that can be generalised to provide shielding in any analogous quantum system that relies on the coupling of electronic degrees of freedom via bosonic modes.

id: 1410.6724
title: Time-optimal navigation through quantum wind
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Gary W. Gibbons, David M. Meier
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; version to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6724
abstract: The quantum navigation problem of finding the time-optimal control Hamiltonian that transports a given initial state to a target state through quantum wind, that is, under the influence of external fields or potentials, is analysed. By lifting the problem from the state space to the space of unitary gates realising the required task, we are able to deduce the form of the solution to the problem by deriving a universal quantum speed limit. The expression thus obtained indicates that further simplifications of this apparently difficult problem are possible if we switch to the interaction picture of quantum mechanics. A complete solution to the navigation problem for an arbitrary quantum system is then obtained, and the behaviour of the solution is illustrated in the case of a two-level system.

id: 1410.6747
title: Extended necessary condition for local operations and classical communication: Tight bound for all measurements
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 6 pages, no figures, comments welcome. Version 2 fixes some issues with the case of an infinite number of measurement operators. Version 3 has a minor change to the title and an added footnote about the fact that using an enlarged Hilbert space is not helpful
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6747
abstract: We give a necessary condition that a separable measurement can be implemented by local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC) in any finite number of rounds of communication, generalizing and strengthening a result obtained previously. That earlier result involved a bound that is tight when the number of measurement operators defining the measurement is relatively small. The present results generalize that bound to one that is tight for any finite number of measurement operators, and we also provide an extension which holds when that number is infinite. We apply these results to the famous example on a $3\times3$ system known as "domino states", which were the first demonstration of nonlocality without entanglement. Our new necessary condition provides an additional way of showing that these states cannot be perfectly distinguished by (finite-round) LOCC. It directly shows that this conclusion also holds for their cousins, the rotated domino states. This illustrates the usefulness of the present results, since our earlier necessary condition, which these results generalize, is not strong enough to reach a conclusion about the domino states.

id: 1410.6820
title: Multipartite Quantum States and their Marginals
authors: Michael Walter
comments: PhD thesis, ETH Zurich. The first part contains material from arXiv:1208.0365, arXiv:1204.0741, and arXiv:1204.4379. The second part is based on arXiv:1302.6990 and arXiv:1210.0463
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6820
abstract: Subsystems of composite quantum systems are described by reduced density matrices, or quantum marginals. Important physical properties often do not depend on the whole wave function but rather only on the marginals. Not every collection of reduced density matrices can arise as the marginals of a quantum state. Instead, there are profound compatibility conditions -- such as Pauli's exclusion principle or the monogamy of quantum entanglement -- which fundamentally influence the physics of many-body quantum systems and the structure of quantum information. The aim of this thesis is a systematic and rigorous study of the general relation between multipartite quantum states, i.e., states of quantum systems that are composed of several subsystems, and their marginals. In the first part, we focus on the one-body marginals of multipartite quantum states; in the second part, we study general quantum marginals from the perspective of entropy.

id: 1410.6823
title: Generation of hybrid entanglement between a single-photon polarization qubit and a coherent state
authors: Hyukjoon Kwon, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 91, 012340 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6823
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate entanglement between a single-photon qubit in the polarization basis and a coherent state of light. The required resources are a superposition of coherent states, a polarization entangled photon pair, beam splitters, the displacement operation, and four photodetectors. Even when realistic detectors with a limited efficiency are used, an arbitrarily high fidelity can be obtained by adjusting a beam-splitter ratio and the displacement amplitude at the price of reducing the success probability. Our analysis shows that high fidelities may be obtained using on-off detectors with low efficiencies and available resource states under current technology.

id: 1410.6848
title: Comment on "Exploring chaos in the Dicke model using ground-state fidelity and the Loschmidt echo"
authors: I. Garc¨ªa-Mata, A. J. Roncaglia, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 036901 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6848
abstract: In [PRE \textbf{90}, 022920 (2014), arXiv:1404.6738] a study of the ground state fidelity of the Dicke model as a function of the coupling parameter is presented. Abrupt jumps of the fidelity in the superradiant phase are observed and are assumed to be related to the transition to chaos. We show that this conclusion results from a misinterpretation of the numerics. In fact, if the parity symmetry is taken into account, the unexpected jumps disappear.

id: 1410.6888
title: Modeling the Eberhard inequality based tests
authors: Polina Titova, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6888
abstract: Last year the first experimental tests closing the detection loophole (also referred to as the fair sampling loophole) were performed by two experimental groups \cite{Zeilinger}, \cite{Kwiat}. To violate Bell-type inequalities (the Eberhard inequality in the first test and the Clauser-Horne inequality in the second test), one has to optimize a number of parameters involved in the experiment (angles of polarization beam splitters and quantum state parameters). Although these are technicalities, their optimal determination plays an important role in approaching statistically significant violations of the inequalities. In this paper we study this problem for the Eberhard inequality in very detail by using the advanced method of numerical optimization, the Nelder-Mead method. First of all, we improve the the results of optimization for the original Eberhard model \cite{Eberhard} and the Gustina et al. work \cite{Zeilinger} ("Vienna-13 experiment") by using the model of this experiment presented in Kofler et al. \cite{Zeilinger1}. We also take into account the well known fact that detectors can have different efficiencies and perform the corresponding optimization. In previous studies the objective function had the meaning of the mathematical expectation. However, it is also useful to investigate the possible level of variability of the results, expressed in terms of standard deviation. In this paper we consider the optimization of parameters for the Eberhard inequality using coefficient of variation taking into account possible random fluctuations in the setup of angles during the experiment.

id: 1410.6893
title: High-Sensitivity Temperature Sensing Using an Implanted Single Nitrogen-Vacancy Center Array in Diamond
authors: Junfeng Wang, Fupan Feng, Jian Zhang, Jihong Chen, Zhongcheng Zheng, Liping Guo, Wenlong Zhang, Xuerui Song, Guoping Guo, Lele Fan, Chongwen Zou, Liren Lou, Wei Zhu, Guanzhong Wang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6893
abstract: We presented a high-sensitivity temperature detection using an implanted single Nitrogen-Vacancy center array in diamond. The high-order Thermal Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (TCPMG) method was performed on the implanted single nitrogen vacancy (NV) center in diamond in a static magnetic field. We demonstrated that under small detunings for the two driving microwave frequencies, the oscillation frequency of the induced fluorescence of the NV center equals approximately to the average of the detunings of the two driving fields. On basis of the conclusion, the zero-field splitting D for the NV center and the corresponding temperature could be determined. The experiment showed that the coherence time for the high-order TCPMG was effectively extended, particularly up to 108 {\mu}s for TCPMG-8, about 14 times of the value 7.7 {\mu}s for thermal Ramsey method. This coherence time corresponded to a thermal sensitivity of 10.1 mK/Hz1/2. We also detected the temperature distribution on the surface of a diamond chip in three different circumstances by using the implanted NV center array with the TCPMG-3 method. The experiment implies the feasibility for using implanted NV centers in high-quality diamonds to detect temperatures in biology, chemistry, material science and microelectronic system with high-sensitivity and nanoscale resolution.

id: 1410.6920
title: Characterization of conditional state-engineering quantum processes by coherent state quantum process tomography
authors: Merlin Cooper, Eirion Slade, Michal Karpinski, Brian J. Smith
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6920
abstract: Conditional quantum optical processes enable a wide range of technologies from generation of highly non-classical states to implementation of quantum logic operations. The process fidelity that can be achieved in a realistic implementation depends on a number of system parameters. Here we experimentally examine Fock-state filtration, a canonical example of a broad class of conditional quantum operations acting on a single optical field mode. This operation is based upon interference of the mode to be manipulated with an auxiliary single-photon state at a beam splitter, resulting in the entanglement of the two output modes. A conditional projective measurement onto a single photon at one output mode heralds the success of the process. This operation, which implements a measurement-induced nonlinearity, is capable of suppressing particular photon-number probability amplitudes of an arbitrary quantum state. We employ coherent-state process tomography to determine the precise operation realized in our experiment. To identify the key sources of experimental imperfection, we develop a model of the process and identify three main contributions that significantly hamper its efficacy. The reconstructed tensor is compared with a model of the process taking into account sources of experimental imperfection with fidelity better than 0.95. This enables us to identify three key challenges to overcome in realizing a filter with high fidelity - namely the single-photon nature of the auxiliary state, high-mode overlap, and the need for number resolving detection when heralding. The results show that the filter does indeed exhibit a nonlinear response as a function of input photon number and preserves the phase relation between Fock layers of the output state, providing promise for future applications.

id: 1410.6923
title: Enhancing the geometric quantum discord in the Heisenberg {\it XX} chain by Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction
authors: Jia-Min Gong, Qi Tang, Yu-Hang Sun, Lin Qiao
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6923
abstract: We studied the trance distance, the Hellinger distance, and the Bures distance geometric quantum discords (GQDs) for a two-spin Heisenberg {\it XX} chain with the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) interaction and the external magnetic fields. We found that considerable enhancement of the GQDs can be achieved by introducing the DM interaction, and their maxima were obtained in the limiting case $D\rightarrow \infty$. The external magnetic fields and the increase of the temperature can also enhance the GQDs to some extent for certain special cases.

id: 1410.6925
title: Tomography of Spatial Mode Detectors
authors: Ivan Bobrov, Egor Kovlakov, Anton Markov, Stanislav Straupe, Sergey Kulik
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, 23, 649-654 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6925
abstract: Transformation and detection of photons in higher-order spatial modes usually requires complicated holographic techniques. Detectors based on spatial holograms suffer from non-idealities and should be carefully calibrated. We report a novel method for analyzing the quality of projective measurements in spatial mode basis inspired by quantum detector tomography. It allows us to calibrate the detector response using only gaussian beams. We experimentally investigate the inherent inaccuracy of the existing methods of mode transformation and provide a full statistical reconstruction of the POVM (positive operator valued measure) elements for holographic spatial mode detectors.

id: 1410.6945
title: What The Trace Distance Security Criterion in Quantum Key Distribution Does And Does Not Guarantee
authors: Horace Yuen
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6945
abstract: Cryptographic security of quantum key distribution is currently based on a trace distance criterion. The widespread misinterpretation of the criterion as failure probability and also its actual scope have been discussed previously. Recently its distinguishability advantage interpretation is re-emphasized as an operational guarantee, and the failure probability misinterpretation is maintained with a further failure probability per bit interpretation. In this paper we explain the basic perpetuating error as a confusion on the correspondence between mathematics and reality. We note that the assignment of equal a priori probability of 1/2 to the real and ideal situations for distinguishability advantage would not lead to operational guarantee. We explain why operational guarantee in terms of Eve's probabilities of getting various key bits is necessary for security, and why the failure probability interpretation misrepresents the security situation. The scope and limits of the trace distance guarantee are summarized. It is shown that there would have been no security problem to begin with if the failure probability per bit interpretation validity.

id: 1410.7054
title: Universal Single-Server Blind Quantum Computation for Classical Client
authors: Hai-Ru Xu, Bang-Hai Wang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, To add the protocol with completely classical client, To add the new "Cloud + E-commerce" style, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7054
abstract: Blind quantum computation allows a client without enough quantum technologies to delegate her quantum computation to quantum server, while keeping her input, output and algorithm secure. In this paper, we propose a universal single-server and classical-client blind quantum computation protocol based on entanglement swapping technology. In our protocol, the client interface with only one server and the only ability of the client requires is to get particles from trusted center and forward them to the server. Moreover, the protocol can be modified to make client completely classical by improving the ability of the trusted center. Numbers of blind quantum computation protocols have been presented in recent years, including single-, double- and triple-server protocols. In the single-server protocol, client needs to prepare single qubits. Though client can be classical in the double-server protocol, the two servers, who share Bell state from trusted center, are not allowed to communicate with each other. Recently, the triple-server protocol solves the noncommunication problem. Three servers, however, make the implementation of the computation sophisticated and unrealistic. Since it is impossible for blind quantum computation with only classical client and single server, blind quantum computation may work in the "Cloud + E-commerce" style in the future. Our protocol might become a key ingredient for real-life application in the first generation of quantum computations.

id: 1410.7067
title: Quantum Residual Correlation: Interpreting through State Merging
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Abhishek Deshpande, Sourav Chatterjee
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7067
abstract: In this brief report we revisit the concept of "quantum dissension", which was introduced as a natural extension of quantum discord for three qubit system. Here we bring in new expression for quantum dissensions and more interestingly we name one such expression as \textit{residual correlation}. The basic objective behind the introduction of such a quantity is to capture the extra amount of correlation generated by doing measurement in a correlated system from a situation where we do not bring in a correlated system in the measurement process. Apart from this we also present an operational interpretation of this correlation in context of state merging. Remarkably, we find that for three qubit system if one discards relevant prior information, the change in the cost of state merging ( merging the quantum information of two parties into one) is captured by the \textit{residual correlation}. In addition to that we found that this quantity can be negative for mixed states. This indeed opens up a new dimension in the tripartite scenario where we can observe situations where there is a decrease in the cost of state merging on discarding relevant prior information. We claim that this result establishes a re conceptualization of information processing tasks in tripartite situations where we can use suitable measurement and states to bring down the cost of the protocol.

id: 1410.7079
title: A macroscopic quantum state analysed particle by particle
authors: Federica A. Beduini, Joanna A. Zielinska, Vito G. Lucivero, Yannick A. de Icaza Astiz, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120402 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7079
abstract: Explaining how microscopic entities collectively produce macroscopic phenomena is a fundamental goal of many-body physics. Theory predicts that large-scale entanglement is responsible for exotic macroscopic phenomena, but observation of entangled particles in naturally occurring systems is extremely challenging. Synthetic quantum systems made of atoms in optical lattices have been con- structed with the goal of observing macroscopic quantum phenomena with single-atom resolution. Serious challenges remain in producing and detecting long-range quantum correlations in these systems, however. Here we exploit the strengths of photonic technology, including high coherence and efficient single-particle detection, to study the predicted large-scale entanglement underlying the macroscopic quantum phenomenon of polarization squeezing. We generate a polarization-squeezed beam, extract photon pairs at random, and make a tomographic reconstruction of their joint quantum state. We present experimental evidence showing that all photons arriving within the squeezing coherence time are entangled, that entanglement monogamy dilutes entanglement with increasing photon density and that, counterintuitively, increased squeezing can reduce bipartite entanglement. The results provide direct evidence for entanglement of macroscopic numbers of particles and introduce micro-analysis to the study of macroscopic quantum phenomena.

id: 1410.7094
title: Computable entanglement conversion witness that is better than the negativity
authors: Mark W. Girard, Gilad Gour
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures. Comments welcome. (Version 2: minor errors corrected, reference added)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7094
abstract: The primary goal of entanglement theory is to determine convertibility conditions for two quantum states. Up until now, this has always been done with the use of entanglement monotones. With the exception of the negativity, such quantities tend to be rather uncomputable. In this paper, we instead promote the idea of conversion witnesses, which are functions on pairs of state whose value determines whether one state can be converted into the other. We construct a computable conversion witness that is better than the negativity at detecting when two entangled states are not interconvertible. This shows that the study of conversion witness is in fact useful, and may have applications in resource theories beyond that of entanglement.

id: 1410.7101
title: Raman Quantum Memory of Photonic Polarised Entanglement
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Wei Zhang, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Shuai Shi, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7101
abstract: Quantum entanglement of particles is regarded as a fundamental character in quantum information, in which quantum state should be given for whole system instead of independently describing single particle. Constructing quantum memory of photonic entanglement is essential for realizing quantum networks, which had been performed previously by many memory protocols. Of which Raman quantum memory gives advantages in broadband and high-speed properties, resulting in huge potential in quantum network and quantum computation. However, Raman quantum memory of photonic polarised entanglement is a challenge work and still missing. Here, we report two Raman quantum memories based on gas atomic ensembles: 1. Heralded Raman quantum memory of hybrid entanglement of path and polarization of single photon. 2. Raman storage of two-particle photonic polarised entangled state. Our experimental performances of these two different Raman quantum storages of photonic entanglement show a very promising prospective in quantum information science.

id: 1410.7106
title: Classical-driving-assisted quantum speed-up
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Wei Han, Yun-Jie Xia, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A, 91, 032112, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7106
abstract: We propose a method of accelerating the speed of evolution of an open system by an external classical driving field for a qubit in a zero-temperature structured reservoir. It is shown that, with a judicious choice of the driving strength of the applied classical field, a speed-up evolution of an open system can be achieved in both the weak system-environment couplings and the strong system-environment couplings. By considering the relationship between non-Makovianity of environment and the classical field, we can drive the open system from the Markovian to the non-Markovian regime by manipulating the driving strength of classical field. That is the intrinsic physical reason that the classical field may induce the speed-up process. In addition, the roles of this classical field on the variation of quantum evolution speed in the whole decoherence process is discussed.

id: 1410.7109
title: Thermomechanical two-mode squeezing in an ultrahigh $Q$ membrane resonator
authors: Y. S. Patil, S. Chakram, L. Chang, M. Vengalattore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7109
abstract: We realize a nondegenerate parametric amplifier in an ultrahigh $Q$ mechanical membrane resonator and demonstrate two-mode thermomechanical noise squeezing. Our measurements are accurately described by a two-mode model that attributes this nonlinear mechanical interaction to a substrate-mediated process which is dramatically enhanced by the quality factors of the individual modes. This realization of strong multimode nonlinearities in a mechanical platform compatible with quantum-limited optical detection and cooling makes this a powerful system for nonlinear approaches to quantum metrology, transduction between optical and phononic fields and the quantum manipulation of phononic degrees of freedom.

id: 1410.7126
title: Why the "classical" explanation of weak values by Ferrie and Combes does not work: a comment on Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014)
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Masataka Iinuma, Yutaka Shikano
comments: Short comment on Ferrie and Combes, arXiv:1403.2362 (Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014)); quantitatively discusses the requirements for the avoidance of statistical artefacts in weak measurements; v2 is unchanged except for the wrong arXiv references that were added automatically in the first submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7126
abstract: In Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120404 (2014) [arXiv:1403.2362], Ferrie and Combes claim that weak values could be a statistical artifact caused by correlations between the disturbance and the post-selection condition imposed on the output. In this comment, we show that the disturbance caused by a weak measurement is sufficiently low to definitely rule out the model proposed by Ferrie and Combes.

id: 1410.7145
title: Entangled Entanglement: The Geometry of GHZ States
authors: Gabriele Uchida, Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7145
abstract: The familiar Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states can be rewritten by entangling the Bell states for two qubits with a state of the third qubit, which is dubbed entangled entanglement. We show that in this way we obtain all 8 independent GHZ states that form the simplex of entangled entanglement, the magic simplex. The construction procedure allows a generalization to higher dimensions both, in the degrees of freedom (considering qudits) as well as in the number of particles (considering n-partite states). Such bases of GHZ-type states exhibit a certain geometry that is relevant for experimental and quantum information theoretic applications. Furthermore, we study the geometry of these particular state spaces, the inherent symmetries, the cyclicity of the phase operations, and the regions of (genuine multi-partite) entanglement and the several classes of separability. We find non-trivial geometrical properties and a conceptually clear procedure to compare state spaces of different dimensions and number of particles.

id: 1410.7152
title: Study atom-vacuum interaction by the weak measurement technique
authors: M. Zhang, S. Y. Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7152
abstract: Quantum weak measurement attracts much interests recently [Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 307 (2014)], as it could amplify some weak signals and provide a technique to observe the nonclassical phenomenons. Here, we apply this technique to study the interaction between the free atoms and the vacuum in a cavity. Due to the gradient field in the vacuum cavity, the external orbital motions and the internal electronic states of the atoms can be weakly coupled via the atom-field electric-dipole interaction. We show an interesting phenomenon that, within the properly post-selected internal states, the weak atom-vacuum interaction could generate a large change to the external motions of atoms.

id: 1410.7169
title: Adiabatic passage for three-dimensional entanglement generation through quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Yan Liang, Shi-Lei Su, Qi-Cheng Wu, Xin Ji, Shou Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7169
abstract: We propose an adiabatic passage approach to generate two atoms three- dimensional entanglement with the help of quantum Zeno dynamics in a time- dependent interacting field. The atoms are trapped in two spatially separated cavi- ties connected by a fiber, so that the individual addressing is needless. Because the scheme is based on the resonant interaction, the time required to generate entangle- ment is greatly shortened. Since the fields remain in vacuum state and all the atoms are in the ground states, the losses due to the excitation of photons and the spon- taneous transition of atoms are suppressed efficiently compared with the dispersive protocols. Numerical simulation results show that the scheme is robust against the decoherences caused by the cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission. Addi- tionally, the scheme can be generalized to generate N-atom three-dimensional en- tanglement and high-dimensional entanglement for two spatially separated atoms.

id: 1410.7188
title: The Functional Analysis of Quantum Information Theory
authors: Ved Prakash Gupta, Prabha Mandayam, V. S. Sunder
comments: v3; 123 pages; 4 chapters; To appear in Springer Lecture Notes in Physics; Video recordings of the lectures can be found here: this https URL&spfreload=10
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7188
abstract: This book is a compilation of notes from a two-week international workshop on the "The Functional Analysis of Quantum Information Theory" that was held at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences during 26/12/2011-06/01/2012. The workshop was devoted to the mathematical framework of quantized functional analysis (QFA), and aimed at illustrating its applications to problems in quantum communication. The lectures were given by Gilles Pisier (Pierre and Marie Curie University and Texas A&M), K.R. Parthasarathy (ISI Delhi), Vern Paulsen (University of Houston), and Andreas Winter (Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona). Topics discussed include Operator Spaces and Completely bounded maps, Schmidt number and Schmidt rank of bipartite entangled states, Operator Systems and Completely Positive Maps, and, Operator Methods in Quantum Information.

id: 1410.7201
title: Diagrammatic Approach to Quantum Search
authors: Thomas G. Wong
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7201
abstract: We introduce a simple diagrammatic approach for estimating how a randomly walking quantum particle searches on a graph in continuous-time, which involves sketching small weighted graphs with self-loops and considering degenerate perturbation theory's effects on them. Using this method, we give the first example of degenerate perturbation theory solving search on a graph whose evolution occurs in a subspace whose dimension grows with $N$.

id: 1410.7243
title: Quantum reflection and interference of matter waves from periodically doped surfaces
authors: Benjamin A. Stickler, Uzi Even, Klaus Hornberger
comments: corresponds to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013614 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7243
abstract: We show that periodically doped, flat surfaces can act as reflective diffraction gratings for atomic and molecular matter waves. The diffraction element is realized by exploiting that charged dopants locally suppress quantum reflection from the Casimir-Polder potential. We present a general quantum scattering theory for reflection off periodically charged surfaces and discuss the requirements for the observation of multiple diffraction peaks.

id: 1410.7245
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for positive semidefinite quantum mutual information matrices
authors: Feng Liu, Fei Gao, Su-Juan Qin, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7245
abstract: For any $n$-partite state $\rho_{A_{1}A_{2}\cdot\cdot\cdot A_{n}}$, we define its quantum mutual information matrix as an $n$ by $n$ matrix whose $(i,j)$-entry is given by quantum mutual information $I(\rho_{A_{i}A_{j}})$. Although each entry of quantum mutual information matrix, like its classical counterpart, is also used to measure bipartite correlations, the similarity ends here: quantum mutual information matrices are not always positive semidefinite even for collections of up to 3-partite states. In this work, we obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for the positive semidefinite quantum mutual information matrix. We further define the \emph{genuine} $n$-partite mutual information which can be easily calculated. This definition is symmetric, nonnegative, bounded and more accurate for measuring multipartite states.

id: 1410.7411
title: Ground state entanglement constrains low-energy excitations
authors: Isaac H. Kim, Benjamin J. Brown
comments: 4+6 pages, 22 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7411
abstract: For a general quantum many-body system, we show that its ground state entanglement imposes a fundamental constraint on the low-energy excitations. For two-dimensional systems, our result implies that any system that supports anyons must have a nonvanishing topological entanglement entropy. We demonstrate the generality of this argument by applying it to three-dimensional quantum many-body systems, and showing that there is a pair of ground state topological invariants that are associated to their physical boundaries. From the pair, one can determine whether the given boundary can or cannot absorb point-like or line-like excitations.

id: 1410.7415
title: Weak-value amplification as an optimal metrological protocol
authors: G. Bi¨¦ Alves, B. M. Escher, R. L. de Matos Filho, N. Zagury, L. Davidovich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7415
abstract: The implementation of weak-value amplification requires the pre- and post-selection of states of a quantum system, followed by the observation of the response of the meter, which interacts weakly with the system. Data acquisition from the meter is conditioned to successful post-selection events. Here we derive an optimal post-selection procedure for estimating the coupling constant between system and meter, and show that it leads both to weak-value amplification and to the saturation of the quantum Fisher information, under conditions fulfilled by all previously reported experiments on the amplification of weak signals. For most of the pre-selected states, full information on the coupling constant can be extracted from the meter data set alone, while for a small fraction of the space of pre-selected states, it must be obtained from the post-selection statistics.

id: 1410.7482
title: An ideal experiment to determine the 'past of a particle' in the nested Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: Fu Li, F.A. Hashmi, Jun-Xiang Zhang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7482
abstract: An ideal experiment is designed to determine the past of a particle in the nested Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) by using standard quantum mechanics with quantum non-demolition measurements. We find that when the photon reaches the detector, it only follows one arm of the outer interferometer and leaves no trace in the inner MZI; while when it goes through the inner MZI, it cannot reach the detector. Our result obtained from the standard quantum mechanics is contradict to the statement based on two state vector formulism, "the photon did not enter the (inner) interferometer, the photon never left the interferometer, but it was there". Therefore, the statement and also the overlap claim are incorrect.

id: 1410.7543
title: Orbital angular momentum photonic quantum interface
authors: Yan Li, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Dong-Sheng Ding, Wei Zhang, Shuai Shi, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7543
abstract: High dimensional orbital angular momentum (OAM) light states are very important in enhancing the information carrying capacity in optical communications and quantum key distributions. Light at wavelengths of fiber communication windows or free space communication windows are suitable for long distance quantum communication, but most quantum processing tasks are performed in the visible wavelength ranges. The interface to bridge the wavelength gap of single photon with Gaussian shape has been realized, however, to create such interface for OAM-carrying light is a great challenge. We report the demonstration of such an interface to frequency up-conversion of herald single photon OAM state from 1560nm to 525nm with high efficiency by using nonlinear crystal in an external cavity. We show that different single photon OAM light shapes are observed directly by using single photon counting camera and the single photon entangled property is retained in the conversion process.

id: 1410.7556
title: A Quantum Error Correction-Enhanced Magnetometer Overcoming the limit imposed by Relaxation
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª, Dorit Aharonov, Alex Retzker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7556
abstract: Relaxation imposes a fundamental limit on the sensitivity of state of the art quantum sensors which cannot be overcome by dynamical decoupling. The only way to overcome the relaxation rate is to utilise quantum error correcting codes, which are however challenging to integrate in the sensing scenario. We present a superconducting magnetometry design that incorporates approximate quantum error correction within its functioning, in which the signal is generated by a two qubit Hamiltonian term. This two qubit term is provided by the dynamics of a SQUID junction that couples two charge qubits. For fast enough error correction frequency, it is possible to lengthen the coherence time of the device beyond the relaxation limit.

id: 1410.7574
title: A closed-form necessary and sufficient condition for any two-qubit state to show hidden nonlocality w.r.t the Bell-CHSH inequality
authors: Rajarshi Pal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 6 pages, Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7574
abstract: In this note, we discuss a closed-form necessary and sufficient condition for any two-qubit state to show hidden nonlocality w.r.t the Bell-CHSH inequality. This is then used to numerically compute the relative volume of states showing hidden Bell-CHSH non-locality , among all two-qubit states with one-sided reduction maximally mixed.

id: 1410.7576
title: Interpolation between phase space quantities with bifractional displacement operators
authors: S. Agyo, C. Lei, A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7576
abstract: Bifractional displacement operators, are introduced by performing two fractional Fourier transforms on displacement operators. They are shown to be special cases of elements of the group G, that contains both displacements and squeezing transformations. Acting with them on the vacuum we get various classes of coherent states, which we call bifractional coherent states. They are special classes of squeezed states which can be used for interpolation between various quantities in phase space methods. Using them we introduce bifractional Wigner functions A(?, ?; ??, ??), which are a two-dimensional continuum of functions, and reduce to Wigner and Weyl functions in special cases. We also introduce bifractional Q-functions, and bifractional P-functions. The physical meaning of these quantities is discussed.

id: 1410.7577
title: Quantum decoherence of an anharmonic oscillator monitored by a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Alonso, S. Brouard, D. Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A V90, 032106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7577
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum anharmonic oscillator whose position is monitored by a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped in a symmetric double well potential is studied. The (non-exponential) decoherence induced on the oscillator by the measuring device is analysed. A detailed quasiclassical and quantum analysis is presented. In the first case, for an arbitrary initial coherent state, two different decoherence regimes are observed: An initial Gaussian decay followed by a power law decay for longer times. The characteristic time scales of both regimes are reported. Analytical approximated expressions are obtained in the full quantum case where algebraic time decay of decoherence is observed.

id: 1410.7589
title: Preparation of edge states by shaking boundaries
authors: Z. C. Shi, S. C. Hou, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7589
abstract: Preparing topological states of quantum matter, such as edge states, is one of the most important direction in condensed matter physics. In this work, we present a proposal to prepare edge states in Aubry-Andre-Harper (AAH) model with open boundaries. The proposal applies Lyapunov control to design operations (or shaking scheme) exerted on the boundaries. We show that the edge states can be obtained with almost arbitrary initial states. The dependence of the performance on the system size is examined and discussed. An numerical optimalization for the control is performed. The merit of this proposal is that the shaking exerts only on the boundaries of the model. As a by-product, an topological entangled state is achieved by elaborately designing the shaking scheme.

id: 1410.7604
title: Thermal transport in out of equilibrium quantum harmonic chains
authors: F. Nicacio, A. Ferraro, A. Imparato, M. Paternostro, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 11 pages, 15 figures
journal: Physical Review E 91, 042116 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7604
abstract: We address the problem of heat transport in a chain of coupled quantum harmonic oscillators, exposed to the influences of local environments of various nature, stressing the effects that the specific nature of the environment has on the phenomenology of the transport process. We study in detail the behavior of thermodynamically relevant quantities such as heat currents and mean energies of the oscillators, establishing rigorous analytical conditions for the existence of a steady state, whose features we analyse carefully. In particular we assess the conditions that should be faced to recover trends reminiscent of the classical Fourier law of heat conduction and highlight how such a possibility depends on the environment linked to our system.

id: 1410.7629
title: Optimal randomness generation from optical Bell experiments
authors: Alejandro M¨¢ttar, Paul Skrzypczyk, Jonatan Bohr Brask, Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 022003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7629
abstract: Genuine randomness can be certified from Bell tests without any detailed assumptions on the working of the devices with which the test is implemented. An important class of experiments for implementing such tests is optical setups based on polarisation measurements of entangled photons distributed from a spontaneous parametric down conversion source. Here we compute the maximal amount of randomness which can be certified in such setups under realistic conditions. We provide relevant yet unexpected numerical values for the physical parameters and achieve four times more randomness than previous methods.

id: 1410.7651
title: The non-uniform stationary measure for discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno, Masato Takei
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7651
abstract: We consider stationary measures of the one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks (QWs) with two chiralities, which is defined by a 2 times 2 unitary matrix U. In our previous paper [15], we proved that any uniform measure becomes the stationary measure of the QW by solving the corresponding eigenvalue problem. This paper reports that non-uniform measures are also stationary measures of the QW except U is diagonal. For diagonal matrices, we show that any stationary measure is uniform. Moreover, we prove that any uniform measure becomes a stationary measure for more general QWs not by solving the eigenvalue problem but by a simple argument.

id: 1410.7687
title: Sampling of partially distinguishable bosons and the relation to the multidimensional permanent
authors: Malte C. Tichy
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, updated references and changed title, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022316 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7687
abstract: The collective interference of partially distinguishable bosons in multi-mode networks is studied via double-sided Feynman diagrams. The probability for many-body scattering events becomes a multi-dimensional tensor-permanent, which interpolates between distinguishable particles and identical bosons, and easily extends to mixed initial states. The permanent of the distinguishability matrix, composed of all mutual scalar products of the single-particle mode-functions, emerges as a natural measure for the degree of interference: It yields a bound on the difference between event probabilities for partially distinguishable bosons and the idealized species, and exactly quantifies the degree of bosonic bunching.

id: 1410.7706
title: Note on maximally entangled Eisert-Lewenstein-Wilkens quantum games
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek-Laso¨½, Piotr Kosi¨½ski
comments: 15 pages, no figures, new section added, the title has been slightly changed, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7706
abstract: Maximally entangled Eisert-Lewenstein-Wilkens games are analyzed. For a general class of gate operators defined in the previous papers of the first author the general conditions are derived which allow to determine the form of gate operators leading to maximally entangled games. The construction becomes particularly simple provided one does distinguish between games differing by relabelling of strategies. Some examples are presented.

id: 1410.7714
title: Shaping the spectrum of downconverted photons through optimized custom poling
authors: Annamaria Dosseva, Lukasz Cincio, Agata M. Branczyk
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7714
abstract: We present a scheme for engineering the joint spectrum of photons created via spontaneous parametric down conversion. Our method relies on customizing the poling configuration of a quasi-phase-matched crystal. We use simulated annealing to find an optimized poling configuration which allows almost arbitrary shaping of the crystal's phase-matching function. This has direct application in the creation of pure single photons---currently one of the most important goals of single-photon quantum optics. We describe the general algorithm and provide code, written in C++, that outputs an optimized poling configuration given specific experimental parameters.

id: 1410.7718
title: Supersymmetric model of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric double-delta trap
authors: Nikolas Abt, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, minor corrections in the text and equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7718
abstract: The most important properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate subject to balanced gain and loss can be modelled by a Gross-Pitaevskii equation with an external $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric double-delta potential. We study its linear variant with a supersymmetric extension. It is shown that both in the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric as well as in the $\mathcal{PT}$-broken phase arbitrary stationary states can be removed in a supersymmetric partner potential without changing the energy eigenvalues of the other state. The characteristic structure of the singular delta potential in the supersymmetry formalism is discussed, and the applicability of the formalism to the nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation is analysed. In the latter case the formalism could be used to remove $\mathcal{PT}$-broken states introducing an instability to the stationary $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric states.

id: 1410.7760
title: Fine's theorem, noncontextuality, and correlations in Specker's scenario
authors: Ravi Kunjwal
comments: 11 pages, comments welcome. Version 2 is essentially the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022108 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7760
abstract: A characterization of noncontextual models which fall within the ambit of Fine's theorem is provided. In particular, the equivalence between the existence of three notions is made explicit: a joint probability distribution over the outcomes of all the measurements considered, a measurement-noncontextual and outcome-deterministic (or KS-noncontextual, where 'KS' stands for 'Kochen-Specker') model for these measurements, and a measurement-noncontextual and factorizable model for them. A KS-inequality, therefore, is implied by each of these three notions. Following this characterization of noncontextual models that fall within the ambit of Fine's theorem, non-factorizable noncontextual models which lie outside the domain of Fine's theorem are considered. While outcome determinism for projective (sharp) measurements in quantum theory can be shown to follow from the assumption of preparation noncontextuality, such a justification is not available for nonprojective (unsharp) measurements which ought to admit outcome-indeterministic response functions. The Liang-Spekkens-Wiseman (LSW) inequality is cited as an example of a noncontextuality inequality that should hold in any noncontextual model of quantum theory without assuming factorizability. Three other noncontextuality inequalities, which turn out to be equivalent to the LSW inequality under relabellings of measurement outcomes, are derived for Specker's scenario. The polytope of correlations admissible in this scenario, given the no-disturbance condition, is characterized.

id: 1410.7785
title: Light-matter decoupling and $A^2$ term detection in superconducting circuits
authors: Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Borja Peropadre, Simone De Liberato
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7785
abstract: We study the spontaneous emission of a qubit interacting with a one-dimensional waveguide through a realistic minimal-coupling interaction. We show that the diamagnetic term $A^2$ leads to an effective decoupling of a single qubit from the electromagnetic field. This effects is observable at any range of qubit-photon couplings. For this we study a setup consisting of a transmon that is suspended over a transmission line. We prove that the relative strength of the $A^2$ term is controlled with the qubit-line separation and show that, as a consequence, the spontaneous emission rate of the suspended transmon onto the line can increase with such separation, instead of decreasing.

id: 1410.7808
title: A magic state's fidelity can be superior to the operations that created it
authors: Ying Li
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 023037 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7808
abstract: The leading approach to fault tolerant quantum computing requires a continual supply of magic states. When a new magic state is first encoded, its initial fidelity will be too poor for use in the computation. This necessitates a resource-intensive distillation process that occupies the majority of the computer's hardware; creating magic states with a high initial fidelity minimises this cost and is therefore crucial for practical quantum computing. Here we present the surprising and encouraging result that raw magic states can have a fidelity significantly better than that of the two-qubit gate operations used to construct them. Our protocol exploits post-selection without significantly slowing the rate of generation and tolerates finite error rates in initialisations, measurements and single-qubit gates. This approach may dramatically reduce the size of the hardware needed for a given quantum computing task.

id: 1410.7886
title: Reciprocity in parity violating non-Hermitian systems
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Brijesh Kumar Mourya, Raka Dona Ray Mandal, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 11 Pages, 4 figs, Submitted to a Journal for Publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7886
abstract: Reciprocity is shown so far only when the scattering potential is either real or parity symmetric complex. We extend this result for parity violating complex potential by considering several explicit examples: (i) we show reciprocity for a PT symmetric (hence parity violating) complex potential which admits penetrating state solutions analytically for all possible values of incidence energy and (ii) reciprocity is shown to hold at certain discrete energies for two other parity violating complex potentials.

id: 1410.7889
title: On generalized entropies and information-theoretic Bell inequalities under decoherence
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 15 pages, three figures. The title is slightly changed. The version 2 includes a discussion of the Leggett-Garg scenario with trichotomic observables under decoherence. In Section III, curves on Fig. 1 are corrected. The bibliography was revised and updated. Grammatical typos are fixed
journal: Ann. Phys., Vol. 355, 241-257 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7889
abstract: We consider information-theoretic inequalities of the Bell type in the presence of decoherence. It is natural that too strong coupling with the environment can prevent an observation of quantum correlations. In this regard, the use of various entropic functions may give additional capabilities to reveal desired correlations. It was already shown that the Bell and Leggett-Garg inequalities in terms conditional Tsallis entropies are more sensitive in the cases of detection inefficiencies. In this paper, we study capabilities of generalized conditional entropies of the Tsallis type in analyzing the Bell theorem in decoherence scenarios. Two forms of the conditional Tsallis $q$-entropy are known in the literature. We show that each of them can be used for defining a metric in the probability space of interest. Such metrics can be used in realizing the so-called triangle principle. The triangle principle has recently been proposed as a unifying approach to questions of local realism and non-contextuality. Applying the triangle principle leads to the two families of $q$-metric inequalities of the Bell type. Information-theoretic formulations in terms of the $q$-entropic metrics are first discussed for the CHSH scenario in dephasing environment. Then we also revisit $q$-entropic inequalities of the Leggett-Garg type. An environmental influence is modeled by the phase damping channel and by the depolarizing channel.

id: 1410.7925
title: Monogamous nature of symmetric N-qubit states of the W-class: Concurrence and Negativity Tangle
authors: P.J. Geetha, K.O. Yashodamma, Sudha
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 1 table; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7925
abstract: Using Majorana representation of symmetric N-qubit pure states, we have examined the monogamous nature of the family of states with two-distinct spinors, the W-class of states. We have evaluated the N-concurrence tangle and showed that all the states in this family have vanishing concurrence tangle. The negativity tangle for the W-class of states is shown to be non-zero illustrating the fact that concurrence tangle underestimates the residual entanglement in a pure N-qubit state.

id: 1410.7931
title: Observation of optical filtering effects with four-wave mixing in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Yun Kun Jiang, Wei Zhang, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7931
abstract: We observe an optical filtering effect in four-wave mixing (FWM) process based on a cold atomic gas. The side peaks appear at the edges of pulse of generated optical field, and they propagate through the atomic media without absorption. The theoretical analysis shows that these side peaks corresponded to the high frequency part of pulse of generated signal, which means the atoms cannot response to the rapid change of the electromagnetic field in time. On the contrary, the low frequency components of generated signal are absorbed during the transmission through the atoms. In addition, we experimentally demonstrate that the backward side peak could be stored by using Raman transition in atomic ensemble and retrieved later.

id: 1410.7936
title: Multipartite Bell-type Inequality by Generalizing Wigner's Argument
authors: Dipankar Home, Debashis Saha, Siddhartha Das
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012102 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7936
abstract: Wigner's argument inferring Bell-type inequality for the EPR-Bohm entangled state is generalized here for any N-partite state. This is based on assuming for the relevant dichotomic observables the existence of the overall joint probability distributions, satisfying the locality condition, that would yield the measurable marginal probabilities. For any N, such Generalized Wigner's Inequality (GWI) is violated by quantum mechanics for all pure entangled states. The e?cacy of GWI is probed, comparing with the Seevinck-Svetlichny multipartite Bell-type inequality, by calculating threshold visibilities for the quadripartite GHZ, Cluster andWstates that determine their respective robustness with respect to the quantum mechanical violation of GWI in the presence of white noise.

id: 1410.8012
title: Balanced homodyne detection with on-off detector systems: Observable nonclassicality criteria
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel, G. S. Agarwal
comments: close to published EPL version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 109, 34001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8012
abstract: Driven by single photon detection requirements especially for quantum information sciences, the theory of arrays of off-on detectors has been well developed and applied. However for a comprehensive characterization of nonclassicality one also needs phase sensitive properties. This missing link is fulfilled by the theory of phase sensitive click counting measurements. This theory is presented. It unifies the balanced homodyne detection for high intensities with the click detection in the few photon regime. We formulate and apply a hierarchy of nonlinear squeezing conditions to probe quantum effects beyond standard squeezing. Imperfections stemming from fluctuations of the local oscillator, detector efficiency, and dark count rates are considered. Experimentally accessible sampling formulas are given which can be applied without time consuming data processing. Our phase-sensitive click detection theory paves the way towards novel applications of nonclassical light in quantum metrology.

id: 1410.8019
title: Bounding the seed length of Miller and Shi's unbounded randomness expansion protocol
authors: Renan Gross, Scott Aaronson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8019
abstract: Recent randomness expansion protocols have been proposed which are able to generate an unbounded amount of randomness from a finite amount of truly random initial seed. One such protocol, given by Miller and Shi, uses a pair of non-signaling untrusted quantum mechanical devices. These play XOR games with inputs given by the user in order to generate an output. Here we present an analysis of the required seed size, giving explicit upper bounds for the number of initial random bits needed to jump-start the protocol. The bits output from such a protocol are $\varepsilon$-close to uniform even against quantum adversaries. Our analysis yields that for a statistical distance of $\varepsilon=10^{-1}$ and $\varepsilon=10^{-6}$ from uniformity, the number of required bits is smaller than 225,000 and 715,000, respectively; in general it grows as $O(\log\frac{1}{\varepsilon})$.

id: 1410.8046
title: Generation of Phase-Squeezed Optical Pulses with Large Coherent Amplitudes by Post-Selection of Single Photons and Weak Cross-Kerr Nonlinearity
authors: Fumiaki Matsuoka, Akihisa Tomita, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8046
abstract: Phase-squeezed light can enhance the precision of optical phase estimation. The larger the photon numbers are and the stronger the squeezing is, the better the precision is. We propose an experimental scheme for generating phase-squeezed light pulses with large coherent amplitudes. In our scheme, one arm of a single-photon Mach--Zehnder interferometer interacts with coherent light via a nonlinear-optical Kerr medium to generate a coherent superposition state. Post-selecting the single photon by properly tuning a variable beam splitter in the interferometer yields a phase-squeezed output. Our proposed scheme is experimentally feasible under current quantum technology.

id: 1410.8049
title: Interplay of curvature and temperature in the Casimir-Polder interaction
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Thorsten Emig
comments: 6 pages, 4 encapsulated figures, invited contribution to a special issue on Casimir Forces to be published by J. Phys. Cond. Matt
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27 (2015) 214018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8049
abstract: We study the Casimir-Polder interaction at finite temperatures between a polarizable small, anisotropic particle and a non-planar surface using a derivative expansion. We obtain the leading and the next-to-leading curvature corrections to the interaction for low and high temperatures. Explicit results are provided for the retarded limit in the presence of a perfectly conducting surface.

id: 1410.8067
title: Classical correlation alone supplies the anomaly to weak values
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joshua Combes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8067
abstract: The question of what is genuinely quantum about weak values is only ever going to elicit strongly subjective opinions---it is not a scientific question. Good questions, when comparing theories, are operational---they deal with the unquestionable outcomes of experiment. We give the anomalous shift of weak values an objective meaning through a generalization to an operational definition of anomalous post-selected averages. We show the presence of these averages necessitate correlations in every model giving rise to them---quantum or classical. Characterizing such correlations shows that they are ubiquitous. We present the simplest classical example without the need of disturbance realizing these generalized anomalous weak values.

id: 1410.8080
title: Anyons in the Operational Formalism
authors: Klil H. Neori, Philip Goyal
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2014, to be included in proceedings. 9 pages, 7 figures rendered in PGF/TikZ
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8080
abstract: The operational formalism to quantum mechanics seeks to base the theory on a firm foundation of physically well-motivated axioms [1]. It has succeeded in deriving the Feynman rules [2] for general quantum systems. Additional elaborations have applied the same logic to the question of identical particles, confirming the so-called Symmetrization Postulate [3]: that the only two options available are fermions and bosons [4,5]. However, this seems to run counter to results in two-dimensional systems, which allow for anyons, particles with statistics which interpolate between Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein (see [6] for a review). In this talk we will show that the results in two dimensions can be made compatible with the operational results. That is, we will show that anyonic behavior is a result of the topology of the space in two dimensions [7], and does not depend on the particles being identical; but that nevertheless, if the particles are identical, the resulting system is still anyonic.

id: 1410.8121
title: Multiboson Correlation Interferometry with arbitrary single-photon pure states
authors: Vincenzo Tamma, Simon Laibacher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8121
abstract: We provide a compact full description of multiboson correlation measurements of arbitrary order N in passive linear interferometers with arbitrary input single-photon pure states. We give evidence, even for non-identical photons, of the tremendous computational power of multiphoton quantum interference at the heart of the complexity of multiboson correlation sampling at the output of random linear interferometers. Moreover, our results describe general multiboson correlation landscapes for an arbitrary number of input single photons and arbitrary interferometers. In particular, we use two different schemes to demonstrate, respectively, arbitrary-order quantum beat interference and 100 % visibility entanglement correlations even for input photons distinguishable in their frequencies.

id: 1410.8144
title: Inequalities for Moment Cones of Finite-Dimensional Representations
authors: Mich¨¨le Vergne, Michael Walter
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8144
abstract: We give a general description of the moment cone associated with an arbitrary finite-dimensional unitary representation of a compact, connected Lie group in terms of finitely many linear inequalities. Our method is based on combining differential-geometric arguments with a variant of Ressayre's notion of a dominant pair. As applications, we obtain generalizations of Horn's inequalities to arbitrary representations, new inequalities for the one-body quantum marginal problem in physics, which concerns the asymptotic support of the Kronecker coefficients of the symmetric group, and a geometric interpretation of the Howe--Lee--Tan--Willenbring invariants for the tensor product algebra.

id: 1410.8159
title: Chemical Basis of Trotter-Suzuki Errors in Quantum Chemistry Simulation
authors: Ryan Babbush, Jarrod McClean, Dave Wecker, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022311 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8159
abstract: Although the simulation of quantum chemistry is one of the most anticipated applications of quantum computing, the scaling of known upper bounds on the complexity of these algorithms is daunting. Prior work has bounded errors due to Trotterization in terms of the norm of the error operator and analyzed scaling with respect to the number of spin-orbitals. However, we find that these error bounds can be loose by up to sixteen orders of magnitude for some molecules. Furthermore, numerical results for small systems fail to reveal any clear correlation between ground state error and number of spin-orbitals. We instead argue that chemical properties, such as the maximum nuclear charge in a molecule and the filling fraction of orbitals, can be decisive for determining the cost of a quantum simulation. Our analysis motivates several strategies to use classical processing to further reduce the required Trotter step size and to estimate the necessary number of steps, without requiring additional quantum resources. Finally, we demonstrate improved methods for state preparation techniques which are asymptotically superior to proposals in the simulation literature.

id: 1410.8169
title: Non-equilibrium quantum systems: Divergence between global and local descriptions
authors: Pedro D. Manrique, Ferney Rodriguez, Luis Quiroga, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Advances in Condensed Matter Physics, vol. 2015, Article ID 615727
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8169
abstract: Even photosynthesis -- the most basic natural phenomenon underlying Life on Earth -- involves the non-trivial processing of excitations at the pico- and femtosecond scales during light-harvesting. The desire to understand such natural phenomena, as well as interpret the output from ultrafast experimental probes, creates an urgent need for accurate quantitative theories of open quantum systems. However it is unclear how best to generalize the well-established assumptions of an isolated system, particularly under non-equilibrium conditions. Here we compare two popular approaches: a description in terms of a direct product of the states of each individual system (i.e. a local approach) versus the use of new states resulting from diagonalizing the whole Hamiltonian (i.e. a global approach). We show that their equivalence fails when the system is open, in particular under the experimentally ubiquitous condition of a temperature gradient. By solving for the steady-state populations and calculating the heat flux as a test observable, we uncover stark differences between the formulations. This divergence highlights the need to establish rigorous ranges of applicability for such methods in modeling nanoscale transfer phenomena -- including during the light-harvesting process in photosynthesis.

id: 1410.8203
title: Rapid readout of a register of qubits using open loop quantum control
authors: Joshua Combes, Aaron Denney, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022305 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8203
abstract: Measurements are a primitive for characterizing quantum systems. Reducing the time taken to perform a measurement may be beneficial in many areas of quantum information processing. We show that permuting the eigenvalues of the state matrix in the logical basis, using open loop control, provides a $O(n)$ reduction in the measurement time, where $n$ is the number of qubits in the register. This reduction is of the same order as the (previously introduced) locally optimal feedback protocol. The advantage of the open loop protocol is that it is far less difficult experimentally. Because the control commutes with the measured observable at all times, our rapid measurement protocol could be used for characterizing a quantum system, by state or process tomography, or to implement measurement-based quantum error correction.

id: 1410.8238
title: The Slicing Theory of Quantum Measurement: Derivation of Transient Many Worlds Behavior
authors: Clifford Chafin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8238
abstract: An emergent theory of quantum measurement arises directly by considering the particular subset of many body wavefunctions that can be associated with classical condensed matter and its interaction with delocalized wavefunctions. This transfers questions of the "strangeness" of quantum mechanics from the wavefunction to the macroscopic material itself. An effectively many-worlds picture of measurement results for long times and induces a natural arrow of time. The challenging part is then justifying why our macroscopic world is dominated by such far-from-eigenstate matter. Condensing cold mesoscopic clusters provide a pathway to a partitioning of a highly correlated many body wavefunction to long lasting islands composed of classical-like bodies widely separated in Fock space. Low mass rapidly delocalizing matter that recombines with the solids "slice" the system into a set of nearby yet very weakly interacting subsystems weighted according to the Born statistics and yields a kind of many worlds picture but with the possibility of revived phase interference on iterative particle desorption, delocalization and readsorption. A proliferation of low energy photons competes with such a possibility. Causality problems associated with correlated quantum measurement are resolved and conserved quantities are preserved for the overall many body function despite their failure in each observer's bifurcating "slice-path." The necessity of such a state for a two state logic and reliable discrete state machine suggests that later stages of the universe's evolution will destroy the physical underpinnings required for consciousness and the arrow of time even without heat-death or atomic destruction. Some exotic possibilities outside the domain of usual quantum measurement are considered such as measurement with delocalized devices and revival of information from past measurements.

id: 1410.8239
title: Quantum-speed-limit time for multiqubit open systems
authors: Chen Liu, Zhen-Yu Xu, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 5pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022102 2 February 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8239
abstract: Quantum-speed-limit (QSL) time captures the intrinsic minimal time interval for a quantum system evolving from an initial state to a target state. In single qubit open systems, it was found that the memory (non-Markovian) effect of environment plays an essential role in shortening QSL time or, say, increasing the capacity for potential speedup. In this paper, we investigate the QSL time for multiqubit open systems. We find that for a certain class of states the memory effect still acts as the indispensable requirement for cutting the QSL time down, while for another class of states this takes place even when the environment is of no memory. In particular, when the initial state is in product state |111...1>, there exists a sudden transition from no capacity for potential speedup to potential speedup in a memoryless environment. In addition, we also display evidence for the subtle connection between QSL time and entanglement that weak entanglement may shorten QSL time even more.

id: 1410.8273
title: Distribution Statistics and Random Matrix Formalism of Multicarrier Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 47 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8273
abstract: We propose a combined mathematical framework of order statistics and random matrix theory for multicarrier continuous-variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD). In a multicarrier CVQKD scheme, the information is granulated into Gaussian subcarrier CVs, and the physical Gaussian link is divided into Gaussian sub-channels. The sub-channels are dedicated to the conveying of the subcarrier CVs. The distribution statistics analysis covers the study of the distribution of the sub-channel transmittance coefficients in the presence of a Gaussian noise and the utilization of the moment generation function (MGF) in the error analysis. We reveal the mathematical formalism of sub-channel selection and formulation of the transmittance coefficients, and show a reduced complexity progressive sub-channel scanning method. We define a random matrix formalism for multicarrier CVQKD to evaluate the statistical properties of the information flowing process. Using random matrix theory, we express the achievable secret key rates and study the efficiency of the AMQD-MQA (adaptive multicarrier quadrature division-multiuser quadrature allocation) multiple-access multicarrier CVQKD. The proposed combined framework is particularly convenient for the characterization of the physical processes of experimental multicarrier CVQKD.

id: 1410.8285
title: Fast and noise-resistant implementation of quantum phase gates and creation of quantum entangled states
authors: Ye-Hong Chen, Yan Xia, Qing-Qin Chen, Jie Song
comments: 22 pages (one column), 9 figures, accepted for publication as a Regular Article in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012325 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8285
abstract: The "Lewis-Riesenfeld phases" which plays a crucial role in constructing shortcuts to adiabaticity may be a resource for the implementation of quantum phase gates. By combining "Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant" with "quantum Zeno dynamics", we propose an effective scheme of rapidly implementing $\pi$ phase gates via constructing shortcuts to adiabatic passage in a two-distant-atom-cavity system. The influence of various decoherence processes such as spontaneous emission and photon loss on the fidelity is discussed. It is noted that this scheme is insensitive to both two error sources. Additionally, a creation of N-atom cluster states is put forward as a typical example of the applications of the fast and noise-resistant phase gates. The study results show that the shortcuts idea is not only applicable in other logic gates with different systems, but also propagable for many quantum information tasks.

id: 1410.8305
title: General conditions for vanishing the current J^{z} for Dirac field on boundaries of the domain between two planes
authors: O.V. Veko, V.M. Red'kov, A.I. Shelest, S.A. Yushchenko, A.M. Ishkhanyan
comments: 23 pages
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems. 2014. Vol. 17. no 2. P. 147-168
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8305
abstract: In connection with the Casimir effect for a spinor field in presence of external magnetic field, of special interest are solutions of the Dirac equation in the domains restricted by two planes, which have vanishing the third projection of the conserved current J^{z} on two boundaries. General conditions for vanishing the current are formulated, they reduce to linear homogeneous algebraic system, for which solutions exist only when vanishing the determinant of the linear system, that is for the roots of a 4-th order algebraic equation with respect to the variable e^{2ik a}, where a is a half-distance between the planes, and k stands for the third projection of the Dirac particle momentum. All solutions of the equation have been found explicitly, each of them provides us in principle with a special possibility to get the quantization rules for parameter k; the most of produced expression for the roots can be solved with respect to parameter k only numerically. Generally, solutions e^{2ik a} depend on 4 arbitrary phase parameters which influence the appropriate wave functions with vanishing current: J^{z}(z=-z,+a)=0.

id: 1410.8327
title: The Fidelity and Trace Norm Distances for Quantifying Coherence
authors: Lian-He Shao, Zhengjun Xi, Heng Fan, Yongming Li
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042120 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8327
abstract: We investigate the coherence measures induced by fidelity and trace norm, based on the recent proposed coherence quantification in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140401, 2014]. We show that the fidelity of coherence does not in general satisfy the monotonicity requirement as a measure of coherence under the subselection of measurements condition. We find that the trace norm of coherence can act as a measure of coherence for qubit case and some special class of qutrits.

id: 1410.8332
title: Qubit entanglement on a silicon photonic chip
authors: Joshua W. Silverstone, Raffaele Santagati, Damien Bonneau, Michael J. Strain, Marc Sorel, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8332
abstract: Entanglement--one of the most delicate phenomena in nature--is an essential resource for quantum information applications. Large entangled cluster states have been predicted to enable universal quantum computation, with the required single- qubit measurements readily implemented with photons. Useful large-scale systems must generate and control qubit entanglement on-chip, where quantum information is naturally encoded in photon path. Here we report a silicon photonic chip which integrates resonant-enhanced sources, filters, and reconfigurable optics to generate a path-entangled two-qubit state--the smallest non-trivial cluster state--and analyse its entanglement. We show that ring-resonator-based spontaneous four-wave mixing sources can be made highly indistinguishable, despite their nonlinear dynamics, and the first evidence that their frequency correlations are small, as predicted. We use quantum state tomography, and the strict Bell-CHSH inequality to quantify entanglement in the device, confirming its high performance. This work integrates essential components for building devices and systems to harness quantum entanglement on the large scale.

id: 1410.8346
title: Photon Clusters in Thermal Radiation
authors: Aleksey Ilyin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8346
abstract: Within the framework of Bose-Einstein statistics, it is shown that the blackbody radiation, in addition to single photons, contains photon clusters, or coalescent photons. The probability to find a k-photon cluster versus radiation frequency and temperature is found, as well as the statistics of clusters. Spectra of photon-cluster radiation are calculated as functions of blackbody temperature. The Planck's radiation law is derived based on the existence of photon clusters. The possibility of experimental observation of photon clusters in thermal radiation is discussed.

id: 1410.8421
title: Two-mode squeezed states as Schrodinger-cat-like states
authors: E. Oudot, P. Sekatski, F. Fr?wis, N. Gisin, N. Sangouard
comments: 5 pages + appendix, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8421
abstract: In recent years, there has been an increased interest in the generation of superposition of coherent states with opposite phases, the so-called photonic Schrodinger-cat states. These experiments are very challenging and so far, cats involving small photon numbers only have been implemented. Here, we propose to consider two-mode squeezed states as examples of a Schrodinger-cat-like state. In particular, we are interested in several criteria aiming to identify quantum states that are macroscopic superpositions in a more general sense. We show how these criteria can be extended to continuous variable entangled states. We apply them to various squeezed states, argue that two-mode squeezed vacuum states belong to a class of general Schrodinger-cat states and compare the size of states obtained in several experiments. Our results not only promote two-mode squeezed states for exploring quantum effects at the macroscopic level but also provide direct measures to evaluate their usefulness for quantum metrology.

id: 1410.8454
title: Knowing "where the photons have been"
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Dalibor Jav?rek, Karel Lemr, Jan Soubusta, Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012103 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8454
abstract: Linear-optical interferometers play a key role in designing circuits for quantum information processing and quantum communications. Even though nested Mach-Zehnder interferometers appear easy to describe, there are occasions when they provide unintuitive results. This paper explains the results of a highly discussed experiment performed by Danan et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240402 (2013)] using a standard approach. We provide a simple and intuitive one-state vector formalism capable of interpreting their experiment. Additionally, we cross-checked our model with a classical-physics based approach and found that both models are in complete agreement. We argue that the quantity used in the mentioned experiment is not a suitable which-path witness producing seemingly contra-intuitive results. To circumvent this issue, we establish a more reliable which-path witness and show that it yields well expected outcomes of the experiment.

id: 1410.8461
title: Experimentally Quantifying the Advantages of Weak-Values-Based Metrology
authors: Gerardo I. Viza, Juli¨¢n Mart¨ªnez-Rinc¨®n, Gabriel B. Alves, Andrew N. Jordan, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8461
abstract: We experimentally investigate the relative advantages of implementing weak-values-based metrology versus standard methods. To accomplish this we, measure small optical beam deflections both using a Sagnac interferometer with a monitored dark port (the weak-values-based technique), or by focusing the entire beam to a split detector (the standard technique). By introducing controlled external modulations of the detector, and transverse beam-jitter, we quantify the mitigation of these sources in the weak values-based experiment versus the standard focusing experiment. The experiments are compared using a combination of deterministic and stochastic methods. In all cases, the weak-values technique performs the same or better than the standard technique by up to two orders of magnitude in precision for our parameters. We further measure the statistical efficiency of the weak-values-based technique. By post-selecting on $1\%$ of the photons, we obtain $99\%$ of the available Fisher information of the beam deflection parameter.

id: 1410.8484
title: Tunneling through high energy barriers in simulated quantum annealing
authors: Elizabeth Crosson, Mingkai Deng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8484
abstract: We analyze the performance of simulated quantum annealing (SQA) on an optimization problem for which simulated classical annealing (SA) is provably inefficient because of a high energy barrier. We present evidence that SQA can pass through this barrier to find the global minimum efficiently. This demonstrates the potential for SQA to inherit some of the advantages of quantum annealing (QA), since this problem has been previously shown to be efficiently solvable by quantum adiabatic optimization.

id: 1410.8510
title: Comment on: How the result of a single coin toss can turn out to be 100 heads
authors: Aharon Brodutch
comments: Includes a brief response to the the published reply [Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 118902 (2015)]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 118901 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8510
abstract: Ferrie and Combes [PRL 113 120404 (2014)] produce a classical measurement scheme that supposedly exhibits `anomalous' weak values. I show that their model is flawed due to an incorrect definition of the weak value. As a consequence their claims are invalid.

id: 1410.8547
title: A Statistical Benchmark for BosonSampling
authors: Mattia Walschaers, Jack Kuipers, Juan-Diego Urbina, Klaus Mayer, Malte C. Tichy, Klaus Richter, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8547
abstract: Computing the state of a quantum mechanical many-body system composed of indistinguishable particles distributed over a multitude of modes is one of the paradigmatic test cases of computational complexity theory: Beyond well-understood quantum statistical effects, the coherent superposition of many-particle amplitudes rapidly overburdens classical computing devices - essentially by creating extremely complicated interference patterns, which also challenge experimental resolution. With the advent of controlled many-particle interference experiments, optical set-ups that can efficiently probe many-boson wave functions - baptised BosonSamplers - have therefore been proposed as efficient quantum simulators which outperform any classical computing device, and thereby challenge the extended Church-Turing thesis, one of the fundamental dogmas of computer science. However, as in all experimental quantum simulations of truly complex systems, there remains one crucial problem: How to certify that a given experimental measurement record is an unambiguous result of sampling bosons rather than fermions or distinguishable particles, or of uncontrolled noise? In this contribution, we describe a statistical signature of many-body quantum interference, which can be used as an experimental (and classically computable) benchmark for BosonSampling.

id: 1410.8561
title: Work extraction from heat-powered quantized optomechanical setups
authors: David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: Scientific reports 5, 7809 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8561
abstract: We analyze work extraction from an autonomous (self-contained) heat-powered optomechanical setup. The initial state of the quantized mechanical oscillator plays a key role. As the initial mean amplitude of the oscillator decreases, the resulting efficiency increases. In contrast to laser-powered self-induced oscillations, work extraction from a broadband heat bath does not require coherence or phase-locking: an initial phase-averaged coherent state of the oscillator still yields work, as opposed to an initial Fock-state.

id: 1410.8562
title: Leakage Suppression in the Toric Code
authors: Martin Suchara, Andrew W. Cross, Jay M. Gambetta
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8562
abstract: Quantum codes excel at correcting local noise but fail to correct leakage faults that excite qubits to states outside the computational space. Aliferis and Terhal have shown that an accuracy threshold exists for leakage faults using gadgets called leakage reduction units (LRUs). However, these gadgets reduce the accuracy threshold and can increase overhead and experimental complexity, and these costs have not been thoroughly understood. Our work explores a variety of techniques for leakage-resilient, fault-tolerant error correction in the context of topological codes. Our contributions are threefold. First, we develop a leakage model that differs in critical details from earlier models. Second, we use Monte-Carlo simulations to survey several syndrome extraction circuits. Third, given the capability to perform three-outcome measurements, we present a dramatically improved syndrome processing algorithm. Our simulation results show that simple circuits with one extra CNOT per qubit and no additional ancillas reduce the accuracy threshold by less than a factor of 4 when leakage and depolarizing noise rates are comparable. This becomes a factor of 2 when the decoder uses 3-outcome measurements. Finally, when the physical error rate is less than 2 x 10^-4, placing LRUs after every gate may achieve the lowest logical error rates of all of the circuits we considered. We expect the closely related planar and rotated codes to exhibit the same accuracy thresholds and that the ideas may generalize naturally to other topological codes.

id: 1410.8602
title: Experimental study of a phase-sensitive heterodyne detector
authors: Heng Fan, Dechao He, Sheng Feng
comments: 6 figures, revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8602
abstract: It is believed that the quantum behaviors of homodyne detectors and traditional heterodyne detectors can be fully understood in the context of the quantum theory of optical detection. According to the theory, a 3 dB extra quantum noise has been predicted in a traditional heterodyne detector, as a phase-insensitive device, due to the existence of the image sideband vacuum. However, regarding the noise performance of a phase-sensitive heterodyne detector, a fundamental dilemma inevitably arises: On one hand, the detector should suffer the 3 dB noise penalty caused by the image sideband vacuum, on the other hand, it, as a phase-sensitive device, should be noise free at the quantum level. We report on an experiment on the quantum noise performance of a phase-sensitive heterodyne detector with a bichromatic local oscillator. The results show that the studied detector is noise free, i.e., the quantum noise of the image sideband vacuum is absent in the observation. Revealing the mechanism for the absence of the image vacuum noise will be important for a full understanding of the origin of the quantum noise in optical detection.

id: 1410.8647
title: Asymmetric quantum transport in a double-stranded Kronig-Penney model
authors: Taksu Cheon, Sergey S. Poghosyan
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8647
abstract: We introduce a double-stranded Kronig-Penney model and analyze its transport properties. The asymmetric fluxes between two strands with suddenly alternating localization patterns are found as the energy is varied. The zero-size limit of the internal lines connecting two strands is examined using quantum graph vertices with four edges. We also consider a two-dimensional Kronig-Penney lattice with two types of alternating layers with $\delta$ and $\delta'$ connections, and show that the existence of energy bands in which the quantum flux can flow only in selected directions.

id: 1410.8652
title: Primitive ontology and quantum state in the GRW matter density theory
authors: Matthias Egg, Michael Esfeld
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0603027 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8652
abstract: The paper explains in what sense the GRW matter density theory (GRWm) is a primitive ontology theory of quantum mechanics and why, thus conceived, the standard objections against the GRW formalism do not apply to GRWm. We consider the different options for conceiving the quantum state in GRWm and argue that dispositionalism is the most attractive one.

id: 1410.8684
title: Hyperparametric effects in a whispering-gallery mode rutile dielectric resonator at liquid helium temperatures
authors: Nitin R. Nand, Maxim Goryachev, Jean-Michel Le Floch, Daniel L. Creedon, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Journal of Applied Physics 116, 134105 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8684
abstract: We report the first observation of low power drive level sensitivity, hyperparametric amplification, and single-mode hyperparametric oscillations in a dielectric rutile whispering-gallery mode resonator at 4.2 K. The latter gives rise to a comb of sidebands at 19.756 GHz. Whereas, most frequency combs in the literature have been observed in optical systems using an ensemble of equally spaced modes in microresonators or fibers, the present work represents generation of a frequency comb using only a single-mode. The experimental observations are explained by an additional 1/2 degree-of-freedom originating from an intrinsic material nonlinearity at optical frequencies, which affects the microwave properties due to the extremely low loss of rutile. Using a model based on lumped circuits, we demonstrate that the resonance between the photonic and material 1/2 degree-of-freedom, is responsible for the hyperparametric energy transfer in the system.

id: 1410.8700
title: Quantum learning of coherent states
authors: Gael Sent¨ªs, Madalin Guta, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 14+6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8700
abstract: We develop a quantum learning scheme for binary discrimination of coherent states of light. This is a problem of technological relevance for the reading of information stored in a digital memory. In our setting, a coherent light source is used to illuminate a memory cell and retrieve its encoded bit by determining the quantum state of the reflected signal. We consider a situation where the amplitude of the states produced by the source is not fully known, but instead this information is encoded in a large training set comprising many copies of the same coherent state. We show that an optimal global measurement, performed jointly over the signal and the training set, provides higher successful identification rates than any learning strategy based on first estimating the unknown amplitude by means of Gaussian measurements on the training set, followed by an adaptive discrimination procedure on the signal. By considering a simplified variant of the problem, we argue that this is the case even for non-Gaussian estimation measurements. Our results show that, even in absence of entanglement, collective quantum measurements yield an enhancement in the readout of classical information, which is particularly relevant in the operating regime of low-energy signals.

id: 1410.8701
title: Detection and Survival of a Quantum Particle on a Lattice
authors: Shrabanti Dhar, Subinay Dasgupta, Abhishek Dhar, Diptiman Sen
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8701
abstract: We consider a quantum particle, moving on a lattice with a tight-binding Hamiltonian, which is subjected to measurements to detect it's arrival at a particular chosen set of sites. The projective measurements are made at regular time intervals $\tau$, and we consider the evolution of the wave function till the time a detection occurs. We study the probabilities of its first detection at some time and conversely the probability of it not being detected (i.e., surviving) up to that time. We propose a general perturbative approach for understanding the dynamics which maps the evolution operator, consisting of unitary transformations followed by projections, to one described by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. For some examples, of a particle moving on one and two-dimensional lattices with one or more detection sites, we use this approach to find exact expressions for the survival probability and find excellent agreement with exact numerical results. A mean field model with hopping between all pairs of sites and detection at one site is solved exactly. For the one- and two-dimensional systems, the survival probability is shown to have a power-law decay with time, where the power depends on the initial position of the particle. Finally, we show an interesting and non-trivial connection between the dynamics of the particle in our model and the evolution of a particle under a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with a large absorbing potential at some sites.

id: 1410.8722
title: Divergence of an orbital-angular-momentum-carrying beam upon propagation
authors: Miles J. Padgett, Filippo M. Miatto, Martin Lavery, Anton Zeilinger, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8722
abstract: There is recent interest in the use of light beams carrying orbital angular momentum (OAM) for creating multiple channels within free-space optical communication systems. One limiting issue is that, for a given beam size at the transmitter, the beam divergence angle increases with increasing OAM, thus requiring a larger aperture at the receiving optical system if the efficiency of detection is to be maintained. Confusion exists as to whether this divergence scales linarly with, or with the square root of, the beam's OAM. We clarify how both these scaling laws are valid, depending upon whether it is the radius of the Gaussian beam waist or the rms intensity which is kept constant while varying the OAM.

id: 1410.8733
title: On possible effects of the spinor structures in Quantum Physics
authors: E.Ovsiyuk, O. Veko, A. Oana, M. Neagu, V. Balan, V. Red'kov
comments: 23 pages, Report to: Finsler Extensions of Relativity Theory (FERT-2013), 26-30 September 2013. Debrecen, Hungary
journal: Hypercomplex Number in geometry and Physics. 2013. Vol. 10. no 2(20). P. 290-314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8733
abstract: The paper discusses the following topics: spinor coverings for the full Lorentz group, intrinsic parity of fermions, Majorana fermions, spinor structure of space models, two types of spacial spinors, parametrization of spinor spaces by curvilinear coordinates, manifestation of spinor space structure in classifying solutions of the quantum-mechanical equations and in the matrix elements for physical quantities.

id: 1410.8752
title: Entanglement and separability in the noncommutative phase-space scenario
authors: Alex E. Bernardini, Catarina Bastos, Orfeu Bertolami, Nuno C. Dias, Jo?o N. Prata
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Based on a talk delivered by A.E.B. at DICE 2014 Spacetime - Matter - Quantum Mechanics ... news on missing links, 15th - 19th September 2014, Castiglioncello, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8752
abstract: Quantumness and separability criteria for continuous variable systems are discussed for the case of a noncommutative (NC) phase-space. In particular, the quantum nature and the entanglement configuration of NC two-mode Gaussian states are examined. Two families of covariance matrices describing standard quantum mechanics (QM) separable states are deformed into a NC QM configuration and then investigated through the positive partial transpose criterium for identifying quantum entanglement. It is shown that the entanglement of Gaussian states may be exclusively induced by switching on the NC deformation. Extensions of some preliminary results are presented.

id: 1410.8760
title: Interferometry with independently prepared Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: T. Wasak, P. Sza¨½kowski, J. Chwede¨½czuk
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8760
abstract: We show that it is possible to reach the sub shot-noise sensitivity of the phase estimation using two independently prepared Bose-Einstein condensates as an input of an interferometer. In this scenario, the quantum correlations between the particles, which are necessary to beat the shot-noise limit, arise from the indistinguishability of bosons. Allowing for atom number fluctuations independently in each condensate, we calculate the ultimate bound of the sensitivity. Our main conclusion is that even in presence of major atom number fluctuations, an interferometer operating on two independent condensates can give very high sensitivity. We also show that the estimation from the measurement of the number of atoms utilizes these quantum correlations. This observation, in context of recent measurement of the Fisher information in a many-body system [H. Strobel {\it et al}, Science {\bf 345}, 424 (2014)], opens the way towards the construction of a new type of an interferometer operating below the shot-noise limit.

id: 1410.8832
title: Path Integral Monte-Carlo method for relativistic quantum systems
authors: Oleg Pavlovsky, Alexander Ivanov, Alexander Novoselov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Contribution to the 32nd International Symposium on Lattice Field Theory (Lattice 2014), 23-28 June 2014, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8832
abstract: Relativistic generalization of Path Integral Monte-Carlo method has been proposed and some possible applications have been discussed.

id: 1410.8833
title: Tunable Polarons in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: E. Compagno, G. De Chiara, D. G. Angelakis, G. M. Palma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8833
abstract: A toolbox for the quantum simulation of attractive and repulsive polarons in ultracold atoms is presented. Motivated by impressing experimental advances in the area of ultracold atomic mixtures, we theoretically study the problem of ultracold atomic impurities immersed in a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). The impurity-BEC interaction gives rise to the formation of polarons whose interaction can be effectively tuned using an external laser in a quasi-resonant Raman scheme. Our scheme allows one to change the effective interactions between polarons from positive to negative. This is achieved by simply changing the intensity and the frequency of the two lasers. Such arrangement opens new avenues for the study of strongly correlated condensed matter models in ultracold gases.

id: 1410.8840
title: Probing the quantum vacuum with an artificial atom in front of a mirror
authors: I.-C. Hoi, A. F. Kockum, L. Tornberg, A. Pourkabirian, G. Johansson, P. Delsing, C. M. Wilson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8840
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of the vacuum are both a surprising and fundamental phenomenon of nature. Understood as virtual photons flitting in and out of existence, they still have a very real impact, \emph{e.g.}, in the Casimir effects and the lifetimes of atoms. Engineering vacuum fluctuations is therefore becoming increasingly important to emerging technologies. Here, we shape vacuum fluctuations using a "mirror", creating regions in space where they are suppressed. As we then effectively move an artificial atom in and out of these regions, measuring the atomic lifetime tells us the strength of the fluctuations. The weakest fluctuation strength we observe is 0.02 quanta, a factor of 50 below what would be expected without the mirror, demonstrating that we can hide the atom from the vacuum.

id: 1410.8853
title: Demonstrating Continuous Variable EPR Steering in spite of Finite Experimental Capabilities using Fano Steering Bounds
authors: James Schneeloch, Samuel H. Knarr, Gregory A. Howland, John C. Howell
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B. Vol. 32, No. 4, April 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8853
abstract: We show how one can demonstrate continuous-variable Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering without needing to characterize entire measurement probability distributions. To do this, we develop a modified Fano inequality useful for discrete measurements of continuous variables, and use it to bound the conditional uncertainties in continuous-variable entropic EPR-steering inequalities. With these bounds, we show how one can hedge against experimental limitations including a finite detector size, dead space between pixels, and any such factors that impose an incomplete sampling of the true measurement probability distribution. Furthermore, we use experimental data from the position and momentum statistics of entangled photon pairs in parametric downconversion to show that this method is sufficiently sensitive for practical use.

id: 1410.0169
title: Energy expectation values of a particle in nonstationary fields
authors: Alexander J. Silenko
comments: 16 pages; final version
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012111 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0169
abstract: We show that the origin of the nonequivalence of Hamiltonians in different representations is a change of the form of the time-derivative operator at a time-dependent unitary transformation. This nonequivalence does not lead to an ambiguity of the energy expectation values of a particle in nonstationary fields but assigns the basic representation. It has been explicitly or implicitly supposed in previous investigations that this representation is the Dirac one. We prove the alternative assertion about the basic role of the Foldy-Wouthuysen representation. We also derive the general equation for the energy expectation values in the Dirac representation. As an example, we consider a spin-1/2 particle with anomalous magnetic and electric dipole moments in strong time-dependent electromagnetic fields. We apply the obtained results to a spin-1/2 particle in a plane monochromatic electromagnetic wave and give an example of the exact Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation in the nonstationary case.

id: 1410.0206
title: Generalized Uncertainty Principle: Approaches and Applications
authors: Abdel Nasser Tawfik, Abdel Magied Diab
comments: Invited Review Article to appear in International Journal of Modern Physics D, 151 pages, 16 figures with 20 eps-graphs
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. D 23 (2014) 1430025
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0206
abstract: We review highlights from string theory, black hole physics and doubly special relativity and some "thought" experiments which were suggested to probe the shortest distance and/or the maximum momentum at the Planck scale. The models which are designed to implement the minimal length scale and/or the maximum momentum in different physical systems are analysed entered the literature as the Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). We compare between them. The existence of a minimal length and a maximum momentum accuracy is preferred by various physical observations. Furthermore, assuming modified dispersion relation allows for a wide range of applications in estimating, for example, the inflationary parameters, Lorentz invariance violation, black hole thermodynamics, Saleker-Wigner inequalities, entropic nature of the gravitational laws, Friedmann equations, minimal time measurement and thermodynamics of the high-energy collisions. One of the higher-order GUP approaches gives predictions for the minimal length uncertainty. Another one predicts a maximum momentum and a minimal length uncertainty, simultaneously. An extensive comparison between the different GUP approaches is summarized. We also discuss the GUP impacts on the equivalence principles including the universality of the gravitational redshift and the free fall and law of reciprocal action and on the kinetic energy of composite system. The concern about the compatibility with the equivalence principles, the universality of gravitational redshift and the free fall and law of reciprocal action should be addressed. We conclude that the value of the GUP parameters remain a puzzle to be verified.

id: 1410.0278
title: Synchronization in an Optomechanical Cavity
authors: Keren Shlomi, D.Yuvaraj, Ilya Baskin, Oren Suchoi, Roni Winik, Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 032910 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0278
abstract: We study self-excited oscillations (SEO) in an on-fiber optomechanical cavity. Synchronization is observed when the optical power that is injected into the cavity is periodically modulated. A theoretical analysis based on the Fokker-Planck equation evaluates the expected phase space distribution (PSD) of the self-oscillating mechanical resonator. A tomography technique is employed for extracting PSD from the measured reflected optical power. Time-resolved state tomography measurements are performed to study phase diffusion and phase locking of the SEO. The detuning region inside which synchronization occurs is experimentally determined and the results are compared with the theoretical prediction.

id: 1410.0323
title: Simple model of Feshbach resonance in the strong-coupling regime
authors: T. Wasak, M. Krych, Z. Idziaszek, M. Trippenbach, Y. Avishai, Y. B. Band
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 052719 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0323
abstract: We use the dressed potentials obtained in the adiabatic representation of two coupled channels to calculate s-wave Feshbach resonances in a 3D spherically symmetric potential with an open channel interacting with a closed channel. Analytic expressions for the s-wave scattering length $a$ and number of resonances are obtained for a piecewise constant model with a piecewise constant interaction of the open and closed channels near the origin. We show analytically and numerically that, for strong enough coupling strength, Feshbach resonances can exist even when the closed channel does {\em not} have a bound state.

id: 1410.0359
title: Designer non-Abelian anyon platforms: from Majorana to Fibonacci
authors: Jason Alicea, Ady Stern
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; lighthearted overview for proceedings of Nobel symposium on "New forms of matter: topological insulators and superconductors"
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0359
abstract: The emergence of non-Abelian anyons from large collections of interacting elementary particles is a conceptually beautiful phenomenon with important ramifications for fault-tolerant quantum computing. Over the last few decades the field has evolved from a highly theoretical subject to an active experimental area, particularly following proposals for trapping non-Abelian anyons in `engineered' structures built from well-understood components. In this short overview we briefly tour the impressive progress that has taken place in the quest for the simplest type of non-Abelian anyon---defects binding Majorana zero modes---and then turn to similar strategies for pursuing more exotic excitations. Specifically, we describe how interfacing simple quantum Hall systems with conventional superconductors yields `parafermionic' generalizations of Majorana modes and even Fibonacci anyons---the latter enabling fully fault tolerant universal quantum computation. We structure our treatment in a manner that unifies these topics in a coherent way. The ideas synthesized here spotlight largely uncharted experimental territory in the field of quantum Hall physics that appears ripe for discovery.

id: 1410.0383
title: Geometry and scaling of tangled vortex lines in three-dimensional random wave fields
authors: Alexander J. Taylor, Mark R. Dennis
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in J Phys A
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0383
abstract: The short- and long-scale behaviour of tangled wave vortices (nodal lines) in random three-dimensional wave fields is studied via computer experiment. The zero lines are tracked in numerical simulations of periodic superpositions of three-dimensional complex plane waves. The probability distribution of local geometric quantities such as curvature and torsion are compared to previous analytical and new Monte Carlo results from the isotropic Gaussian random wave model. We further examine the scaling and self-similarity of tangled wave vortex lines individually and in the bulk, drawing comparisons with other physical systems of tangled filaments.

id: 1410.0416
title: On a zero-gravity limit of the Kerr--Newman spacetimes and their electromagnetic fields
authors: A. Shadi Tahvildar-Zadeh
comments: 22 pages, one figure; minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0416
abstract: We discuss the limit of vanishing $G$ (Newton's constant of universal gravitation) of the maximal analytically extended Kerr--Newman electrovacuum spacetimes {represented in Boyer--Lindquist coordinates}. We investigate the topologically nontrivial spacetime emerging in this limit and show that it consists of two copies of flat Minkowski spacetime glued at a timelike solid cylinder. As $G\to 0$, the electromagnetic fields of the Kerr-Newman spacetimes converge to nontrivial solutions of Maxwell's equations on this background spacetime. We show how to obtain these fields by solving Maxwell's equations with singular sources supported only on a circle in a spacelike slice of the spacetime. These sources do not suffer from any of the pathologies that plague the alternate sources found in previous attempts to interpret the Kerr--Newman fields on the topologically simple Minkowski spacetime. We characterize the singular behavior of these sources and prove that the Kerr-Newman electrostatic potential and magnetic stream function are the unique solutions of the Maxwell equations among all functions that have the same blow-up behavior at the ring singularity.

id: 1410.0419
title: The Dirac point electron in zero-gravity Kerr--Newman spacetime
authors: M. K.-H. Kiessling, A. S. Tahvildar-Zadeh
comments: 49 pages, 17 figures; referee's comments implemented; the endnotes in the published version appear as footnotes in this preprint
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol.56, article 042303 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0419
abstract: Dirac's wave equation for a point electron in the topologically nontrivial maximal analytically extended electromagnetic Kerr--Newman spacetime is studied in a zero-gravity limit; here, "zero-gravity" means $G\to 0$, where $G$ is Newton's constant of universal gravitation. The following results are obtained: the formal Dirac Hamiltonian on the static spacelike slices is essentially self-adjoint; the spectrum of the self-adjoint extension is symmetric about zero, featuring a continuum with a gap about zero that, under two smallness conditions, contains a point spectrum. Some of our results extend to a generalization of the zero-$G$ Kerr--Newman spacetime with different electric-monopole-to-magnetic-dipole-moment ratio.

id: 1410.0450
title: Quantum Annealing with Antiferromagnetic Fluctuations for the Hopfield Model
authors: Yuya Seki, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0450
abstract: We investigate quantum annealing with antiferromagnetic fluctuations for the generalized Hopfield model with $k$-body interactions. The goal is to study the effectiveness of antiferromagnetic interactions, which were shown to help us avoid problematic first-order quantum phase transitions in pure ferromagnetic systems, in random systems. We estimate the efficiency of quantum annealing by analyzing phase diagrams for two cases where the number of embedded patterns is finite or extensively large. The phase diagrams of the model with finite patterns show that there exist annealing paths that avoid first-order transitions at least for $5 \le k \le 21$. The same is true for the extensive case with $k=4$. In contrast, it is impossible to avoid first-order transitions for the latter case with $k=2$, where the spin-glass phase hampers the quantum annealing process. These results indicate that quantum annealing with antiferromagnetic fluctuations can efficiently find the ground state of the generalized Hopfield model as long as the spin-glass phase does not exist.

id: 1410.0484
title: Topological Minimally Entangled States via Geometric Measure
authors: Oliver Buerschaper, Artur Garcia-Saez, Roman Orus, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, revised version. To appear in JSTAT
journal: JSTAT P11009 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0484
abstract: Here we show how the Minimally Entangled States (MES) of a 2d system with topological order can be identified using the geometric measure of entanglement. We show this by minimizing this measure for the doubled semion, doubled Fibonacci and toric code models on a torus with non-trivial topological partitions. Our calculations are done either quasi-exactly for small system sizes, or using the tensor network approach in [R. Orus, T.-C. Wei, O. Buerschaper, A. Garcia-Saez, arXiv:1406.0585] for large sizes. As a byproduct of our methods, we see that the minimisation of the geometric entanglement can also determine the number of Abelian quasiparticle excitations in a given model. The results in this paper provide a very efficient and accurate way of extracting the full topological information of a 2d quantum lattice model from the multipartite entanglement structure of its ground states.

id: 1410.0509
title: Black hole horizons and quantum charged particles
authors: Jos¨¦ Luis Jaramillo
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0509
abstract: We point out a structural similarity between the characterization of black hole apparent horizons as stable marginally outer trapped surfaces (MOTS) and the quantum description of a non-relativistic charged particle moving in given magnetic and electric fields on a closed surface. Specifically, the spectral problem of the MOTS-stability operator corresponds to a stationary quantum particle with a formal fine-structure constant $\alpha$ of negative sign. We discuss how such analogy enriches both problems, illustrating this with the insights into the MOTS-spectral problem gained from the analysis of the spectrum of the quantum charged particle Hamiltonian.

id: 1410.0545
title: Effect of short-range interaction for collision of ultracold dipoles
authors: Peng Zhang, Jianwen Jie
comments: Acknowledgement and some detail of the figures are updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062714 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0545
abstract: We consider the low-energy scattering of two ultracold polarized dipoles with both a short-range interaction (SRI) and a weak dipole-dipole interaction (DDI) which is far away from shape-resonances. In previous analytical studies, the scattering amplitude in this system was often calculated via the first-order Born approximation (FBA). Our results show that significant derivations from this approximation can arise in some cases. In these cases, the SRI can significantly modify the inter-dipole scattering amplitudes even if the scattering amplitudes for the SRI alone are much smaller than the dipolar length of the DDI. We further obtain approximate analytical expressions for these inter-dipole scattering amplitudes.

id: 1410.0552
title: Experimental Violation Of Bell-like Inequalities By Electronic Shot Noise
authors: Jean-Charles Forgues, Christian Lupien, Bertrand Reulet
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 130403 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0552
abstract: Quantum electronic noise, the random current fluctuations generated by electrons crossing a quantum conductor, has been thoroughly studied from the electron point of view. Recent experiments have shown that such noise may have striking properties in terms of the quantum electromagnetic field it generates. Both the existence of vacuum squeezing \cite{PAN_squeezing} and generation of correlated photon pairs \cite{C4quantique} have been observed. Here we demonstrate that this electromagnetic field also violates Bell-like inequalities, thereby proving its true quantum nature. This is achieved by the observation of two-mode quadrature squeezing of vacuum: the electromagnetic field quadratures at two different frequencies can be so correlated that their difference goes below vacuum fluctuations. Thus, electronic noise contains entangled photon pairs, a key ingredient for quantum computing and communication.

id: 1410.0665
title: Quantum inequality in spacetimes with small curvature
authors: Eleni-Alexandra Kontou, Ken D. Olum
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 104005 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0665
abstract: Quantum inequalities bound the extent to which weighted time averages of the renormalized energy density of a quantum field can be negative. They have mostly been proved in flat spacetime, but we need curved-spacetime inequalities to disprove the existence of exotic phenomena, such as closed timelike curves. In this work we derive such an inequality for a minimally-coupled scalar field on a geodesic in a spacetime with small curvature, working to first order in the Ricci tensor and its derivatives. Since only the Ricci tensor enters, there are no first-order corrections to the flat-space quantum inequalities on paths which do not encounter any matter or energy.

id: 1410.0687
title: Spectral tensor networks for many-body localization
authors: A. Chandran, J. Carrasquilla, I. H. Kim, D. A. Abanin, G. Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0687
abstract: Subsystems of strongly disordered, interacting quantum systems can fail to thermalize because of the phenomenon of many-body localization (MBL). In this article, we explore a tensor network description of the eigenspectra of such systems. Specifically, we will argue that the presence of a complete set of local integrals of motion in MBL implies an efficient representation of the entire spectrum of energy eigenstates with a single tensor network, a \emph{spectral} tensor network. Our results are rigorous for a class of idealized systems related to MBL with integrals of motion of finite support. In one spatial dimension, the spectral tensor network allows for the efficient computation of expectation values of a large class of operators (including local operators and string operators) in individual energy eigenstates and in ensembles.

id: 1410.0704
title: Semiclassical States on Lie Algebras
authors: Artur Tsobanjan
comments: 30 pages, no figures. Added a conclusion section, added some comments, corrected typos to bring the manuscript in line with the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56, 033501 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0704
abstract: The effective technique for analyzing representation-independent features of quantum systems based on the semiclassical approximation (developed elsewhere), has been successfully used in the context of the canonical (Weyl) algebra of the basic quantum observables. Here we perform the important step of extending this effective technique to the quantization of a more general class of finite-dimensional Lie algebras. The case of a Lie algebra with a single central element (the Casimir element) is treated in detail by considering semiclassical states on the corresponding universal enveloping algebra. Restriction to an irreducible representation is performed by "effectively" fixing the Casimir condition, following the methods previously used for constrained quantum systems. We explicitly determine the conditions under which this restriction can be consistently performed alongside the semiclassical truncation.

id: 1410.0750
title: Path integral action and exact renormalization group dualities for quantum systems in noncommutative plane
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay
comments: 8 pages Latex, comments are welcome. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1402.6156
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0750
abstract: We employ the path integral approach developed in [29] to discuss the (generalized) harmonic oscillator in a noncommutative plane. The action for this system is derived in the coherent state basis with additional degrees of freedom. From this the action in the coherent state basis without any additional degrees of freedom is obtained. This gives the ground state spectrum of the system. We then employ the exact renormalization group approach to show that a duality can be constructed between this (noncommutative) system and a commutative system.

id: 1410.0900
title: Entanglement negativity after a global quantum quench
authors: Andrea Coser, Erik Tonni, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, v2: minor corrections, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2014) P12017
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0900
abstract: We study the time evolution of the logarithmic negativity after a global quantum quench. In a 1+1 dimensional conformal invariant field theory, we consider the negativity between two intervals which can be either adjacent or disjoint. We show that the negativity follows the quasi-particle interpretation for the spreading of entanglement. We check and generalise our findings with a systematic analysis of the negativity after a quantum quench in the harmonic chain, highlighting two peculiar lattice effects: the late birth and the sudden death of entanglement.

id: 1410.0990
title: Classification of Floquet Statistical Distribution for Time-Periodic Open Systems
authors: Dong E. Liu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 144301 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0990
abstract: How to understand the order of Floquet stationary states in the presence of external bath coupling and their statistical mechanics is challenging; the answers are important for preparations and control of those Floquet states. Here, we propose a scheme to classify the statistical distribution of Floquet states for time-periodic systems which couple to an external heat bath. If an effective Hamiltonian and a system-bath coupling operator, which are all time-independent, can be simultaneously obtained via a time-periodic unitary transformation, the statistical mechanics of the Floquet states is equivalent to the equilibrium statistical mechanics of the effective Hamiltonian. In the large driving frequency cases, we also show that the conditions of this theorem can be weakened to: the time-period part in the system Hamiltonian commutes with the system-bath coupling operator. A Floquet-Markov approach is applied to numerically compute the Floquet state occupation distribution of a bosonic chain, and the results agree with the theoretical predictions.

id: 1410.1008
title: Sub-optical wavelength acoustic wave modulation of integrated photonic resonators at microwave frequencies
authors: Semere Ayalew Tadesse, Mo Li
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Nature Communications
journal: Nature Communications 5 (2014) 5402
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1008
abstract: Light-sound interactions have long been exploited in various acousto-optic devices based on bulk crystalline materials. Conventionally these devices operate in megahertz frequency range where the acoustic wavelength is much longer than the optical wavelength and a long interaction length is required to attain significant coupling. With nanoscale transducers, acoustic waves with sub-optical wavelengths can now be excited to induce strong acousto-optic coupling in nanophotonic devices. Here we demonstrate microwave frequency surface acoustic wave transducers co-integrated with nanophotonic resonators on piezoelectric aluminum nitride substrates. Acousto-optic modulation of the resonance modes at above 10 GHz with the acoustic wavelength significantly below the optical wavelength is achieved. The phase and modal matching conditions in this scheme are investigated for efficient modulation. The new acousto-optic platform can lead to novel optical devices based on nonlinear Brillouin processes and provides a direct, wideband link between optical and microwave photons for microwave photonics and quantum optomechanics.

id: 1410.1026
title: Quest for MeV frequency combs -- proposal for ELI experiments
authors: Katarzyna Krajewska, Jerzy Z. Kami¨½ski
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, Based on the talk presented at the \textsl{19$^{\mathrm{th}}$ Polish-Slovak-Czech Optical Conference on Wave and Quantum Aspects of Contemporary Optics}, September 8--12, 2014, Wojan\'ow Palace, Poland
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1026
abstract: The optical frequency comb has become an indispensable tool for high precision spectroscopy. Also experiments in the field of ultrafast physics rely on the frequency comb technique to generate precisely controlled attosecond optical pulses by means of the high-order harmonic generation. However, in order to generate even shorter laser pulses or to apply this technique in investigations of nuclear structure, combs of frequencies of the order of MeV are necessary. It seems that it may not be possible to achieve such photon energies by high-order harmonic generation. In this context the possibility of the generation of Thomson and Compton-based frequency combs is presented. Diffraction of generated radiation by a sequence of laser pulses and its analogy to the diffraction grating is elucidated. Theoretical investigations presented in this report can be considered as the proposal for future ELI experiments [www.eli-laser.eu]

id: 1410.1243
title: Topological properties of linear circuit lattices
authors: Victor V. Albert, Leonid I. Glazman, Liang Jiang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table + supplement (2 pages); Editor's Suggestion (in press); featured in Condmat journal club at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 173902 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1243
abstract: Motivated by the topologically insulating (TI) circuit of capacitors and inductors proposed and tested in arXiv:1309.0878, we present a related circuit with less elements per site. The normal mode frequency matrix of our circuit is unitarily equivalent to the hopping matrix of a quantum spin Hall insulator (QSHI) and we identify perturbations that do not backscatter the circuit's edge modes. The idea behind these models is generalized, providing a platform to simulate tunable and locally accessible lattices with arbitrary complex spin-dependent hopping of any range. A simulation of a non-Abelian Aharonov-Bohm effect using such linear circuit designs is discussed.

id: 1410.1373
title: On the analogy of quantum wave-particle duality with bouncing droplets
authors: Chris D. Richardson, Peter Schlagheck, John Martin, Nicolas Vandewalle, Thierry Bastin
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1373
abstract: We explore the hydrodynamic analogues of quantum wave-particle duality in the context of a bouncing droplet system which we model in such a way as to promote comparisons to the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics. Through numerical means we obtain single-slit diffraction and double-slit interference patterns that strongly resemble those reported in experiment and that reflect a striking resemblance to quantum diffraction and interference on a phenomenological level. We, however, identify evident differences from quantum mechanics which arise from the governing equations at the fundamental level.

id: 1410.1376
title: Status of the GRANIT facility
authors: Damien Roulier, Francis Vezzu, Stefan Baessler, Beno?t Cl¨¦ment, Daniel Morton, Valery Nesvizhevsky, Guillaume Pignol, Dominique Rebreyend
comments: 11 pages, 20 figures, Proceedings of the GRANIT-2014 WORKSHOP "Quantum gravitational spectroscopy with ultracold systems"(Les Houches)
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1376
abstract: The GRANIT facility is a follow-up project, which is motivated by the recent discovery of gravitational quantum states of ultracold neutrons. The goal of the project is to approach the ultimate accuracy in measuring parameters of such quantum states and also to apply this phenomenon and related experimental techniques to a broad range of applications in particle physics as well as in surface and nanoscience studies. We overview the current status of this facility, the recent test measurements and the nearest prospects.

id: 1410.1381
title: Phase randomization and typicality in the interference of two condensates
authors: Paolo Facchi, Hiromichi Nakazato, Saverio Pascazio, Francesco V. Pepe, Golam Ali Sekh, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 12 (2014) 15600199
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1381
abstract: Interference is observed when two independent Bose-Einstein condensates expand and overlap. This phenomenon is typical, in the sense that the overwhelming majority of wave functions of the condensates, uniformly sampled out of a suitable portion of the total Hilbert space, display interference with maximal visibility. We focus here on the phases of the condensates and their (pseudo) randomization, which naturally emerges when two-body scattering processes are considered. Relationship to typicality is discussed and analyzed.

id: 1410.1392
title: Holographic Entanglement Entropy from 2d CFT: Heavy States and Local Quenches
authors: Curtis T. Asplund, Alice Bernamonti, Federico Galli, Thomas Hartman
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures; v2: minor clarifications and references added
journal: JHEP 2015:171 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1392
abstract: We consider the entanglement entropy in 2d conformal field theory in a class of excited states produced by the insertion of a heavy local operator. These include both high-energy eigenstates of the Hamiltonian and time-dependent local quenches. We compute the universal contribution from the stress tensor to the single interval Renyi entropies and entanglement entropy, and conjecture that this dominates the answer in theories with a large central charge and a sparse spectrum of low-dimension operators. The resulting entanglement entropies agree precisely with holographic calculations in three-dimensional gravity. High-energy eigenstates are dual to microstates of the BTZ black hole, so the corresponding holographic calculation is a geodesic length in the black hole geometry; agreement between these two answers demonstrates that entanglement entropy thermalizes in individual microstates of holographic CFTs. For local quenches, the dual geometry is a highly boosted black hole or conical defect. On the CFT side, the rise in entanglement entropy after a quench is directly related to the monodromy of a Virasoro conformal block.

id: 1410.1398
title: Conditional Generation Scheme for a High-fidelity Yurke-Stoler States by Mixing Two Coherent Beams with Squeezed Vacuum State
authors: Sun-Hyun Youn
comments: 12 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1398
abstract: The numerical conditions to generate a high-fidelity Yurke-Stoler states ($|\alpha>+ e^{i \psi} |-\alpha>$)were found for two cascade-placed beam splitters with one squeezed state input and two coherent state inputs. Controlling the amplitude and the phases of beams, allows for various Yurke-Stoler states to be manipulated with ultra high-fidelity, and the expected theoretical fidelity is of more than 0.9999.

id: 1410.1401
title: Possibility of Observing Spiral Scattering of Relativistic Particles in a Bent Crystal
authors: Gennady V. Kovalev
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, article
journal: JETP Letters, vol. 89, N.10, p.265-270, 2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1401
abstract: The peak position, impact-parameter range, and optimal conditions for observing spiral scattering of relativistic particles in a uniformly bent crystal are estimated. The existence of spiral scattering with a square-root singularity is pointed out. In this case, the secondary process of volume capture to the channeling mode is absent and the conditions for observing this effect are most favorable.

id: 1410.1491
title: Many-body localization and quantum ergodicity in disordered long-range Ising models
authors: Philipp Hauke, Markus Heyl
comments: 4 + 5 pages, 2 figures, minor changes, added references
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1491
abstract: Ergodicity in quantum many-body systems is - despite its fundamental importance - still an open problem. Many-body localization provides a general framework for quantum ergodicity, and may therefore offer important insights. In this article, we study many-body localization and quantum ergodicity in long-range interacting Ising models with transverse-field disorder. Based on the nonequilibrium dynamical renormalization group and numerically exact diagonalization, we find a many-body localized phase at infinite temperature, irrespective of the disorder strength. We corroborate these predictions through analytical calculations valid for slow decay of interactions. To characterize and quantify quantum ergodicity, we introduce a measure for distances in Hilbert space that is general and independent of the considered spin system. We show that for spin-1/2 models this distance is equivalent to a simple local observable in real space, which can be measured in experiments of superconducting qubits, polar molecules, Rydberg atoms, and trapped ions.

id: 1410.1540
title: The Information Theoretic Interpretation of the Length of a Curve
authors: Bartlomiej Czech, Patrick Hayden, Nima Lashkari, Brian Swingle
comments: 40 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1540
abstract: In the context of holographic duality with AdS3 asymptotics, the Ryu-Takayanagi formula states that the entanglement entropy of a subregion is given by the length of a certain bulk geodesic. The entanglement entropy can be operationalized as the entanglement cost necessary to transmit the state of the subregion from one party to another while preserving all correlations with a reference party. The question then arises as to whether the lengths of other bulk curves can be interpreted as entanglement costs for some other information theoretic tasks. Building on recent results showing that the length of more general bulk curves is computed by the differential entropy, we introduce a new task called constrained state merging, whereby the state of the boundary subregion must be transmitted using operations restricted in location and scale in a way determined by the geometry of the bulk curve. Our main result is that the cost to transmit the state of a subregion under the conditions of constrained state merging is given by the differential entropy and hence the signed length of the corresponding bulk curve. When the cost is negative, constrained state merging distills entanglement rather than consuming it. This demonstration has two parts: first, we exhibit a protocol whose cost is the length of the curve and second, we prove that this protocol is optimal in that it uses the minimum amount of entanglement. In order to complete the proof, we additionally demonstrate that single-shot smooth conditional entropies for intervals in 1+1-dimensional conformal field theories with large central charge are well approximated by their von Neumann counterparts. We also revisit the relationship between the differential entropy and the maximum entropy among locally consistent density operators, demonstrating large quantitative discrepancy between the two quantities in conformal field theories.

id: 1410.1724
title: Classical dynamics and localization of resonances in the high energy region of the hydrogen atom in crossed fields
authors: Frank Schweiner, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, modest revisions in the text
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012915 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1724
abstract: When superimposing the potentials of external fields on the Coulomb potential of the hydrogen atom a saddle point appears, which is called the Stark saddle point. For energies slightly above the saddle point energy one can find classical orbits, which are located in the vicinity of this point. We follow those so-called quasi-Penning orbits to high energies and field strengths observing structural changes and uncovering their bifurcation behavior. By plotting the stability behavior of those orbits against energy and field strength the appearance of a stability apex is reported. A cusp bifurcation, located in the vicinity of the apex, will be investigated in detail. In this cusp bifurcation another orbit of similar shape is found, which becomes completely stable in the observed region of positive energy, i.e., in a region of parameter space, where the Kepler-like orbits located around the nucleus are already unstable. By quantum-mechanically exact calculations we prove the existence of signatures in quantum spectra belonging to those orbits. Husimi distributions are used to compare quantum-Poincar\'e sections with the extension of the classical torus structure around the orbits. Since periodic orbit theory predicts that each classical periodic orbit contributes an oscillating term to photoabsorption spectra, we finally give an estimation for future experiments, which could verify the existence of the stable orbits.

id: 1410.1739
title: Cross-dimensional phase transition from an array of 1D Luttinger liquids to a 3D Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Andreas Vogler, Ralf Labouvie, Giovanni Barontini, Sebastian Eggert, Vera Guarrera, Herwig Ott
comments: 5 pages, 5 pictures, final version, Phys. Rev. Lett. in print (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 215301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1739
abstract: We study the thermodynamic properties of a 2D array of coupled one-dimensional Bose gases. The system is realized with ultracold bosonic atoms loaded in the potential tubes of a two-dimensional optical lattice. For negligible coupling strength, each tube is an independent weakly interacting 1D Bose gas featuring Tomonaga Luttinger liquid behavior. By decreasing the lattice depth, we increase the coupling strength between the 1D gases and allow for the phase transition into a 3D condensate. We extract the phase diagram for such a system and compare our results with theoretical predictions. Due to the high effective mass across the periodic potential and the increased 1D interaction strength, the phase transition is shifted to large positive values of the chemical potential. Our results are prototypical to a variety of low-dimensional systems, where the coupling between the subsystems is realized in a higher spatial dimension such as coupled spin chains in magnetic insulators.

id: 1410.1829
title: Band gaps induced by vacuum photons in closed semiconductor cavities
authors: O. V. Kibis, K. B. Arnardottir, I. A. Shelykh
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 055802 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1829
abstract: We consider theoretically a closed (zero-dimensional) semiconductor microcavity where confined vacuum photonic mode is coupled to electrons in valence band of the semiconductor. It is shown that vacuum-induced virtual electron transitions between valence and conduction bands result in renormalization of electron energy spectrum. As a consequence, vacuum-induced band gaps appear within the valence band. Calculated values of the band gaps are of sub-meV scale, that makes this QED effect to be measurable in state-of-the-art experiments.

id: 1410.1883
title: Fast-Forward Assisted STIRAP
authors: Shumpei Masuda, Stuart A. Rice
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1409.0784
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1883
abstract: We consider combined stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and fast forward field (FFF) control of selective vibrational population transfer in a polyatomic molecule. The motivation for using this combination control scheme is twofold: (i) to overcome transfer inefficiency that occurs when the STIRAP fields and pulse durations must be restricted to avoid excitation of population transfers that compete with the targeted transfer and (ii) to overcome transfer inefficiency resulting from embedding of the actively driven subset of states in a large manifold of states. We show that, in a subset of states that is coupled to background states, a combination of STIRAP and FFFs that do not individually generate processes that are competitive with the desired population transfer can generate greater population transfer efficiency than can ordinary STIRAP with similar field strength and/or pulse duration. The vehicle for our considerations is enhancing the yield of HNC in the driven ground state-to-ground state nonrotating HCN/HNC isomerization reaction and selective population of one of a pair of near degenerate states in non rotating SCCl$_2$.

id: 1410.1894
title: Thermodynamics of quantum photon spheres
authors: M. C. Baldiotti, Walace S. Elias, C. Molina, Thiago S. Pereira
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 104025 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1894
abstract: Photon spheres, surfaces where massless particles are confined in closed orbits, are expected to be common astrophysical structures surrounding ultracompact objects. In this paper a semiclassical treatment of a photon sphere is proposed. We consider the quantum Maxwell field and derive its energy spectra. A thermodynamic approach for the quantum photon sphere is developed and explored. Within this treatment, an expression for the spectral energy density of the emitted radiation is presented. Our results suggest that photon spheres, when thermalized with their environment, have nonusual thermodynamic properties, which could lead to distinct observational signatures.

id: 1410.1938
title: Precise measurements on a quantum phase transition in antiferromagnetic spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: A. Vinit, C. Raman
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because page 13, para 3 is incomplete
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1938
abstract: We investigate, both experimentally and theoretically, the quench dynamics of antiferromagnetic spinor Bose-Einstein condensates in the vicinity of a zero temperature quantum phase transition at zero quadratic Zeeman shift q. Both the rate of instability and the associated finite wavevector of the unstable modes - show good agreement with predictions based upon numerical solutions to the Bogoliubov de-Gennes equations. A key feature of this work is inclusion of magnetic field inhomogeneities that smooth the phase transition. Once these were removed, we observed a dramatic sharpening of the transition point, which could then be resolved within a quadratic Zeeman shift of only 1-2 Hz. Our results point to the use of dynamics, rather than equilibrium quantities for high precision measurements of phase transitions in quantum gases.

id: 1410.1951
title: Donor hyperfine Stark shift and the role of central-cell corrections in tight-binding theory
authors: Muhammad Usman, Rajib Rahman, Joe Salfi, Juanita Bocquel, Benoit Voisin, Sven Rogge, Gerhard Klimeck, Lloyd L. C. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27, 154207, 2015
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1951
abstract: Atomistic tight-binding (TB) simulations are performed to calculate the Stark shift of the hyperfine coupling for a single Arsenic (As) donor in Silicon (Si). The role of the central-cell correction is studied by implementing both the static and the non-static dielectric screenings of the donor potential, and by including the effect of the lattice strain close to the donor site. The dielectric screening of the donor potential tunes the value of the quadratic Stark shift parameter ($\eta_2$) from -1.3 $\times$ 10$^{-3} \mu$m$^2$/V$^2$ for the static dielectric screening to -1.72 $\times$ 10$^{-3} \mu$m$^2$/V$^2$ for the non-static dielectric screening. The effect of lattice strain, implemented by a 3.2% change in the As-Si nearest-neighbour bond length, further shifts the value of $\eta_2$ to -1.87 $\times$ 10$^{-3} \mu$m$^2$/V$^2$, resulting in an excellent agreement of theory with the experimentally measured value of -1.9 $\pm$ 0.2 $\times$ 10$^{-3} \mu$m$^2$/V$^2$. Based on our direct comparison of the calculations with the experiment, we conclude that the previously ignored non-static dielectric screening of the donor potential and the lattice strain significantly influence the donor wave function charge density and thereby leads to a better agreement with the available experimental data sets.

id: 1410.1993
title: The second-order interference of two independent single-mode He-Ne lasers
authors: Jianbin Liu, Minglan Le, Bin Bai, Wentao Wang, Hui Chen, Yu Zhou, Fu-Li Li, Zhuo Xu
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. Comments are welcome. Submitted for publication
journal: Optics Communications, 350, 196 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.1993
abstract: The second-order spatial and temporal interference patterns with two independent single-mode He-Ne lasers are observed in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer. Two-photon interference in Feynman's path integral theory is employed to interpret the experimental results. The conditions to observe the second-order interference pattern with two independent single-mode continuous wave lasers are discussed. It is concluded that two-photon interference exists for not only identical photons, but also photons with different spectrums if the detection system can not distinguish them in principle. The second-order temporal beating with two independent lasers can be employed to measure the coherence time and frequency of one laser if the properties of the other laser were known.

id: 1410.2025
title: Quantum phase transition as an interplay of Kitaev and Ising interactions
authors: A. Langari, A. Mohammad-Aghaei, R. Haghshenas
comments: 16 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 024415 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2025
abstract: We study the interplay between the Kitaev and Ising interactions on both ladder and two dimensional lattices. We show that the ground state of the Kitaev ladder is a symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phase, which is protected by a $\mathbb{Z}_2 \times \mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry. It is confirmed by the degeneracy of the entanglement spectrum and non-trivial phase factors (inequivalent projective representations of the symmetries), which are obtained within infinite matrix-product representation of numerical density matrix renormalization group. We derive the effective theory to describe the topological phase transition on both ladder and two-dimensional lattices, which is given by the transverse field Ising model with/without next-nearest neighbor coupling. The ladder has three phases, namely, the Kitaev SPT, symmetry broken ferro/antiferromagnetic order and classical spin-liquid. The non-zero quantum critical point and its corresponding central charge are provided by the effective theory, which are in full agreement with the numerical results, i.e., the divergence of entanglement entropy at the critical point, change of the entanglement spectrum degeneracy and a drop in the ground-state fidelity. The central charge of the critical points are either c=1 or c=2, with the magnetization and correlation exponents being 1/4 and 1/2, respectively. In the absence of frustration, the 2D lattice shows a topological phase transition from the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ spin-liquid state to the long-range ordered Ising phase at finite ratio of couplings, while in the presence of frustration, an order-by-disorder transition is induced by the Kitaev term. The 2D classical spin-liquid phase is unstable against the addition of Kitaev term toward an ordered phase before the transition to the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ spin-liquid state.

id: 1410.2048
title: Dynamic Acoustic Control of Individual Optically Active Quantum Dot-like Emission Centers in Heterostructure Nanowires
authors: Matthias Wei?, J?rg B. Kinzel, Florian J. R. Sch¨¹lein, Michael Heigl, Daniel Rudolph, Stefanie Mork?tter, Markus D?blinger, Max Bichler, Gerhard Abstreiter, Jonathan J. Finley, Gregor Koblm¨¹ller, Achim Wixforth, Hubert J. Krenner
comments: This document is the unedited Author's version of a Submitted Work that was subsequently accepted for publication in Nano Letters, copyright \c{copyright} American Chemical Society after peer review. To access the final edited and published work see this http URL
journal: Nano Letters 14, 2256 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2048
abstract: We probe and control the optical properties of emission centers forming in radial het- erostructure GaAs-Al0.3Ga0.7As nanowires and show that these emitters, located in Al0.3Ga0.7As layers, can exhibit quantum-dot like characteristics. We employ a radio frequency surface acoustic wave to dynamically control their emission energy and occupancy state on a nanosec- ond timescale. In the spectral oscillations we identify unambiguous signatures arising from both the mechanical and electrical component of the surface acoustic wave. In addition, differ- ent emission lines of a single quantum dot exhibit pronounced anti-correlated intensity oscilla- tions during the acoustic cycle. These arise from a dynamically triggered carrier extraction out of the quantum dot to a continuum in the radial heterostructure. Using finite element modeling and Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin theory we identify quantum tunneling as the underlying mech- anism. These simulation results quantitatively reproduce the observed switching and show that in our systems these quantum dots are spatially separated from the continuum by > 10.5 nm.

id: 1410.2127
title: Beyond the Stalemate: Conscious MInd-Body - Quantum Mechanics - Free Will - Possible Panpsychism - Possible Interpretation of Quantum Enigma
authors: Stuart Kauffman
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2127
abstract: I wish to discuss a large, interwoven set of topics pointed at in the title above. Much of what I say is highly speculative, some is testable, some is, at present, surely not. It is, I hope, useful, to set these ideas forth for our consideration. What I shall say assumes quantum measurement is real, and that Bohm's interpretation of Quantum Mechanics is not true. The Stalemate: In our contemporary neurobiology and much of the philosophy of mind post Descartes we are classical physics machines and either mindless, or mind is at best epiphenomenal and can have no consequences for the physical world. The first main point of this paper is that we are not forced to this conclusion, but must give up total reliance on classical physics.

id: 1410.2143
title: Absence of Quantum Time Crystals
authors: Haruki Watanabe, Masaki Oshikawa
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; v2: original proof for T=0 improved, proof for T>0 added. Title is changed accordingly
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2143
abstract: In analogy with crystalline solids around us, Wilczek recently proposed the idea of "time crystals" as phases that spontaneously break the continuous time translation into a discrete subgroup. The proposal stimulated further studies and vigorous debates whether it can be realized in a physical system. However, a precise definition of the time crystal is needed to resolve the issue. Here we first present a definition of time crystals based on the time-dependent correlation functions of the order parameter. We then prove a no-go theorem that rules out the possibility of time crystals defined as such, in the ground state or in the canonical ensemble of a general Hamiltonian, which consists of not-too-long-range interactions.

id: 1410.2204
title: Time-dependent calculations of transfer ionization by fast proton-helium collision in one-dimensional kinematics
authors: Vladislav V. Serov, A. S. Kheifets
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062706 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2204
abstract: We analyze a transfer ionization (TI) reaction in the fast proton-helium collision $\rm H^+ + He \to H^0 + He^{2+} + e^-$ by solving a time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) under the classical projectile motion approximation in one-dimensional kinematics. In addition, we construct various time independent analogues of our model using lowest order perturbation theory in the form of the Born series. By comparing various aspects of the TDSE and the Born series calculations, we conclude that the recent discrepancies of experimental and theoretical data may be attributed to deficiency of the Born models used by other authors. We demonstrate that the correct Born series for TI should include the momentum space overlap between the double ionization amplitude and the wave function of the transferred electron.

id: 1410.2268
title: An N-atom Collective State Atomic Clock with Root-N Fold Increase in Effective Frequency and Root-N Fold Reduction in Fringe Width
authors: May E. Kim, Resham Sarkar, Renpeng Fang, Selim M. Shahriar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2268
abstract: We describe a collective state atomic clock with Ramsey fringes narrowed by a factor of $\sqrt{N}$ compared to a conventional clock, N being the number of non-interacting atoms, without violating the uncertainty relation. This narrowing is explained as being due to interferences among the collective states, representing an effective $\sqrt{N}$ fold increase in the clock frequency, without entanglement. The detection process, which measures a collective state, can be used to increase the quantum efficiency of detection significantly, yielding a net improvement in stability by as much as a factor of 10.

id: 1410.2274
title: From quantum to classical instability in relativistic stars
authors: Andr¨¦ G. S. Landulfo, William C. C. Lima, George E. A. Matsas, Daniel A. T. Vanzella
comments: 16 pages. Minor changes to match the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 024011 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2274
abstract: It has been shown that gravitational fields produced by realistic classical-matter distributions can force quantum vacuum fluctuations of some nonminimally coupled free scalar fields to undergo a phase of exponential growth. The consequences of this unstable phase to the background spacetime have not been addressed so far due to known difficulties concerning backreaction in semiclassical gravity. It seems reasonable to believe, however, that the quantum fluctuations will "classicalize" when they become large enough, after which backreaction can be treated in the general-relativistic context. Here we investigate the emergence of a classical regime out of the quantum field evolution during the unstable phase. By studying the appearance of classical correlations and loss of quantum coherence, we show that by the time backreaction becomes important the system already behaves classically. Consequently, the gravity-induced instability leads naturally to initial conditions for the eventual classical description of the backreaction. Our results give support to previous analyses which treat classically the instability of scalar fields in the spacetime of relativistic stars, regardless whether the instability is triggered by classical or quantum perturbations.

id: 1410.2287
title: Quantum Entanglement of Localized Excited States at Finite Temperature
authors: Pawel Caputa, Joan Simon, Andrius Stikonas, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 1+28 pages, 12 figures, v2 reference added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2287
abstract: In this work we study the time evolutions of (Renyi) entanglement entropy of locally excited states in two dimensional conformal field theories (CFTs) at finite temperature. We consider excited states created by acting with local operators on thermal states and give both field theoretic and holographic calculations. In free field CFTs, we find that the growth of Renyi entanglement entropy at finite temperature is reduced compared to the zero temperature result by a small quantity proportional to the width of the localized excitations. On the other hand, in finite temperature CFTs with classical gravity duals, we find that the entanglement entropy approaches a characteristic value at late time. This behaviour does not occur at zero temperature. We also study the mutual information between the two CFTs in the thermofield double (TFD) formulation and give physical interpretations of our results.

id: 1410.2310
title: High Fidelity Singlet-Triplet ${S}$-${T_-}$ Qubits in Inhomogeneous Magnetic Fields
authors: Clement H. Wong, M. A. Eriksson, S. N. Coppersmith, Mark Friesen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2310
abstract: We propose an optimal set of quantum gates for a singlet-triplet qubit in a double quantum dot with two electrons utilizing the $S$-$T_-$ subspace. Qubit rotations are driven by the applied magnetic field and an orthogonal field gradient provided by a micromagnet. We optimize the fidelity of this qubit as a function of magnetic fields, taking advantage of "sweet spots" where the rotation frequencies are independent of the energy level detuning, providing protection against charge noise. We simulate gate operations and qubit rotations in the presence of quasistatic noise from charge and nuclear spins as well as leakage to nonqubit states, and predict that in silicon quantum dots gate fidelities greater than $99\%$ can be achieved for two nearly-orthogonal rotation axes.

id: 1410.2334
title: Gravitational Wave Detection with High Frequency Phonon Trapping Acoustic Cavities
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Michael E. Tobar
comments: appears in Phys. Rev. D, (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 102005 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2334
abstract: There are a number of theoretical predictions for astrophysical and cosmological objects, which emit high frequency ($10^6-10^9$~Hz) Gravitation Waves (GW) or contribute somehow to the stochastic high frequency GW background. Here we propose a new sensitive detector in this frequency band, which is based on existing cryogenic ultra-high quality factor quartz Bulk Acoustic Wave cavity technology, coupled to near-quantum-limited SQUID amplifiers at $20$~mK. We show that spectral strain sensitivities reaching $10^{-22}$ per $\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ per mode is possible, which in principle can cover the frequency range with multiple ($>100$) modes with quality factors varying between $10^6-10^{10}$ allowing wide bandwidth detection. Due to its compactness and well established manufacturing process, the system is easily scalable into arrays and distributed networks that can also impact the overall sensitivity and introduce coincidence analysis to ensure no false detections.

id: 1410.2468
title: Pulsed photo-excitation timed with pulsed rf can reveal the radical-pair magnetoreceptor
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2468
abstract: The radical-pair mechanism is understood to underlie the magnetic navigation capability of birds and possibly other species. Experiments with birds have provided indirect and in cases conflicting evidence on the actual existence of this mechanism. We here propose a new experiment that can unambiguously identify the presence of the radical-pair magnetoreceptor in birds and unravel some of its basic properties. The proposed experiment is based on modulated light excitation with a pulsed laser, combined with delayed radio-frequency magnetic field pulses. We predict a resonance effect in the birds' magnetic orientation versus the rf-pulse delay time. The resonance's position reflects the singlet-triplet mixing time of the magnetoreceptor.

id: 1410.2483
title: A toy model for the dipolar-induced resonance in quasi-one-dimensional systems
authors: Nicola Bartolo, David J. Papoular, Alessio Recati, Chiara Menotti
comments: Published on EPJ Special Topics, Levico BEC 2014; 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J Special Topics 224 (3), 477 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2483
abstract: We discuss the properties of the effective dipolar interaction for two particles tightly confined along a one-dimensional tube, stressing the emergence of a single dipolar-induced resonance in a regime for which two classical dipoles would just repel each other. We present a toy-model potential reproducing the main features of the effective interaction: a non-zero-range repulsive potential competing with an attractive contact term. The existence of a single resonance is confirmed analytically. The toy model is than generalized to investigate the interplay between dipolar and contact interaction, giving an intuitive interpretation of the resonance mechanism.

id: 1410.2497
title: Cooperatively enhanced light transmission in cold atomic matter
authors: Kasie Kemp, S.J. Roof, M.D. Havey, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2497
abstract: We report enhanced transmission in measurements of the spectral dependence of forward light scattering by a high-density and cold ensemble of 87Rb atoms. This phenomenon, which is a result of dipole-dipole interaction induced cooperative light scattering in the atomic sample, implies a significant departure from the traditional density dependence of the transmitted light as embodied in the Beer-Lambert Law. Absolute values of the density-dependent forward light scattering cross-section are extracted from the measurements.

id: 1410.2587
title: Anderson transition of Bogoliubov quasiparticles in the quasiperiodic kicked rotor
authors: Benoit Vermersch, Dominique Delande, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2587
abstract: We study the dynamics of Bogoliubov excitations of a Bose-Einstein condensate in the quasiperiodic kicked rotor. In the weakly interacting regime, the condensate is stable and both the condensate and the excitations undergo a phase transition from a quasilocalized to a diffusive regime. The corresponding critical exponents are identical for the condensate and the excitations, and compare very well with the value $\nu\approx1.6$ for non-interacting particles.

id: 1410.2594
title: Vortex-line condensation in three dimensions: A physical mechanism for bosonic topological insulators
authors: Peng Ye, Zheng-Cheng Gu
comments: ReVTeX 4.1, 17 pages, 2 figures (New references are added.)
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2594
abstract: Bosonic topological insulators (BTI) in three spatial dimensions are symmetry protected topological (SPT) phases with U(1)$\rtimes$Z$^T_2$ symmetry, where U(1) is boson particle number conservation, and Z$^T_2$ is time-reversal symmetry with $\mathcal{T}^2=1$. BTI were first proposed based on the group cohomology theory which suggests two distinct root states, each carrying a $\mathbb{Z}_2$ index. Soon after, surface anomalous topological orders were proposed to identify different root states of BTI, leading to a new BTI root state beyond the group cohomology classification. Nevertheless, it is still unclear what is the universal physical mechanism for BTI phases and what kinds of microscopic Hamiltonians can realize them. In this paper, we answer the first question by proposing a universal physical mechanism via vortex-line condensation in a superfluid, which can potentially be realized in realistic systems, e.g., helium-4 or cold atoms in optical lattices. Using such a simple physical picture, we find three root phases, of which two of them are classified by group cohomology theory while the other is beyond group cohomology classification. The physical picture also leads to a "natural" bulk dynamic topological quantum field theory (TQFT) description for BTI phases and gives rise to a possible physical pathway towards experimental realizations. Finally, we generalize the vortex-line condensation picture to other symmetries and find that in three dimensions, even for a unitary Z$_2$ symmetry, there could be a nontrivial Z$_2$ SPT phase beyond the group cohomology classification.

id: 1410.2628
title: Algorithm engineering for a quantum annealing platform
authors: Andrew D. King, Catherine C. McGeoch
comments: 16 pages. V2: minor edits
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2628
abstract: Recent advances bring within reach the viability of solving combinatorial problems using a quantum annealing algorithm implemented on a purpose-built platform that exploits quantum properties. However, the question of how to tune the algorithm for most effective use in this framework is not well understood. In this paper we describe some operational parameters that drive performance, discuss approaches for mitigating sources of error, and present experimental results from a D-Wave Two quantum annealing processor.

id: 1410.2717
title: Topological analysis of paraxially scattered electron vortex beams
authors: Axel Lubk, Laura Clark, Giulio Guzzinati, Jo Verbeeck
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033834 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2717
abstract: We investigate topological aspects of sub-nm electron vortex beams upon elastic propagation through atomic scattering potentials. Two main aspects can be distinguished: (i) Significantly reduced delocalization compared to a similar non-vortex beam if the beam centers on an atomic column and (ii) site symmetry dependent splitting of higher-order vortex beams. Furthermore, the results provide insight into the complex vortex line fabric within the elastically scattered wave containing characteristic vortex loops predominantly attached to atomic columns and characteristic twists of vortex lines around atomic columns.

id: 1410.2765
title: Cosmological Evolution of Fundamental Constants: From Theory to Experiment
authors: Xavier Calmet, Matthias Keller
comments: Invited paper to the Special Issue: "Fundamental Constants in Physics and Their Time Variation" (Modern Physics Letters A, Guest Ed. Joan Sol\`a)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2765
abstract: In this paper we discuss a possible cosmological time evolution of fundamental constants from the theoretical and experimental point of views. On the theoretical side, we explain that such a cosmological time evolution is actually something very natural which can be described by mechanisms similar to those used to explain cosmic inflation. We then discuss implications for grand unified theories, showing that the unification condition of the gauge coupling could evolve with cosmological time. Measurements of the electron-to-proton mass ratio can test grand unified theories using low energy data. Following the theoretical discussion, we review the current status of precision measurements of fundamental constants and their potential cosmological time dependence.

id: 1410.2791
title: Measurement of the Berry Phase in a Single Solid-State Spin Qubit
authors: Kai Zhang, Naufer M. Nusran, Bradley R. Slezak, M. V. Gurudev Dutt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2791
abstract: We present measurements of the Berry Phase in a single solid-state spin qubit associated with the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. Our results demonstrate the remarkable degree of coherent control achievable in the presence of a highly complex solid-state environment. We manipulate the spin qubit geometrically by careful application of microwave radiation that creates an effective rotating magnetic field, and observe the resulting phase via spin-echo interferometry. We find good agreement with Berry's predictions within experimental errors. We also investigated the role of the environment on the geometric phase, and observed that unlike other solid-state qubit systems, the dephasing was primarily dominated by fast radial fluctuations in the path.

id: 1410.2860
title: Induced vacuum currents in anti-de Sitter space with toral dimensions
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, A.A. Saharian, V. Vardanyan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. B 741 (2015) 155
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2860
abstract: We investigate the Hadamard function and the vacuum expectation value of the current density for a charged massive scalar field on a slice of anti-de Sitter (AdS) space described in Poincar\'{e} coordinates with toroidally compact dimensions. Along compact dimensions periodicity conditions are imposed on the field with general phases. Moreover, the presence of a constant gauge field is assumed. The latter gives rise to Aharonov-Bohm-like effects on the vacuum currents. The current density along compact dimensions is a periodic function of the gauge field flux with the period equal to the flux quantum. It vanishes on the AdS boundary and, near the horizon, to the leading order, it is conformally related to the corresponding quantity in Minkowski bulk for a massless field. For large values of the length of the compact dimension compared with the AdS curvature radius, the vacuum current decays as power-law for both massless and massive fields. This behavior is essentially different from from the corresponding one in Minkowski background, where the currents for a massive field are suppressed exponentially.

id: 1410.2894
title: Constraints on topological order in Mott Insulators
authors: Michael P. Zaletel, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: 5 pages plus appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 077201 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2894
abstract: We point out certain symmetry induced constraints on topological order in Mott Insulators (quantum magnets with an odd number of spin $\tfrac{1}{2}$ per unit cell). We show, for example, that the double semion topological order is incompatible with time reversal and translation symmetry in Mott insulators. This sharpens the Hastings-Oshikawa-Lieb-Schultz-Mattis theorem for 2D quantum magnets, which guarantees that a fully symmetric gapped Mott insulator must be topologically ordered, but is silent on which topological order is permitted. An application of our result is the Kagome lattice quantum antiferromagnet where recent numerical calculations of entanglement entropy indicate a ground state compatible with either toric code or double semion topological order. Our result rules out the latter possibility.

id: 1410.2962
title: Thermalization mechanism for time-periodic finite isolated interacting quantum systems
authors: Dong E. Liu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.2962
abstract: We present a theory to describe thermalization mechanism for time-periodic finite isolated interacting quantum systems. The long time asymptote of natural observables in Floquet states is directly related to averages of these observables governed by a time-independent effective Hamiltonian. We prove that if the effective system is nonintegrable and satisfies eigenstate thermalization hypothesis, quantum states of such time-periodic isolated systems will thermalize. After a long time evolution, system will relax to a stationary state, which only depends on an initial energy of the effective Hamiltonian and follows a generalized eigenstate thermalization hypothesis. A numerical test for the periodically modulated Bose-Hubbard model, with the extra nearest neighbor interaction on the bosonic lattice, agrees with the theoretical predictions.

id: 1410.3193
title: Solvable Models on Noncommutative Spaces with Minimal Length Uncertainty Relations
authors: Sanjib Dey
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, 170 pages, 62 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0703096, arXiv:hep-th/0109162 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3193
abstract: Our main focus is to explore different models in noncommutative spaces in higher dimensions. We provide a procedure to relate a three dimensional q-deformed oscillator algebra to the corresponding algebra satisfied by canonical variables describing non-commutative spaces. The representations for the corresponding operators obey algebras whose uncertainty relations lead to minimal length, areas and volumes in phase space, which are in principle natural candidates of many different approaches of quantum gravity. We study some explicit models on these types of noncommutative spaces, first by utilising the perturbation theory, later in an exact manner. In many cases the operators are not Hermitian, therefore we use PT -symmetry and pseudo-Hermiticity property, wherever applicable, to make them self-consistent. Apart from building mathematical models, we focus on the physical implications of noncommutative theories too. We construct Klauder coherent states for the perturbative and nonperturbative noncommutative harmonic oscillator associated with uncertainty relations implying minimal lengths. In both cases, the uncertainty relations for the constructed states are shown to be saturated and thus imply to the squeezed coherent states. They are also shown to satisfy the Ehrenfest theorem dictating the classical like nature of the coherent wavepacket. The quality of those states are further underpinned by the fractional revival structure. More investigations into the comparison are carried out by a qualitative comparison between the dynamics of the classical particle and that of the coherent states based on numerical techniques. The qualitative behaviour is found to be governed by the Mandel parameter determining the regime in which the wavefunctions evolve as soliton like structures.

id: 1410.3231
title: Bounds on variation of the spectrum and spectral subspaces of a few-body Hamiltonian
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Alexander K. Motovilov
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1311.6604
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3231
abstract: We overview the recent results on the shift of the spectrum and norm bounds for variation of spectral subspaces of a Hermitian operator under an additive Hermitian perturbation. Along with the known results, we present a new subspace variation bound for the generic off-diagonal subspace perturbation problem. We also demonstrate how some of the abstract results may work for few-body Hamiltonians.

id: 1410.3319
title: Capturing exponential variance using polynomial resources: applying tensor networks to non-equilibrium stochastic processes
authors: T. H. Johnson, T. J. Elliott, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, including supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090602 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3319
abstract: Estimating the expected value of an observable appearing in a non-equilibrium stochastic process usually involves sampling. If the observable's variance is high, many samples are required. In contrast, we show that performing the same task without sampling, using tensor network compression, efficiently captures high variances in systems of various geometries and dimensions. We provide examples for which matching the accuracy of our efficient method would require a sample size scaling exponentially with system size. In particular, the high variance observable $\mathrm{e}^{-\beta W}$, motivated by Jarzynski's equality, with $W$ the work done quenching from equilibrium at inverse temperature $\beta$, is exactly and efficiently captured by tensor networks.

id: 1410.3324
title: Laser-driven relativistic tunneling from p-states
authors: Michael Klaiber, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3324
abstract: The tunneling ionization of an electron from a p-state in a highly charged ion in the relativistic regime is investigated in a linearly polarized strong laser field. In contrast to the case of an s-state, the tunneling ionization from the p-state is spin asymmetric. We have singled out two reasons for the spin asymmetry: first, the difference of the electron energy Zeeman splitting in the bound state and during tunneling, and second, the relativistic momentum shift along the laser propagation direction during the under-the barrier motion. Due to the latter, those states are predominantly ionized where the electron rotation is opposite to the electron relativistic shift during the under-the-barrier motion. We have investigated the dependence of the ionization rate on the laser intensity for different projections of the total angular momentum and identified the intensity parameter which governs this behaviour. The significant change of the ionization rate is originated from the different precession dynamics of the total angular momentum in the bound state at high and low intensities.

id: 1410.3383
title: Multi-photon dressing of an anharmonic superconducting many-level quantum circuit
authors: Jochen Braum¨¹ller, Joel Cramer, Steffen Schl?r, Hannes Rotzinger, Lucas Radtke, Alexander Lukashenko, Ping Yang, Sebastian T. Skacel, Sebastian Probst, Michael Marthaler, Lingzhen Guo, Alexey V. Ustinov, Martin Weides
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91 (2015) 054523
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3383
abstract: We report on the investigation of a superconducting anharmonic multi-level circuit that is coupled to a harmonic readout resonator. We observe multi-photon transitions via virtual energy levels of our system up to the fifth excited state. The back-action of these higher-order excitations on our readout device is analyzed quantitatively and demonstrated to be in accordance with theoretical expectation. By applying a strong microwave drive we achieve multi-photon dressing within our anharmonic circuit which is dynamically coupled by a weak probe tone. The emerging higher-order Rabi sidebands and associated Autler-Townes splittings involving up to five levels of the investigated anharmonic circuit are observed. Experimental results are in good agreement with master equation simulations.

id: 1410.3458
title: Calculation of Coupling Capacitance in Planar Electrodes
authors: John M. Martinis, Rami Barends, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3458
abstract: We show how capacitance can be calculated simply and efficiently for electrodes cut in a 2-dimensional ground plane. These results are in good agreement with exact formulas and numerical simulations.

id: 1410.3565
title: Soliton defects in one-gap periodic system and exotic supersymmetry
authors: Adrian Arancibia, Francisco Correa, Vit Jakubsky, Juan Mateos Guilarte, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 44 pages, 11 figures; comments and refs added, version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 125041 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3565
abstract: By applying Darboux-Crum transformations to the quantum one-gap Lame system, we introduce an arbitrary countable number of bound states into forbidden bands. The perturbed potentials are reflectionless and contain two types of soliton defects in the periodic background. The bound states with finite number of nodes are supported in the lower forbidden band by the periodicity defects of the potential well type, while the pulse type bound states in the gap have infinite number of nodes and are trapped by defects of the compression modulations nature. We investigate the exotic nonlinear N=4 supersymmetric structure in such paired Schrodinger systems, which extends an ordinary N=2 supersymmetry and involves two bosonic generators composed from Lax-Novikov integrals of the subsystems. One of the bosonic integrals has a nature of a central charge, and allows us to liaise the obtained systems with the stationary equations of the Korteweg-de Vries and modified Korteweg-de Vries hierarchies. This exotic supersymmetry opens the way for the construction of self-consistent condensates based on the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations and associated with them new solutions to the Gross-Neveu model. They correspond to the kink or kink-antikink defects of the crystalline background in dependence on whether the exotic supersymmetry is unbroken or spontaneously broken.

id: 1410.3795
title: Synthesizing Lattice Structure in Phase Space
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Michael Marthaler
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3795
abstract: We consider a realistic model, i.e., ultracold atoms in a driven optical lattice, to realize phase space crystals [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 205303 (2013)]. The corresponding lattice structure in phase space is more complex and contains rich physics. A phase space lattice differs fundamentally from a lattice in real space, because its coordinate system, i.e., phase space, has a noncommutative geometry, which naturally provides an artificial gauge (magnetic) field. We study the behavior of the quasienergy band structure as function of the artificial magnetic field and investigate the thermal properties. Synthesizing lattice structures in phase space is not only a new way to create artificial lattice in experiments but also provides a platform to study the intriguing phenomena of driven systems far away from equilibrium.

id: 1410.3800
title: Visible Photoluminescence from Cubic (3C) Silicon Carbide Microdisks Coupled to High Quality Whispering Gallery Modes
authors: Marina Radulaski, Thomas M. Babinec, Kai M¨¹ller, Konstantinos G. Lagoudakis, Jingyuan Linda Zhang, Sonia Buckley, Yousif A. Kelaita, Kassem Alassaad, Gabriel Ferro, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: ACS Photonics 2, 14-19 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3800
abstract: We present the design, fabrication and characterization of cubic (3C) silicon carbide microdisk resonators with high quality factor modes at visible and near infrared wavelengths (600 - 950 nm). Whispering gallery modes with quality factors as high as 2,300 and corresponding mode volumes V ~ 2 ({\lambda}/n)^3 are measured using laser scanning confocal microscopy at room temperature. We obtain excellent correspondence between transverse-magnetic (TM) and transverse-electric (TE) polarized resonances simulated using Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) method and those observed in experiment. These structures based on ensembles of optically active impurities in 3C-SiC resonators could play an important role in diverse applications of nonlinear and quantum photonics, including low power optical switching and quantum memories.

id: 1410.3850
title: Thermopower of three-terminal topological superconducting systems
authors: Stefano Valentini, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti, Fabio Taddei
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 045430 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3850
abstract: We study the thermopower of a three-terminal setup composed of a quantum dot attached to three electrodes, one of which is a topological superconductor. In the model, superconductivity is explicitly taken into account. We compare the results for s-wave (trivial) and p-wave (topological) superconductors and observe that for small temperatures the thermopower has different sign in the two cases. This behavior is strongly dependent on temperature and we estimate an energy scale that controls the sign in the p-wave case, which results proportional to the square root of the gap and the coupling to superconductor. The analytical results obtained with a simple 1D model are confirmed by a more realistic tight-binding model.

id: 1410.3873
title: Controlling interactions between highly-magnetic atoms with Feshbach resonances
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova
comments: 
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 77 (2014) 093901 (15pp)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3873
abstract: This paper reviews current experimental and theoretical progress in the study of dipolar quantum gases of ground and meta-stable atoms with a large magnetic moment. We emphasize the anisotropic nature of Feshbach resonances due to coupling to fast-rotating resonant molecular states in ultracold s-wave collisions between magnetic atoms in external magnetic fields. The dramatic differences in the distribution of resonances of magnetic $^7$S$_3$ chromium and magnetic lanthanide atoms with a submerged 4f shell and non-zero electron angular momentum is analyzed. We focus on Dysprosium and Erbium as important experimental advances have been recently made to cool and create quantum-degenerate gases for these atoms. Finally, we describe progress in locating resonances in collisions of meta-stable magnetic atoms in electronic P states with ground-state atoms, where an interplay between collisional anisotropies and spin-orbit coupling exists.

id: 1410.4051
title: Russian doll spectrum in a non-Abelian string-net ladder
authors: M. D. Schulz, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 155110 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4051
abstract: We study a string-net ladder in the presence of a string tension. Focusing on the simplest non-Abelian anyon theory with a quantum dimension larger than two, we determine the phase diagram and find a Russian doll spectrum featuring size-independent energy levels as well as highly degenerate zero-energy eigenstates. At the self-dual points, we compute the gap exactly by using a mapping onto the Temperley-Lieb chain. These results are in stark constrast with the ones obtained for Fibonacci or Ising theories.

id: 1410.4059
title: Generation of real mutually unbiased bases as powers of a real orthogonal matrix of odd finite order
authors: Rod Gow
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4059
abstract: Let q=2^r, where r is a positive integer. We show that there is a q^2 x q^2 real orthogonal matrix D, say, of multiplicative order q+1 whose powers generate q+1 real pairwise mutually unbiased bases in R^{q^2}. This means that the scaled powers qD, qD^2, ..., qD^q are q different real Hadamard matrices. We also show that each diagonal entry of these q Hadamard matrices equals -1.

id: 1410.4067
title: Ground state properties of sub-Ohmic spin-boson model with simultaneous diagonal and off-diagonal coupling
authors: Nengji Zhou, Lipeng Chen, Yang Zhao, Dima Mozyrsky, Vladimir Chernyak, Yang Zhao
comments: revised version after the paper is published
journal: PRB, 90, 155135, 2014
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4067
abstract: By employing the variational approach, density matrix renormalization group (DMRG), exact diagonalization as well as symmetry and mean-field analyses, the ground state properties of the two-bath spin boson model with simultaneous diagonal and off-diagonal coupling are systematically studied in the sub-Ohmic regime. A novel quantum phase transition from a doubly degenerate "localized phase" to the other doubly degenerate "delocalized phase" is uncovered. Via the multi-D1 ansatz as the variational wave function, transition points are determined accurately, consistent with the results from DMRG and exact diagonalization. An effective spatial dimension $d_{eff} = 2.37(6)$ is then estimated, which is found to be compatible with the mean-field prediction. Furthermore, the quantum phase transition is inferred to be of first order for the baths described by a continuous spectral density function. In the case of single mode, however, the transition is softened.

id: 1410.4087
title: Charge-impurity-induced Majorana fermions in topological superconductors
authors: Tao Zhou, Xiao-Jing Li, Yi Gao, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 014512 (2015)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4087
abstract: We study numerically Majorana fermions (MFs) induced by a charged impurity in topological superconductors. It is revealed from the relevant Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations that (i) for quasi-one dimensional systems, a pair of MFs are bounded at the two sides of one charge impurity and well separated; and (ii) for a two dimensional square lattice, the charged-impurity-induced MFs are similar to the known pair of vortex-induced MFs, in which one MF is bounded by the impurity while the other appears at the boundary. Moreover, the corresponding local density of states is explored, demonstrating that the presence of MF states may be tested experimentally.

id: 1410.4121
title: Wave-optics description of self-healing mechanism in Bessel beams
authors: Andrea Aiello, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4121
abstract: Bessel beams' great importance in optics lies in that these propagate without spreading and can reconstruct themselves behind an obstruction placed across their path. However, a rigorous wave-optics explanation of the latter property is missing. In this work we study the reconstruction mechanism by means of a wave-optics description. We obtain expressions for the minimum distance beyond the obstruction at which the beam reconstructs itself, which are in close agreement with the traditional one determined from geometrical optics. Our results show that the physics underlying the self-healing mechanism can be entirely explained in terms of the propagation of plane waves with radial wave vectors lying on a ring.

id: 1410.4137
title: Verification of exceptional points in the collapse dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Jonas Brinker, Jacob Fuchs, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner, Holger Cartarius
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, 1 table, minor additions and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013609 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4137
abstract: In Bose-Einstein condensates with an attractive contact interaction the stable ground state and an unstable excited state emerge in a tangent bifurcation at a critical value of the scattering length. At the bifurcation point both the energies and the wave functions of the two states coalesce, which is the characteristic of an exceptional point. In numerical simulations signatures of the exceptional point can be observed by encircling the bifurcation point in the complex extended space of the scattering length, however, this method cannot be applied in an experiment. Here we show in which way the exceptional point effects the collapse dynamics of the Bose-Einstein condensate. The harmonic inversion analysis of the time signal given as the spatial extension of the collapsing condensate wave function can provide clear evidence for the existence of an exceptional point. This method can be used for an experimental verification of exceptional points in Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1410.4186
title: Slowest local operators in quantum spin chains
authors: Hyungwon Kim, Mari Carmen Ba?uls, J. Ignacio Cirac, Matthew B. Hastings, David A. Huse
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4186
abstract: We numerically construct slowly relaxing local operators in a nonintegrable spin-1/2 chain. Restricting the support of the operator to $M$ consecutive spins along the chain, we exhaustively search for the operator that minimizes the Frobenius norm of the commutator with the Hamiltonian and show that the Frobenius norm bounds the time scale of relaxation of the operator. We find operators with significantly slower relaxation than the slowest simple "hydrodynamic" mode due to energy diffusion. Using both exhaustive search and tensor network techniques, we find similar slowly relaxing operators for a Floquet spin chain and for quantum circuits on spin chains; these systems are hydrodynamically "trivial", with no conservation laws restricting their dynamics. We argue that such slow relaxation may be a generic feature following from locality and unitarity.

id: 1410.4293
title: Observation of the Fundamental Nyquist Noise Limit in an Ultra-High $Q$-Factor Cryogenic Bulk Acoustic Wave Cavity
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Eugene N. Ivanov, Frank van Kann, Serge Galliou, Michael E. Tobar
comments: appears in Appl. Phys. Lett (2014)
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 153505 (2014)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4293
abstract: Thermal Nyquist noise fluctuations of high-$Q$ Bulk Acoustic Wave (BAW) cavities have been observed at cryogenic temperatures with a DC Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) amplifier. High $Q$ modes with bandwidths of few tens of milliHz produce thermal fluctuations with a Signal-To-Noise ratio of up to 23dB. The estimated effective temperature from the Nyquist noise is in good agreement with the physical temperature of the device, confirming the validity of the equivalent circuit model and the non-existence of any excess resonator self-noise. The measurements also confirm that the quality factor remains extremely high ($Q>10^8$ at low order overtones) for very weak (thermal) system motion at low temperatures, when compared to values measured with relatively strong external excitation. This result represents an enabling step towards operating such a high-Q acoustic device at the standard quantum limit.

id: 1410.4387
title: Radiative heat transfer in 2D Dirac materials
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez, Wang-Kong Tse, Diego A. R. Dalvit
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4387
abstract: We compute the radiative heat transfer between two sheets of 2D Dirac materials, including topological Chern insulators and graphene, within the framework of the local approximation for the optical response of these materials. In this approximation, which neglects spatial dispersion, we derive both numerically and analytically the short-distance asymptotic of the near-field heat transfer in these systems, and show that it scales as the inverse of the distance between the two sheets. Finally, we discuss the limitations to the validity of this scaling law imposed by spatial dispersion in 2D Dirac materials.

id: 1410.4396
title: Blurred path-spin entanglement in Stern-Gerlach apparatus: interplay between magnetic inhomogeneity and Larmor precession
authors: Nirupam Dutta, Ansuman Dey
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4396
abstract: We argue that the non-adiabatic evolution of spin states in Stern-Gerlach apparatus can blur the manifestation of path spin entanglement. This fact introduces a contradiction to the usual perception of spin measurement even in a formally ideal situation. Through quantitative calculation, we have pointed out the specific reason behind the breakdown of adiabatic evolution to be the spatial inhomogeneity of applied magnetic field. The angle $\theta$ between the $z$ component of magnetic moment of the particle and applied magnetic field is also a determining factor for the category of evolution of spin states. Adiabaticity always can be restored by choosing a sufficiently small value of $\theta$. Considering azimuthal inhomogeneity, we have examined the nature of path spin entanglement in the context of Stern-Gerlach experiment.

id: 1410.4540
title: Symmetry, Defects, and Gauging of Topological Phases
authors: Maissam Barkeshli, Parsa Bonderson, Meng Cheng, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 88 pages, 17 figures; v2: Discussion of symmetry and fractionalization generalized to quasi-on-site symmetries, including anti-unitary, time-reversal, and spatial symmetries. Additional G-crossed gauge-invariant quantities identified from G-crossed modular transformations. Discussion of classification of SETs revised. Example added. Minor corrections and revisions made and references added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4540
abstract: We examine the interplay of symmetry and topological order in $2+1$ dimensional topological phases of matter. We present a definition of the topological symmetry group, which characterizes the symmetry of the emergent topological quantum numbers of a topological phase $\mathcal{C}$, and we describe its relation with the microscopic symmetry of the underlying physical system. We derive a general framework to classify symmetry fractionalization in topological phases, including phases that are non-Abelian and symmetries that permute the quasiparticle types and/or are anti-unitary. We develop a theory of extrinsic defects (fluxes) associated with elements of the symmetry group, which provides a general classification of symmetry-enriched topological phases derived from a topological phase of matter $\mathcal{C}$ with symmetry group $G$. The algebraic theory of the defects, known as a $G$-crossed braided tensor category $\mathcal{C}_{G}^{\times}$, allows one to compute many properties, such as the number of topologically distinct types of defects associated with each group element, their fusion rules, quantum dimensions, zero modes, braiding exchange transformations, a generalized Verlinde formula for the defects, and modular transformations of the $G$-crossed extensions of topological phases. We also examine the promotion of the global symmetry to a local gauge invariance, wherein the extrinsic $G$-defects are turned into deconfined quasiparticle excitations, which results in a different topological phase $\mathcal{C}/G$. A number of instructive and/or physically relevant examples are studied in detail.

id: 1410.4699
title: Deceleration of molecules in a supersonic beam by the optical field in a low-finesse cavity
authors: Zhihao Lan, Yongkai Zhao, Peter F. Barker, Weiping Lu
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013419 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4699
abstract: We study the dynamics of a supersonic molecular beam in a low-finesse optical cavity and demonstrate that most molecules in the beam can be decelerated to zero central velocity by the intracavity optical field in a process analogous to electrostatic Stark deceleration. We show that the rapid switching of the optical field for slowing the molecules is automatically generated by the cavity-induced dynamics. We further show that $\sim1\%$ of the molecules can be optically trapped at a few millikelvin in the same cavity.

id: 1410.4703
title: Spin lattices, state transfer and bivariate Krawtchouk polynomials
authors: Vincent X. Genest, Hiroshi Miki, Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: Proceedings of Theory Canada 9, Waterloo, June 2014. Based on invited talk given by Luc Vinet at this conference
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4703
abstract: The quantum state transfer properties of a class of two-dimensional spin lattices on a triangular domain are investigated. Systems for which the 1-excitation dynamics is exactly solvable are identified. The exact solutions are expressed in terms of the bivariate Krawtchouk polynomials that arise as matrix elements of the unitary representations of the rotation group on the states of the three-dimensional harmonic oscillator.

id: 1410.4728
title: Frequency stabilization of the zero-phonon line of a quantum dot via phonon-assisted active feedback
authors: Jack Hansom, Carsten H. H. Schulte, Clemens Matthiesen, Megan Stanley, Mete Atature
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4728
abstract: We report on the feedback stabilization of the zero-phonon emission frequency of a single InAs quantum dot. The spectral separation of the phonon-assisted component of the resonance fluorescence provides a probe of the detuning between the zero-phonon transition and the resonant driving laser. Using this probe in combination with active feedback, we stabilize the zero-phonon transition frequency against environmental fluctuations. This protocol reduces the zero-phonon fluorescence intensity noise by a factor of 22 by correcting for environmental noise with a bandwidth of 191 Hz, limited by the experimental collection efficiency. The associated sub-Hz fluctuations in the zero-phonon central frequency are reduced by a factor of 7. This technique provides a means of stabilizing the quantum dot emission frequency without requiring access to the zero-phonon emission.

id: 1410.4739
title: Cavity-induced phase stability to decelerate a fast molecular beam via feedback-controlled time-varying optical pumps
authors: Zhihao Lan, Weiping Lu
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 023031 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4739
abstract: We have identified a novel phase stability mechanism from the intracavity field-induced self-organization of a fast-moving molecular beam into travelling molecular packets in the bad cavity regime, which is then used to decelerate the molecular packets by feedback-controlled time-varying laser pumps to the cavity. We first applied the linear stability analysis to derive an expression for this self-organization in the adiabatic limit and show that the self-organization of the beam leads to the formation of travelling molecular packets, which in turn function as a dynamic Bragg grating, thus modulating periodically the intracavity field by superradiant scattering of the pump photons. The modulation encodes the position information of the molecular packets into the output of the intracavity field instantaneously. We then applied time-varying laser pumps that are automatically switched by the output of the intracavity field to slow down the molecular packets via a feedback mechanism and found that most of the molecules in the molecular packets are decelerated to zero central velocity after tens of stages. Our cavity-based deceleration proposal works well in the bad cavity regime, which is very different from the conventional cavity- based cooling strategies where a good cavity is preferred. Practical issues in realizing the proposal are also discussed.

id: 1410.4776
title: Cooperative Ordering in Lattices of Interacting Dipoles
authors: Robert J. Bettles, Simon A. Gardiner, Charles S. Adams
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4776
abstract: Using classical electrodynamics simulations we investigate the cooperative behavior of regular monolayers of induced two-level dipoles, including their cooperative decays and shifts. For the particular case of the kagome lattice we observe behavior akin to EIT for lattice spacings less than the probe wavelength. Within this region the dipoles exhibit ferroelectric and anti-ferroelectric ordering. We also model how the cooperative response is manifested in the optical transmission through the kagome lattice, with sharp changes in transmission from 10% to 80% for small changes in lattice spacing.

id: 1410.4848
title: A sparse-sampling approach for the fast computation of matrices: application to molecular vibrations
authors: Jacob N. Sanders, Xavier Andrade, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4848
abstract: This article presents a new method to compute matrices from numerical simulations based on the ideas of sparse sampling and compressed sensing. The method is useful for problems where the determination of the entries of a matrix constitutes the computational bottleneck. We apply this new method to an important problem in computational chemistry: the determination of molecular vibrations from electronic structure calculations, where our results show that the overall scaling of the procedure can be improved in some cases. Moreover, our method provides a general framework for bootstrapping cheap low-accuracy calculations in order to reduce the required number of expensive high-accuracy calculations, resulting in a significant 3x speed-up in actual calculations.

id: 1410.4988
title: Bipartite Entanglement Review of Subsystem-Basis Expansions and Correlation Operators in It
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 37 pages, no figues or tables
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.4988
abstract: The present review presents the authors previous results on the topic from the title in a new light. Most of the previous results were obtained using the techniques of antilinear Hilbert-Schmidt mappings of one Hilbert pace into another, which is unknown and unused in the literature. This, naturally, diminished the impact of the results. In this article the results are derived anew with standard techniques. The topics listed at the end of the Introduction, are expounded in 9 theorems, 5 propositions etc. Partial scalar product and partial trace methods are used throughout. Further relevant research articles that are not reproduced in this review, are sketched in the Concluding remarks.

id: 1410.5066
title: Quantifying non-Markovianity for a chromophore-qubit pair in a super-Ohmic bath
authors: Jing Liu, Kewei Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, Yang Zhao
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5066
abstract: An approach based on a non-Markovian time-convolutionless polaron master equation is used to probe the quantum dynamics of a chromophore-qubit in a super-Ohmic bath. Utilizing a measure of non-Markovianity based on dynamical fixed points, we study the effects of the environment temperature and the coupling strength on the non-Markovian behavior of the chromophore in a super-Ohmic bath. It is found that an increase in the temperature results in a reduction in the backflow information from the environment to the chromophore, and therefore, a suppression of non-Markovianity. In the weak coupling regime, increasing coupling strength will enhance the non- Markovianity, while the effect is reversed in the strong coupling regime.

id: 1410.5241
title: The Spinless Relativistic Yukawa Problem
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, Franz F. Sch?berl
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 29 (2014) 1450195
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5241
abstract: Noticing renewed or increasing interest in the possibility to describe semirelativistic bound states (of either spin-zero constituents or, upon confining oneself to spin-averaged features, constituents with nonzero spin) by means of the spinless Salpeter equation generalizing the Schr\"odinger equation towards incorporation of effects caused by relativistic kinematics, we revisit this problem for interactions between bound-state constituents of Yukawa shape, by recalling and applying several well-known tools enabling to constrain the resulting spectra.

id: 1410.5246
title: Incoherent control of electromagnetically induced transparency and Aulter-Townes splitting
authors: Chang-Ling Zou, Yan-Lei Zhang, Liang Jiang, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5246
abstract: The absorption and dispersion of probe light is studied in an unified framework of three-level system, with coherent laser driving and incoherent pumping and relaxation. The electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and Autler-Townes splitting (ATS) are studied in details. In the phase diagram of the unified three-level system, there are distinct parameter regimes corresponding to different lineshapes and mechanisms, and the incoherent transition could control the cross-over between EIT and ATS. The incoherent control of the three-level system enables the investigation of various phenomena in quantum optics, and is beneficial for experiments of light-matter interactions.

id: 1410.5402
title: A differentiation formula, with application to the two-dimensional Schr?dinger equation
authors: Alexander Pikovski
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5402
abstract: A method for obtaining discretization formulas for the derivatives of a function is presented, which relies on a generalization of divided differences. These modified divided differences essentially correspond to a change of the dependent variable. This method is applied to the numerical solution of the eigenvalue problem for the two-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation, where standard methods converge very slowly while the approach proposed here gives accurate results.

id: 1410.5443
title: Shadows of Anyons
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Valentin Zauner, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: updated version, extended discussion
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5443
abstract: The eigenvalue structure of the quantum transfer matrix is known to encode essential information about the elementary excitations. Here we study transfer matrices of quantum states in a topological phase using the tensor network formalism. We demonstrate that topological quantum order requires a particular type of `symmetry breaking' for the fixed point subspace of the transfer matrix, and relate physical anyon excitations to domain wall excitations at the level of the transfer matrix. A topological phase transition to a trivial phase triggers a change in the fixed point subspace to either a larger or smaller symmetry and we explain how this relates to a condensation or confinement of the corresponding anyon sectors. The tensor network formalism enables us to determine the structure of the topological sectors in two-dimensional gapped phases very efficiently, therefore opening novel avenues for studying fundamental open questions related to anyon condensation.

id: 1410.5445
title: Microwave readout of Majorana qubits
authors: Christoph Ohm, Fabian Hassler
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 085406 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5445
abstract: Majorana qubits offer a promising way to store and manipulate quantum information by encoding it into the state of Majorana zero modes. As the information is stored in a topological property of the system, local noise cannot lead to decoherence. Manipulation of the information is achieved by braiding the zero modes. The measurement, however, is challenging as the information is well hidden and thus inherently hard to access. Here, we discuss a setup for measuring the state of a Majorana qubit by employing standard tools of microwave engineering. The basic physical effect that we employ is the fact that a voltage-biased Josephson junction hosting Majorana fermions allows photons to be emitted and absorbed at half the Josephson frequency. We show that in the dispersive regime, our setup allows us to perform a quantum nondemolition measurement and to reach the quantum limit. An appealing feature of our setup is that the interaction of the Majorana qubit with the measurement device can be turned on and off at will by changing the dc bias of the junction.

id: 1410.5508
title: The Quantum Information of Cosmological Correlations
authors: Eugene A. Lim
comments: 9 pages. 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 083522 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5508
abstract: It has been shown that the primordial perturbations sourced by inflation are driven to classicality by unitary evolution alone. However, their coupling with the environment such as photons and subsequent decoherence renders the cosmological correlations quantum, losing primordial information in the process. We argue that the quantumness of the resulting cosmological correlations is given by quantum discord, which captures non-classical behavior beyond quantum entanglement. By considering the environment as a quantum channel in which primordial information contained in the perturbations is transmitted to us, we can then ask how much of this information is inaccessible. We show that this amount of information is given by the discord of the joint primordial perturbations-environment system. To illustrate these points, we model the joint system as a mixed bi-modal Gaussian state, and show that quantum discord is dependent on the basis which decoherence occurs.

id: 1410.5545
title: Construction of exposed indecomposable positive linear maps between matrix algebras
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5545
abstract: We construct a large class of indecomposable positive linear maps from the $2\times 2$ matrix algebra into the $4\times 4$ matrix algebra, which generate exposed extreme rays of the convex cone of all positive maps. We show that extreme points of the dual faces for separable states arising from these maps are parametrized by the Riemann sphere, and the convex hulls of the extreme points arising from a circle parallel to the equator have the exactly same properties with the convex hull of the trigonometric moment curve studied from combinatorial topology. Any interior points of the dual faces are $2\otimes 4$ boundary separable states with full ranks. We exhibit concrete examples of such states.

id: 1410.5642
title: On the possibility of Vacuum-QED measurements with gravitational wave detectors
authors: Hartmut Grote
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 022002 (2015)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5642
abstract: Quantum electro dynamics (QED) comprises virtual particle production and thus gives rise to a refractive index of the vacuum larger than unity in the presence of a magnetic field. This predicted effect has not been measured to date, even after considerable effort of a number of experiments. It has been proposed by other authors to possibly use gravitational wave detectors for such vacuum QED measurements, and we give this proposal some new consideration in this paper. In particular we look at possible source field magnet designs and further constraints on the implementation at a gravitational wave detector. We conclude that such an experiment seems to be feasible with permanent magnets, yet still challenging in its implementation.

id: 1410.5651
title: Observation of orbiting resonances in He(3S1) + NH3 Penning ionization
authors: Justin Jankunas, Krzysztof Jachymski, Michal Hapka, Andreas Osterwalder
comments: 
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 142, 164305 (2015)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5651
abstract: Resonances are among the clearest quantum mechanical signatures of scattering processes. Previously, shape resonances and Feshbach resonances have been observed in inelastic and reactive collisions involving atoms or diatomic molecules. Structure in the integral cross section has been observed in a handful of elastic collisions involving polyatomic molecules. The present paper presents the observation of shape resonances in the reactive scattering of a polyatomic molecule, NH3. A merged-beam study of the gas phase He((3)S1) + NH3 Penning ionization reaction dynamics is described in the collision energy range 3.3 $\mu$eV < E$_{coll}$ < 10 meV. In this energy range, the reaction rate is governed by long-range attraction. Peaks in the integral cross section are observed at collision energies of 1.8 meV and 7.3 meV and are assigned to $\ell = 15,16$ and $\ell = 20,21$ partial wave resonances, respectively. The experimental results are well reproduced by theoretical calculations with the short-range reaction probability P$_{sr}$ = 0.035. No clear signature of the orbiting resonances is visible in the branching ratio between NH3(+) and NH2(+) formation.

id: 1410.5724
title: Maximal breaking of symmetry at critical angle and closed form expression for angular deviations of the Snell law
authors: Manoel P. Ara¨²jo, Silv?nia A. Carvalho, Stefano De Leo
comments: 18 pages, 2 tables, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 033844-11 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5724
abstract: A detailed analysis of the propagation of laser gaussian beams at critical angles shows in which conditions it is possible to maximize the breaking of symmetry in the angular distribution and for which values of the laser wavelength and beam waist is possible to find an analytic formula for angular deviations of the Snell law. For propagation throughout $N$ dielectric blocks and for a full breaking of symmetry, overcoming the well known problem of the infinity at critical angle, a closed expression for the Goos-Haenchen shift is obtained. The multiple peaks phenomenon clearly represents an additional evidence of the breaking of symmetry in the angular distribution of optical beams. Finally, laser wavelength and beam waist conditions to produce focal effects in the outgoing beam are also briefly discussed.

id: 1410.5735
title: Nonequilibrium Phase Transition of Interacting Bosons in an Intra-Cavity Optical Lattice
authors: M. Reza Bakhtiari, Andreas Hemmerich, Helmut Ritsch, Michael Thorwart
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett 114, 123601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5735
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear light-matter interaction of a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in an external periodic potential inside an optical cavity which is weakly coupled to vacuum radiation modes and driven by a transverse pump field. Based on a generalized Bose-Hubbard model which incorporates a single cavity mode, we include the collective backaction of the atoms on the cavity light field and determine the nonequilibrium quantum phases within the nonperturbative bosonic dynamical mean-field theory.With the system parameters adapted to recent experiments, we find a quantum phase transition from a normal phase to a self-organized superfluid phase, which is related to the Hepp-Lieb-Dicke superradiance phase transition. For even stronger pumping, a self-organized Mott insulator phase arises.

id: 1410.5810
title: The stationary Dirac equation as a generalized Pauli equation for two quasiparticles
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 9 pages, no figures; minor corrections in the main text, extended section 'Conclusion and discussion'. in Foundations of Physics, March 2015
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5810
abstract: By analyzing the Dirac equation with static electric and magnetic fields it is shown that Dirac's theory is nothing but a generalized one-particle quantum theory compatible with the special theory of relativity. This equation describes a {\it quantum} dynamics of a {\it single} relativistic fermion, and its solution is reduced to solution of the generalized Pauli equation for two quasiparticles which move in the Euclidean space with their effective masses holding information about the Lorentzian symmetry of the four-dimensional space-time. We reveal the correspondence between the Dirac bispinor and Pauli spinor (two-component wave function), and show that all four components of the Dirac bispinor correspond to a fermion (or all of them correspond to its antiparticle). Mixing the particle and antiparticle states is prohibited. On this basis we discuss the paradoxical phenomena of Zitterbewegung and the Klein tunneling.

id: 1410.5862
title: Surveying points in the complex projective plane
authors: Lane Hughston, Simon Salamon
comments: 36 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5862
abstract: We classify SIC-POVMs of rank one in CP^2, or equivalently sets of nine equally-spaced points in CP^2, without the assumption of group covariance. If two points are fixed, the remaining seven must lie on a pinched torus that a standard moment mapping projects to a circle in R^3. We use this approach to prove that any SIC set in CP^2 is isometric to a known solution, given by nine points lying in triples on the equators of the three 2-spheres each defined by the vanishing of one homogeneous coordinate. We set up a system of equations to describe hexagons in CP^2 with the property that any two vertices are related by a cross ratio (transition probability) of 1/4. We then symmetrize the equations, factor out by the known solutions, and compute a Groebner basis to show that no SIC sets remain. We do find new configurations of nine points in which 27 of the 36 pairs of vertices of the configuration are equally spaced.

id: 1410.5938
title: Polarization of a quasi two-dimensional repulsive Fermi gas with Rashba spin-orbit coupling: a variational study
authors: Alberto Ambrosetti, Giovanni Lombardi, Luca Salasnich, Pier Luigi Silvestrelli, Flavio Toigo
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043614 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5938
abstract: Motivated by the remarkable experimental control of synthetic gauge fields in ultracold atomic systems, we investigate the effect of an artificial Rashba spin-orbit coupling on the spin polarization of a two-dimensional repulsive Fermi gas. By using a variational many-body wavefunction, based on a suitable spinorial structure, we find that the polarization properties of the system are indeed controlled by the interplay between spin-orbit coupling and repulsive interaction. In particular, two main effects are found: 1) The Rashba coupling determines a gradual increase of the degree of polarization beyond the critical repulsive interaction strength, at variance with conventional 2D Stoner instability. 2) The critical interaction strength, above which finite polarization is developed, shows a dependence on the Rashba coupling, i.e. it is enhanced in case the Rashba coupling exceeds a critical value. A simple analytic expression for the critical interaction strength is further derived in the context of our variational formulation, which allows for a straightforward and insightful analysis of the present problem.

id: 1410.5962
title: Relaxation, decoherence and steady-state population inversion in qubits doubly dressed by microwave and radiofrequency fields
authors: A.P. Saiko, R. Fedaruk, S.A. Markevich
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 155502 (9pp)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.5962
abstract: The coherent dynamics of relaxing spin qubits driven by a classical bichromatic field comprising a strong resonant component and a weaker component with a frequency close to the strong-field Rabi frequency is studied. The double dressing by the bichromatic field modifies dephasing and dissipation processes. We demonstrate that detuning of the weaker-field frequency from the strong-field Rabi frequency prolongs the decay of Rabi oscillations between some doubly dressed states. The sensitivity of Rabi oscillations to the modified detuning-dependent relaxation is illustrated for nitrogen-vacancy qubits in diamond. We discuss a steady-state population inversion of the doubly dressed-state levels.

id: 1410.6004
title: Long-distance radiative coupling between quantum dots in photonic crystal dimers
authors: J. P. Vasco, P. S. S. Guimaraes, D. Gerace
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review B 90, 155436 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6004
abstract: We study the mutual interaction between two identical quantum dots coupled to the normal modes of two-site photonic crystal molecules in a planar waveguide geometry, i.e. photonic crystal dimers. We find that the radiative coupling between the two quantum emitters is maximized when they are in resonance with either the bonding or the antibonding modes of the coupled cavity system. Moreover, we find that such effective interdot coupling is sizable, in the meV range, and almost independent from the cavities distance, as long as a normal mode splitting exceeding the radiative linewidth can be established (strong cavity-cavity coupling condition). In realistic and high quality factor photonic crystal cavity devices, such distance can largely exceed the emission wavelength, which is promising for long distance entanglement generation between two qubits in an integrated nanophotonic platform. We show that these results are robust against position disorder of the two quantum emitters within their respective cavities.

id: 1410.6072
title: Computational Complexity of Tensor Nuclear Norm
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Lek-Heng Lim
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6072
abstract: The main result of this paper shows that the weak membership problem in the unit ball of a given norm is NP-hard if and only if the weak membership problem in the unit ball of the dual norm is NP-hard. Equivalently, the approximation of a given norm is polynomial time if and only if the approximation of the dual norm is polynomial time. Using the NP-hardness of the approximation of the spectral norm of tensors we show that the approximation of the nuclear norm is NP-hard. We relate our results to bipartite separable states in quantum mechanics.

id: 1410.6096
title: Optical decoherence studies of Tm$^{3+}$:Y$_3$Ga$_5$O$_{12}$
authors: Charles W. Thiel, Neil Sinclair, Wolfgang Tittel, Rufus L. Cone
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6096
abstract: Decoherence of the 795 nm $^3$H$_6$ to $^3$H$_4$ transition in 1%Tm$^{3+}$:Y$_3$Ga$_5$O$_{12}$ (Tm:YGG) is studied at temperatures as low as 1.2 K. The temperature, magnetic field, frequency, and time-scale (spectral diffusion) dependence of the optical coherence lifetime is measured. Our results show that the coherence lifetime is impacted less by spectral diffusion than other known thulium-doped materials. Photon echo excitation and spectral hole burning methods reveal uniform decoherence properties and the possibility to produce full transparency for persistent spectral holes across the entire 56 GHz inhomogeneous bandwidth of the optical transition. Temperature-dependent decoherence is well described by elastic Raman scattering of phonons with an additional weaker component that may arise from a low density of glass-like dynamic disorder modes (two-level systems). Analysis of the observed behavior suggests that an optical coherence lifetime approaching one millisecond may be possible in this system at temperatures below 1 K for crystals grown with optimized properties. Overall, we find that Tm:YGG has superior decoherence properties compared to other Tm-doped crystals and is a promising candidate for applications that rely on long coherence lifetimes, such as optical quantum memories and photonic signal processing.

id: 1410.6176
title: Calculation of two-centre two-electron integrals over Slater-type orbitals revisited. III. Case study of the beryllium dimer
authors: Micha? Lesiuk, Micha? Przybytek, Monika Musia?, Bogumi? Jeziorski, Robert Moszynski
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012510 (2015)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6176
abstract: In this paper we present results of ab-initio calculations for the beryllium dimer with basis set of Slater-type orbitals (STOs). Nonrelativistic interaction energy of the system is determined using the frozen-core full configuration interaction calculations combined with high-level coupled cluster correction for inner-shell effects. Newly developed STOs basis sets, ranging in quality from double to sextuple zeta, are used in these computations. Principles of their construction are discussed and several atomic benchmarks are presented. Relativistic effects of order ${\alpha}^2$ are calculated perturbatively by using the Breit-Pauli Hamiltonian and are found to be significant. We also estimate the leading-order QED effects. Influence of the adiabatic correction is found to be negligible. Finally, the interaction energy of the beryllium dimer is determined to be 929.0$\,\pm\,$1.9 $cm^{-1}$, in a very good agreement with the recent experimental value. The results presented here appear to be the most accurate ab-initio calculations for the beryllium dimer available in the literature up to date and probably also one of the most accurate calculations for molecular systems containing more than four electrons.

id: 1410.6284
title: Mass shift effects in nonperturbative multiphoton pair production for arbitrary polarized electric fields
authors: Z. L. Li, D. Lu, B. F. Shen, L. B. Fu, J. Liu, B. S. Xie
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6284
abstract: The mass shift effects in multiphoton pair production of a nonperturbative nature for arbitrary polarized electric fields are investigated numerically by employing the real-time Dirac-Heisenberg-Wigner formalism, and theoretically by proposing an effective energy concept. It is found that the theoretical results are agreement with the numerical ones very well. It is the first time to consider the roles of the momenta of created particles and the polarizations of external fields played in the mass shift effects. These results can deepen the understanding of pair production in the nonperturbative threshold regime. Moreover, the distinct mass shift effects are observable in the forthcoming experiments and can be used as a probe to distinguish the electron-positron pair production from other background events.

id: 1410.6301
title: Fluctuation relations for driven coupled classical two-level systems
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Jonne V. Koski, Sabrina Maniscalco, Jukka P. Pekola
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 91, 012145 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6301
abstract: We theoretically investigate fluctuation relations in a classical incomplete measurement process where just partial information is available. The scenario we consider consists of two coupled single-electron boxes where one or both devices can undergo a non-equilibrium transformation according to a chosen protocol. The entropy production of only one of the two boxes is recorded and fluctuation relations for this quantity are put to a test, showing strong modifications whose nature depends upon the specific case study.

id: 1410.6303
title: 2D photonic-crystal optomechanical nanoresonator
authors: K. Makles, T. Antoni, A.G. Kuhn, S. Del¨¦glise, T. Briant, P.F. Cohadon, R. Braive, G. Beaudoin, L. Pinard, C. Michel, V. Dolique, R. Flaminio, G. Cagnoli, I. Robert-Philip, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6303
abstract: We present the optical optimization of an optomechanical device based on a suspended InP membrane patterned with a 2D near-wavelength grating (NWG) based on a 2D photonic-crystal geometry. We first identify by numerical simulation a set of geometrical parameters providing a reflectivity higher than 99.8 % over a 50-nm span. We then study the limitations induced by the finite value of the optical waist and lateral size of the NWG pattern using different numerical approaches. The NWG grating, pierced in a suspended InP 265 nm-thick membrane, is used to form a compact microcavity involving the suspended nano-membrane as end mirror. The resulting cavity has a waist size smaller than 10 $\mu$m and a finesse in the 200 range. It is used to probe the Brownian motion of the mechanical modes of the nanomembrane.

id: 1410.6530
title: Entanglement Entropy for Relevant and Geometric Perturbations
authors: Vladimir Rosenhaus, Michael Smolkin
comments: 18 pages + appendices
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6530
abstract: We continue the study of entanglement entropy for a QFT through a perturbative expansion of the path integral definition of the reduced density matrix. The universal entanglement entropy for a CFT perturbed by a relevant operator is calculated to second order in the coupling. We also explore the geometric dependence of entanglement entropy for a deformed planar entangling surface, finding surprises at second order.

id: 1410.6632
title: Thermalization and breakdown of thermalization in photon condensates
authors: Peter Kirton, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033826 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6632
abstract: We examine in detail the mechanisms behind thermalization and Bose-Einstein condensation of a gas of photons in a dye-filled microcavity. We derive a microscopic quantum model, based on that of a standard laser, and show how this model can reproduce the behavior of recent experiments. Using the rate equation approximation of this model, we show how a thermal distribution of photons arises. We go on to describe how the non-equilibrium effects in our model can cause thermalization to break down as one moves away from the experimental parameter values. In particular, we examine the effects of changing cavity length, and of altering the vibrational spectrum of the dye molecules. We are able to identify two measures which quantify whether the system is in thermal equilibrium. Using these we plot "phase diagrams" distinguishing BEC and standard lasing regimes. Going beyond the rate equation approximation, our quantum model allows us to investigate both the second order coherence, $g^{(2)}$, and the linewidth of the emission from the cavity. We show how the linewidth collapses as the system transitions to a Bose condensed state, and compare the results to the Schawlow--Townes linewidth.

id: 1410.6649
title: The quantum optical description of three experiments involving non-linear optics using a graphical method
authors: Stefan Ataman
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2015) 69: 44
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6649
abstract: In this paper we describe and thoroughly discuss three reported experiments in quantum optics (QO) involving interferometers and non-linear crystals. We show that by using a graphical method and an over-simplified model of the parametric down-conversion process, we arrive to explain all the important results reported in the respective papers. Indistinguishability is discussed in the case of separable/non-separable (i.e. entangled) quantum systems and our interpretation is sometimes at variance with the one given by the authors reporting the experiments.

id: 1410.6683
title: Investigating the origin of time with trapped ions
authors: Serge Massar, Philippe Spindel, Andr¨¦s F. Var¨®n, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6683
abstract: Even though quantum systems in energy eigenstates do not evolve in time, they can exhibit correlations between internal degrees of freedom in such a way that one of the internal degrees of freedom behaves like a clock variable, and thereby defines an internal time, that parametrises the evolution of the other degrees of freedom. This situation is of great interest in quantum cosmology where the invariance under reparametrisation of time implies that the temporal coordinate dissapears and is replaced by the Wheeler-DeWitt constraint. Here we show that this paradox can be investigated experimentally using the exquisite control now available on moderate size quantum systems. We describe in detail how to implement such an experimental demonstration using the spin and motional degrees of freedom of a single trapped ion.

id: 1410.6722
title: Frustration and Entanglement in Compass and Spin-Orbital Models
authors: Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, invited talk at PM'14 Conference, Poznan, June 2014
journal: Acta Phys. Polon. A. 127, 163 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6722
abstract: We review the consequences of intrinsic frustration of the orbital superexchange and of spin-orbital entanglement. While Heisenberg perturbing interactions remove frustration in the compass model, the lowest columnar excitations are robust in the nanoscopic compass clusters and might be used for quantum computations. Entangled spin-orbital states determine the ground states in some cases, while in others concern excited states and lead to measurable consequences, as in the $R$VO$_3$ perovskites. On-site entanglement for strong spin-orbit coupling generates the frustrated Kitaev-Heisenberg model with a rich magnetic phase diagram on the honeycomb lattice. Frustration is here reflected in hole propagation which changes from coherent in an antiferromagnet via hidden quasiparticles in zigzag and stripe phases to entirely incoherent one in the Kitaev spin liquid.

id: 1410.6745
title: Three- to two-dimensional crossover in time-dependent density-functional theory
authors: Shahrzad Karimi, Carsten A. Ullrich
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6745
abstract: Quasi-two-dimensional (2D) systems, such as an electron gas confined in a quantum well, are important model systems for many-body theories. Earlier studies of the crossover from 3D to 2D in ground-state density-functional theory showed that local and semilocal exchange-correlation functionals which are based on the 3D electron gas are appropriate for wide quantum wells, but eventually break down as the 2D limit is approached. We now consider the dynamical case and study the performance of various linear-response exchange kernels in time-dependent density-functional theory. We compare approximate local, semilocal and orbital-dependent exchange kernels, and analyze their performance for inter- and intrasubband plasmons as the quantum wells approach the 2D limit. 3D (semi)local exchange functionals are found to fail for quantum well widths comparable to the 2D Wigner-Seitz radius, which implies in practice that 3D local exchange remains valid in the quasi-2D dynamical regime for typical quantum well parameters, except for very low densities.

id: 1410.6854
title: The Quantum Nature of Identity in Human Thought: Bose-Einstein Statistics for Conceptual Indistinguishability
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6854
abstract: Increasing experimental evidence shows that humans combine concepts in a way that violates the rules of classical logic and probability theory. On the other hand, mathematical models inspired by the formalism of quantum theory are in accordance with data on concepts and their combinations. In this paper, we investigate a novel type of concept combination were a number is combined with a noun, e.g., `Eleven Animals. Our aim is to study 'conceptual identity' and the effects of 'indistinguishability' - in the combination 'Eleven Animals', the 'animals' are identical and indistinguishable - on the mechanisms of conceptual combination. We perform experiments on human subjects and find significant evidence of deviation from the predictions of classical statistical theories, more specifically deviations with respect to Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics. This deviation is of the 'same type' of the deviation of quantum mechanical from classical mechanical statistics, due to indistinguishability of microscopic quantum particles, i.e we find convincing evidence of the presence of Bose-Einstein statistics. We also present preliminary promising evidence of this phenomenon in a web-based study.

id: 1410.6877
title: Quantum Noise Limits in White-Light-Cavity-Enhanced Gravitational Wave Detectors
authors: Minchuan Zhou, Zifan Zhou, Selim M. Shahriar
comments: 34 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6877
abstract: Previously, we had proposed a gravitational wave detector that incorporates the white light cavity (WLC) effect using a compound cavity for signal recycling (CC-SR). Here, we first calculate the quantum noise (QN) limited sensitivity curves for this design, and find that the broadening of sensitivity predicted by the classical analysis is also present in these curves, but is somewhat reduced. Furthermore, we find that the curves always stay above the standard quantum limit (SQL). To circumvent this limitation, we modify the dispersion to compensate the non-linear phase variation produced by the opto-mechanical (OM) resonance effects by making use of the single sideband approximation (SSA). We find that the resonance dips in the resulting QN curves entail a 14 times higher sensitivity-bandwidth product compared to the highest sensitivity result presented by Bunanno and Chen. We also present a simpler scheme (WLC-SR) where a dispersion medium is inserted in the SR cavity. Compared to the highest sensitivity result of Bunanno and Chen, the QN exhibits an enhancement of sensitivity-bandwidth product by a factor of 18. We consider both positive and negative dispersion for phase compensation. For the negative dispersion, we consider a narrow band dip on top of a broadband gain. For the positive dispersion, we consider a narrow transparency on top of a broad absorption. For the negative dispersion, we show that, for the parameters that yield net enhancement in the sensitivity-bandwidth product, lasing does not occur.

id: 1410.6883
title: Relating the Bures measure to the Cauchy two-matrix model
authors: Peter J. Forrester, Mario Kieburg
comments: 39 pages; new version contains an additional chapter about the hard edge scaling limit
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6883
abstract: The Bures metric is a natural choice in measuring the distance of density operators representing states in quantum mechanics. In the past few years a random matrix ensemble and the corresponding joint probability density function of its eigenvalues was identified. Moreover a relation with the Cauchy two-matrix model was discovered but never thoroughly investigated, leaving open in particular the following question: How are the kernels of the Pfaffian point process of the Bures random matrix ensemble related to the ones of the determinantal point process of the Cauchy two-matrix model and moreover, how can it be possible that a Pfaffian point process derives from a determinantal point process? We give a very explicit answer to this question. The aim of our work has a quite practical origin since the calculation of the level statistics of the Bures ensemble is highly mathematically involved while we know the statistics of the Cauchy two-matrix ensemble. Therefore we solve the whole level statistics of a density operator drawn from the Bures prior.

id: 1410.6913
title: Low rank matrix recovery from rank one measurements
authors: Richard Kueng, Holger Rauhut, Ulrich Terstiege
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6913
abstract: We study the recovery of Hermitian low rank matrices $X \in \mathbb{C}^{n \times n}$ from undersampled measurements via nuclear norm minimization. We consider the particular scenario where the measurements are Frobenius inner products with random rank-one matrices of the form $a_j a_j^*$ for some measurement vectors $a_1,...,a_m$, i.e., the measurements are given by $y_j = \mathrm{tr}(X a_j a_j^*)$. The case where the matrix $X=x x^*$ to be recovered is of rank one reduces to the problem of phaseless estimation (from measurements, $y_j = |\langle x,a_j\rangle|^2$ via the PhaseLift approach, which has been introduced recently. We derive bounds for the number $m$ of measurements that guarantee successful uniform recovery of Hermitian rank $r$ matrices, either for the vectors $a_j$, $j=1,...,m$, being chosen independently at random according to a standard Gaussian distribution, or $a_j$ being sampled independently from an (approximate) complex projective $t$-design with $t=4$. In the Gaussian case, we require $m \geq C r n$ measurements, while in the case of $4$-designs we need $m \geq Cr n \log(n)$. Our results are uniform in the sense that one random choice of the measurement vectors $a_j$ guarantees recovery of all rank $r$-matrices simultaneously with high probability. Moreover, we prove robustness of recovery under perturbation of the measurements by noise. The result for approximate $4$-designs generalizes and improves a recent bound on phase retrieval due to Gross, Kueng and Krahmer. In addition, it has applications in quantum state tomography. Our proofs employ the so-called bowling scheme which is based on recent ideas by Mendelson and Koltchinskii.

id: 1410.6988
title: Entanglement Entropies of Non-Equilibrium Finite-Spin Systems
authors: Koichi Nakagawa
comments: 7 pages, 4figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2015) 021A01
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6988
abstract: For the purpose of clarifying a new approach to understanding quantum entanglement using thermofield dynamics (TFD), entanglement entropies of non-equilibrium finite-spin systems are examined for both traditional and extended cases. The extended entanglement entropy, $\hat{S}$, is derived, and it is found that the conditions for the maximum entangled state can be obtained through this approach. The capacity of the TFD-based method to distinguish between states in quantum systems is confirmed.

id: 1410.7034
title: On the Relation between Random Walks and Quantum Walks
authors: Stefan Boettcher, Stefan Falkner, Renato Portugal
comments: 8 pages, RevTex4-1; for related information, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7034
abstract: We propose a general relation between the walk dimensions $d_{w}$ of random walks and quantum walks, which illuminates fundamental aspects of the walk dynamics, such as its mean-square displacement. To this end, we extend the renormalization group analysis (RG) of the stochastic master equation to one with a unitary propagator. As in the classical case, the solution $\rho(x,t)$ in space and time of this quantum walk equation exhibits a scaling collapse for the variable $x^{d_{w}}/t$. In all cases studied, we find that $d_{w}$ of the discrete-time quantum walk with the Grover coin takes on exactly half the value found for the random walk on the same geometry, irrespective of whether it is a homogeneous lattice or a heterogeneous network. We demonstrate this circumstance for several networks with distinct properties using exact RG and confirm the collapse in each case with extensive numerical simulation.

id: 1410.7058
title: Broken gauge symmetry in a Bose gas with constant particle number
authors: Alexej Schelle
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7058
abstract: The existence of broken gauge symmetries in Bose-Einstein condensates is still controversially discussed in science, since it would not conserve the total number of particles. Here, it is shown for the first time that non-random condensate and non-condensate phase distributions may arise from local particle number breaking in a Bose gas with constant particle number, while the global U(1)-gauge symmetry of the system is preserved due to particle number conservation.

id: 1410.7231
title: Statistics of quantum jumps and spikes, and limits of diffusive weak measurements
authors: Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard, Antoine Tilloy
comments: 37 pages with figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7231
abstract: This paper is devoted to the quantitative study of quantum trajectories of systems subjected to a tight and continuous monitoring. These trajectories exhibit quantum jumps, observed in various experiments, but also more surprising features, quantum spikes, revealed in this study. We give a quantitative understanding of quantum jumps and spikes, starting from the stochastic differential equation obeyed by the density matrix of a quantum system undergoing continuous measurement. We show that jumpy evolutions between pointer states emerge in the strong measurement limit: the system finite dimensional distributions behave as those of finite state Markov processes on measurement eigenvectors. We compute the corresponding jump rates analytically. Beyond the convergence of finite dimensional distributions, we show the ubiquitous emergence of quantum spikes, which we conjecture to have universal scale invariant fluctuations described by Poisson point processes. This result is proved in two cases: general two-level systems and systems whose evolution preserves the diagonality of the density matrix. We argue that quantum spikes give a very clear and general signature of measurement induced quantum jumps, a feature which could be of experimental interest. We eventually apply our general results to several examples: we recover well known facts about the quantum Zeno effect and more surprising results on thermal fluctuations and on control.

id: 1410.7362
title: Quantum Properties of Double Kicked Systems with Classical Translational Invariance in Momentum
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review E 91, 012914 (2015)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7362
abstract: Double kicked rotors (DKRs) appear to be the simplest nonintegrable Hamiltonian systems featuring classical translational symmetry in phase space (i.e., in angular momentum) for an \emph{infinite} set of values (the rational ones) of a parameter $\eta$. The experimental realization of quantum DKRs by atom-optics methods motivates the study of the double kicked particle (DKP). The latter reduces, at any fixed value of the conserved quasimomentum $\beta\hbar$, to a generalized DKR, the \textquotedblleft $\beta $-DKR\textquotedblright . We determine general quantum properties of $\beta $-DKRs and DKPs for arbitrary rational $\eta $. The quasienergy problem of $\beta $-DKRs is shown to be equivalent to the energy eigenvalue problem of a finite strip of coupled lattice chains. Exact connections are then obtained between quasienergy spectra of $\beta $-DKRs for all $\beta $ in a generically infinite set. The general conditions of quantum resonance for $\beta $-DKRs are shown to be the simultaneous rationality of $\eta $, $\beta$, and a scaled Planck constant $\hbar _{\mathrm{S}}$. For rational $\hbar _{\mathrm{S}}$ and generic values of $\beta $, the quasienergy spectrum is found to have a staggered-ladder structure. Other spectral structures, resembling Hofstadter butterflies, are also found. Finally, we show the existence of particular DKP wave-packets whose quantum dynamics is \emph{free}, i.e., the evolution frequencies of expectation values in these wave-packets are independent of the nonintegrability. All the results for rational $\hbar _{\mathrm{S}}$ exhibit unique number-theoretical features involving $\eta $, $\hbar _{\mathrm{S}}$, and $\beta $.

id: 1410.7407
title: Quasi Many-body Localization in Translation Invariant Systems
authors: N. Y. Yao, C. R. Laumann, J. I. Cirac, M. D. Lukin, J. E. Moore
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7407
abstract: It is typically assumed that disorder is essential to realize Anderson localization. Recently, a number of proposals have suggested that an interacting, translation invariant system can also exhibit localization. We examine these claims in the context of a one-dimensional spin ladder. At intermediate time scales, we find slow growth of entanglement entropy consistent with the phenomenology of many-body localization. However, at longer times, all finite wavelength spin polarizations decay in a finite time, independent of system size. We identify a single length scale which parametrically controls both the eventual spin transport times and the divergence of the susceptibility to spin glass ordering. We dub this long pre-thermal dynamical behavior, intermediate between full localization and diffusion, quasi-many body localization.

id: 1410.7424
title: Breakdown of statistical inference from some random experiments
authors: Marian Kupczynski, Hans De Raedt
comments: 12 pages, 4 Tables and 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Methodology (stat.ME)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7424
abstract: Many experiments can be interpreted in terms of random processes operating according to some internal protocols. When experiments are costly or cannot be repeated as in some clinical trials one has data gathered in only one or in a few long runs of the experiment. In this paper we study data generated by computer experiments operating according to particular internal protocols. We show that the standard statistical analysis of a sample, containing 100 000 data points or more, may sometimes be highly misleading and statistical errors largely underestimated. Our results confirm in a dramatic way the dangers of standard asymptotic statistical inference based on data gathered in one, possibly long run of the experiment. We demonstrate that analyzing various subdivisions of samples by multiple chi-square tests and chi-square frequency graphs is very effective in detecting the anomalies. Therefore to assure correctness of the statistical inference the above mentioned chi-square tests and other non-parametric sample homogeneity tests should be incorporated in any statistical analysis of experimental data. If such tests are not done the reported conclusions and estimates of the errors may not be trusted.

id: 1410.7474
title: Loss-induced suppression and revival of lasing
authors: B. Peng, S. K. Ozdemir, S. Rotter, H. Yilmaz, M. Liertzer, F. Monifi, C. M. Bender, F. Nori, L. Yang
comments: 44 pages (12 pages Main Text, 32 pages Supplementary Material), 20 figures (4 figures Main Text, 16 figures Supplementary Material), 34 references (30 references Main Text + 4 references Supplementary Material)
journal: Science, Vol. 346, no. 6207, pp. 328-332 (17 October 2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7474
abstract: Controlling and reversing the effects of loss are major challenges in optical systems. For lasers losses need to be overcome by a sufficient amount of gain to reach the lasing threshold. We show how to turn losses into gain by steering the parameters of a system to the vicinity of an exceptional point (EP), which occurs when the eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenstates of a system coalesce. In our system of coupled microresonators, EPs are manifested as the loss-induced suppression and revival of lasing. Below a critical value, adding loss annihilates an existing Raman laser. Beyond this critical threshold, lasing recovers despite the increasing loss, in stark contrast to what would be expected from conventional laser theory. Our results exemplify the counterintuitive features of EPs and present an innovative method for reversing the effect of loss.

id: 1410.7609
title: Equations of a Moving Mirror and the Electromagnetic Field
authors: Luis Octavio Casta?os, Ricardo Weder
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7609
abstract: We consider a slab of a material that is linear, isotropic, non-magnetizable, ohmic, and electrically neutral when it is at rest. The slab interacts with the electromagnetic field through radiation pressure. Using a relativistic treatment, we deduce the exact equations governing the dynamics of the field and of the slab, as well as, approximate equations to first order in the velocity and the acceleration of the slab. As a consequence of the motion of the slab, the field must satisfy a wave equation with damping and slowly varying coefficients plus terms that are small when the time-scale of the evolution of the mirror is much smaller than that of the field. Moreover, the dynamics of the mirror involve a time-dependent mass arising from the interaction with the field and it is related to the effective mass of mechanical oscillators used in optomechanics. By the same reason, the mirror is subject to a velocity dependent force which is related to the much sought cooling of mechanical oscillators in optomechanics.

id: 1410.7702
title: Global characteristics of all eigenstates of local many-body Hamiltonians: participation ratio and entanglement entropy
authors: Wouter Beugeling, Alexei Andreanov, Masudul Haque
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2015) P02002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7702
abstract: In the spectrum of many-body quantum systems, the low-energy eigenstates were the traditional focus of research. The interest in the statistical properties of the full eigenspectrum has grown more recently, in particular in the context of non-equilibrium questions. Wave functions of interacting lattice quantum systems can be characterized either by local observables, or by global properties such as the participation ratio (PR) in a many-body basis or the entanglement between various partitions. We present a study of the PR and of the entanglement entropy (EE) between two roughly equal spatial partitions of the system, in all the eigenfunctions of local Hamiltonians. Motivated by the similarity of the PR and EE - both are generically larger in the bulk and smaller near the edges of the spectrum - we quantitatively analyze the correlation between them. We elucidate the effect of (proximity to) integrability, showing how low-entanglement and low-PR states appear also in the middle of the spectrum as one approaches integrable points. We also determine the precise scaling behavior of the eigenstate-to-eigenstate fluctuations of the PR and EE with respect to system size, and characterize the statistical distribution of these quantities near the middle of the spectrum.

id: 1410.7773
title: Large-N transitions of the connectivity index
authors: Francesco Aprile, Vasilis Niarchos
comments: 39 pages, 4 figures; v2 a new section 8 has been added to emphasise aspects of separability in the IR effective theory and the relation with multi-gravity, references added; v3 a proper account of the IR effects of U(1) (singleton) degrees of freedom has been added with appropriate changes in sections 3, 4.3, 9, main conclusions unchanged, changes match published version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7773
abstract: The connectivity index, defined as the number of decoupled components of a separable quantum system, can change under deformations of the Hamiltonian or during the dynamical change of the system under renormalization group flow. Such changes signal a rearrangement of correlations of different degrees of freedom across spacetime and field theory space. In this paper we quantify such processes by studying the behavior of entanglement entropy in a specific example: the RG flow in the Coulomb branch of large-N superconformal field theories. We find evidence that the transition from the non-separable phase of the Higgsed gauge theory in the UV to the separable phase of deformed decoupled CFTs in the IR exhibits sharp features in the middle of the RG flow in the large-N limit. The entanglement entropy on a sphere with radius $\ell$ exhibits the formation of a separatrix on the co-dimension-two Ryu-Takayanagi surface in multi-centered brane geometries above a critical value of $\ell$. We discuss how other measures of entanglement and separability based on the relative quantum entropy and quantum mutual information might detect such transitions between non-separable and separable phases and how they would help describe some of the key properties of the IR physics of such flows.

id: 1410.7911
title: Phase diagram of the J1-J2 Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice
authors: Fabian Kolley, Stefan Depenbrock, Ian P. McCulloch, Ulrich Schollw?ck, Vincenzo Alba
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures. Figure added, minor modifications, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 104418 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7911
abstract: We perform an extensive density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) study of the ground-state phase diagram of the spin-1/2 J_1-J_2 Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice. We focus on the region of the phase diagram around the kagome Heisenberg antiferromagnet, i.e., at J_2=0. We investigate the static spin structure factor, the magnetic correlation lengths, and the spin gaps. Our results are consistent with the absence of magnetic order in a narrow region around J_2\approx 0, although strong finite-size effects do not allow us to accurately determine the phase boundaries. This result is in agreement with the presence of an extended spin-liquid region, as it has been proposed recently. Outside the disordered region, we find that for ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic J_2 the ground state displays signatures of the magnetic order of the \sqrt{3}\times\sqrt{3} and the q=0 type, respectively. Finally, we focus on the structure of the entanglement spectrum (ES) in the q=0 ordered phase. We discuss the importance of the choice of the bipartition on the finite-size structure of the ES.

id: 1410.7966
title: Generalized Uncertainty Principle and Recent Cosmic Inflation Observations
authors: Abdel Nasser Tawfik, Abdel Magied Diab
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. D, 28 pages, 6 figures, 15 eps graphs
journal: Electron. J. Theor. Phys. 12, 9-30 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.7966
abstract: The recent background imaging of cosmic extragalactic polarization (BICEP2) observations are believed as an evidence for the cosmic inflation. BICEP2 provided a first direct evidence for the inflation, determined its energy scale and debriefed witnesses for the quantum gravitational processes. The ratio of scalar-to-tensor fluctuations $r$ which is the canonical measurement of the gravitational waves, was estimated as $r=0.2_{-0.05}^{+0.07}$. Apparently, this value agrees well with the upper bound value corresponding to PLANCK $r\leq 0.012$ and to WMAP9 experiment $r=0.2$. It is believed that the existence of a minimal length is one of the greatest predictions leading to modifications in the Heisenberg uncertainty principle or a GUP at the Planck scale. In the present work, we investigate the possibility of interpreting recent BICEP2 observations through quantum gravity or GUP. We estimate the slow-roll parameters, the tensorial and the scalar density fluctuations which are characterized by the scalar field $\phi$. Taking into account the background (matter and radiation) energy density, $\phi$ is assumed to interact with the gravity and with itself. We first review the Friedmann-Lemaitre-Robertson-Walker (FLRW) Universe and then suggest modification in the Friedmann equation due to GUP. By using a single potential for a chaotic inflation model, various inflationary parameters are estimated and compared with the PLANCK and BICEP2 observations. While GUP is conjectured to break down the expansion of the early Universe (Hubble parameter and scale factor), two inflation potentials based on certain minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model result in $r$ and spectral index matching well with the observations. Corresponding to BICEP2 observations, our estimation for $r$ depends on the inflation potential and the scalar field. A power-law inflation potential does not.

id: 1410.8035
title: A Josephson radiation comb generator
authors: P. Solinas, S. Gasparinetti, D. Golubev, F. Giazotto
comments: 8 pages, 6 color figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8035
abstract: We propose the implementation of a Josephson radiation comb generator (JRCG) based on a dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) driven by an external magnetic field. When the magnetic flux crosses a diffraction node of the critical current interference pattern, the superconducting phase undergoes a jump of $\pi$ and a voltage pulse is generated at the extremes of the SQUID. Under periodic drive this allows one to generate a sequence of sharp, evenly spaced voltage pulses. In the frequency domain, this corresponds to a comb-like structure similar to the one exploited in optics and metrology. With this device it is possible to generate from several hundreds to a thousand of harmonics of the driving frequency. For example, a chain of $10^3$ identical high-critical-temperature SQUIDs driven at 1 GHz can deliver up to a few hundreds nW at 200 GHz. The availability of a fully solid-state radiation comb generator such as the JRCG, easily integrable on chip, will pave the way to a number of technological applications, from metrology to sub-millimeter wave generation.

id: 1410.8095
title: Ultracold chemistry with alkali-metal-rare-earth molecules
authors: C. Makrides, J. Hazra, G. B. Pradhan, A. Petrov, B. K. Kendrick, T. Gonz¨¢lez-Lezana, N. Balakrishnan, S. Kotochigova
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8095
abstract: A first principles study of the dynamics of $^6$Li($^{2}$S) + $^6$Li$^{174}$Yb($^2\Sigma^+$)$ \to ^6$Li$_2(^1\Sigma^+$) + $^{174}$Yb($^1$S) reaction is presented at cold and ultracold temperatures. The computations involve determination and analytic fitting of a three-dimensional potential energy surface for the Li$_2$Yb system and quantum dynamics calculations of varying complexities, ranging from exact quantum dynamics within the close-coupling scheme, to statistical quantum treatment, and universal models. It is demonstrated that the two simplified methods yield zero-temperature limiting reaction rate coefficients in reasonable agreement with the full close-coupling calculations. The effect of the three-body term in the interaction potential is explored by comparing quantum dynamics results from a pairwise potential that neglects the three-body term to that derived from the full interaction potential. Inclusion of the three-body term in the close-coupling calculations was found to reduce the limiting rate coefficients by a factor of two. The reaction exoergicity populates vibrational levels as high as $v=19$ of the $^6$Li$_2$ molecule in the limit of zero collision energy. Product vibrational distributions from the close-coupling calculations reveal sensitivity to inclusion of three-body forces in the interaction potential. Overall, the results indicate that a simplified model based on the long-range potential is able to yield reliable values of the total reaction rate coefficient in the ultracold limit but a more rigorous approach based on statistical quantum or quantum close-coupling methods is desirable when product rovibrational distribution is required.

id: 1410.8107
title: Symmetry and Conservation Laws in Semiclassical Wave Packet Dynamics
authors: Tomoki Ohsawa
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 56, 032103 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8107
abstract: We formulate symmetries in semiclassical Gaussian wave packet dynamics and find the corresponding conserved quantities, particularly the semiclassical angular momentum, via Noether's theorem. We consider two slightly different formulations of Gaussian wave packet dynamics; one is based on earlier works of Heller and Hagedorn, and the other based on the symplectic-geometric approach by Lubich and others. In either case, we reveal the symplectic and Hamiltonian nature of the dynamics and formulate natural symmetry group actions in the setting to derive the corresponding conserved quantities (momentum maps). The semiclassical angular momentum inherits the essential properties of the classical angular momentum as well as naturally corresponds to the quantum picture.

id: 1410.8197
title: Interferometric Probes of Planckian Quantum Geometry
authors: Ohkyung Kwon, Craig J. Hogan
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8197
abstract: The effect of Planck scale quantum geometrical effects on measurements with interferometers is estimated with standard physics, and with a variety of proposed extensions. It is shown that effects are negligible in standard field theory with canonically quantized gravity. Statistical noise levels are estimated in a variety of proposals for non-standard metric fluctuations, and these alternatives are constrained using upper bounds on stochastic metric fluctuations from LIGO. Idealized models of several interferometer system architectures are used to predict signal noise spectra in a quantum geometry that cannot be described by a fluctuating metric, in which position noise arises from holographic bounds on directional information. Predictions in this case are shown to be close to current and projected experimental bounds.

id: 1410.8236
title: Recurrence Relations of the Multi-Indexed Orthogonal Polynomials : II
authors: Satoru Odake
comments: 27 pages. Comments, references and examples added, reference information updated. To appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56 (2015) 053506 (18pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8236
abstract: In a previous paper we presented $3+2M$ term recurrence relations with variable dependent coefficients for $M$-indexed orthogonal polynomials of Laguerre, Jacobi, Wilson and Askey-Wilson types. In this paper we present (conjectures of) the recurrence relations with constant coefficients for these multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials. The simplest recurrence relations have $3+2\ell$ terms, where $\ell (\geq M)$ is the degree of the lowest member of the multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials.

id: 1410.8246
title: Coherent quantum transport in disordered systems: A unified polaron treatment of hopping and band-like transport
authors: Chee Kong Lee, Jeremy Moix, Jianshu Cao
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8246
abstract: Quantum transport in disordered systems is studied using a polaron-based master equation. The polaron approach is capable of bridging the results from the coherent band-like transport regime governed by the Redfield equation to incoherent hopping transport in the classical regime. A non-monotonic dependence of the diffusion coefficient is observed both as a function of temperature and system-phonon coupling strength. In the band-like transport regime, the diffusion coefficient is shown to be linearly proportional to the system-phonon coupling strength, and vanishes at zero coupling due to Anderson localization. In the opposite classical hopping regime, we correctly recover that the dynamics are described by the Fermi's Golden Rule (FGR) and establish that the scaling of the diffusion coefficient depends on the phonon bath relaxation time. In both the hopping and band-like transport regimes, it is demonstrated that at low temperature the zero-point fluctuations of the bath lead to non-zero transport rates, and hence a finite diffusion constant. Application to rubrene and other organic semiconductor materials shows a good agreement with experimental mobility data.

id: 1410.8300
title: Confluent Heun functions and the Coulomb problem for spin 1/2 particle in Minkowski space
authors: V. Balan, A.M. Manukyan, E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.M. Red'kov, O.V. Veko
comments: 22 pages, submitted to: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8300
abstract: In the paper, the well-known quantum mechanical problem of a spin 1/2 particle in external Coulomb potential, reduced to a system of two first-order differential equations, is studied from the point of view of possible applications of the Heun function theory to treat this system. It is shown that in addition to the standard way to solve the problem in terms of the confluent hypergeometric functions (proposed in 1928 by G. Darvin and W. Gordon), there are possible several other possibilities which rely on applying the confluent Heun functions. Namely, in the paper there are elaborated two combined possibilities to construct solutions: the first applies when one equation of the pair of relevant functions is expressed trough hypergeometric functions, and another constructed in terms of confluent Heun functions. In this respect, certain relations between the two classes of functions are established. It is shown that both functions of the system may be expressed in terms of confluent Heun functions. All the ways to study this problem lead us to a single energy spectrum, which indicates their correctness.

id: 1410.8344
title: Hydrogen atom in de Sitter spaces
authors: O.V. Veko, K.V. Kazmerchuk, E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.M. Red'kov, A.M. Ishkhanyan
comments: 17 pages, Report to International Conference and Workshop "Quanta and %Matter: Through Physics to Future Emerging Technologies. 22-26 September 2014. Yerevan-Tsaghkadzor, Armenia
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8344
abstract: The hydrogen atom theory is developed for the de Sitter and anti de Sitter spaces on the basis of the Klein-Gordon-Fock wave equation in static coordinates. In both models, after separation of the variables, the problem is reduced to the general Heun equation, a second order linear differential equation having four regular singular points. A qualitative examination shows that the energy spectrum for the hydrogen atom in the de Sitter space should be quasi-stationary, and the atom should be unstable. We derive an approximate expression for energy levels within the quasi-classical approach and estimate the probability of decay of the atom. A similar analysis shows that in the anti de Sitter model the hydrogen atom should be stable in the quantum-mechanical sense. Using the quasi-classical approach, we derive approximate formulas for energy levels for this case as well. Finally, we present the extension to the case of a spin 1/2 particle for both de Sitter models. This extension leads to complicated differential equations with 8 singular points.

id: 1410.8425
title: Periodically-driven quantum matter: the case of resonant modulations
authors: N. Goldman, J. Dalibard, M. Aidelsburger, N. R. Cooper
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; includes a new Section III dedicated to the strong-driving regime
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033632 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8425
abstract: Quantum systems can show qualitatively new forms of behavior when they are driven by fast time-periodic modulations. In the limit of large driving frequency, the long-time dynamics of such systems can often be described by a time-independent effective Hamiltonian, which is generally identified through a perturbative treatment. Here, we present a general formalism that describes time-modulated physical systems, in which the driving frequency is large, but resonant with respect to energy spacings inherent to the system at rest. Such a situation is currently exploited in optical-lattice setups, where superlattice (or Wannier-Stark-ladder) potentials are resonantly modulated so as to control the tunneling matrix elements between lattice sites, offering a powerful method to generate artificial fluxes for cold-atom systems. The formalism developed in this work identifies the basic ingredients needed to generate interesting flux patterns and band structures using resonant modulations. Additionally, our approach allows for a simple description of the micro-motion underlying the dynamics; we illustrate its characteristics based on diverse dynamic-lattice configurations. It is shown that the impact of the micro-motion on physical observables strongly depends on the implemented scheme, suggesting that a theoretical description in terms of the effective Hamiltonian alone is generally not sufficient to capture the full time-evolution of the system.

id: 1410.8444
title: Nonadiabatic multichannel dynamics of a spin-orbit coupled condensate
authors: Bo Xiong, Jun-hui Zheng, Daw-wei Wang
comments: 9 pages of RevTex4-1, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8444
abstract: We systematically investigate the nonadiabatic dynamics of a driven spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensate, and find that the standard Landau-Zener (LZ) tunneling fails in the regime of weak driven force and/or strong spin-orbital coupling. We show both analytically and numerically that the full nonadiabatic dynamics requires a new mechanism through multichannel quantum interference, which is beyond semi-classical approach and provides an oscillating power-law decay in the long time limit. Furthermore, the condensate density profile is found to be dynamically fragmented by the multichannel effects and enhanced by interaction effects. Experimental indication of these nonadiabatic dynamics is discussed.

id: 1410.8448
title: Quantum Brownian Motion with Inhomogeneous Damping and Diffusion
authors: Pietro Massignan, Aniello Lampo, Jan Wehr, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033627 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8448
abstract: We analyze the microscopic model of quantum Brownian motion, describing a Brownian particle interacting with a bosonic bath through a coupling which is linear in the creation and annihilation operators of the bath, but may be a nonlinear function of the position of the particle. Physically, this corresponds to a configuration in which damping and diffusion are spatially inhomogeneous. We derive systematically the quantum master equation for the Brownian particle in the Born-Markov approximation and we discuss the appearance of novel terms, for various polynomials forms of the coupling. We discuss the cases of linear and quadratic coupling in great detail and we derive, using Wigner function techniques, the stationary solutions of the master equation for a Brownian particle in a harmonic trapping potential. We predict quite generally Gaussian stationary states, and we compute the aspect ratio and the spread of the distributions. In particular, we find that these solutions may be squeezed (super-localized) with respect to the position of the Brownian particle. We analyze various restrictions to the validity of our theory posed by non-Markovian effects and by the Heisenberg principle. We further study the dynamical stability of the system, by applying a Gaussian approximation to the time dependent Wigner function, and we compute the decoherence rates of coherent quantum superpositions in position space. Finally, we propose a possible experimental realization of the physics discussed here, by considering an impurity particle embedded in a degenerate quantum gas.

id: 1410.8458
title: Site-wise manipulations and Mott insulator-superfluid transition of interacting photons using superconducting circuit simulators
authors: Xiuhao Deng, Chunjing Jia, Chih-Chun Chien
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8458
abstract: The Bose Hubbard model (BHM) of interacting bosons in a lattice has been a paradigm in many-body physics, and it exhibits a Mott insulator (MI)-superfluid (SF) transition at integer filling. Here a quantum simulator of the BHM using a superconducting circuit is proposed. Specifically, a superconducting transmission line resonator supporting microwave photons is coupled to a charge qubit to form one site of the BHM, and adjacent sites are connected by a tunable coupler. To obtain a mapping from the superconducting circuit to the BHM, we focus on the dispersive regime where the excitations remain photon-like. Standard perturbation theory is implemented to locate the parameter range where the MI-SF transition may be simulated. This simulator allows single-site manipulations and we illustrate this feature by considering two scenarios where a single-site manipulation can drive a MI-SF transition. The transition can be analyzed by mean-field analyses, and the exact diagonalization was implemented to provide accurate results. The variance of the photon density and the fidelity metric clearly show signatures of the transition. Experimental realizations and other possible applications of this simulator are also discussed.

id: 1410.8483
title: Optomechanical Dirac Physics
authors: M. Schmidt, V. Peano, F. Marquardt
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8483
abstract: Recent progress in optomechanical systems may soon allow the realization of optomechanical arrays, i.e. periodic arrangements of interacting optical and vibrational modes. We show that photons and phonons on a honeycomb lattice will produce an optically tunable Dirac-type band structure. Transport in such a system can exhibit transmission through an optically created barrier, similar to Klein tunneling, but with interconversion between light and sound. In addition, edge states at the sample boundaries are dispersive and enable controlled propagation of photon-phonon polaritons.

id: 1410.8487
title: Critical Dynamics of Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking in a Homogeneous Bose gas
authors: Nir Navon, Alexander L. Gaunt, Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Science 347, 167-170 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8487
abstract: We explore the dynamics of spontaneous symmetry breaking in a homogeneous system by thermally quenching an atomic gas with short-range interactions through the Bose-Einstein phase transition. Using homodyne matter-wave interferometry to measure first-order correlation functions, we verify the central quantitative prediction of the Kibble-Zurek theory, namely the homogeneous-system power-law scaling of the coherence length with the quench rate. Moreover, we directly confirm its underlying hypothesis, the freezing of the correlation length near the transition due to critical slowing down. Our measurements agree with beyond mean-field theory, and support the previously unverified expectation that the dynamical critical exponent for this universality class, which includes the $\lambda$-transition of liquid $^4$He, is $z=3/2$.

id: 1410.8610
title: Analytical method of spectra calculations in the Bargmann representation
authors: Andrzej J. Maciejewski, Maria Przybylska, Tomasz Stachowiak
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014), pp. 3445-3451
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8610
abstract: We formulate a universal method for solving an arbitrary quantum system which, in the Bargmann representation, is described by a system of linear equations with one independent variable, such as one- and multi-photon Rabi models, or $N$ level systems interacting with a single mode of the electromagnetic field and their various generalizations. We explain three types of conditions that determine the spectrum and show their usage for two deformations of the Rabi model. We prove that the spectra of both models are just zeros of transcendental functions, which in one case are given explicitly in terms of confluent Heun functions.

id: 1410.8634
title: Half-skyrmion and meron pair in spinor condensates
authors: Yu-Xin Hu, Christian Miniatura, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8634
abstract: We propose a simple experimental scheme to generate spin textures in the ground state of interacting ultracold bosonic atoms loaded in a two-dimensional harmonic trap. Our scheme is based on two co-propagating Laguerre-Gauss laser beams illuminating the atoms and coupling two of their internal ground state Zeeman sublevels. Using a Gross-Pitaevskii description, we show that the ground state of the atomic system has different topological properties depending on the interaction strength and the laser beam intensity. A half-skyrmion state develops at low interactions while a meron pair develops at large interactions.

id: 1410.8670
title: Free-fermion Entanglement Spectrum through Wannier Interpolation
authors: Ching Hua Lee, Peng Ye
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures Keywords: Entanglement, Wannier function, complex decay, imaginary gap, Toeplitz spectrum
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 085119 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8670
abstract: Quantum Entanglement plays an ubiquitous role in theoretical physics, from the characterization of novel phases of matter to understanding the efficacy of numerical algorithms. As such, there have been extensive studies on the entanglement spectrum (ES) of free-fermion systems, particularly in the relation between its spectral flow and topological charge pumping. However, far less has been studied about the \emph{spacing} between adjacent entanglement eigenenergies, which affects the truncation error in numerical computations involving Matrix Product States (MPS) or Projected Entangled-Pair States (PEPS). In this paper, we shall hence derive asymptotic bounds for the ES spacings through an interpolation argument that utilizes known results on Wannier function decay. For translation invariant systems, the Entanglement energies are shown to decay at a rate monotonically related to the complex gap between the filled and occupied bands. This interpolation also demonstrates the one-to-one correspondence between the ES and the edge states. Our results also provide asymptotic bounds for the eigenvalue distribution of certain types of Block Toeplitz matrices common in physics, even for those not arising from entanglement calculations.

id: 1410.8676
title: Correlated Quantum Dynamics of a Single Atom Collisionally Coupled to an Ultracold Finite Bosonic Ensemble
authors: Sven Kr?nke, Johannes Kn?rzer, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8676
abstract: We explore the correlated quantum dynamics of a single atom, regarded as an open system, with a spatio-temporally localized coupling to a finite bosonic environment. The single atom, initially prepared in a coherent state of low energy, oscillates in a one-dimensional harmonic trap and thereby periodically penetrates an interacting ensemble of $N_A$ bosons, held in a displaced trap. We show that the inter-species energy transfer accelerates with increasing $N_A$ and becomes less complete at the same time. System-environment correlations prove to be significant except for times when the excess energy distribution among the subsystems is highly imbalanced. These correlations result in incoherent energy transfer processes, which accelerate the early energy donation of the single atom and stochastically favour certain energy transfer channels depending on the instantaneous direction of transfer. Concerning the subsystem states, the energy transfer is mediated by non-coherent states of the single atom and manifests itself in singlet and doublet excitations in the finite bosonic environment. These comprehensive insights into the non-equilibrium quantum dynamics of an open system are gained by ab-initio simulations of the total system with the recently developed Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree Method for Bosons.

id: 1410.8715
title: Qubit dephasing due to Quasiparticle Tunneling
authors: Sebastian Zanker, Michael Marthaler
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8715
abstract: We study dephasing of a superconducting qubit due to quasiparticle tunneling through a Josephson junction. While qubit decay due to tunneling processes is well understood within a golden rule approximation, pure dephasing due to BCS quasiparticles gives rise to a divergent golden rule rate. We calculate qubit dephasing due to quasiparticle tunneling beyond lowest order approximation in coupling between qubit and quasiparticles. Summing up a certain class of diagrams we show that qubit dephasing due to purely longitudinal coupling to quasiparticles leads to a dephasing $\sim \exp(-x(t))$ where $x(t)$ is not linear in time on short time scales while it tends towards a selfconsistent calculated dephasing rate for longer times.

id: 1410.8771
title: Quantum Matter-Photonics Framework: Analyses of Chemical Conversion Processes
authors: O. Tapia
comments: 18 pages, Partially communicated to Swedish Theoretical Chemistry Meeting 2014
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8771
abstract: A quantum Matter-Photonics framework is adapted to help scrutinize chemical reaction mechanisms and used to explore a process mapped from chemical tree topological model. The chemical concept of bond knitting/breaking is reformulated via partitioned base sets leading to an abstract and general quantum presentation. Pivotal roles are assigned to entanglement, coherence,de-coherence and Feshbach resonance quantum states that permit apprehend gating states in conversion processes. A view from above in the state energy eigenvalue ladder, belonging to full system spectra complement the standard view from ground state. A full quantum physical view supporting chemical change obtains.

id: 1410.8814
title: Integrated coherent matter wave circuits
authors: C. Ryu, M. G. Boshier
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8814
abstract: An integrated coherent matter wave circuit is a single device, analogous to an integrated optical circuit, in which coherent de Broglie waves are created and then propagate freely in waveguides where they can be switched, divided, recombined, and detected. Applications of such circuits include guided atom interferometers, atomtronic circuits, and precisely controlled delivery of atoms. Here we report experiments demonstrating integrated matter wave circuits for guided coherent matter waves. The circuit elements are created with the painted potential technique, a form of time-averaged optical dipole potential in which a rapidly-moving, tightly-focused laser beam exerts forces on atoms through their electrical polarizability. The source of coherent matter waves is a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). We launch BECs into painted waveguides that guide them around bends and form switches, phase coherent beamsplitters, and closed circuits. These developments open the door to creating arbitrary and dynamic coherent matter wave circuits.

id: 1410.8863
title: Parameter-dependent Gaussian $(z,N)$-generalized Yang-Baxter operators
authors: Eric C. Rowell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8863
abstract: We find unitary solutions $\tilde{R}(a)$ to the (multipicative parameter-dependent) $(z,N)$-generalized Yang-Baxter equation that carry the standard measurement basis to $m$-level $N$-partite states that generalize the Bell states corresponding to $\tilde{R}(0)$ in the case $m=N=2$. This is achieved by a careful study of solutions to the Yang-Baxter equation discovered by Fateev and Zamolodchikov in 1982.

id: 1410.3248
title: One-shot Marton inner bound for classical-quantum broadcast channel
authors: Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, Pranab Sen, Naqueeb Warsi
comments: Corrected some typos and some other minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3248
abstract: We consider the problem of communication over a classical-quantum broadcast channel with one sender and two receivers. Generalizing the classical inner bounds shown by Marton and the recent quantum asymptotic version shown by Savov and Wilde, we obtain one-shot inner bounds in the quantum setting. Our bounds are stated in terms of smooth min and max Renyi divergences. We obtain these results using a different analysis of the random codebook argument and employ a new one-shot classical mutual covering argument based on rejection sampling. These results give a full justification of the claims of Savov and Wilde in the classical-quantum asymptotic iid setting; the techniques also yield similar bounds in the information spectrum setting.

id: 1410.0050
title: Hybridizing matter-wave and classical accelerometers
authors: Jean Lautier, Laurent Volodimer, Thomas Hardin, Sebastien Merlet, Michel Lours, Franck Pereira Dos Santos, Arnaud Landragin
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 144102 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Geophysics (physics.geo-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0050
abstract: We demonstrate a hybrid accelerometer that benefits from the advantages of both conventional and atomic sensors in terms of bandwidth (DC to 430 Hz) and long term stability. First, the use of a real time correction of the atom interferometer phase by the signal from the classical accelerometer enables to run it at best performances without any isolation platform. Second, a servo-lock of the DC component of the conventional sensor output signal by the atomic one realizes a hybrid sensor. This method paves the way for applications in geophysics and in inertial navigation as it overcomes the main limitation of atomic accelerometers, namely the dead times between consecutive measurements.

