id: 1412.0001
title: Averaging of one-parameter semigroups and passage to the limit in the space of pseudomeasures
authors: Vsevolod Sakbaev
comments: 29 pages. This version of the paper containes the corrections of the continuity property of pseudomesure and of the definition of Banach space of pseudomeasures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0001
abstract: The sequence of one-parameter semigroups arising as the approximation of initial-boundary value problem with singularities is the object of investigation of this paper. The set of limit points of the sequence of approximating semigroups is studied. The set of limit points of the map with values in a linear topological space is presented as the set of mean values of this map by measures on the domain of definition of the map. One to one correspondence betwin the semigroups generated by any approximating initial-boundary value problems and the pseudomeasures on the space of maps of time semiaxe into the coordinate space is studied. The linear space of pseudomesures endowed with the structure of Banach space and with the structure of the linear topological space such that the convergence of semigroup sequence is equivalent to the convergence of the sequence of corresponding pseudomeasures. The desctiption of a limit point of the sequence of approximating semigroups is obtained by a measure on the topological vector space of corresponding pseudomeasures. The trajectories the limit one-parameter family of transformations of the space of initial data is described by the mean value of the random pseudomeasure.

id: 1412.0017
title: First-order decomposition of thermal light in terms of a statistical mixture of pulses
authors: Aur¨¦lia Chenu, Agata M. Bra¨½czyk, J. E. Sipe
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 4 pages supplementary material. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0017
abstract: We investigate the connection between thermal light and coherent pulses, constructing mixtures of single pulses that yield the same first-order, equal-space-point correlation function as thermal light. We present mixtures involving (i) pulses with a Gaussian lineshape and narrow bandwidths, and (ii) pulses with a coherence time that matches that of thermal light. We characterize the properties of the mixtures and pulses. Our results introduce an alternative description of thermal light in terms of multi-frequency coherent states, valid for the description of broadband linear light-matter interactions. We anticipate our results will be relevant to time-resolved measurements that aim to probe the dynamics of systems as if they were excited by natural thermal light.

id: 1412.0040
title: Casimir-Polder induced Rabi oscillations
authors: M. Donaire, M.-P. Gorza, A. Maury, R. Guerout, A. Lambrecht
comments: minor corrections made to agree with the published version
journal: EPL, 109 (2015) 24003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0040
abstract: We show that the Casimir-Polder interaction may induce coherent oscillations between degenerate atomic states. We illustrate this effect by computing the Casimir-Polder induced Rabi frequency on a $^{87}$Rb atom as it interacts with a reflecting surface. The atom oscillates between two Zeeman sublevels of its ground state undergoing a periodic exchange of angular momentum with the vacuum photons.

id: 1412.0096
title: Decay of Gaussian correlations in local thermal reservoirs
authors: Paulina Marian, Iulia Ghiu, Tudor A. Marian
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0096
abstract: In this paper we examine the decay of quantum correlations for the radiation field in a two-mode squeezed thermal state in contact with local thermal reservoirs. Two measures of the evolving quantum correlations are compared: the entanglement of formation and the quantum discord. We derive analytic expressions of the entanglement-death time in two special cases: when the reservoirs for each mode are identical, as well as when a single reservoir acts on the first mode only. In the latter configuration, we show that all the pure Gaussian states lose their entanglement at the same time determined solely by the field-reservoir coupling. Also investigated is the evolution of the Gaussian quantum discord for the same choices of thermal baths. We notice that the discord can increase in time above its initial value in a special situation, namely, when it is defined by local measurements on the attenuated mode and the input state is mixed. This enhancement of discord is stronger for zero-temperature reservoirs and increases with the input degree of mixing.

id: 1412.0136
title: Unitary conjugation channels with continuous random phases
authors: Chaobin Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0136
abstract: We consider unitary conjugation channels with continuous random phases. The spectral properties of the channel average are examined, thereby the asymptotic behaviors of the repeated quantum interactions of the motion are derived. We then study the channels with uniformly distributed continuous phases on an interval. In this context, it is shown that discrete phases are sufficient to achieve the channel average.

id: 1412.0171
title: A bias-free quantum random number generation using photon arrival time selectively
authors: Jian-min Wang, Tian-yu Xie, Hong-fei Zhang, Dong-xu Yang, Chao Xie, Jian Wang
comments: 
journal: IEEE Photonics Journal, Volume:7 , Issue: 2. 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0171
abstract: We present a high-quality, bias-free quantum random number generator (QRNG) using photon arrival time selectively in accordance with the number of photon detection events within a sampling time interval in attenuated light. It is well showed in both theoretical analysis and experiments verification that this random number production method eliminates both bias and correlation perfectly without more post processing and the random number can clearly pass the standard randomness tests. We fulfill theoretical analysis and experimental verification of the method whose rate can reach up to 45Mbps.

id: 1412.0189
title: Entanglement-enhanced two-photon delocalization in a coupled-cavity array
authors: Shi-Qing Tang, Ji-Bing Yuan, Xin-Wen Wang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0189
abstract: We study transport properties of two entangled photons which are initially injected into two nearest-neighbor coupling cavities in a one-dimensional coupled-cavity array (CCA). It is found that photonic transport dynamics in the two-photon CCA exhibits entanglement-enhanced two-photon delocalization (TPD) phenomenon. It is shown that the CCA can realize the localization-to-delocalization transition for two entangled photons.

id: 1412.0192
title: Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information Science: The Nature of $¦·$
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 8 pages, no figure; typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0192
abstract: An overview is given of the nature of the quantum mechanical wave function.

id: 1412.0201
title: Gravitation and quantummechanical localization of macroobjects
authors: L. Di¨®si
comments: 6pp, Modern title would be: Schr\"odinger-Newton equation and soliton states of quantum macroobjects
journal: Phys.Lett. 105A (1984) 199-202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0201
abstract: We propose nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation with gravitational self-interacting term. The separability conditions of Bialynicki-Birula are satisfied in asymptotic sense. Solitonlike solutions were found.

id: 1412.0213
title: Entanglement and separability of qubits systems related to measurement processes, Hilbert-Schmidt(HS)decompositions and general Bell states
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 12 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1411.2720
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0213
abstract: Separability and entanglement for qubits systems are quantified by analyzing separate density matrices for one qubit, two-qubits,and larger qubits measurements, using Hilbert-Schmidt decompositions. We demonstrate the use of such method by analyzing three qubits GHZ states, and three qubits general Bell states produced by a certain multiplications of Braid operators, operating on the computational basis of states. Quantum correlations are obtained by measuring all qubits of these systems, while a measurement of a part of the system gives only classical correlations. The possibility to generalize the present method to larger qubits systems is discussed.

id: 1412.0279
title: Boson-Sampling with non-interacting fermions
authors: Valery S. Shchesnovich
comments: Minor misprints corrected. 19 pages; 3 figures (one colored)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0279
abstract: We explore the conditions under which identical particles in unitary linear networks behave as the other species, i.e. bosons as fermions and fermions as bosons. It is found that the Boson-Sampling computer of Aaronson & Arkhipov can be implemented in an interference experiment with non-interacting fermions in an appropriately entangled state. Moreover, a scheme is proposed which simulates the scattershot version of the Boson-Sampling computer by preparing, on the fly, the required entangled state of fermions from an unentangled one.

id: 1412.0282
title: Security Proof of a Semi-Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Walter O. Krawec
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0282
abstract: Semi-quantum key distribution protocols are designed to allow two users to establish a secure secret key when one of the two users is limited to performing certain "classical" operations. There have been several such protocols developed recently, however, due to their reliance on a two-way quantum communication channel (and thus, the attacker's opportunity to interact with the qubit twice), their security analysis is difficult and little is known concerning how secure they are compared to their fully quantum counterparts. In this paper we prove the unconditional security of a particular semi-quantum protocol. We derive an expression for the key rate of this protocol, in the asymptotic scenario, as a function of the quantum channel's noise. Finally, we will show that this semi-quantum protocol can tolerate a maximal noise level comparable to certain fully quantum protocols.

id: 1412.0294
title: Experimental entanglement-assisted quantum delayed-choice experiment
authors: Tao Xin, Hang Li, Bi-Xue Wang, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 8 pages, 1 table and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0294
abstract: The puzzling properties of quantum mechanics, wave-particle duality, entanglement and superposition, were dissected experimentally at past decades. However, hidden-variable (HV) models, based on three classical assumptions of wave-particle objectivity, determinism and independence, strive to explain or even defeat them. The development of quantum technologies enabled us to test experimentally the predictions of quantum mechanics and HV theories. Here, we report an experimental demonstration of an entanglement-assisted quantum delayed-choice scheme using a liquid nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. This scheme we realized is based on the recently proposed scheme [Nat. Comms. 5:4997(2014)], which gave different results for quantum mechanics and HV theories. In our experiments, the intensities and the visibilities of the interference are in consistent the theoretical prediction of quantum mechanics. The results imply that a contradiction is appearing when all three assumptions of HV models are combined, though any two of the above assumptions are compatible with it.

id: 1412.0332
title: Sudden transitions of trace distance discord of dipole-dipole coupled two qubits
authors: Zheng-Da Hu, Jicheng Wang, Yixin Zhang, Ye-Qi Zhang
comments: 10pages,7figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0332
abstract: We investigate the exact dynamics of trace distance discord by considering two qubits under dephasing whose states belong to a class of $X$ states beyond Bell diagonal form. The necessary condition for the occurrence of freezing trace distance discord is found and compared with that of entropic discord. For an illustration, we consider two interacting qubits coupled to independent reservoirs and demonstrate these dynamical properties of trace distance discord. It is interesting to find that the freezing trace distance discord exists even for $X$ states without maximally mixed marginals and can be tuned by dipole-dipole coupling of two qubits. Moreover, we consider the initial extended Werner-like states and investigate the differences between trace distance discord and entanglement. The influences of initial state and the dipole-dipole coupling of the two qubits on the dynamics of nonclassical correlations are explored.

id: 1412.0333
title: Multipartite quantum correlations and local recoverability
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure; v2: minor changes; v3: minor corrections and improvements
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A, vol. 471, no. 2177, May 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0333
abstract: Characterizing genuine multipartite quantum correlations in quantum physical systems has historically been a challenging problem in quantum information theory. More recently however, the total correlation or multipartite information measure has been helpful in accomplishing this goal, especially with the multipartite symmetric quantum (MSQ) discord [Piani et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 090502, 2008] and the conditional entanglement of multipartite information (CEMI) [Yang et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 140501, 2008]. Here we apply a recent and significant improvement of strong subadditivity of quantum entropy [Fawzi and Renner, arXiv:1410.0664] in order to develop these quantities further. In particular, we prove that the MSQ discord is nearly equal to zero if and only if the multipartite state for which it is evaluated is approximately locally recoverable after performing measurements on each of its systems. Furthermore, we prove that the CEMI is a faithful entanglement measure, i.e., it vanishes if and only if the multipartite state for which it is evaluated is a fully separable state. Along the way we provide an operational interpretation of the MSQ discord in terms of the partial state distribution protocol, which in turn, as a special case, gives an interpretation for the original discord quantity. Finally, we prove an inequality that could potentially improve upon the Fawzi-Renner inequality in the multipartite context, but it remains an open question to determine whether this is so.

id: 1412.0335
title: A Quick Introduction to the strong coupling regime of Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics: applications and fundamental quantum theory
authors: Nathan D. Poulin
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0335
abstract: Since the photon box gedanken experiments of several of the founding fathers of modern physics, considerable progress has been made in differentiating the quantum and classical worlds. In this pursuit, the cavity as an open quantum system has been indispensable. From the quantization of the atom and field within a superconducting cavity, a unique realm of EPR type entanglement has emerged. In this way, dynamical evolution of the system in the strong coupling regime is intimately tied with the coupling of an atom with a single resonant or non-resonant mode within the cavity. More specifically, the cavity can be prepared so that the atom is detected in a desired state. Here, the essentials of the strong coupling regime of Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) are reviewed for cavities tuned with a single atomic transition. A brief introduction of the systems is followed by an approach of the more striking effects, leading towards Ramsey Interferometry and Quantum Non-Demolition measurements as means for quantum gate protocol. Because the integrity of the atom and photon states is important for the advancement of quantum computation, a brief discussion of the decoherence problems is also presented. This document is meant to introduce the topic in a way that makes it easily accessible to those working in closely related areas of physics, and to highlight key applications and some basic questions concerning decoherence and the measurement problem.

id: 1412.0336
title: Repeat-until-success cubic phase gate for universal continuous-variable quantum computation
authors: Kevin Marshall, Raphael Pooser, George Siopsis, Christian Weedbrook
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032321 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0336
abstract: In order to achieve universal quantum computation using continuous variables, one needs to jump out of the set of Gaussian operations and have a non-Gaussian element, such as the cubic phase gate. However, such a gate is currently very difficult to implement in practice. Here we introduce an experimentally viable 'repeat-until-success' approach to generating the cubic phase gate, which is achieved using sequential photon subtractions and Gaussian operations. We find that our scheme offers benefits in terms of the expected time until success, although we require a primitive quantum memory.

id: 1412.0351
title: Newton-Wigner position operator and its corresponding spin operator in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Taeseung Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0351
abstract: A relativistic spin operator is to be the difference between the total and orbital angular momentum. As the unique position operator for a localized state, the remarkable Newton-Wigner position operator, which has all desirable commutation relations as a position operator, can give a proper spin operator. Historically important three spin operators respectively proposed by Bogolubov et al., Pryce, and Foldy-Woutheysen are investigated to manifest a corresponding spin operator to the Newton-Wigner position operator. We clarify a unique spin operator in relativistic quantum mechanics described by the Dirac Hamiltonian.

id: 1412.0365
title: Deterministic transformations of bipartite pure states
authors: Gokhan Torun, Ali Yildiz
comments: 11 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 379 (2015) 113-118
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0365
abstract: We propose an explicit protocol for the deterministic transformations of bipartite pure states in any dimension using deterministic transformations in lower dimensions. As an example, explicit solutions for the deterministic transformations of $3\otimes 3$ pure states by a single measurement are obtained, and an explicit protocol for the deterministic transformations of $n\otimes n$ pure states by three-outcome measurements is presented.

id: 1412.0377
title: Global quantum correlations in tripartite nonorthogonal states and monogamy properties
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara, R. Essaber, W. Kaydi
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Scripta 89 (2014) 065004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0377
abstract: A global measure of quantum correlations for tripartite nonorthogonal states is presented. It is introduced as the overall average of the pairwise correlations existing in all possible partitions. The explicit expressions for the global measure are derived for squared concurrence, entanglement of formation, quantum discord and its geometric variant. As illustration, we consider even and odd three-mode Schr\"odinger cat states based on Glauber coherent states. We also discuss limitations to sharing quantum correlations known as monogamy relations.

id: 1412.0387
title: Quantum model of an autonomous oscillator in hard excitation regime
authors: E.D. Vol, M.A. Ialovega
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0387
abstract: We propose the simple quantum model of nonlinear autonomous oscillator in hard excitation regime. We originate from classical equations of motion for similar oscillator and quantize them using the Lindblad master equation for the density matrix of this system. The solution for the populations of the stationary states of such oscillator may be explicitly found in the case when nonlinearity parameters of the problem are small. It was shown that in this situation there are three distinct regimes of behavior of the model. We compare properties of this model with corresponding ones of close open system, namely quantum oscillator in soft excitation regime. We discuss a possible applications of the results obtained.

id: 1412.0389
title: Detecting magnetic fields using Nitrogen-Vacancy Centers
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry
comments: 5 pages + Supplementary Material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0389
abstract: We show how nitrogen-vacancy centers can be used to `detect' magnetic fields, that is, to find out whether a magnetic field, about which we may not have complete information, is actually present or not. The solution to this problem comes from quantum state discrimination theory. The effect of decoherence is taken into account to optimize the time over which the nitrogen-vacancy center is allowed to interact with the magnetic field before making a measurement. We also find the optimum measurement that should be performed. We then show how multiple measurements reduce the error in detecting the magnetic field. Finally, a major limitation of the measurement process, namely limited photon detection efficiency, is taken into account. Our proposals should be implementable with current experimental technology.

id: 1412.0398
title: Pairwise quantum and classical correlations in multi-qubits states via linear relative entropy
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara, H. El Hadfi
comments: 19 pages, To appear in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 12, 1450035 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0398
abstract: The pairwise correlations in a multi-qubit state are quantified through a linear variant of relative entropy. In particular, we derive the explicit expressions of total, quantum and classical bipartite correlations. Two different bi-partioning schemes are considered. We discuss the derivation of closest product, quantum-classical and quantum-classical product states. We also investigate the additivity relation between the various pairwise correlations existing in pure and mixed states. As illustration, some special cases are examined.

id: 1412.0419
title: Notes on Deterministic Programming of Quantum Observables and Channels
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Mikko Tukiainen
comments: Corrected version V2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0419
abstract: We study the limitations of deterministic programmability of quantum circuits, e.g., quantum computer. More precisely, we analyse the programming of quantum observables and channels via quantum multimeters. We show that the programming vectors for any two different sharp observables are necessarily orthogonal, whenever post-processing is not allowed. This result then directly implies that also any two different unitary channels require orthogonal programming vectors. This approach generalizes the well-known orthogonality result first proven by Nielsen and Chuang. In addition, we give size-bounds for a multimeter to be efficient in quantum programming.

id: 1412.0429
title: Even quantum pigeons may thrive together. A note on 'the quantum pigeonhole principle'
authors: B. E. Y. Svensson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0429
abstract: The findings in the paper 'The quantum pigeonhole principle and the nature of quantum correlations', (arXiv 1407.3194), by Aharonov, Colombo, Popescu, Sabadini, Struppa and Tollaksen are scrutinized. I argue that some of the conclusions in the paper are ambiguous in the sense that they depend on the precise way one defines correlations, and that the 'first experiments' the authors suggest has little if any bearing on their main theses. The far-reaching conclusions the authors reach seems, therefore, premature.

id: 1412.0448
title: N00N states from a single non-linear directional coupler
authors: Regina Kruse, Linda Sansoni, Sebastian Brauner, Raimund Ricken, Craig S. Hamilton, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0448
abstract: In the quest for applicable quantum information technology miniaturised, compact and scalable sources are of paramount importance. Here, we present the concept for the generation of 2-photon N00N states without further post-processing in a single non-linear optical element. Based upon a periodically poled waveguide coupler, we present the principle of state generation via type-0 parametric down-conversion inside this type of devices. With the eigenmode description of the linear optical element, we utilise the delocalised photon pair generation to generate a N00N state in the measurement basis. We show, that we are able to eliminate the need for narrow-band spectral filtering, as well as for phase-stabilisation of the pump light, making this approach an elegant way to produce 2-photon N00N states.

id: 1412.0449
title: The Generation Cost of Bipartite Quantum States under LOCC
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Zhangqi Yin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors as similar results have been found by Francesco Buscemi and Nilanjana Datta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0449
abstract: We consider a realistic setting of quantum tasks that generate shared bipartite quantum states. Suppose \alice and \bob are located at different places and need to produce a target shared quantum state $\rho$. In order to save quantum communication, they can choose to share a proper smaller quantum state $\sigma$ first, and then turn $\sigma$ to $\rho$ by performing only local quantum operations and classical communications (LOCC). We hope $\sigma$ is the optimal such that the quantum communication needed is as little as possible, which is called the generation cost of $\rho$. In this paper, for an arbitrary bipartite $\rho$, we characterize its generation cost completely by proving that it is exactly equivalent to the logarithm of the Schmidt number of $\rho$. Similar quantum schemes where classical communication is not allowed have actually been considered. By comparing the two settings, we are able to look into the role that classical communication plays in these fundamental tasks, where we exhibit some instances in which classical communication is not helpful completely.

id: 1412.0454
title: Physics of Spectral Singularities
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 21 pages, a typo corrected, to appear in the Proceedings of XXXIII Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics, held in Bialowieza, Poland, July 07-12, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0454
abstract: Spectral singularities are certain points of the continuous spectrum of generic complex scattering potentials. We review the recent developments leading to the discovery of their physical meaning, consequences, and generalizations. In particular, we give a simple definition of spectral singularities, provide a general introduction to spectral consequences of ${\cal PT}$-symmetry (clarifying some of the controversies surrounding this subject), outline the main ideas and constructions used in the pseudo-Hermitian representation of quantum mechanics, and discuss how spectral singularities entered in the physics literature as obstructions to these constructions. We then review the transfer matrix formulation of scattering theory and the application of complex scattering potentials in optics. These allow us to elucidate the physical content of spectral singularities and describe their optical realizations. Finally, we survey some of the most important results obtained in the subject, drawing special attention to the remarkable fact that the condition of the existence of linear and nonlinear optical spectral singularities yield simple mathematical derivations of some of the basic results of laser physics, namely the laser threshold condition and the linear dependence of the laser output intensity on the gain coefficient.

id: 1412.0485
title: Estimation of temporal separation of slow light pulses in atomic vapors by weak measurement
authors: Pardeep Kumar, Shubhrangshu Dasgupta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0485
abstract: We show how two circular polarization components of a linearly polarized pulse, propagating through a coherently driven dilute atomic vapor, can be well resolved in time domain by weak measurement. Slower group velocity of one of the components due to electromagnetically induced transparency leads to a differential group delay between the two components. For low number density, this delay may not be large enough to temporally resolve the two components. We show how this can be enhanced in terms of mean time of arrival of the output pulse through a post-selected polarizer. We demonstrate the idea with all the analytical and numerical results, with a specific example of alkali atoms.

id: 1412.0518
title: Complementary correlations and entanglement distribution
authors: Prasenjit Deb
comments: Title changed,new contents added,comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0518
abstract: Complementary correlations can reveal the genuine quantum correlations present in a composite quantum system. Here we investigate the relation between complementary correlations and other aspects of genuine quantum correlations. We show that for a certain class of states quantum correlations revealed through complementary correlations become equal to entanglement and discord. We also provide a necessary and sufficient condition for entanglement distribution with separable Bell diagonal states in terms of complementary correlations.

id: 1412.0552
title: Unified position-dependent photon-number quantization in layered structures
authors: Mikko Partanen, Teppo H?yrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90, 063804 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0552
abstract: We have recently developed a position-dependent quantization scheme for describing the ladder and effective photon-number operators associated with the electric field to analyze quantum optical energy transfer in lossy and dispersive dielectrics [Phys. Rev. A, 89, 033831 (2014)]. While having a simple connection to the thermal balance of the system, these operators only described the electric field and its coupling to lossy dielectric bodies. Here we extend this field quantization scheme to include the magnetic field and thus to enable description of the total electromagnetic field and discuss conceptual measurement schemes to verify the predictions. In addition to conveniently describing the formation of thermal balance, the generalized approach allows modeling of the electromagnetic pressure and Casimir forces. We apply the formalism to study the local steady state field temperature distributions and electromagnetic force density in cavities with cavity walls at different temperatures. The calculated local electric and magnetic field temperatures exhibit oscillations that depend on the position as well as the photon energy. However, the effective photon number and field temperature associated with the total electromagnetic field is always position-independent in lossless media. Furthermore, we show that the direction of the electromagnetic force varies as a function of frequency, position, and material thickness.

id: 1412.0553
title: Field theory of monochromatic optical beams. I
authors: Andrea Aiello
comments: 19 pages, no figures. This is the part I of a work in progress. Part II will follow soon. About v2: A typo in Eq. (45) has been corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0553
abstract: We study monochromatic, scalar solutions of the Helmholtz and paraxial wave equations from a field-theoretic point of view. We introduce appropriate time-independent Lagrangian densities for which the Euler-Lagrange equations reproduces either Helmholtz and paraxial wave equations with the $z$-coordinate, associated with the main direction of propagation of the fields, playing the same role of time in standard Lagrangian theory. For both Helmholtz and paraxial scalar fields, we calculate the canonical energy-momentum tensor and determine the continuity equations relating "energy" and "momentum" of the fields. Eventually, the reduction of the Helmholtz wave equation to a useful first-order Dirac form, is presented. This work sheds some light on the intriguing and not so acknowledged connections between angular spectrum representation of optical wavefields, cosmological models and physics of black holes.

id: 1412.0573
title: Wave packet dynamics for a non-linear Schrodinger equation: Qualitative changes with changes in the initial width
authors: Sukla Pal, J. K. Bhattacharjee
comments: 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0573
abstract: The propagation of an initially Gaussian wave packet of width $\Delta_0$ in a cubic non-linear Schrodinger equation with a negative coupling constant for the nonlinear term is considered . It is predicted analytically and verified numerically that for a free particle if $\Delta_0$ is less than a critical value $\Delta_c$, then the packet will propagate in time with linearly growing width but for $\Delta>\Delta_c$, the packet will start becoming narrow and cease to be a Gaussian . For a simple harmonic oscillator, we find that for $\Delta_0$ smaller than a critical value, there always exist a coupling strength for which the packet simply oscillates about the mean position without changing its shape.

id: 1412.0584
title: Fluctuations of the Casimir potential above a disordered medium
authors: Nicolas Cherroret, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 69 (2015) 99
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0584
abstract: We study the statistical fluctuations of the Casimir potential felt by an atom approaching a dielectric disordered medium. Starting from a microscopic model for the disorder, we calculate the variance of potential fluctuations in the limit of a weak density of heterogeneities. We show that fluctuations are essentially governed by scattering of the radiation on a single heterogeneity, and discuss in which limits they become larger than the average value predicted by effective medium theory. Finally, for denser disorder we show that multiple scattering processes become relevant.

id: 1412.0604
title: Analysis of Photonic Quantum Nodes Based on Deterministic One-Photon Raman Interaction
authors: Serge Rosenblum, Barak Dayan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0604
abstract: The long-standing goal of deterministically controlling a single photon using another was recently realized in various experimental settings. Among these, a particularly attractive demonstration relied on deterministic one-photon Raman interaction in a three-level Lambda system coupled to a single-mode waveguide. Beyond the ability to control the direction of propagation of one photon by the direction of another photon, this scheme can also perform as a passive quantum memory and a universal quantum gate. Relying on interference, this all-optical, coherent scheme requires no additional control fields, and can therefore form the basis for scalable quantum networks composed of passive quantum nodes that interact with each other only with single photon pulses. Here we present an analytical and numerical study of deterministic one-photon Raman interaction, and characterise its limitations and the parameters for optimal operation. Specifically, we study the effect of losses and the presence of multiple excited states. In both cases we discuss strategies for restoring the high fidelity of the device's operation.

id: 1412.0616
title: Logical Entropy for Quantum States
authors: Boaz Tamir, Eliahu Cohen
comments: 6 pages, v.2 contains some minor corrections and additional explanations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0616
abstract: The novel concept of quantum logical entropy is presented and analyzed. We prove several basic properties of this entropy with regard to density matrices. We hereby motivate a different approach for the assignment of quantum entropy to density matrices.

id: 1412.0669
title: Reality of the Quantum State: A Stronger Psi-ontology Theorem
authors: Shane Mansfield
comments: 5 pages; updated main theorem; new conclusions section; further references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0669
abstract: The Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph no-go theorem provides an argument for the reality of the quantum state based on certain assumptions, most of which are common to the familiar no-go theorems of Bell, Kochen & Specker, etc. The exception is their assumption of preparation independence, which has been subject to a number of criticisms. We propose a much weaker, physically motivated notion of independence, which merely prohibits the possibility of super-luminal causal influences in the preparation process. This is a minimum requirement for maintaining a reasonable notion of subsystem. Under the weaker condition, it is shown that the argument of PBR becomes invalid. We propose an experiment involving randomly sampled preparations that recovers an approximation of the result, which becomes exact in the limit as the sample space of preparations becomes infinite, thereby proving a stronger theorem asserting the reality of the quantum state. It involves one further assumption that the experimental devices are tolerant to infinitesimal amounts of noise. Unlike that of PBR, the result holds even in the presence of non-local correlations in the global ontic state.

id: 1412.0686
title: Practical variational tomography for critical 1D systems
authors: Jong Yeon Lee, Olivier Landon-Cardinal
comments: Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0686
abstract: We improve upon a recently introduced efficient quantum state reconstruction procedure targeted to states well-approximated by the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA), e.g., ground states of critical models. We show how to numerically select a subset of experimentally accessible measurements which maximizes information extraction about renormalized particles, thus dramatically reducing the required number of physical measurements. We numerically estimate the number of measurements required to characterize the ground state of the critical 1D Ising (resp. XX) model and find that MERA tomography on 16-qubit (resp. 24-qubit) systems requires the same experimental effort than brute-force tomography on 8 qubits. We derive a bound computable from experimental data which certifies the distance between the experimental and reconstructed states.

id: 1412.0723
title: Qubit-Programmable Operations on Quantum Light Fields
authors: Marco Barbieri, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Franck Ferreyrol, R¨¦mi Blandino, Brian J. Smith, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0723
abstract: Engineering quantum operations is one of the main abilities we need for developing quantum technologies and designing new fundamental tests. Here we propose a scheme for realising a controlled operation acting on a travelling quantum field, whose functioning is determined by an input qubit. This study introduces new concepts and methods in the interface of continuous- and discrete-variable quantum optical systems.

id: 1412.0750
title: Multi-scale quantum simulation of quantum field theory using wavelets
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Peter Rohde, Barry C. Sanders, Sukhwinder Singh
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0750
abstract: A successful approach to understand field theories is to resolve the physics into different length or energy scales using the renormalization group framework. We propose a quantum simulation of quantum field theory which encodes field degrees of freedom in a wavelet basis---a multi-scale description of the theory. Since wavelets are compact wavefunctions, this encoding allows for quantum simulations to create particle excitations with compact support and provides a natural way to associate observables in the theory to finite resolution detectors. We show that the wavelet basis is well suited to compute subsystem entanglement entropy by dividing the field into contributions from short-range wavelet degrees of freedom and long-range scale degrees of freedom, of which the latter act as renormalized modes which capture the essential physics at a renormalization fixed point.

id: 1412.0787
title: A black potential for spin less particles
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Mohammad Hasan, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Latex, 23 pages, 7 Figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0787
abstract: We consider the most general non-Hermitian Hulthen potential to study the scattering of spin-less relativistic particles. The conditions for CC, SS and CPA are obtained analytically for this potential. We show that almost total absorption occurs for entire range of incidence energy for certain parameter ranges of the potential and hence term this as `black potential'. Time reversed of the same potential shows perfect emission for the entire range of particle energy. We also present the classical analog of this potential in terms of waveguide cross section.

id: 1412.0788
title: Experimental orbital angular momentum based quantum key distribution through turbulence
authors: Sandeep Goyal, Alpha Hamadou Ibrahim, Filippus S. Roux, Thomas Konrad, Andrew Forbes
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0788
abstract: Using an experimental setup that simulates a turbulent atmosphere, we study the secret key rate for quantum key distribution protocols in orbital angular momentum based free space quantum communication. The quantum key distribution protocols under consideration include the Ekert 91 protocol for different choices of mutually unbiased bases and the six-state protocol. We find that the secret key rate of these protocols decay to zero roughly at the same scale where the entanglement of formation decays to zero.

id: 1412.0796
title: Position-dependent photon operators in the quantization of the electromagnetic field in dielectrics at local thermal equilibrium
authors: Mikko Partanen, Teppo H?yrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1403.4161
journal: Proc. SPIE 9136, Nonlinear Optics and Its Applications VIII; and Quantum Optics III, 91362B (May 1, 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0796
abstract: It has very recently been suggested that asymmetric coupling of electromagnetic fields to thermal reservoirs under nonequilibrium conditions can produce unexpected oscillatory behavior in the local photon statistics in layered structures. Better understanding of the predicted phenomena could enable useful applications related to thermometry, noise filtering, and enhancing optical interactions. In this work we briefly review the field quantization and study the local steady state temperature distributions in optical cavities formed of lossless and lossy media to show that also local field temperatures exhibit oscillations that depend on position as well as the photon energy.

id: 1412.0806
title: Determinstic Generation of a Quantum Dot-Confined Triexciton and its Radiative Decay via Three-Photon Cascade
authors: E. R. Schmidgall, I. Schwartz, L. Gantz, D. Cogan, S. Raindel, D. Gershoni
comments: Minor revisions to text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0806
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) have potential applications in quantum information processing due to the fact that they are potential on-demand sources of single and entangled photons. Generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs was demonstrated using the biexciton-exciton radiative cascade. One obvious way to increase the number of quantum correlated photons that the QDs emit is to use higher-order multiexcitons, in particular the triexciton. Towards achieving this goal, we first demonstrate deterministic generation of the QD-confined triexciton in a well-definedcoherent state and then spectrally identify and directly measure a three-photon radiative cascade resulting from the sequential triexciton-biexciton-exciton radiative recombination.

id: 1412.0832
title: Long-Distance Measurement-Device-Independent Multiparty Quantum Communication
authors: Yao Fu, Hua-Lei Yin, Teng-Yun Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRL 114, 090501 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0832
abstract: The Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement, originally introduced to uncover the extreme violation of local realism against quantum mechanics, is an important resource for multiparty quantum communication tasks. But the low intensity and fragility of the GHZ entanglement source in current conditions have made the practical applications of these multiparty tasks an experimental challenge. Here we propose a feasible scheme for practically distributing the post-selected GHZ entanglement over a distance of more than 100 km for experimentally accessible parameter regimes. Combining the decoy-state and measurement-device-independent protocols for quantum key distribution, we anticipate that our proposal suggests an important avenue for practical multiparty quantum communication.

id: 1412.0841
title: Excitation of Coherent States: Wave Function Development and Analysis
authors: Gaurav Singh, Anshul Choudhary, T.R. Seshadri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0841
abstract: Agarwal and Tara, in 1991 introduced a new class of states defined as m times application of creation operator to Coherent States known as Excited Coherent States (ECS) or Photon Added Coherent States (PACS). They are neither completely quantum nor completely classical. Here we present and develop these Excited Coherent Sates from a basic and more approachable Wave-function approach. We have derived the ECS wave function as a blend of Coherent States and Fock States and thus established them as a result of Quantum fluctuations (represented by Fock states) on Coherent States. We further derived and analyzed basic relations such as wave packet width and uncertainty relation in a more generalized form and presented their development with time. Another important property of ECS is Quadrature Squeezing. Here we also present a general analysis of squeezing in ECS and derived conditions on parameters for squeezing.

id: 1412.0871
title: Joint Measurability and Temporal Steering
authors: H. S. Karthik, J. Prabhu Tej, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 6 pages,no figures, typos corrected, improved presentation; To appear in JOSA B feature issue "80 years of Steering and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox"
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 32 No. 4, A34--A39 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0871
abstract: Quintino et. al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160402 (2014)) and Uola et. al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 160403 (2014)) have recently established an intrinsic relation between non-joint measurability and Einstein-Podolsky- Rosen steering. They showed that a set of measurements is incompatible (i.e., not jointly measurable) if and only if it can be used for the demonstration of steering. In this paper, we prove the temporal analog of this result viz., a set of measurements are incompatible if and only if it exhibits temporal steering.

id: 1412.0898
title: Nonequilibrium fluctuations in quantum heat engines: Theory, example, and possible solid state experiments
authors: Michele Campisi, Jukka Pekola, Rosario Fazio
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 035012 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0898
abstract: We study the stochastic energetic exchanges in quantum heat engines. Due to microreversibility, these obey a fluctuation relation, called the heat engine fluctuation relation, which implies the Carnot bound: no machine can have an efficiency larger than Carnot's efficiency. The stochastic thermodynamics of a quantum heat engine (including the joint statistics of heat and work and the statistics of efficiency) is illustrated by means of an optimal two-qubit heat engine, where each qubit is coupled to a thermal bath and a two-qubit gate determines energy exchanges between the two qubits. We discuss possible solid state implementations with Cooper pair boxes and flux qubits, quantum gate operations, and fast calorimetric on-chip measurements of single stochastic events.

id: 1412.0916
title: Quantum Trajectories based on the Weak Value
authors: Takuya Mori, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0916
abstract: The notion of trajectory of an individual particle is strictly inhibited in quantum mechanics because of the uncertainty principle. Nonetheless, the weak value, which has been proposed as a novel and measurable quantity definable to any quantum observable, can offer a possible description of trajectory on account of its statistical nature of the value. In this paper, we explore the physical significance provided by this weak trajectory by considering various situations where interference takes place simultaneously with the observation of particles, that is, in prototypical quantum situations for which no classical treatment is available. These include the double slit experiment and Lloyd's mirror, where in the former case it is argued that the real part of the weak trajectory describes an average over the possible classical trajectories involved in the process, and that the imaginary part is related to the variation of interference. It is shown that this average interpretation of the weak trajectory holds universally under the complex probability defined from the given transition process. These features remain essentially unaltered in the case of Lloyd's mirror where interference occurs with a single slit.

id: 1412.0924
title: Bounding the set of finite dimensional quantum correlations
authors: Miguel Navascues, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0924
abstract: We describe a simple method to derive high performance semidefinite programming relaxations for optimizations over complex and real operator algebras in finite dimensional Hilbert spaces. The method is very flexible, easy to program and allows the user to assess the behavior of finite dimensional quantum systems in a number of interesting setups. We use this method to bound the strength of quantum nonlocality in bipartite and tripartite Bell scenarios where the dimension of a subset of the parties is bounded from above. We derive new results in quantum communication complexity and prove the soundness of the prepare-and-measure dimension witnesses introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230501 (2010)]. Finally, we propose a new dimension witness that can distinguish between classical, real and complex two-level systems.

id: 1412.0931
title: Quantum noise of non-ideal Sagnac speed meter interferometer with asymmetries
authors: S.L. Danilishin, C. Graef, S.S. Leavey, J. Hennig, E.A. Houston, D. Pascucci, S. Steinlechner, J. Wright, S. Hild
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, (minor corrections and changes made to text and figures in version 2)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0931
abstract: The speed meter concept has been identified as a technique that can potentially provide laser-interferometric measurements at a sensitivity level which surpasses the Standard Quantum Limit (SQL) over a broad frequency range. As with other sub-SQL measurement techniques, losses play a central role in speed meter interferometers and they ultimately determine the quantum noise limited sensitivity that can be achieved. So far in the literature, the quantum noise limited sensitivity has only been derived for lossless or lossy cases using certain approximations (for instance that the arm cavity round trip loss is small compared to the arm cavity mirror transmission). In this article we present a generalised, analytical treatment of losses in speed meters that allows accurate calculation of the quantum noise limited sensitivity of Sagnac speed meters with arm cavities. In addition, our analysis allows us to take into account potential imperfections in the interferometer such as an asymmetric beam splitter or differences of the reflectivities of the two arm cavity input mirrors. Finally,we use the examples of the proof-of-concept Sagnac speed meter currently under construction in Glasgow and a potential implementation of a Sagnac speed meter in the Einstein Telescope (ET) to illustrate how our findings affect Sagnac speed meters with meter- and kilometre-long baselines.

id: 1412.0977
title: "Magic" radio-frequency dressing for trapped atomic microwave clocks
authors: Georgy A. Kazakov, Thorsten Schumm
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023404 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0977
abstract: It has been proposed to use magnetically trapped atomic ensembles to enhance the interrogation time in microwave clocks. To mitigate the perturbing effects of the magnetic trap, near-magic-field configurations are employed, where the involved clock transition becomes independent of the atom's potential energy to first order. Still, higher order effects are a dominating source for dephasing, limiting the performance of this approach. Here we propose a simple method to cancel the energy dependence to both first and second order, using weak radio-frequency dressing. We give values for dressing frequencies, amplitudes, and trapping fields for 87Rb atoms and investigate quantitatively the robustness of these second-order-magic conditions to variations of the system parameters. We conclude that radio-frequency dressing can suppress field-induced dephasing by at least one order of magnitude for typical experimental parameters

id: 1412.0980
title: Approximate Degradable Quantum Channels
authors: David Sutter, Volkher B. Scholz, Renato Renner
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0980
abstract: Degradable quantum channels are an important class of completely positive trace-preserving maps. Among other properties, they offer a single-letter formula for the quantum and the private classical capacity and are characterized by the fact that the complementary channel can be obtained from the channel by applying a degrading map. In this work we introduce the concept of approximate degradable channels, which satisfy this condition up to some finite $\varepsilon\geq0$. That is, there exists a degrading map which upon composition with the channel is $\varepsilon$-close in the diamond norm to the complementary channel. We show that for any fixed channel the smallest such $\varepsilon$ can be efficiently determined via a semidefinite program. Moreover, these approximate degradable channels also approximately inherit all other properties of degradable channels. As an application, we derive improved upper bounds to the quantum and private classical capacity for certain channels of interest in quantum communication.

id: 1412.1014
title: Tunneling dynamics of bosonic Josephson junctions assisted by a cavity field
authors: G. Szirmai, G. Mazzarella, L. Salasnich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1014
abstract: We study the interplay between the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential and that of an optical cavity mode. The cavity field is superimposed to the double-well potential and affects the atomic tunneling processes. The cavity field is driven by a laser red detuned from the bare cavity resonance; the dynamically changing spatial distribution of the atoms can shift the cavity in and out of resonance. At resonance the photon number is hugely enhanced and the atomic tunneling becomes amplified. The Josephson junction equations are revisited and the phase diagram is calculated. We find new solutions with finite imbalance and at the same time a lack of self-trapping solutions due to the emergence of a new separatrix resulting from enhanced tunneling.

id: 1412.1022
title: Perfect quantum state transfer of hard-core bosons on weighted path graphs
authors: Steven J. Large, Michael S. Underwood, David L. Feder
comments: 19 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032319 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1022
abstract: The ability to accurately transfer quantum information through networks is an important primitive in distributed quantum systems. While perfect quantum state transfer (PST) can be effected by a single particle undergoing continuous-time quantum walks on a variety of graphs, it is not known if PST persists for many particles in the presence of interactions. We show that if single-particle PST occurs on one-dimensional weighted path graphs, then systems of hard-core bosons undergoing quantum walks on these paths also undergo PST. The analysis extends the Tonks-Girardeau ansatz to weighted graphs using techniques in algebraic graph theory. The results suggest that hard-core bosons do not generically undergo PST, even on graphs which exhibit single-particle PST.

id: 1412.1033
title: Optimal Ancilla-free Pauli+V Circuits for Axial Rotations
authors: Andreas Blass, Alex Bocharov, Yuri Gurevich
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1033
abstract: Recently Neil Ross and Peter Selinger analyzed the problem of approximating z- rotations by means of single-qubit Clifford+T circuits. Their main contribution is a deterministic-search technique which allowed them to make approximating circuits shallower. We adapt the deterministic-search technique to the case of Pauli+V circuits and prove similar results. Because of the relative simplicity of the Pauli+V framework, we use much simpler geometric methods.

id: 1412.1054
title: Entanglement and quantum correlations in many-body systems: a unified approach via local unitary operations
authors: M. Cianciaruso, S. M. Giampaolo, W. Roga, G. Zonzo, M. Blasone, F. Illuminati
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1054
abstract: Local unitary operations allow for a unifying approach to the quantification of quantum correlations among the constituents of a bipartite quantum systems. The distance between a given state and its image under least perturbing local unitary operations is a bona fide measure of quantum entanglement, the so-called entanglement of response, for pure states, while for mixed states it is a bona fide measure of quantum correlations, the so-called discord of response. Exploiting this unifying approach, we perform a detailed comparison between two-body entanglement and two-body quantum correlations in infinite XY quantum spin chains both in symmetry-preserving and symmetry-breaking ground states as well as in thermal states at finite temperature.

id: 1412.1072
title: Unified scheme for correlations using linear relative entropy
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara, W. Kaydi
comments: 20 pages
journal: Physics Letters 378 (2014) 3501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1072
abstract: A linearized variant of relative entropy is used to quantify in a unified scheme the different kinds of correlations in a bipartite quantum system. As illustration, we consider a two-qubit state with parity and exchange symmetries for which we determine the total, classical and quantum correlations. We also give the explicit expressions of its closest product state, closest classical state and the corresponding closest product state. A closed additive relation, involving the various correlations quantified by linear relative entropy, is derived.

id: 1412.1077
title: A model of virtual interference
authors: Eduardo V. Flores, Michael Lim, Jeffrey Scaturro
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1077
abstract: We set up an experiment with two independent laser beams that cross at a small angle, spatially separate, and end at detectors in front of each beam. The setup allows us to obtain maximum path or which-way information, K=1. However, when we scan a thin wire across the beam intersection the which-way information drops to K=0.985. The thin wire serves to verify the presence of an interference pattern with visibility, V=0.833, at the beam intersection. Our results appear to be in conflict with the complementarity inequality, V^2+K^2 smaller or equal to 1. We introduce a model that describes a virtual interference pattern. We resolve our paradoxical findings by proposing that the complementarity inequality does not apply to virtual interference patterns but only to physically real ones. We find that the interference pattern in our setup is virtual.

id: 1412.1079
title: The informationally-complete quantum theory
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 9 pages+1 figure; comments are welcome; new version with refined discussions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1079
abstract: Quantum mechanics is a cornerstone of our current understanding of nature and extremely successful in describing physics covering a huge range of scales. However, its interpretation remains controversial for a long time, from the early days of quantum mechanics to nowadays. What does a quantum state really mean? Is there any way out of the so-called quantum measurement problem? Here we present an informationally-complete quantum theory (ICQT) and the trinary property of nature to beat the above problems. We assume that a quantum system's state provides an informationally-complete description of the system in the trinary picture. We give a consistent formalism of quantum theory that makes the informational completeness explicitly and argue that the conventional quantum mechanics is an approximation of the ICQT. We then show how our ICQT provides a coherent picture and fresh angle of some existing problems in physics. The computational content of our theory is uncovered by defining an informationally-complete quantum computer.

id: 1412.1099
title: Super-symmetric informationally complete measurements
authors: Huangjun Zhu
comments: 12 pages. Comments and suggestions are very welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1099
abstract: Symmetric informationally complete measurements (SICs in short) are highly symmetric structure in the Hilbert space. They possess many nice properties which render them an ideal candidate of fiducial measurements. The symmetry of SICs is intimately connected with the geometry of the quantum state space and also has profound implications for foundational studies. Here we study those SICs that are most symmetric according to a natural criterion and show that all of them are covariant with respect to the Heisenberg-Weyl groups, which are characterized by the discrete analog of the canonical commutation relation. Moreover, their symmetry groups are subgroups of the Clifford groups. In particular, we prove that the SIC in dimension~2, the Hesse SIC in dimension~3, and the set of Hoggar lines in dimension~8 are the only three SICs up to unitary equivalence whose symmetry groups act transitively on pairs of SIC projectors. Our work is of intrinsic interest to studying the geometry of quantum state space and foundational issues entangled with the geometry.

id: 1412.1104
title: Soft-metric based channel decoding for photon counting receivers
authors: Marina Mondin, Fred Daneshgaran, Inam Bari, Maria Teresa Delgado, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, to appear on the IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1104
abstract: We address photon-number-assisted, polarization- based, binary communication systems equipped with photon counting receivers. In these channels information is encoded in the value of polarization phase-shift but the carrier has and additional degree of freedom, i.e. its photon distribution, which may be exploited to implement binary input-multiple output (BIMO) channels also in the presence of a phase-diffusion noise affecting the polarization. Here we analyze the performances of these channels, which approach capacity by means of iteratively decoded error correcting codes. In this paper we use soft-metric- based low density parity check (LDPC) codes for this purpose. In order to take full advantage of all the information available at the output of a photon counting receiver, soft information is generated in the form of log-likelihood ratios, leading to improved frame error rate (FER) and bit error rate (BER) compared to binary symmetric channels (BSC). We evaluate the classical capacity of the considered BIMO channel and show the potential gains that may be provided by photon counting detectors in realistic implementations.

id: 1412.1158
title: Qubits, Weyl spinors, quantum NOT gates, and dynamical decoupling
authors: R. Romero
comments: Improved version with added results in dynamical decoupling and added references, sections reorganized and a new one added. Title and abstract modified to reflect the changes. 11 pages, 1 figure, and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1158
abstract: An equivalence is established between orthogonal pure state qubits on the Bloch sphere and massless Weyl spinors, when the Bloch vector is taken as the physical three-momentum. A family of unitary, coordinate dependent transformations is obtained which connects orthogonal combinations of the basis states of a two-level quantum system. It is shown that a subset of these transformations possesses the novel feature of effecting a point inversion by means of a rotation. For qubits, these transformations act as quantum NOT/parity gates, and also as flipping operators that exactly cancel decoherence in a dynamical decoupling setting. For Weyl spinors they provide, at the relativistic quantum level, a unitary symmetry transformation for the Weyl equations.

id: 1412.1192
title: Qubit subalgebra and tensor product in Weyl algebra of angular momentum system
authors: Jun Suzuki
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1192
abstract: We analyze Weyl algebra of quantum angular momentum system and construct qubit subalgebra out of it. We show that the commutant of this qubit subalgebra is isomorphic to the original algebra and prove the tensor product structure between qubit subalgebra and its commutant. This construction can be iterated to construct arbitrary number of qubit subalgebras from a single quantum system. We show a simple experimental realization of this proposed scheme using orbital angular momentum of single photons. We briefly discuss about construction of qudit subalgbra and generalization to other infinite dimensional systems.

id: 1412.1273
title: Input-output Analysis of Quantum Finite-level Systems in Response to Single Photon States
authors: Yu Pan, Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures. Several Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1273
abstract: Single photon states, which carry quantum information and coherently interact with quantum systems, are vital to the realization of all-optical quantum networks and quantum memory. In this paper we derive the conditions that enable an exact analysis of the response of passive quantum finite-level systems under the weak driving of single photon input. We show that when a class of finite level systems is driven by single photon inputs, expressions for the output states may be derived exactly using linear systems transfer functions. This removes the need for physical approximations such as weak excitation limit in the analysis of quantum nonlinear systems under single photon driving. We apply this theory to the analysis of a single photon switch. The input-output relations are consistent with the existing results in the study of few photon transport through finite-level systems.

id: 1412.1312
title: An Evolutionary Formalism for Weak Quantum Measurements
authors: Apoorva Patel, Parveen Kumar
comments: 6 pages. Talk presented at the Discussion Meeting on Quantum Measurements, IISc, Bangalore, 22-24 October 2014. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1312
abstract: Unitary evolution and projective measurement are fundamental axioms of quantum mechanics. Even though projective measurement yields one of the eigenstates of the measured operator as the outcome, there is no theory that predicts which eigenstate will be observed in which experimental run. There exists only an ensemble description, which predicts probabilities of various outcomes over many experimental runs. We propose a dynamical evolution equation for the projective collapse of the quantum state in individual experimental runs, which is consistent with the well-established framework of quantum mechanics. In case of gradual weak measurements, its predictions for ensemble evolution are different from those of the Born rule. It is an open question whether or not suitably designed experiments can observe this alternate evolution.

id: 1412.1329
title: Investigating graph isomorphism in cospectral graphs via multiparticle quantum walk in fermionic basis and entanglement entropy
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, F. Eghbalifam, S. Nami
comments: 43 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1329
abstract: We investigate the graph isomorphism (GI) in some cospectral networks. Two graph are isomorphic when they are related to each other by a relabeling of the graph vertices. We want to investigate the GI in two scalable (n + 2)-regular graphs G4(n; n + 2) and G5(n; n + 2), analytically by using the multiparticle quantum walk. These two graphs are a pair of non-isomorphic connected cospectral regular graphs for any positive integer n. In order to investigation GI in these two graphs, we rewrite the adjacency matrices of graphs in the antisymmetric fermionic basis and show that they are different for thesepairs of graphs. So the multiparticle quantum walk is able to distinguish pairs of non- isomorph graphs. Also we construct two new graphs T4(n; n + 2) and T5(n; n + 2) and repeat the same process of G4 and G5 to study the GI problem by using multiparticle quantum walk. Then we study GI by using the entanglement entropy. To this aim, we calculate entanglement entropy between two parts of network. In our model the nodes are considered as identical quantum harmonic oscillators. The entanglement entropy between two special parts of G4(n; n+2) and G5(n; n+2) are calculated analytically. It is shown that the entanglement entropy can distinguish pairs of non-isomorphic cospectral graphs too.

id: 1412.1333
title: On the implications of the Quantum-Pigeonhole Effect
authors: Alastair Rae, Ted Forgan
comments: 17 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1333
abstract: There has been considerable interest in a recent preprint - arXiv/1407.3194 - describing an effect named as the Quantum Pigeonhole Principle. The classical pigeonhole principle (classical PHP) refers to a result in number theory which states that if n objects are distributed between m boxes, with m less than n, then at least one box must contain more than one object. An experiment is proposed in the preprint where interactions between particles would reveal that they were in the same box, but a quantum mechanical measurement would imply that no more than 1 of the n objects is contained in any of the m boxes, even though n is greater than m. This result has been greeted by the authors of the preprint and some others as being of great importance in the understanding of quantum mechanics. In this paper we show by a full quantum mechanical treatment that the effect appears to arise as a result of interference between the components of the wavefunctions, each of which is subject to the classical PHP.

id: 1412.1338
title: Clock-Driven Quantum Thermal Engines
authors: Artur S.L. Malabarba, Anthony J. Short, Philipp Kammerlander
comments: 6 pages, 1 Appendix page, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1338
abstract: We consider an isolated autonomous quantum machine, where an explicit quantum clock is responsible for performing all transformations on an arbitrary quantum system (the engine), via a time-independent Hamiltonian. In a general context, we show that this model can exactly implement any energy-conserving unitary on the engine, without degrading the clock. Furthermore, we show that when the engine includes a quantum work storage device we can approximately perform completely general unitaries on the remainder of the engine. This framework can be used in quantum thermodynamics to carry out arbitrary transformations of a system, with accuracy and extracted work as close to optimal as desired, whilst obeying the first and second laws of thermodynamics. We thus show that autonomous thermal machines suffer no intrinsic thermodynamic cost compared to externally controlled ones.

id: 1412.1347
title: Thermalization in Quantum Systems: An Emergent Approach
authors: Clifford Chafin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1347
abstract: The problems with an emergent approach to quantum statistical mechanics are discussed and shown to follow from some of the same sources as those of quantum measurement. A wavefunction of an N atom solid is described in the ground and excited eigenstates with explicit modifications for phonons. Using the particular subclass of wavefunctions that can correspond to classical solids we investigate the localization properties of atomic centers of mass motion and contrast it with more general linear combinations of phonon states. The effectively large mass of longer modes means that localization present in the ground state persists on excitation of the material by macroscopic coherent disturbances. The "thermalization" that arises then follows from the long term well defined motion of these localized peaks in their 3N dimensional harmonic wells in the same fashion as that of a classical solid in phase space. Thermal production of photons then create an internal radiation field and provides the first dynamical derivation of the Planck distribution from material motions. Significantly, this approach resolves a long standing paradox of thermalization of many body quantum systems from Schr\"{o}dinger dynamics alone.

id: 1412.1349
title: Universal super-replication of unitary gates
authors: G. Chiribella, Y. Yang, C. Huang
comments: 5+8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120504 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1349
abstract: Quantum states obey an asymptotic no-cloning theorem, stating that no deterministic machine can reliably replicate generic sequences of identically prepared pure states. In stark contrast, we show that generic sequences of unitary gates can be replicated deterministically at nearly quadratic rates, with an error vanishing on most inputs except for an exponentially small fraction. The result is not in contradiction with the no-cloning theorem, since the impossibility of deterministically transforming pure states into unitary gates prevents the application of the gate replication protocol to states. In addition to gate replication, we show that $N$ parallel uses of a completely unknown unitary gate can be compressed into a single gate acting on $O(\log N)$ qubits, leading to an exponential reduction of the amount of quantum communication needed to implement the gate remotely.

id: 1412.1378
title: Analytic solutions of the quantum two-state problem in terms of the double-, bi- and tri-confluent Heun functions
authors: T.A. Shahverdyan, T.A. Ishkhanyan, A.E. Grigoryan, A.M. Ishkhanyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1378
abstract: We derive five classes of quantum time-dependent two-state models solvable in terms of the double-confluent Heun functions, five other classes solvable in terms of the bi-confluent Heun functions, and a class solvable in terms of the tri-confluent Heun functions. These classes generalize all the known families of two- or three-parametric models solvable in terms of the confluent hypergeometric functions to more general four-parametric classes involving three-parametric detuning modulation functions. The particular models derived describe different non-linear (parabolic, cubic, sinh, cosh, etc.) level-sweeping or level-glancing processes, double- or triple-level-crossing processes, as well as periodically repeated resonance-glancing or resonance-crossing processes. Finally, we show that more classes can be derived using the equations obeyed by certain functions involving the derivatives of the Heun functions. We present an example of such a class for each of the three discussed confluent Heun equations.

id: 1412.1403
title: Coexistence of continuous variable QKD with intense DWDM classical channels
authors: Rupesh Kumar, Hao Qin, Romain All¨¦aume
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures. Revised version, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1403
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the feasibility of continuous variable quantum key distribution (CV-QKD) in dense-wavelength-division multiplexing networks (DWDM), where QKD will typically have to coexist with several co- propagating (forward or backward) C-band classical channels whose launch power is around 0dBm. We have conducted experimental tests of the coexistence of CV-QKD multiplexed with an intense classical channel, for different input powers and different DWDM wavelengths. Over a 25km fiber, a CV-QKD operated over the 1530.12nm channel can tolerate the noise arising from up to 11.5dBm classical channel at 1550.12nm in forward direction (9.7dBm in backward). A positive key rate (0.49kb/s) can be obtained at 75km with classical channel power of respectively -3dBm and -9dBm in forward and backward. Based on these measurements, we have also simulated the excess noise and optimized channel allocation for the integration of CV-QKD in some access networks. We have, for example, shown that CV-QKD could coexist with 5 pairs of channels (with nominal input powers: 2dBm forward and 1dBm backward) over a 25km WDM-PON network. The obtained results demonstrate the outstanding capacity of CV-QKD to coexist with classical signals of realistic intensity in optical networks.

id: 1412.1416
title: Local hidden variable models for entangled quantum states using finite shared randomness
authors: Joseph Bowles, Flavien Hirsch, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Proofs clarified; New appendix sections; References added; Main results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 120401 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1416
abstract: The statistics of local measurements performed on certain entangled states can be reproduced using a local hidden variable (LHV) model. While all known models make use of an infinite amount of shared randomness---the physical relevance of which is questionable---we show that essentially all entangled states admitting a LHV model can be simulated with finite shared randomness. Our most economical model simulates noisy two-qubit Werner states using only 3.58 bits of shared randomness. We also discuss the case of POVMs, and the simulation of nonlocal states with finite shared randomness and finite communication. Our work represents a first step towards quantifying the cost of LHV models for entangled quantum states.

id: 1412.1508
title: Stochastic Theory of Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Maurice Godart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1508
abstract: The stochastic theory of relativistic quantum mechanics presented here is modelled on the one that has been proposed previously and that was claimed to be a promising substitute to the orthodox theory in the non-relativistic domain. So it also relies heavily upon the theory of stochastic processes, with its definitions, theorems and specific vocabulary as well. Its main hypothesis states indeed that the classical trajectories of the particles are identical to the sample functions of a diffusion Markov process, whose conditional probability density is proposed as a substitute for the wave function. Along the way, we introduce ad hoc hypotheses for the sole reason that they facilitate and even make possible the further development of the theory. These and the so-called Nelson equations are used to determine the drift vectors and the diffusion tensor characteristic of such a process. It is then possible to write down the Fokker-Planck and Kolmogorov equations that can be used to determine the normal and conditional probability densities. This logical sequence of steps leads to the solution of specific problems and we apply it to the special case of the free particle.

id: 1412.1531
title: Probabilistic Q-function distributions in fermionic phase-space
authors: Laura E. C. Rosales-Zarate, P. D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 032002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1531
abstract: We obtain a positive probability distribution or Q-function for an arbitrary fermionic many-body system. This is different to previous Q-function proposals, which were either restricted to a subspace of the overall Hilbert space, or used Grassmann methods that do not give probabilities. The fermionic Q-function obtained here is constructed using normally ordered Gaussian operators, which include both non-interacting thermal density matrices and BCS states. We prove that the Q-function exists for any density matrix, is real and positive, and has moments that correspond to Fermi operator moments. It is defined on a finite symmetric phase-space equivalent to the space of real, antisymmetric matrices. This has the natural SO(2M) symmetry expected for Majorana fermion operators. We show that there is a natural physical interpretation of the Q-function: it is the relative probability for observing a given Gaussian density matrix. The distribution has a uniform probability across the space at infinite temperature, while for pure states it has a maximum value on the phase-space boundary. The advantage of probabilistic representations is that they can be used for computational sampling without a sign problem.

id: 1412.1549
title: Experimental Observation of Simultaneous Wave and Particle Behaviors in a Narrowband Single Photon's Wave Packe
authors: H. Yan, K. Liao, Z. Deng, J. He, Z. Y. Xue, Z. M. Zhang, S. L. Zhu
comments: 6 pages including Supplemental Material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042132 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1549
abstract: Light's wave-particle duality is at the heart of quantum mechanics and can be well illustrated by Wheeler's delayed-choice experiment. The choice of inserting or removing the second classical (quantum) beam splitter in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer determines the classical (quantum) wave-particle behaviors of a photon. In this paper, we report our experiment using the classical beam splitter to observe the simultaneous wave-particle behaviors in the wave-packet of a narrowband single photon. This observation suggests that it is necessary to generalize the current quantum wave-particle duality theory. Our experiment demonstrates that the produced wave-particle state can be considered an additional degree of freedom and can be utilized in encoding quantum information.

id: 1412.1563
title: Convergence of empirical distributions in an interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Ian W. McKeague, Bruce Levin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1563
abstract: From its beginning, there have been attempts by physicists to formulate quantum mechanics without requiring the use of wave functions. An interesting recent approach takes the point of view that quantum effects arise solely from the interaction of finitely many classical "worlds." The wave function is then recovered (as a secondary object) from observations of particles in these worlds, without knowing the world from which any particular observation originates. Hall, Deckert and Wiseman [Physical Review X 4 (2014) 041013] have introduced an explicit many-interacting-worlds harmonic oscillator model to provide support for this approach. In this note we provide a proof of their claim that the particle configuration is asymptotically Gaussian, thus matching the stationary ground-state solution of Schroedinger's equation when the number of worlds goes to infinity. We also construct a Markov chain based on resampling from the particle configuration and show that it converges to an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, matching the time-dependent solution as well.

id: 1412.1586
title: GHz-gated InGaAs/InP single-photon detector with detection efficiency exceeding 55% at 1550 nm
authors: Lucian C. Comandar, Bernd Fr?hlich, James F. Dynes, Andrew W. Sharpe, Marco Lucamarini, Zhiliang Yuan, Richard V. Penty, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 117, 083109 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1586
abstract: We report on a gated single-photon detector based on InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiodes (APDs) with a single-photon detection efficiency exceeding 55% at 1550 nm. Our detector is gated at 1 GHz and employs the self-differencing technique for gate transient suppression. It can operate nearly dead time free, except for the one clock cycle dead time intrinsic to self-differencing, and we demonstrate a count rate of 500 Mcps. We present a careful analysis of the optimal driving conditions of the APD measured with a dead time free detector characterization setup. It is found that a shortened gate width of 360 ps together with an increased driving signal amplitude and operation at higher temperatures leads to improved performance of the detector. We achieve an afterpulse probability of 7% at 50% detection efficiency with dead time free measurement and a record efficiency for InGaAs/InP APDs of 55% at an afterpulse probability of only 10.2% with a moderate dead time of 10 ns.

id: 1412.1646
title: The fluctuation-dissipation relation in a resonantly driven quantum medium
authors: Maria Erukhimova, Mikhail Tokman
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1646
abstract: We calculate the radiation noise level associated with the spontaneous emission of a coherently driven medium. The significant field-induced modification of relation between the noise power and damping constant in a thermal reservoir is obtained. The nonlinear noise exchange between different atomic frequencies leads to violation of standard relations dictated by the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.

id: 1412.1655
title: Spontaneous Photon Emission in Cavities
authors: Gernot Alber, Nils Trautmann
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Wigner 111 Colourful and Deep Scientific Symposium
journal: EPJ Web of Conferences 78, 04001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1655
abstract: We investigate spontaneous photon emission processes of two-level atoms in parabolic and ellipsoidal cavities thereby taking into account the full multimode scenario. In particular, we calculate the excitation probabilities of the atoms and the energy density of the resulting few-photon electromagnetic radiation field by using semiclassical methods for the description of the multimode scenario. Based on this approach photon path representations are developed for relevant transition probability amplitudes which are valid in the optical frequency regime where the dipole and the rotating-wave approximations apply. Comparisons with numerical results demonstrate the quality of these semiclassical results even in cases in which the wave length of a spontaneously emitted photon becomes comparable or even larger than characteristic length scales of the cavity. This is the dynamical regime in which diffraction effects become important so that geometric optical considerations are typically not applicable.

id: 1412.1722
title: Fast quantum algorithm for EC3 problem with trapped ions
authors: Hefeng Wang, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 5 pages 3 figures. Lian-Ao Wu adds a very important short note attached to the end
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1722
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computing~(AQC) is based on the adiabatic principle, where a quantum system remains in an instantaneous eigenstate of the driving Hamiltonian. The final state of the Hamiltonian encodes solution to the problem of interest. While AQC has distinct advantages, recent researches have shown that quantumness such as quantum coherence in adiabatic processes may be lost entirely due to the system-bath interaction when the evolution time is long, and consequently the expected quantum speedup dose not show up. Here we propose a fast-signal assisted adiabatic quantum algorithm. We find that by applying a sequence of fast random or regular signals during the evolution process, the runtime can be reduced greatly, yet advantages of the adiabatic algorithm remain intact. Significantly, we present a \emph{randomized} Trotter formula and show that the driving Hamiltonian and the sequence of fast signals can be implemented simultaneously. We apply the algorithm for solving the $3$-bit exact cover problem~(EC$3$) and put forward an approach for implementing the problem with trapped ions.

id: 1412.1723
title: Communication complexity and the reality of the wave-function
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: 
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, 30, 1530001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1723
abstract: In this review, we discuss a relation between quantum communication complexity and a long-standing debate in quantum foundation concerning the interpretation of the quantum state. Is the quantum state a physical element of reality as originally interpreted by Schrodinger? Or is it an abstract mathematical object containing statistical information about the outcome of measurements as interpreted by Born? Although these questions sound philosophical and pointless, they can be made precise in the framework of what we call classical theories of quantum processes, which are a reword of quantum phenomena in the language of classical probability theory. In 2012, Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) proved, under an assumption of preparation independence, a theorem supporting the original interpretation of Schrodinger in the classical framework. Recently, we showed that these questions are related to a practical problem in quantum communication complexity, namely, quantifying the minimal amount of classical communication required in the classical simulation of a two-party quantum communication process. In particular, we argued that the statement of the PBR theorem can be proved if the classical communication cost of simulating the communication of n qubits grows more than exponentially in 'n'. Our argument is based on an assumption that we call probability equipartition property. This property is somehow weaker than the preparation independence property used in the PBR theorem, as the former can be justified by the latter and the asymptotic equipartition property of independent stochastic sources. The equipartition property is a general and natural hypothesis that can be assumed even if the preparation independence hypothesis is dropped. In this review, we further develop our argument into the form of a theorem.

id: 1412.1734
title: Quantum reflection and Liouville transformations from wells to walls
authors: Gabriel Dufour, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1734
abstract: Liouville transformations map in a rigorous manner one Schr\"odinger equation into another, with a changed scattering potential. They are used here to transform quantum reflection of an atom on an attractive well into reflection of the atom on a repulsive wall. While the scattering properties are preserved, the corresponding semiclassical descriptions are completely different. A quantitative evaluation of quantum reflection probabilities is deduced from this method.

id: 1412.1766
title: Quantum mechanics of the free Dirac electrons and Einstein photons, and the Cauchy process
authors: A.A. Beilinson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1766
abstract: Fundamental solutions for the free Dirac electron and Einstein photon equations in position coordinates are constructed as matrix valued functionals on the space of bump functions. It is shown that these fundamental solutions are related by a unitary transform via the Cauchy distribution in imaginary time. We study the way the classical relativistic mechanics of the free particle comes from the quantum mechanics of the free Dirac electron.

id: 1412.1783
title: Overview of Quantum Memory Protection and Adiabaticity Induction by Fast-Signal Control
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1783
abstract: A quantum memory or information processing device is subject to disturbance from its surrounding environment or inevitable leakage due to its contact with other systems. To tackle these problems, several control protocols have been proposed for quantum memory or storage. Among them, the fast-signal control or dynamical decoupling based on external pulse sequences provides a prevailing strategy aimed at suppressing decoherence and preventing the target systems from the leakage or diffusion process. In this paper, we review the applications of this protocol in protecting quantum memory under the non-Markovian dissipative noise and maintaining systems on finite speed adiabatic passages without leakage there-from. We analyze leakage and control perturbative and nonperturbative dynamical equations including second-order master equation, quantum-state-diffusion equation, and one-component master equation derived from Feshbach PQ-partitioning technique. It turns out that the quality of fast-modulated signal control is insensitive to configurations of the applied pulse sequences. Specifically, decoherence and leakage will be greatly suppressed as long as the control sequence is able to effectively shift the system beyond the bath cutoff frequency, almost independent of the details of the control sequences which could be ideal pulses, regular rectangular pulses, random pulses and even noisy pulses.

id: 1412.1821
title: ISQ derivation ("derivation in SI units") of a Landau and Lifschitz type formula for field ionization rate-constant
authors: Richard G. Forbes
comments: 38 typed pages (double-line spacing); for v3, a Gaussian-system formula published (without proof) by Landau and Lifschitz in 1965 is also discussed. Title has also been changed slightly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1821
abstract: In the 1940s/50s, Landau and Lifschitz (LL) published in their Quantum Mechanics textbook what is now a well known formula for the rate-constant for the electrostatic field ionization (ESFI) of a hydrogen atom in its ground electronic state. This formula is widely regarded as correct in the low field limit, and has played a significant role in development of ESFI theory. The formula was originally derived and presented in the atomic units system, with the hydrogen ionization energy I_H set equal to (1/2), making it impossible to determine by inspection to what power I_H is raised in its pre-exponential. Knowledge of this power would be useful in the context of near-surface ESFI, where significant image-force-induced shifts in effective ionization energy can occur. Also, large numbers of applied scientists and engineers work with ESFI as a process of technological importance, but cannot nowadays be expected to have familiarity with the Gaussian or atomic units equation systems. In the 1970s, what is now called the International System of Quantities (ISQ), which includes the equation system behind SI units, was internationally adopted as the primary system for university teaching and for communication of scientific equations between theoreticians and applied scientists and engineers. However, 40 years on, no transparent derivation of an ISQ equivalent of the LL formula is easily found in the literature. This tutorial paper presents a detailed ISQ derivation, finds that ionization energy appears in the pre-exponential as I_H to the power (7/2) (not 5/2, as sometimes stated) and defines a universal "tunnelling ionization constant" that appears in the ISQ formula pre-exponential. It is shown how this formula relates to the "attempt frequency" form often used to describe rate-constants for tunnelling processes, and an ISQ expression is given for the motive energy in the related JWKB integral.

id: 1412.1863
title: Spin Correlations as a Probe of Quantum Synchronization in Trapped Ion Phonon-Lasers
authors: Michael R. Hush, Weibin Li, Sam Genway, Igor Lesanovsky, Andrew D. Armour
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 2 pages supplemental material with 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1863
abstract: We investigate quantum synchronization theoretically in a system consisting of two cold ions in microtraps. The ions' motion is damped by a standing-wave laser whilst also being driven by a blue-detuned laser which results in self-oscillation. Working in a non-classical regime, where these oscillations contain only a few phonons and have a sub-Poissonian number variance, we explore how synchronization occurs when the two ions are weakly coupled using a probability distribution for the relative phase. We show that strong correlations arise between the spin and vibrational degrees of freedom within each ion and find that when two ions synchronize their spin degrees of freedom in turn become correlated. This allows one to indirectly infer the presence of synchronization by measuring the ions' internal state.

id: 1412.1892
title: Quantized friction force: Lindbladian model satisfying Ehrenfest theorems
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Renan Cabrera, Andre Campos, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1892
abstract: We construct a quantum counterpart of classical friction, a dissipative force acting against the direction of motion with the magnitude proportional to particle's velocity. In particular, a Lindblad master equation is derived satisfying the appropriate dynamical relations for observables (i.e., the Ehrenfest theorems). These findings significantly advance a long search for a universal valid Lindbladian model of quantum friction.

id: 1412.1904
title: Landau like states in Neutral Particles
authors: Saikat Banerjee, Hans ?gren, Alexander V. Balatsky
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1904
abstract: We show the emergence of a new type of dispersion relation for neutral atoms where we find an interesting similarity with the spectrum for 2-Dimensional electrons in an applied perpendicular constant magnetic field. In strong contrast to the equi-distant infinitely degenerate Landau levels for charged particles, the spectral gap for the 2-Dimensional neutral particle increases in a particular electric field. Moreover, the spin-orbit nature of the coupling of neutral particles to the electric field confines only one component of the spin. The idea is motivated by the developments in cold atom experiments and builds on the seminal paper of Aharonov and Casher.

id: 1412.1907
title: Contagious error sources would need time travel to prevent quantum computation
authors: Gil Kalai, Greg Kuperberg
comments: 7 pages. Minor revision, discussion, and two references added in response to informal comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1907
abstract: We consider an error model for quantum computing that consists of "contagious quantum germs" that can infect every output qubit when at least one input qubit is infected. Once a germ actively causes error, it continues to cause error indefinitely for every qubit it infects, with arbitrary quantum entanglement and correlation. Although this error model looks much worse than quasi-independent error, we show that it reduces to quasi-independent error with the technique of quantum teleportation. The construction, which was previously described by Knill, is that every quantum circuit can be converted to a mixed circuit with bounded quantum depth. We also consider the restriction of bounded quantum depth from the point of view of quantum complexity classes.

id: 1412.1928
title: Constrained Bateman-Hillion Solutions for Hermite-Gaussian Beams
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1928
abstract: Exact Bateman-Hillion solutions of the wave equation are applied to Hermite-Gaussian beams using a space-time constraint condition that requires the field density to fall as the inverse square of distance from the focal point of the beam at large distances from it. Following a familiar practice, the constraint is implemented in integrals through the use of a Dirac delta function. It is shown the Hermite-Gaussian functions evolve to become pure functions of angular position on the fully developed spherical phase fronts. Under the paraxial approximation it is further shown the wave equation and Schrodinger equation are interchangeable within the constraint space in correspondence to a recent paper claiming indirect evidence of Gouy phase in matter waves.

id: 1412.1977
title: Quantum metrology with non-equilibrium steady states of quantum spin chains
authors: Ugo Marzolino, Toma? Prosen
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062130 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1977
abstract: We consider parameter estimations with probes being the boundary driven/dissipated non- equilibrium steady states of XXZ spin 1/2 chains. The parameters to be estimated are the dis- sipation coupling and the anisotropy of the spin-spin interaction. In the weak coupling regime we compute the scaling of the Fisher information, i.e. the inverse best sensitivity among all estimators, with the number of spins. We find superlinear scalings and transitions between the distinct, isotropic and anisotropic, phases. We also look at the best relative error which decreases with the number of particles faster than the shot-noise only for the estimation of anisotropy.

id: 1412.2082
title: Characteristics of parametric downconversion from a Bragg-reflection waveguide
authors: T. G¨¹nthner, B. Pressl, K. Laiho, J. Ge?ler, S. H?fling, M. Kamp, C. Schneider, G. Weihs
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2082
abstract: We investigate the properties of co-propagating twin beams created by parametric downconversion in a ridge Bragg-reflection waveguide. Our source is bright and efficient although the tightly confined waveguide modes are not perfectly compatible with standard single-mode fibre optics. We observe the coalesce of the twin beams and investigate the effect of the multi-photon contributions on the observed photon bunching. Our source shows a great potential for producing indistinguishable photon pairs as well as multi-photon states.

id: 1412.2167
title: Non-classicality tests and entanglement witnesses for macroscopic mechanical superposition states
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Tobias Moroder, Ali Asadian, Otfried G¨¹hne, Peter Rabl
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures (no animals were harmed)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022114 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2167
abstract: We describe a set of measurement protocols for performing non-classicality tests and the verification of entangled superposition states of macroscopic continuous variable systems, such as nanomechanical resonators. Following earlier works, we first consider a setup where a two-level system is used to indirectly probe the motion of the mechanical system via Ramsey measurements and discuss the application of this methods for detecting non-classical mechanical states. We then show that the generalization of this techniques to multiple resonator modes allows the conditioned preparation and the detection of entangled mechanical superposition states. The proposed measurement protocols can be implemented in various qubit-resonator systems that are currently under experimental investigation and find applications in future tests of quantum mechanics at a macroscopic scale.

id: 1412.2177
title: The many classical faces of quantum structures
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2177
abstract: Interpretational problems with quantum mechanics can be phrased precisely by only talking about empirically accessible information. This prompts a mathematical reformulation of quantum mechanics in terms of classical mechanics. We survey this programme in terms of algebraic quantum theory.

id: 1412.2194
title: A Michelson-Morley Test of Lorentz Symmetry for Electrons
authors: T. Pruttivarasin, M. Ramm, S. G. Porsev, I. I. Tupitsyn, M. Safronova, M. A. Hohensee, H. Haeffner
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2194
abstract: All evidence so far suggests that the absolute spatial orientation of an experiment never affects its outcome. This is reflected in the Standard Model of physics by requiring all particles and fields to be invariant under Lorentz transformations. The most well-known test of this important cornerstone of physics are Michelson-Morley-type experiments\cite{MM, Herrmann2009,Eisele2009} verifying the isotropy of the speed of light. Lorentz symmetry also implies that the kinetic energy of an electron should be independent of the direction of its velocity, \textit{i.e.,} its dispersion relation should be isotropic in space. In this work, we search for violation of Lorentz symmetry for electrons by performing an electronic analogue of a Michelson-Morley experiment. We split an electron-wavepacket bound inside a calcium ion into two parts with different orientations and recombine them after a time evolution of 95ms. As the Earth rotates, the absolute spatial orientation of the wavepackets changes and anisotropies in the electron dispersion would modify the phase of the interference signal. To remove noise, we prepare a pair of ions in a decoherence-free subspace, thereby rejecting magnetic field fluctuations common to both ions\cite{Roos2006}. After a 23 hour measurement, we limit the energy variations to $h\times 11$ mHz ($h$ is Planck's constant), verifying that Lorentz symmetry is preserved at the level of $1\times10^{-18}$. We improve on the Lorentz-violation limits for the electron by two orders of magnitude\cite{Hohensee2013c}. We can also interpret our result as testing the rotational invariance of the Coloumb potential, improving limits on rotational anisotropies in the speed of light by a factor of five\cite{Herrmann2009,Eisele2009}. Our experiment demonstrates the potential of quantum information techniques in the search for physics beyond the Standard Model.

id: 1412.2198
title: On the superposition principle in interference experiments
authors: Aninda Sinha, Aravind H. Vijay, Urbasi Sinha
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, To appear in Scientific Reports (Nature)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2198
abstract: The superposition principle is usually incorrectly applied in interference experiments. This has recently been investigated through numerics based on Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) methods as well as the Feynman path integral formalism. In the current work, we have derived an analytic formula for the Sorkin parameter which can be used to determine the deviation from the application of the principle. We have found excellent agreement between the analytic distribution and those that have been earlier estimated by numerical integration as well as resource intensive FDTD simulations. The analytic handle would be useful for comparing theory with future experiments. It is applicable both to physics based on classical wave equations as well as the non-relativistic Schrodinger equation.

id: 1412.2225
title: Dynamics and stationarity of two coupled arbitrary oscillators interacting with separate reservoirs
authors: Illarion Dorofeyev
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2225
abstract: This work addresses the problem of relaxation of open systems to quasi-equilibrium states. Time-dependent density matrix of two arbitrary coupled quantum oscillators of arbitrary properties interacting with separate reservoirs is derived based on path integration. Temporal dynamics of spatial variances and covariances of the oscillators from any given time up to quasi-equilibrium steady states is studied. It is demonstrated for general case that asymptotic spatial variances of two arbitrary oscillators and their covariances achieve stationary values in the long-time limit. A comparison of steady state characteristics of coupled oscillators with those predicted by the fluctuation dissipation theorem (FDT) is performed. It is shown that the larger the difference in masses and eigenfrequencies of coupled oscillators, the smaller are the deviations of stationary variances from those given by the FDT at fixed coupling strength and fixed difference in temperatures between thermal baths. In framework of the model of the bilinear interaction and Ohmic dissipation and at any oscillators parameters the variances and covariances have divergent character at strong couplings.

id: 1412.2244
title: Root approach for estimation of statistical distributions
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, N.A. Bogdanova
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2014" (QI-2014), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 06-10, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2244
abstract: Application of root density estimator to problems of statistical data analysis is demonstrated. Four sets of basis functions based on Chebyshev-Hermite, Laguerre, Kravchuk and Charlier polynomials are considered. The sets may be used for numerical analysis in problems of reconstructing statistical distributions by experimental data. Based on the root approach to reconstruction of statistical distributions and quantum states, we study a family of statistical distributions in which the probability density is the product of a Gaussian distribution and an even-degree polynomial. Examples of numerical modeling are given. The results of present paper are of interest for the development of tomography of quantum states and processes.

id: 1412.2248
title: The study of amplitude and phase relaxation impact on the quality of quantum information technologies
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, B.I. Bantysh, A.Yu. Chernyavskiy, V.F. Lukichev, A.A. Orlikovsky
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2014" (QI-2014), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 06-10, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2248
abstract: The influence of amplitude and phase relaxation on evolution of quantum states within the formalism of quantum operations is considered. The model of polarizing qubits where noises are determined by the existence of spectral degree of freedom that shows up during the light propagation inside anisotropic mediums with dispersion is studied. Approximate analytic model for calculation of phase plate impact on polarizing state with dispersion influence taken into consideration is suggested.

id: 1412.2250
title: Local and nonlocal observables in quantum optics
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula
comments: Comment on the paper by K. Y. Bliokh et.al. New J. Phys. 16, 093037 (2014)
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 113056 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2250
abstract: It is pointed out that there exists an unambiguous definition of locality that enables one to distinguish local and nonlocal quantities. Observables of both types coexist in quantum optics but one must be very careful when attempting to measure them. A nonlocal observable which formally depends on the spatial position $\bi r$ cannot be {\em locally} measured without disturbing the measurements of this observable at all other positions.

id: 1412.2293
title: Numerical and analytical research of the impact of decoherence on quantum circuits
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, A.Yu. Chernyavskiy, B.I. Bantysh, V.F. Lukichev, A.A. Orlikovsky, I.A. Semenihin, D.V.Fastovets, A.S. Holevo
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2014" (QI-2014), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 06-10, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2293
abstract: Three different levels of noisy quantum schemes modeling are considered: vectors, density matrices and Choi-Jamiolkowski related states. The implementations for personal computers and supercomputers are described, and the corresponding results are shown. For the level of density matrices, we present the technique of the fixed rank approximation and show some analytical estimates of the fidelity level.

id: 1412.2349
title: Field theory of monochromatic optical beams. II Classical and quantum paraxial fields
authors: Andrea Aiello
comments: 22 pages, no figures. This is the part II of arXiv:1412.0553 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2349
abstract: This work is the second part of an investigation aiming at the study of optical wave equations from a field-theoretic point of view. Here, we study classical and quantum aspects of scalar fields satisfying the paraxial wave equation. First, we determine conservation laws for energy, linear and angular momentum of paraxial fields in a classical context. Then, we proceed with the quantization of the field. Finally, we compare our result with the traditional ones.

id: 1412.2355
title: Experimental realization of a single qubit SIC POVM on via a one-dimensional photonic quantum walk
authors: Zhihao Bian, Jian Li, Hao Qin, Xiang Zhan, Peng Xue
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2355
abstract: Symmetric informationally complete positive operator-valued measurement (SIC-POVM) is one important class of quantum measurement which is crucial for various quantum information processing tasks. SIC-POVMs have the advantage of providing an unbiased estimator for quantum states with the minimal number of outcomes needed for full tomography. We present an experimental approach on a photonic quantum walk which can be used to implement SIC-POVMs on a single-qbubit. The projection measurements of single-photons' positions correspond to elements of SIC-POVM on the polarization of single-photons.

id: 1412.2357
title: Linear optical demonstration of quantum speed-up with a single qudit
authors: Xiang Zhan, Jian Li, Hao Qin, Zhihao Bian, Peng Xue
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2357
abstract: Though quantum algorithm acts as an important role in quantum computation science, not only for providing a great vision for solving classically unsolvable problems, but also due to the fact that it gives a potential way of understanding quantum physics, the origin of the power of quantum algorithm is still an open question. Non-classical correlation is regarded as the most possible answer for the open question. However we experimentally realize a quantum speed-up algorithm on four-level system with linear optical elements and prove that even a single qudit is enough for designing an oracle-based algorithm which can solve a model problem twice faster than any classical algorithm. The algorithm can be generalized to higher dimensional qudits with the same two-to-one speed-up ratio.

id: 1412.2392
title: Observation of Dicke Superradiance for Two Artificial Atoms in a Cavity with High Decay Rate
authors: J. A. Mlynek, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr, C. Eichler, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 5, Article number: 5186 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2392
abstract: An individual excited two level system decays to its ground state by emitting a single photon in a process known as spontaneous emission. In accordance with quantum theory the probability of detecting the emitted photon decreases exponentially with the time passed since the excitation of the two level system. In 1954 Dicke first considered the more subtle situation in which two emitters decay in close proximity to each other. He argued that the emission dynamics of a single two level system is altered by the presence of a second one, even if it is in its ground state. Here, we present a close to ideal realization of Dicke's original two-spin Gedankenexperiment, using a system of two individually controllable superconducting qubits weakly coupled to a microwave cavity with a fast decay rate. The two-emitter case of superradiance is explicitly demonstrated both in time-resolved measurements of the emitted power and by fully reconstructing the density matrix of the emitted field in the photon number basis.

id: 1412.2401
title: Experimental determination of multipartite entanglement with incomplete information
authors: G. H. Aguilar, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, L. C. C¨¦leri
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. Minor changes in the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2401
abstract: Multipartite entanglement is very poorly understood despite all the theoretical and experimental advances of the last decades. Preparation, manipulation and identification of this resource is crucial for both practical and fundamental reasons. However, the difficulty in the practical manipulation and the complexity of the data generated by measurements on these systems increase rapidly with the number of parties. Therefore, we would like to experimentally address the problem of how much information about multipartite entanglement we can access with incomplete measurements. In particular, it was shown that some types of pure multipartite entangled states can be witnessed without measuring the correlations [M. Walter et al., Science 340, 1205 (2013)] between parties, which is strongly demanding experimentally. We explore this method using an optical setup that permits the preparation and the complete tomographic reconstruction of many inequivalent classes of three- and four-partite entangled states, and compare complete versus incomplete information. We show that the method is useful in practice, even for non-pure states or non ideal measurement conditions.

id: 1412.2440
title: Post-Newtonian gravitational effects in quantum interferometry
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Alexei Gilchrist, Thomas Guff, Alexander R. H. Smith, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 064041 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2440
abstract: We investigate general properties of optical interferometry in stationary spacetimes and apply the obtained results focusing on quantum-optical experiments in near-Earth environments. We provide a rigorous expression for the {gravitationally induced} phase difference and adapt the parametrized post-Newtonian formalism for calculations of polarization rotation. We investigate two optical versions of the Colella-Overhauser-Werner experiment and show that the phase difference is independent of the post-Newtonian parameter $\gamma$, making it a possible candidate for an optical test of the Einstein equivalence principle. Polarization rotation provides an example of the quantum clock variable, and while related to the optical Lense-Thirring effects, shows a qualitatively different behaviour.

id: 1412.2459
title: Multi-qubit time-bin quantum RAM
authors: E. S. Moiseev, S. A. Moiseev
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2459
abstract: We have proposed a scheme of multi-qubit \textit{quantum random access memory} (qRAM) based on the impedance matched photon echo quantum memory incorporated together with the control three-level atom in two coupled QED cavities. A set of matching conditions for basic physical parameters of the qRAM scheme that provides an efficient quantum control of the fast single photon storage and read-out has been found. In particular, it was found that the qRAM operation is determined by the properties of the photonic molecular realized in the qRAM dynamics. Herein, the maximal efficiency of the qRAM is achieved when the cooperativety parameter of the photonic molecular equals to unity that can be easily experimentally implemented. The quantum address of the stored photonic qubits can be put into practice when the address is encoded in photonic multi-time-bin state. We discuss the advantages of the qRAM in terms of working with multi-qubit states and the implementation by current quantum technologies in the optical and microwave domains.

id: 1412.2516
title: Boson Sampling is Robust to Small Errors in the Network Matrix
authors: Alex Arkhipov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2516
abstract: We demonstrate the robustness of BosonSampling to imperfections in the linear optical network that cause a small deviation in the matrix it implements. We show that applying a noisy matrix $\tilde{U}$ that is within $\epsilon$ of the desired matrix $U$ in operator norm leads to an output distribution that is within $\epsilon n$ of the desired distribution in variation distance, where $n$ is the number of photons. This lets us derive a sufficient tolerance each beamsplitters and phaseshifters in the network. This result considers only errors that result from the network encoding a different unitary than desired, and not other sources of noise such as photon loss and partial distinguishability.

id: 1412.2521
title: Classical Analysis of Degenerate Optomechanical Parametric Oscillators
authors: Fernando Jim¨¦nez, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch
comments: We welcome comments and suggestions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2521
abstract: Recent advances in the miniaturization of whispering gallery mode optical parametric oscillators have open the possibility of studying the interplay between parametric down-conversion and optomechanics, two of the most fundamental nonlinear optical processes. Even though a rigorous analysis of this scenario requires a fully quantum mechanical treatment where, e.g., the squeezing of the down-converted field or the cooling of the mechanical degree of freedom can be studied, having a clear idea of the classical properties of the system is useful or even necessary before starting such quantum mechanical analysis, and this is precisely what we offer in this work. We will restrict to the case of degenerate parametric down-conversion, obtaining then what we call a degenerate optomechanical parametric oscillator.

id: 1412.2585
title: Mutual information as an order parameter for quantum synchronization
authors: V. Ameri, M. Eghbali-Arani, A. Mari, A. Farace, F. Kheirandish, V. Giovannetti, R. Fazio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2585
abstract: Spontaneous synchronization is a fundamental phenomenon, important in many theoretical studies and applications. Recently this effect has been analyzed and observed in a number of physical systems close to the quantum mechanical regime. In this work we propose the mutual information as a useful order parameter which can capture the emergence of synchronization in very different contexts, ranging from semi-classical to intrinsically quantum mechanical systems. Specifically we first study the synchronization of two coupled Van der Pol oscillators in both classical and quantum regimes and later we consider the synchronization of two qubits inside two coupled optical cavities. In all these contexts, we find that mutual information can be used as an appropriate figure of merit for determining the synchronization phases, independently of the specific details of the system.

id: 1412.2623
title: Steering maps and their application to dimension-bounded steering
authors: Tobias Moroder, Oleg Gittsovich, Marcus Huber, Roope Uola, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2623
abstract: The existence of quantum correlations that allow one party to steer the quantum state of another party is a counterintuitive quantum effect that has been described already at the beginning of the past century. It has been shown that steering occurs if entanglement can be proven, but with the extra difficulty that the description of the measurements on one party is not known, while the other side is fully characterized. We introduce the concept of steering maps that allow to unlock the sophisticated techniques developed in regular entanglement detection to be used for certifying steerability. As an application we show that this allows to go even beyond the canonical steering scenario, enabling a generalized dimension-bounded steering where one only assumes the Hilbert space dimension on the characterized side, but no description of the measurements. Surprisingly this does not weaken the detection strength of very symmetric scenarios that have recently been carried out in experiments.

id: 1412.2645
title: Refocusing dipolar interactions between electronic spins of donors in silicon
authors: T. S. Monteiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2645
abstract: We note the existence of a set of magnetic field values where a simple Hahn echo sequence refocuses the dynamics of the full dipolar interaction, for spin systems of electron donors in silicon. As the refocussing occurs for both arbitrary coupling strengths and arbitrary times, these dipolar refocusing points (DRPs) offer new possibilities for regulating entanglement due to the always-on spin dipolar interaction. While the experimental effects of DRPs will be strongly diluted in the measured coherences of thermal (unpolarized) spin ensembles, we investigate possible signatures in coherence decays arising from a study of the combined effects of decoherence arising from instantaneous diffusion and direct flip-flops

id: 1412.2677
title: Macroscopic Unobservability of Spinorial Sign Changes
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Revised according to request of referee of IJTP: added comments on senselessness of bivectorial correlation in context of Bell's theorem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2677
abstract: In Section 5 of Christian (2014), published in IJTP, an experiment is described which is purported to have the capacity for exhibiting quantum correlations in a completely classical environment. Unfortunately the experiment has an interesting self-destructive property: it is certain not to deliver the required result, hence it is pretty certain that no experimenter will ever bother to perform it.

id: 1412.2701
title: Revisiting the First Postulate of Quantum Mechanics: Invariance and Physically Reality
authors: Christian de Ronde, Cesar Massri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2701
abstract: In this paper we derive a theorem which proves that the physical interpretation implied by the first postulate of quantum mechanics (QM) is inconsistent with the orthodox formalism. In order to expose this inconsistency we will analyze how the concept of `physical system' is built within classical theories through the notion of invariance and explain in what sense a vector in Hilbert space is not capable of fulfilling these same mathematical conditions. Through an analysis of the mathematical formalism we derive a No Dynamical Invariance (NDI) theorem which proves that, contrary to what is claimed in the first postulate, a vector in Hilbert space cannot be interpreted coherently as the state of a physical (quantum) system. We conclude the paper by analyzing the consequences of the NDI theorem with respect to several ongoing debates in QM.

id: 1412.2709
title: Lindbladians for controlled stochastic Hamiltonians
authors: J.E. Avron, O. Kenneth, A. Retzker, M. Shalyt
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 043009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2709
abstract: We construct Lindbladians associated with controlled stochastic Hamiltonians in weak coupling. This allows to determine the power spectrum of the noise from measurements of dephasing rates; to optimize the control and to test numerical algorithms that solve controlled stochastic Schrodinger equations. A few examples are worked out in detail.

id: 1412.2710
title: Quantum Information Processing by Weaving Quantum Talbot Carpets
authors: Osvaldo Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, Fernando de Melo, P¨¦rola Milman, Stephen P. Walborn
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2710
abstract: Single photon interference due to passage through a periodic grating is considered in a novel proposal for processing D-dimensional quantum systems (quDits) encoded in the spatial degrees of freedom of light. We show that free space propagation naturally implements basic single quDit gates by means of the Talbot effect: an intricate time-space carpet of light in the near field diffraction regime. Adding a diagonal phase gate, we show that a complete set of single quDit gates can be implemented. We then introduce a spatially-dependent beam splitter that allows implementation of controlled operations between two quDits. A new form of universal quantum information processing can then be implemented with linear optics and ancilla photons. Though we consider photons, our scheme should be directly applicable to a number of other physical systems. Interpretation of the Talbot effect as a quantum logic operation provides a beautiful and interesting way to visualize quantum computation through wave propagation and interference.

id: 1412.2772
title: Thermal and Residual Excited-State Population in a 3D Transmon Qubit
authors: X. Y. Jin, A. Kamal, A. P. Sears, T. Gudmundsen, D. Hover, J. Miloxi, R. Slattery, F. Yan, J. Yoder, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, W. D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2772
abstract: We present a systematic study of the first excited-state population in a 3D transmon qubit mounted in a dilution refrigerator with a variable temperature. Using a modified version of the protocol developed by Geerlings et al. [1], we observe the excited-state population to be consistent with a Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution, i.e., a qubit in thermal equilibrium with the refrigerator, over the temperature range 35-150 mK. Below 35 mK, the excited-state population saturates to 0.1%, near the resolution of our measurement. We verified this result using a flux qubit with ten-times stronger coupling to its readout resonator. We conclude that these qubits have effective temperature T_{eff} = 35 mK. Assuming T_{eff} is due solely to hot quasiparticles, the inferred qubit lifetime is 108 us and in plausible agreement with the measured 80 us.

id: 1412.2800
title: A new non-Hermitian E2-quasi-exactly solvable model
authors: Andreas Fring
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 379 (2015) 873
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2800
abstract: We construct a previously unknown $E_2$-quasi-exactly solvable non-Hermitian model whose eigenfunctions involve weakly orthogonal polynomials obeying three-term recurrence relations that factorize beyond the quantization level. The model becomes Hermitian when one of its two parameters is fixed to a specific value. We analyze the double scaling limit of this model leading to the complex Mathieu equation. The norms, Stieltjes measures and moment functionals are evaluated for some concrete values of one of the two parameters.

id: 1412.2848
title: Holonomic Quantum Computation via Adiabatic Shortcut
authors: J. Zhang, Thi Ha Kyaw, D.M. Tong, Erik Sj?qvist, L.C. Kwek
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2848
abstract: Fast quantum gates based on geometric phases provide a platform for performing robust quantum computation. In particular, non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation, which involves non-Abelian geometric phases to achieve universality, has recently been demonstrated in several experiments. Here, we generalize the transitionless quantum driving algorithm to a degenerate Hilbert space, with which we propose a route towards fast holonomic quantum computation. We propose a proof-of-principle experiment in a superconducting circuit architecture to realize our scheme.

id: 1412.2852
title: Is the Preferred Basis selected by the environment?
authors: Tian Wang, David Hobill
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2852
abstract: We show that in a quantum measurement, the preferred basis is determined by the interaction between the apparatus and the quantum system, instead of by the environment. This interaction entangles three degrees of freedom, one system degree of freedom we are interested in and preserved by the interaction, one system degree of freedom that carries the change due to the interaction, and the apparatus degree of freedom which is always ignored. Considering all three degrees of freedom the composite state only has one decomposition, and this guarantees that the apparatus would end up in the expected preferred basis of our daily experiences. We also point out some problems with the environment-induced super-selection (Einselection) solution to the preferred basis problem, and clarifies a common misunderstanding of environmental decoherence and the preferred basis problem.

id: 1412.2858
title: Thermalization time bounds for Pauli stabilizer Hamiltonians
authors: Kristan Temme
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2858
abstract: We prove a general lower bound to the spectral gap of the Davies generator for Pauli stabilizer Hamiltonians. These Hamiltonians, defined on the Hilbert space of $N$-qubits, serve as one of the most frequently considered candidates for a self-correcting quantum memory. A spectral gap bound on the Davies generator establishes an upper limit on the life time of such a quantum memory and can be used to estimate the time until the system relaxes to thermal equilibrium when brought into contact with a thermal heat bath. The bound can be shown to behave as $\lambda \geq {\cal O}(N^{-1}\exp(-2\beta \, \overline{\epsilon}))$, where $\overline{\epsilon}$ is a generalization of the well known energy barrier for logical operators. Particularly in the low temperature regime we expect this bound to provide the correct asymptotic scaling of the gap with the system size up to a factor of $N^{-1}$.

id: 1412.2864
title: Squeezed Optomechanics with Phase-matched Amplification and Dissipation
authors: Xin-You L¨¹, Ying Wu, J.R. Johansson, Hui Jing, Jing Zhang, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 093602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2864
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear interaction between a squeezed cavity mode and a mechanical mode in an optomechanical system (OMS) that allows us to selectively obtain either a radiation-pressure coupling or a parametric-amplification process. The squeezing of the cavity mode can enhance the interaction strength into the single-photon strong-coupling regime, even when the OMS is originally in the weak-coupling regime. Moreover, the noise of the squeezed mode can be suppressed completely by introducing a broadband-squeezed vacuum that is phase-matched with the parametric amplification that squeezes the cavity mode. This proposal offers an alternative approach to control OMS using a squeezed cavity mode, which should allow single-photon quantum processes to be implemented with currently available optomechanical technology. Potential applications range from engineering single-photon sources to nonclassical phonon states.

id: 1412.2889
title: Cavity-based quantum networks with single atoms and optical photons
authors: Andreas Reiserer, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2889
abstract: The implementation of a large-scale quantum network is a key challenge for quantum science. Such network consists of stationary quantum nodes that can store and process quantum information locally. The nodes are connected by quantum channels for flying information carriers, i.e. photons. These channels serve both to directly exchange quantum information between nodes as well as to distribute entanglement over the whole network. In order to scale such network to many particles and long distances, an efficient interface between the nodes and the channels is required. This article describes the cavity-based approach to this goal, with an emphasis on experimental systems in which single atoms are trapped in and coupled to optical resonators. Besides being conceptually appealing, this approach is promising for quantum networks on larger scales, as it gives access to long qubit coherence times and high light-matter coupling efficiencies. Thus, it allows one to generate entangled photons on the push of a button, to reversibly map the quantum state of a photon onto an atom, to transfer and teleport quantum states between remote atoms, to entangle distant atoms, to detect optical photons nondestructively, to perform entangling quantum gates between an atom and one or several photons, and even provides a route towards efficient heralded quantum memories for future repeaters. The presented general protocols and the identification of key parameters are applicable to other experimental systems.

id: 1412.2910
title: Long-distance continuous-variable quantum key distribution with efficient channel estimation
authors: L¨¢szl¨® Ruppert, Vladyslav C. Usenko, Radim Filip
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062310 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2910
abstract: We investigate the main limitations which prevent the continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols from achieving long distances in the finite-size setting. We propose a double-modulation protocol which allows using each state for both channel estimation and key distribution. As opposed to the standard method, we optimize the parameters of the protocol and consider squeezed as well as coherent states as a signal. By optimally combining the resources the key rate can approach the theoretical limit for long distances, and one can obtain about ten times higher key rate using ten times shorter block size than in the current state-of-the-art implementation.

id: 1412.3019
title: Weak-value amplification of the fast-light effect in rubidium vapor
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Gerardo Viza, Omar S. Maga?a-Loaiza, Mehul Malik, John C. Howell, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3019
abstract: We use weak-value amplification to enhance the polarization-sensitive fast-light effect from induced Raman absorption in hot rubidium vapor. We experimentally demonstrate that projecting the output signal into an appropriate polarization state enables a pulse advancement of 4.2 {\mu}s, which is 15 times larger than that naturally caused by dispersion. More significantly, we show that combining weak-value amplification with the dispersive response of an atomic system provides a clear advantage in terms of the maximum pulse advancement achievable for a given value of loss. This technique has potential applications for designing novel quantum-information-processing gates and optical buffers for telecommunication systems.

id: 1412.3031
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency of a single-photon in dipole-coupled one-dimensional atomic clouds
authors: Daniel Viscor, Weibin Li, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 18 pages;4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033007 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3031
abstract: We investigate the propagation of a single photon under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency in two parallel one-dimensional atomic clouds which are coupled via Rydberg dipole-dipole interaction. Initially the system is prepared with a single delocalized Rydberg excitation shared between the two ensembles and the photon enters both of them in an arbitrary path-superposition state. By properly aligning the transition dipoles of the atoms of each cloud we show that the photon can be partially transferred from one cloud to the other via the dipole-dipole interaction. This coupling leads to the formation of dark and bright superpositions of the light which experience different absorption and dispersion. We show that this feature can be exploited to filter the incident photon in such a way that only a desired path-superposition state is transmitted transparently. Finally, we generalize the analysis to the case of N coupled one-dimensional clouds. We show that within some approximations the dynamics of the propagating photon can be mapped on that of a free particle with complex mass.

id: 1412.3090
title: Strong micro-macro entanglement from a weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Tian Wang, Hon Wai Lau, Hamidreza Kaviani, Roohollah Ghobadi, Christoph Simon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3090
abstract: We study the entanglement generated by a weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity between two initial coherent states, one of which has an amplitude close to the single-photon level, while the other one is macroscopic. We show that strong micro-macro entanglement is possible for weak phase shifts by choosing the amplitude of the macroscopic beam sufficiently large. We analyze the effects of loss and discuss possible experimental demonstrations of the micro-macro entanglement based on homodyne tomography and on a new entanglement witness.

id: 1412.3127
title: Very ample line bundles, contextuality and quantum computation
authors: Raouf Dridi
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3127
abstract: I relate contextuality to line bundles. Line bundles are important in algebraic geometry, they determine, through their global sections, rational maps to projective spaces. I explain how such maps, if they exist, relate linearly the input and output of measurement based computation (MBQC) and show geometrically that, indeed, contextuality is a necessary resource for the computational advantage in MBQC.

id: 1412.3186
title: The effect of scattering loss on connections between classical and quantum processes in second-order nonlinear waveguides
authors: L. G. Helt, M. J. Steel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3186
abstract: We show that a useful connection exists between spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) and sum frequency generation in nonlinear optical waveguides with arbitrary scattering loss, while the same does not hold true for SPDC and difference frequency generation. This result deepens the relationship between quantum and classical second-order nonlinear optical processes in waveguides, and identifies the most accurate characterization of their quantum performance in the presence of loss based solely on classical measurements.

id: 1412.3192
title: Simulating dynamical quantum Hall effect with superconducting qubits
authors: Xu-Chen Yang, Dan-Wei Zhang, Peng Xu, Yang Yu, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, version accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022303 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3192
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to simulate the dynamical quantum Hall effect and the related interaction-induced topological transition with a superconducting-qubit array. We show that a one-dimensional Heisenberg model with tunable parameters can be realized in an array of superconducting qubits. The quantized plateaus, which is a feature of the dynamical quantum Hall effect, will emerge in the Berry curvature of the superconducting qubits as a function of the coupling strength between nearest neighbor qubits. We numerically calculate the Berry curvatures of two-, four- and six-qubit arrays, and find that the interaction-induced topological transition can be easily observed with the simplest two-qubit array. Furthermore, we analyze some practical conditions in typical experiments for observing such dynamical quantum Hall effect.

id: 1412.3207
title: Multipixel sub-shot noise phase measurement with classical light interferometry
authors: Mandeep Singh, Kedar Khare, Anand Kumar Jha, Shashi Prabhakar, R. P. Singh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3207
abstract: We demonstrate accurate phase measurement from low photon level interference data using a constrained optimization method that takes into account the expected redundancy in the unknown phase function. This approach is shown to have significant noise advantage over traditional methods such as balanced homodyning or phase shifting that treat individual pixels in the interference data as independent of each other. Our interference experiments comparing the optimization method with the traditional phase shifting method show that when the same photon resources are used, the optimization method provides phase recoveries with tighter error bars. In particular, RMS phase error performance of the optimization method for low photon number data (10 photons per pixel) shows $>$ 5X noise gain over the phase shifting method. In our experiments where a laser light source is used for illumination, the results imply phase measurement with accuracy better than the conventional single pixel based shot noise limit (SNL) that assumes independent phases at individual pixels. The constrained optimization approach presented here is independent of the nature of light source and may further enhance the accuracy of phase detection when a nonclassical light source is used.

id: 1412.3218
title: Regular phase operator and SU(1,1) coherent states of the harmonic oscillator
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 33 pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3218
abstract: A new solution is proposed to the long-standing problem of describing the quantum phase of a harmonic oscillator. In terms of an'exponential phase operator', defined by a new 'polar decomposition' of the quantized amplitude of the oscillator, a regular phase operator is constructed in the Hilbert-Fock space as a strongly convergent power series. It is shown that the eigenstates of the new 'exponential operators are SU(1,1) coherent states in the Holstein-Primakoff realization. In terms of these eigenstates, the diagonal representation of phase densities and a generalized spectal resolution of the regular phase operator are derived, which suit very well to our intuitive pictures on classical phase-related quantities

id: 1412.3219
title: Generation of squeezed Schr?dinger cat states with an operation allowing iterative growth
authors: Jean Etesse, Martin Bouillard, Bhaskar Kanseri, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3219
abstract: We present what is to our knowledge the first implementation of a Schr\"odinger cat states "breeding" operation, which allows an iterative growth of these states. We thus report the experimental generation of a squeezed Schr\"odinger cat state from two single photon Fock states, which can be seen as cat states with zero amplitude. These Fock states are mixed on a symmetrical beamsplitter and the generation is heralded by a homodyne measurement in one of the two output arms. The output state has a fidelity of 61% with an even squeezed Schr\"odinger cat state of amplitude $\alpha=1.63$. This hybrid operation opens up new prospects in quantum optics as the protocol depicted here can be iterated in order to produce new kind of mesoscopic states.

id: 1412.3264
title: Quaternionic quantum walks
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 15 pages, title changed, revised version
journal: Quantum Studies: Mathematics and Foundations, Volume 2, Issue 1, pp.63-76 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3264
abstract: The discrete-time quantum walk (QW) has been extensively and intensively investigated for the last decade, whose coin operator is defined by a unitary matrix. We extend the QW to a walk determined by a unitary matrix whose component is quaternion. We call this model quaternionic quantum walk (QQW) and present some properties. This paper is the first step for the study on QQWs.

id: 1412.3316
title: Non-Markovianity hinders Quantum Darwinism
authors: F. Galve, R. Zambrini, S. Maniscalco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3316
abstract: In this Letter we investigate Quantum Darwinism and the emergence of a classical world from the quantum one in connection with the spectral properties of the environment. We use a microscopic model of quantum environment in which, by changing a simple system parameter, we can modify the information back flow from environment into the system, and therefore its non-Markovian character. We show that the presence of memory effects hinders the emergence of classical objective reality. We conjecture that this phenomenon is connected to the absence of a measurement-scheme interpretation for quantum trajectories in the non-Markovian regime.

id: 1412.3321
title: Entanglement and phase properties of noisy N00N states
authors: M. Bohmann, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042332 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3321
abstract: Quantum metrology and quantum information necessitate a profound study of suitable states. Attenuations induced by free-space communication links or fluctuations in the generation of such states limit the quantum enhancement in possible applications. For this reason we investigate quantum features of mixtures of so-called N00N states propagating in atmospheric channels. First, we show that noisy N00N states can still yield a phase resolution beyond classical limitations. Second, we identify entanglement of noisy N00N states after propagation in fluctuating loss channels. To do so, we apply the partial transposition criterion. Our theoretical analysis formulates explicit bounds which are indispensable for experimental verification of quantum entanglement and applications in quantum metrology.

id: 1412.3346
title: Which is the Quantum Decay Law of Relativistic Particles?
authors: S. A. Alavi, C. Giunti
comments: 5 pages; final version published in Europhys. Lett. 109 (2015) 60001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3346
abstract: We discuss the relation between the quantum-mechanical survival probability of an unstable system in motion and that of the system at rest. The usual definition of the survival probability which takes into account only the time evolution of an unstable system leads to a relation between the survival probability of the system in motion and that of the system at rest which is different from the standard relation based on relativistic time dilation. This approach led other authors to claim non-standard quantum-mechanical effects which are in clear contradiction with Special Relativity. We show that an appropriate relativistic definition of the survival probability which takes into account also the space evolution of an unstable system leads to the standard relation between the survival probability of the system in motion and that of the system at rest, in agreement with Special Relativity. We present a rigorous derivation of this result based on a wave packet treatment.

id: 1412.3361
title: No-signaling bounds for quantum cloning and metrology
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Michalis Skotiniotis, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3361
abstract: The impossibility of superluminal communication is a fundamental principle of physics. Here we show that this principle underpins the performance of several fundamental tasks in quantum information processing and quantum metrology. In particular, we derive tight no-signaling bounds for probabilistic cloning and super-replication that coincide with the corresponding optimal achievable fidelities and rates known. In the context of quantum metrology, we derive the Heisenberg limit from the no-signaling principle for certain scenarios including reference frame alignment and maximum likelihood state estimation. We elaborate on the equivalence of assymptotic phase-covariant cloning and phase estimation for different figures of merit.

id: 1412.3426
title: Verifying the metrological usefulness of Dicke states with collective measurements
authors: Iagoba Apellaniz, Bernd L¨¹cke, Jan Peise, Carsten Klempt, Geza Toth
comments: 12 pages including 4 figures, revtex4.1; v2: Sec. IV with further numerical examples added, Appendix added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3426
abstract: We present a method to verify the metrological usefulness of noisy Dicke states with only a few collective measurements, without the need for a direct measurement of the sensitivity. Our method determines the usefulness of the state for estimating the angle of rotation based on only the measurement of the total spin of the ensemble, which is the most relevant case for metrology with many-particle systems. We apply our method to recent experimental results with Dicke states.

id: 1412.3489
title: Quantum Deep Learning
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Ashish Kapoor, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 34 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3489
abstract: In recent years, deep learning has had a profound impact on machine learning and artificial intelligence. At the same time, algorithms for quantum computers have been shown to efficiently solve some problems that are intractable on conventional, classical computers. We show that quantum computing not only reduces the time required to train a deep restricted Boltzmann machine, but also provides a richer and more comprehensive framework for deep learning than classical computing and leads to significant improvements in the optimization of the underlying objective function. Our quantum methods also permit efficient training of full Boltzmann machines and multi-layer, fully connected models and do not have well known classical counterparts.

id: 1412.3517
title: Holographic generation of highly twisted electron beams
authors: Vincenzo Grillo, Gian Carlo Gazzadi, Erfan Mafakheri, Stefano Frabboni, Ebrahim Karimi, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures - Supplementary Material (3 pages and 2 figures) accompanies this manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3517
abstract: Free electrons can possess an intrinsic orbital angular momentum, similar to those in an electron cloud, upon free-space propagation. The wavefront corresponding to the electron's wavefunction forms a helical structure with a number of twists given by the \emph{angular speed}. Beams with a high number of twists are of particular interest because they carry a high magnetic moment about the propagation axis. Among several different techniques, electron holography seems to be a promising approach to shape a \emph{conventional} electron beam into a helical form with large values of angular momentum. Here, we propose and manufacture a nano-fabricated phase hologram for generating a beam of this kind with an orbital angular momentum up to 200$\hbar$. Based on a novel technique the value of orbital angular momentum of the generated beam are measured, then compared with simulations. Our work, apart from the technological achievements, may lead to a way of generating electron beams with a high quanta of magnetic moment along the propagation direction, and thus may be used in the study of the magnetic properties of materials and for manipulating nano-particles.

id: 1412.3543
title: Generation of genuine $¦Ö$-type four-particle entangled state of superconducting artificial atoms with broken symmetry
authors: Chun-Ling Leng, Qi Guo, Xin Ji, Shou Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3543
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating a genuine $\chi$-type four-particle entangled state of superconducting artificial atoms with broken symmetry by using one-dimensional transmission line resonator as a data bus. The $\Delta$-type three-level artificial atom we use in the scheme is different from natural atom and has cyclic transitions. After suitable interaction time and simple operations, the desired entangled state can be obtained. Since artificial atomic excited states and photonic states are adiabatically eliminated, our scheme is robust against the spontaneous emissions of artificial atoms and the decays of transmission line resonator.

id: 1412.3549
title: Stabilizing Non-Hermitian Systems by Periodic Driving
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3549
abstract: The time evolution of a system with a time-dependent non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is in general unstable with exponential growth or decay. A periodic driving field may stabilize the dynamics because the eigenphases of the associated Floquet operator may become all real. This possibility can emerge for a continuous range of system parameters with subtle domain boundaries. It is further shown that the issue of stability of a driven non-Hermitian Rabi model can be mapped onto the band structure problem of a class of lattice Hamiltonians. As an application, we show how to use the stability of driven non-Hermitian two-level systems (0-dimension in space) to simulate a spectrum analogous to Hofstadter's butterfly that has played a paradigmatic role in quantum Hall physics. The simulation of the band structure of non-Hermitian superlattice potentials with parity-time reversal symmetry is also briefly discussed.

id: 1412.3557
title: Hybrid magic state distillation for universal fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Wenqiang Zheng, Yafei Yu, Jian Pan, Jingfu Zhang, Jun Li, Zhaokai Li, Dieter Suter, Xianyi Zhou, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3557
abstract: A set of stabilizer operations augmented by some special initial states known as 'magic states', gives the possibility of universal fault-tolerant quantum computation. However, magic state preparation inevitably involves nonideal operations that introduce noise. The most common method to eliminate the noise is magic state distillation (MSD) by stabilizer operations. Here we propose a hybrid MSD protocol by connecting a four-qubit H-type MSD with a five-qubit T-type MSD, in order to overcome some disadvantages of the previous MSD protocols. The hybrid MSD protocol further integrates distillable ranges of different existing MSD protocols and extends the T-type distillable range to the stabilizer octahedron edges. And it provides considerable improvement in qubit cost for almost all of the distillable range. Moreover, we experimentally demonstrate the four-qubit H-type MSD protocol using nuclear magnetic resonance technology, together with the previous five-qubit MSD experiment, to show the feasibility of the hybrid MSD protocol.

id: 1412.3582
title: Quantum Gates Between Distant Qubits via Spin-Independent Scattering
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Enrico Compagno, Vladimir Korepin, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, this article supersedes arXiv:1106.2329
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3582
abstract: We show how the spin independent scattering of two initially distant qubits, say, in distinct traps or in remote sites of a lattice,can be used to implement an entangling quantum gate between them. The scattering takes place under 1D confinement for which we consider two different scenarios: a 1D wave-guide and a tight-binding lattice. We consider models with a delta interaction between two fermionic or two bosonic particles. A qubit is encoded in two distinct spin (or other internal) states of each particle. Our scheme, by providing a gate between qubits which are initially too far to interact directly, provides an alternative to photonic mediators for the scaling of quantum computers. Fundamentally, an interesting feature is that "identical particles" (e.g., two atoms of the same species) and the 1D confinement, are both necessary for the action of the gate. Effects of the departure from 1D confinement, the degree of control required on the initial motional states of particles, and how to achieve the same, are discussed, as well as the feasibility of atomic implementations.

id: 1412.3634
title: Quantum learning of classical stochastic processes: The Completely-Positive Realization Problem
authors: Alex Monr¨¤s, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3634
abstract: Among several tasks in Machine Learning, a specially important one is that of inferring the latent variables of a system and their causal relations with the observed behavior. Learning a Hidden Markov Model of given stochastic process is a textbook example, known as the positive realization problem (PRP). The PRP and its solutions have far-reaching consequences in many areas of systems and control theory, and positive systems theory. We consider the scenario where the latent variables are quantum states, and the system dynamics is constrained only by physical transformations on the quantum system. The observable dynamics is then described by a quantum instrument, and the task is to determine which quantum instrument --if any-- yields the process at hand by iterative application. We take as starting point the theory of quasi-realizations, whence a description of the dynamics of the process is given in terms of linear maps on state vectors and probabilities are given by linear functionals on the state vectors. This description, despite its remarkable resemblance with the Hidden Markov Model, or the iterated quantum instrument, is nevertheless devoid of any stochastic or quantum mechanical interpretation, as said maps fail to satisfy any positivity conditions. The Completely-Positive realization problem then consists in determining whether an equivalent quantum mechanical description of the same process exists. We generalize some key results of stochastic realization theory, and show that the problem has deep connections with operator systems theory, yielding possible insight to the lifting problem in quotient operator systems. Our results have potential applications in quantum machine learning, device-independent characterization and reverse-engineering of stochastic processes and quantum processors, and dynamical processes with quantum memory.

id: 1412.3635
title: Simulating a perceptron on a quantum computer
authors: Maria Schuld, Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, accepted by Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, 379, pp. 660-663 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3635
abstract: Perceptrons are the basic computational unit of artificial neural networks, as they model the activation mechanism of an output neuron due to incoming signals from its neighbours. As linear classifiers, they play an important role in the foundations of machine learning. In the context of the emerging field of quantum machine learning, several attempts have been made to develop a corresponding unit using quantum information theory. Based on the quantum phase estimation algorithm, this paper introduces a quantum perceptron model imitating the step-activation function of a classical perceptron. This scheme requires resources in $\mathcal{O}(n)$ (where $n$ is the size of the input) and promises efficient applications for more complex structures such as trainable quantum neural networks.

id: 1412.3646
title: Quantum computing for pattern classification
authors: Maria Schuld, Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, presented at the 13th Pacific Rim International Conference on Artificial Intelligence
journal: Trends in Artificial Intelligence, LNAI 8862, Springer, pp. 208--220 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3646
abstract: It is well known that for certain tasks, quantum computing outperforms classical computing. A growing number of contributions try to use this advantage in order to improve or extend classical machine learning algorithms by methods of quantum information theory. This paper gives a brief introduction into quantum machine learning using the example of pattern classification. We introduce a quantum pattern classification algorithm that draws on Trugenberger's proposal for measuring the Hamming distance on a quantum computer (CA Trugenberger, Phys Rev Let 87, 2001) and discuss its advantages using handwritten digit recognition as from the MNIST database.

id: 1412.3676
title: On maximization of measured $f$-divergence between a given pair of quantum states
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3676
abstract: This paper deals with maximization of classical $f$-divergence between the distributions of a measurement outputs of a given pair of quantum states. $f$-divergence $D_{f}$ between the probability density functions $p_{1}$ and $p_{2}$ over a discrete set is defined as $D_{f}\left( p_{1}||p_{2}\right) :=\sum_{x}p_{2}\left( x\right) f\left( \frac{p_{1}\left( x\right) }% {p_{2}\left( x\right) }\right) $. For example, Kullback-Leibler divergence and Renyi type relative entropy are well-known examples with good operational meanings. Thus, finding the maximal value $D_{f}^{\min}$ of measured measured $f$-divergence is also an interesting question. But so far the question is solved only for very restricted example of $f$. \ The purposes of the present paper is to advance the study further, by investigating its properties, rewriting the maximization problem to more tractable form, and giving closed formulas of the quantity in some special cases.

id: 1412.3680
title: On the condition of conversion of classical probability distribution families into quantum families
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3680
abstract: The purpose of the paper is to study the condition for a probability distribution family to a quantum state family. This is an (relatively) easy example of quantum version of "comparison of statistical experiments", which had turned out to supply deep insight into the foundation of classical and quantum statistics \cite{Strasser}\cite{Torgersen}. It turns out use of maximal quantum $f$-divergence is useful in characterizing the classical-quantum transformability.

id: 1412.3739
title: Nonrelativistic molecular models under external magnetic and AB flux fields
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Babatunde J. Falaye, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 353 (2015) 282-298
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3739
abstract: By using the wave function ansatz method, we study the energy eigenvalues and wave function for any arbitrary $m$-state in two-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger wave equation with various power interaction potentials in constant magnetic and Aharonov-Bohm (AB) flux fields perpendicular to the plane where the interacting particles are confined. We calculate the energy levels of some diatomic molecules in the presence and absence of external magnetic and AB flux fields using different potential models. We found that the effect of the Aharonov-Bohm field is much as it creates a wider shift for $m\neq 0$ and its influence on $m=0$ states is found to be greater than that of the magnetic field. To show the accuracy of the present model, a comparison is made with those ones obtained in the absence of external fields. An extension to 3-dimensional quantum system have also been presented.

id: 1412.3745
title: Dephasing-assisted selective incoherent quantum transport
authors: Naghi Behzadi, Bahram Ahansaz, Hadi Kasani
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3745
abstract: Selective energy transport throughout a quantum network connected to more than one reaction center can play an important role in many natural and technological considerations in photo-systems. In this work, we propose a method in which an excitation can be transported from the original site of the network to one of the reaction centers arbitrarily using independent sources of dephasing noises. We demonstrate a situation that in the absence of dephasing noises the coherent evolution of the system has no role in the energy transport in the network. Therefore, incoherent evolution via application of dephasing noises throughout a selected path of the network leads to transfer the excitation completely to a desired reaction center.

id: 1412.3780
title: Families of pure PEPS with efficiently simulatable local hidden variable models for most measurements
authors: Hussain Anwar, Sania Jevtic, Oliver Rudolph, Shashank Virmani
comments: 5 pages, all comments are welcome, updated version includes minor corrections (all results still hold)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3780
abstract: An important problem in quantum information theory is to understand what makes entangled quantum systems non-local or hard to simulate efficiently. In this work we consider situations in which various parties have access to a restricted set of measurements on their particles, and construct entangled quantum states that are essentially classical for those measurements. In particular, given any set of local measurements on a large enough Hilbert space whose dual strictly contains (i.e. contains an open neighborhood of) a pure state, we use the PEPS formalism and ideas from generalized probabilistic theories to construct pure multiparty entangled states that have (a) local hidden variable models, and (b) can be efficiently simulated classically. We believe that the examples we construct cannot be efficiently classically simulated using previous techniques. Without the restriction on the measurements, the states that we construct are non-local, and in some proof-of-principle cases are universal for measurement based quantum computation.

id: 1412.3794
title: Quantum Control of Many-Body Systems by the Density
authors: S. E. B. Nielsen, M. Ruggenthaler, R. van Leeuwen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3794
abstract: In this work we focus on a recently introduced method [1] to construct the external potential $v$ that, for a given initial state, produces a prescribed time-dependent density in an interacting quantum many-body system. We show how this method can also be used to perform flexible and efficient quantum control. The simple interpretation of the density (the amount of electrons per volume) allows us to use our physical intuition to consider interesting control problems and to easily restrict the search space in optimization problems. The method's origin in time-dependent density-functional theory makes studies of large systems possible. We further discuss the generalization of the method to higher dimensions and its numerical implementation in great detail. We also present several examples to illustrate the flexibility, and to confirm that the scheme is efficient and stable even for large and rapid density variations irrespective of the initial state and interactions.

id: 1412.3817
title: An efficient quantum algorithm for the Moebius function
authors: Peter J. Love
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3817
abstract: We give an efficient quantum algorithm for the Moebius function $\mu(n)$ from the natural numbers to $\{-1,0,1\}$. The cost of the algorithm is asymptotically quadratic in $\log n$ and does not require the computation of the prime factorization of $n$ as an intermediate step.

id: 1412.3826
title: Nonclassicality Phase-Space Functions: More Insight with Fewer Detectors
authors: A. Luis, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 4 figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 103602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3826
abstract: Systems of on-off detectors are well established for measuring radiation fields in the regime of small photon numbers. We propose to combine these detector systems with unbalanced homodyning with a weak local oscillator. This approach yields phase-space functions, which represent the click counterpart of the s parametrized quasiprobabilities of standard photoelectric detection theory. This introduced class of distributions can be directly sampled from the measured click counting statistics. Therefore, our technique visualizes nonclassical effects without further data processing. Surprisingly, a small number of on-off diodes can yield more insight than perfect photon number resolution. Quantum signatures in the particle and wave domain of the quantized radiation field, as shown by photon number and squeezed states, respectively, will be uncovered in terms of negativities of the sampled phase-space functions. Application in the vast fields of quantum optics and quantum technology will benefit from our efficient nonclassicality characterization approach.

id: 1412.3828
title: A derivation (and quantification) of the third law of thermodynamics
authors: Lluis Masanes, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 6 pages+appendix, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3828
abstract: The third law of thermodynamics has a controversial past and a number of formulations due to Planck, Einstein, and Nernst. It's most accepted version, the unattainability principle, states that "any thermodynamic process cannot reach the temperature of absolute zero by a finite number of steps and within a finite time". Although formulated in 1912, there has been no general proof of the principle, and the only evidence we have for it is that particular cooling methods become less efficient as a the temperature lowers. Here we provide the first derivation of a general unattainability principle, which applies to arbitrary cooling processes, even those exploiting the laws of quantum mechanics or involving an infinite-dimensional reservoir. Further, we quantify the time or number of steps it takes to cool a system to any particular temperature. Our argument relies on the heat capacity of the bath being positive for large temperatures, and we show that if this is not the case then perfect cooling in finite time is in principle possible. Our results also clarify the connection between two versions of the third law (the Unattainability Principle, and the Heat Theorem), and place ultimate bounds on the speed at which information can be erased.

id: 1412.3867
title: Precisely resolve energy-time entanglement by dual channel Fabry-Perot interferometry
authors: Yuan Sun
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3867
abstract: Precisely resolving the continuous variable energy-time entanglement of paired photons is an important issue in quantum optics. The Fabry-Perot interferometer provides a distinguished opportunity for this purpose if the single photon pulse's self-interference is carefully avoided. A dual channel Fabry-Perot interferometer is proposed and studied with the focus put upon higher order quantum interference effects. When the two channels are properly set up, it is capable of resolving the energy-time entanglement in detail analogously to that a usual Fabry-Perot interferometer can resolve classical light's spectrum. Variation form of the dual channel Fabry-Perot interferometry is also discussed.

id: 1412.3887
title: Robust entanglement-based magnetic field sensor beyond the standard quantum limit
authors: Tohru Tanaka, Paul Knott, Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Shane Dooley, Hiroshi Yamaguchi, William J. Munro, Shiro Saito
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3887
abstract: Recently, there have been significant developments in entanglement-based quantum metrology. However, entanglement is fragile against experimental imperfections, and quantum sensing to beat the standard quantum limit in scaling has not yet been achieved in realistic systems. Here, we show that it is possible to overcome such restrictions so that one can sense a magnetic field with an accuracy beyond the standard quantum limit even under the effect of decoherence, by using a realistic entangled state that can be easily created even with current technology. Our scheme could pave the way for the realizations of practical entanglement-based magnetic field sensors.

id: 1412.3905
title: Contribution of resonance tunneling of molecule to physical observables
authors: P.M. Krassovitskiy, F.M. Pen'kov
comments: It is draft article submitted to Journal of Physics B
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, Volume 47, Number 22, 28 November 2014, pp. 225210-225214(5)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3905
abstract: Probabilities of resonant tunneling through a potential barrier are compared for a rigid molecule and an excited molecule. It is shown that the resonance spectrum is mainly governed by the transmission resonance spectrum of the rigid molecule. Analytical expressions for the probability for the tunneling of the rigid molecule through a barrier allow resonance-spectrum-averaged observables, including quantum diffusion, to be estimated.

id: 1412.3927
title: Geometric uncertainty relation for quantum ensembles
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Ole Andersson
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, contribution to QFQI, accepted for publication in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3927
abstract: Geometrical structures of quantum mechanics provide us with new insightful results about the nature of quantum theory. In this work we consider mixed quantum states represented by finite rank density operators. We review our geometrical framework that provide the space of density operators with Riemannian and symplectic structures, and we derive a geometric uncertainty relation for observables acting on mixed quantum states. We also give an example that visualizes the geometric uncertainty relation for spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ particles.

id: 1412.3971
title: Quantum models of classical systems
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 13 pages, no figure. Talk given at DICE2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3971
abstract: Quantum statistical methods that are commonly used for the derivation of classical thermodynamic properties are extended to classical mechanical properties. The usual assumption that every real motion of a classical mechanical system is represented by a sharp trajectory is not testable and is replaced by a class of fuzzy models, the so-called maximum entropy (ME) packets. The fuzzier are the compared classical and quantum ME packets, the better seems to be the match between their dynamical trajectories. Classical and quantum models of a stiff rod will be constructed to illustrate the resulting unified quantum theory of thermodynamic and mechanical properties.

id: 1412.3982
title: St¨¹ckelberg interference in a superconducting qubit under periodic latching modulation
authors: M.P. Silveri, K.S. Kumar, J. Tuorila, J. Li, A. Veps?l?inen, E.V. Thuneberg, G.S. Paraoanu
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 043058
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3982
abstract: When the level separation of a qubit is modulated periodically across an avoided crossing, tunneling to the excited state - and consequently Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interference - can occur. The types of modulation studied so far correspond to a continuous change of the level separation. Here we study periodic latching modulation, in which the level separation is switched abruptly between two values and is kept constant otherwise. In this case, the conventional approach based on the asymptotic Landau-Zener (LZ) formula for transition probabilities is not applicable. We develop a novel adiabatic-impulse model for the evolution of the system and derive the resonance conditions. Additionally, we derive analytical results based on the rotating-wave approximation (RWA). The adiabatic-impulse model and the RWA results are compared with those of a full numerical simulation. These theoretical predictions are tested in an experimental setup consisting of a transmon whose flux bias is modulated with a square wave form. A rich spectrum is observed, with distinctive features correspoding to two regimes: slow-modulation and fast-modulation. These experimental results are shown to be in very good agreement with the theoretical models. Also, differences with respect to the well known case of sinusoidal modulation are discussed, both theoretically and experimentally.

id: 1412.4006
title: Experimental Superposition of Orders of Quantum Gates
authors: Lorenzo M. Procopio, Amir Moqanaki, Mateus Ara¨²jo, Fabio Costa, Irati A. Calafell, Emma G. Dowd, Deny R. Hamel, Lee A. Rozema, ?aslav Brukner, Philip Walther
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4006
abstract: In a quantum computer, creating superpositions of quantum bits (qubits) in different states can lead to a speed-up over classical computers [1], but quantum mechanics also allows for the superposition of quantum circuits [2]. In fact, it has recently been theoretically predicted that superimposing quantum circuits, each with a different gate order, could provide quantum computers with an even further computational advantage [3-5]. Here, we experimentally demonstrate this enhancement by applying two quantum gates in a superposition of both possible orders to determine whether the two gates commute or anti-commute. We are able to make this determination with only a single use (or query) of each gate, while all quantum circuits with a fixed order of gates would require at least two uses of one of the gates [3]. Remarkably, when the problem is scaled to N gates, creating a superposition of quantum circuits is likely to provide an exponential advantage over classical algorithms, and a linear advantage over quantum algorithms with fixed gate order [4]. The new resource that we exploit in our experiment can be interpreted as a "superposition of causal orders". We demonstrate such a superposition could allow some quantum algorithms to be implemented with an efficiency that is unlikely to be achieved on a quantum computer with a fixed gate order.

id: 1412.4007
title: On the weight of entanglement
authors: David Edward Bruschi
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4007
abstract: We investigate a scenario where quantum correlations affect the gravitational field. We show that quantum correlations between particles occupying different positions have an effect on the gravitational field. We find that the small perturbations induced by the entanglement depend on the amount of entanglement and vanish for vanishing quantum correlations. Our results suggest that there is a form of entanglement that has a weight, since it affects the gravitational field. This conclusion may lead towards a new understanding of the role of quantum correlations within the overlap of relativistic and quantum theories.

id: 1412.4010
title: Sampling quantum nonlocal correlations with high probability
authors: Carlos E. Gonz¨¢lez-Guill¨¦n, C. Hugo Jim¨¦nez, Carlos Palazuelos, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4010
abstract: It is well known that quantum correlations for bipartite dichotomic measurements are those of the form $\gamma=(\langle u_i,v_j\rangle)_{i,j=1}^n$, where the vectors $u_i$ and $v_j$ are in the unit ball of a real Hilbert space. In this work we study the probability of the nonlocal nature of these correlations as a function of $\alpha=\frac{m}{n}$, where the previous vectors are sampled according to the Haar measure in the unit sphere of $\mathbb R^m$. In particular, we prove the existence of an $\alpha_0>0$ such that if $\alpha\leq \alpha_0$, $\gamma$ is nonlocal with probability tending to $1$ as $n\rightarrow \infty$, while for $\alpha> 2$, $\gamma$ is local with probability tending to $1$ as $n\rightarrow \infty$.

id: 1412.4049
title: Interferometry with correlated matter-waves
authors: Oksana I. Streltsova, Alexej I. Streltsov
comments: manuscript: 5 pages with 2 figures + supp.mat: 4 pages + 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4049
abstract: Matter-wave interferometry of ultra-cold atoms with attractive interactions is studied at the full many-body level. First, we study how a coherent light-pulse applied to an initially-condensed solitonic system splits it into two matter-waves. The split system looses its coherence and develops correlations with time, and inevitably becomes fragmented due to inter-particle attractions. Next, we show that by re-colliding the sub-clouds constituting the split density together, along with a simultaneous application of the same laser-pulse, one creates three matter-waves propagating with different momenta. We demonstrate that the number of atoms in the sub-cloud with zero-momentum is directly proportional to the degree of fragmentation in the system. This interferometric-based protocol to discriminate, probe, and measure the fragmentation is general and can be applied to ultra-cold systems with attractive, repulsive, short- and long-range interactions.

id: 1412.4067
title: Monotonicity of quantum relative entropy and recoverability
authors: Mario Berta, Marius Lemm, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v2: 24 pages, 1 figure, new result about equivalence between entropy inequalities with remainder terms
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4067
abstract: The relative entropy is a principal measure of distinguishability in quantum information theory, with its most important property being that it is non-increasing under noisy quantum operations. Here, we establish a remainder term for this inequality that quantifies how well one can recover from a loss of information by employing a rotated Petz recovery map. The main approach for proving this refinement is to combine the methods of [Fawzi and Renner, arXiv:1410.0664] with the notion of a relative typical subspace from [Bjelakovic and Siegmund-Schultze, arXiv:quant-ph/0307170]. It remains an open question if the same bound holds for the Petz recovery map (and not merely for a rotated Petz recovery map). A well known result states that the monotonicity of relative entropy under quantum operations is equivalent to any of the following inequalities: strong subadditivity of entropy, concavity of conditional entropy, joint convexity of relative entropy, and monotonicity of relative entropy under partial trace. We show that this equivalence holds true for refinements of all these inequalities in terms of the Petz recovery map. So either all of these refinements are true or all are false.

id: 1412.4070
title: Proliferation of effective interactions: decoherence-induced equilibration in a closed many-body system
authors: Pablo R. Zangara, Denise Bendersky, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042112 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4070
abstract: We address the question on how weak perturbations, that are quite ineffective in small many-body systems, can lead to decoherence and hence to irreversibility when they proliferate as the system size increases. This question is at the heart of solid state NMR. There, an initially local polarization spreads all over due to spin-spin interactions that conserve the total spin projection, leading to an equilibration of the polarization. In principle, this quantum dynamics can be reversed by changing the sign of the Hamiltonian. However, the reversal is usually perturbed by non reversible interactions that act as a decoherence source. The fraction of the local excitation recovered defines the Loschmidt echo (LE), here evaluated in a series of closed $N$ spin systems with all-to-all interactions. The most remarkable regime of the LE decay occurs when the perturbation induces proliferated effective interactions. We show that if this perturbation exceeds some lower bound, the decay is ruled by an effective Fermi golden rule (FGR). Such a lower bound shrinks as $ N $ increases, becoming the leading mechanism for LE decay in the thermodynamic limit. Once the polarization stayed equilibrated longer than the FGR time, it remains equilibrated in spite of the reversal procedure.

id: 1412.4126
title: Characterization of Leakage Errors via Randomized Benchmarking
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Marie Barnhill, Joseph Emerson
comments: 4 pages + references and an appendix, comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4126
abstract: Leakage errors arise when the quantum state leaks out of some subspace of interest, for example, the two-level subspace of a multi-level system defining a computational `qubit' or the logical code space defined by some quantum error-correcting code or decoherence-free subspace. Leakage errors pose a distinct challenge to quantum control relative to the more well-studied decoherence errors and can be a limiting factor to achieving fault-tolerant quantum computation. Here we present scalable and robust randomized benchmarking protocols for quickly estimating the rates of both coherent and incoherent leakage, allowing for practical minimization of the leakage rate by varying over control methods. We illustrate the reliability of the protocol through numerical simulations with physically-relevant error models.

id: 1412.4131
title: Nonlocality in instantaneous quantum circuits
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Emily Adlam
comments: 5 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4131
abstract: We show that families of Instantaneous Quantum Polynomial (IQP) circuits corresponding to nontrivial Bell tests exhibit nonlocality. However, we also prove that this nonlocality can only be demonstrated using post-selection or nonlinear processing of the measurement outcomes. Therefore if the output of a computation is encoded in the parity of the measurement outcomes, then families of IQP circuits whose full output distributions are hard to sample still only provide a computational advantage relative to locally causal theories under post-selection. Consequently, post-selection is a crucial technique for obtaining a computational advantage for IQP circuits (with respect to decision problems) and for demonstrating nonlocality within IQP circuits, suggesting a strong link between these phenomena.

id: 1412.4134
title: Characterizing an Entangled-Photon Source with Classical Detectors and Measurements
authors: Lee A. Rozema, Chao Wang, Dylan H. Mahler, Alex Hayat, Aephraim M. Steinberg, John E. Sipe, Marco Liscidini
comments: 5+3 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4134
abstract: Quantum state tomography (QST) is a universal tool for the design and optimization of entangled-photon sources. It typically requires single-photon detectors and coincidence measurements. Recently, it was suggested that the information provided by the QST of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion could be obtained by exploiting the stimulated version of this process, namely difference frequency generation. In this protocol, so-called "stimulated-emission tomography" (SET), a seed field is injected along with the pump pulse, and the resulting stimulated emission is measured. Since the intensity of the stimulated field can be several orders of magnitude larger than the intensity of the corresponding spontaneous emission, measurements can be made with simple classical detectors. Here, we experimentally demonstrate SET and compare it with QST. We show that one can accurately reconstruct the polarization density matrix, and predict the purity and concurrence of the polarization state of photon pairs without performing any single-photon measurements.

id: 1412.4146
title: Maximally Accessible Purity in Coherently Controlled Open Quantum Systems: Application to Quantum State Engineering
authors: Jun Li, Dawei Lu, Zhihuang Luo, Raymond Laflamme, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures including supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4146
abstract: A fundamental problem in quantum control is to precisely characterize the controlled system dynamics when decoherence effects are present. In this work, we derive the upper bound of achievable purity for coherently driven dissipative systems, which is rather useful for assessing control performances. The theory is further testified on a two-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance spin system. Under joint effects of coherent pulses and system relaxation, we are able to implement the tasks of open system polarization transfer and pseudopure state preparation with remarkably, both of them approaching near optimal performance in purity. Our work shows great applicative potential of utilizing rather than suppressing relaxation effects in open system control protocols.

id: 1412.4209
title: Quantum Measurement and the Paulian Idea
authors: Christopher Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, published version of philosophical section in arXiv:0906.2187, but with new introductory material, published in The Pauli-Jung Conjecture and its Impact Today, edited by H. Atmanspacher and C. A. Fuchs, p. 93-108 (Imprint Academic, Exeter, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4209
abstract: In the quantum Bayesian (or QBist) conception of quantum theory, "quantum measurement" is understood not as a comparison of something pre-existent with a standard, but instead indicative of the creation of something new in the universe: Namely, the fresh experience any agent receives upon taking an action on the world. We explore the implications of this for any would-be ontology underlying QBism. The concept that presently stands out as a candidate "material for our universe's composition" is "experience" itself, or what John Wheeler called "observer-participancy".

id: 1412.4211
title: QBism and the Greeks: why a quantum state does not represent an element of physical reality
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, introduction clarified
journal: Phys. Scr. 90, 015104 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4211
abstract: In QBism (or Quantum Bayesianism) a quantum state does not represent an element of physical reality but an agent's personal probability assignments, reflecting his subjective degrees of belief about the future content of his experience. In this paper, we contrast QBism with hidden-variable accounts of quantum mechanics and show the sense in which QBism explains quantum correlations. QBism's agent-centered worldview can be seen as a development of ideas expressed in Schr\"odinger's essay "Nature and the Greeks".

id: 1412.4244
title: Shape Invariant Potentials in Higher Dimensions
authors: R. Sandhya, S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4244
abstract: In this paper we investigate the shape invariance property of a potential in one dimension. We show that a simple ansatz allows us to reconstruct all the known shape invariant potentials in one dimension. This ansatz can be easily extended to arrive at a large class of new shape invariant potentials in arbitrary dimensions. A reformulation of the shape invariance property and possible generalizations are proposed. These may lead to an important extension of the shape invariance property to Hamiltonians that are related to standard potential problems via space time transformations, which are found useful in path integral formulation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1412.4282
title: The ubiquitous problem of learning system parameters for dissipative two-level quantum systems: Fourier analysis versus Bayesian estimation
authors: Sophie Schirmer, Frank Langbein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4282
abstract: We compare the accuracy, precision and reliability of different methods for estimating key system parameters for two-level systems subject to Hamiltonian evolution and decoherence. It is demonstrated that the use of Bayesian modelling and maximum likelihood estimation is superior to common techniques based on Fourier analysis. Even for simple two-parameter estimation problems, the Bayesian approach yields higher accuracy and precision for the parameter estimates obtained. It requires less data, is more flexible in dealing with different model systems, can deal better with uncertainty in initial conditions and measurements, and enables adaptive refinement of the estimates. The comparison results shows that this holds for measurements of large ensembles of spins and atoms limited by Gaussian noise as well as projection noise limited data from repeated single-shot measurements of a single quantum device.

id: 1412.4283
title: Model discrimination for dephasing two-level systems
authors: Erling Gong, Weiwei Zhou, Sophie Schirmer
comments: Phys. Lett. A, 2014. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1012.4593
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4283
abstract: The problem of model discriminability and parameter identifiability for dephasing two-level systems subject to Hamiltonian control is studied. Analytic solutions of the Bloch equations are used to derive explicit expressions for observables as functions of time for different models. This information is used to give criteria for model discrimination and parameter estimation based on simple experimental paradigms.

id: 1412.4325
title: Phase-Matching Condition for Superpositions of Coherent States in a Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: Xiang Zhao, Luyi Shen, Xiaoxing Jing, Jing Liu, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, first draft
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4325
abstract: We discussed the phase-matching condition of the input states for a specific Mach-Zehnder interferometer to enhance the phase sensitivity. The input states are a coherent state and a superposition of coherent states. For both cases with and without photon losses, the phase-matching condition to enhance phase sensitivity is found to be unchanged no matter the input state has parity or not.

id: 1412.4337
title: Landau levels for discrete-time quantum walks in artificial magnetic fields
authors: Pablo Arnault, Fabrice Debbasch
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4337
abstract: A new family of 2D discrete-time quantum walks (DTQWs) is presented and shown to coincide, in the continuous limit, with the Dirac dynamics of a spin 1/2 fermion coupled to a constant and homogeneous magnetic field. Landau levels are constructed, not only in the continuous limit, but also for the DTQWs i.e. for finite non-vanishing values of the time- and position-steps. All results are supported by numerical simulations. The possibility of quantum simulation of condensed matter systems by DTQWs is also discussed.

id: 1412.4348
title: Nonclassical properties of Hermite polynomial's excitation on squeezed vacuum and its decoherence in phase-sensitive reservoirs
authors: Shi-You Liu, Ya-Zhou Li, Li-Yun Hu, Jie-Hui Huang, Xue-Xiang Xu, Xiang-Yang Tao
comments: 10 pages, 9 Figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4348
abstract: We introduce Hermite polynomial excitation squeezed vacuum (SV) H_{n}(O)S(r)|0> with O=u a+v a^{{+}}. We investigate analytically the nonclassical properties according to Mandel's Q parameter, second correlation function, squeezing effect and the negativity of Wigner function (WF). It is found that all these nonclassicalities can be enhanced by H_{n}(O)operation and adjustable parameters u and v. In particular, the optimal negative volume delta_{opt}of WF can be achieved by modulating u and v for n>=2,while delta is kept unchanged for n=1. Furthermore, the decoherence effect of phase-sensitive enviornment on this state is examined. It is shown that delta with bigger ndiminishes more quickly than that with lower n, which indicates that single-photon subtraction SV presents more roboustness. Parameter Mof reservoirs can be effectively used to improve the nonclassicality.

id: 1412.4358
title: Practical implementation of mutually unbiased bases using quantum circuits
authors: U. Seyfarth, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, G. Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 2 color figures. Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4358
abstract: The number of measurements necessary to perform the quantum state reconstruction of a system of qubits grows exponentially with the number of constituents, creating a major obstacle for the design of scalable tomographic schemes. We work out a simple and efficient method based on cyclic generation of mutually unbiased bases. The basic generator requires only Hadamard and controlled-phase gates, which are available in most practical realizations of these systems. We show how complete sets of mutually unbiased bases with different entanglement structures can be realized for three and four qubits. We also analyze the quantum circuits implementing the various entanglement classes.

id: 1412.4375
title: Quantum phase transition in an array of coupled dissipative cavities
authors: Ke Liu, Lei Tan, C.-H Lv, W. M. Liu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1101.1433
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4375
abstract: The features of superfluid-Mott insulator phase transition in the array of dissipative nonlinear cavities are analyzed. We show analytically that the coupling to the bath can be reduced to renormalizing the eigenmodes of atom-cavity system. This gives rise to a localizing effect and drives the system into mixed states. For the superfluid state, a dynamical instability will lead to a sweeping to a localized state of photons. For the Mott state, a dissipation-induced fluctuation will suppress the restoring of long-range phase coherence driven by interaction.

id: 1412.4431
title: Nonlinear optomechanical paddle nanocavities
authors: Hamidreza Kaviani, Chris Healey, Marcelo Wu, Roohollah Ghobadi, Aaron Hryciw, Paul E. Barclay
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optica, 2, 271-274 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4431
abstract: Nonlinear optomechanical coupling is the basis for many potential future experiments in quantum optomechanics (e.g., quantum non-demolition measurements, preparation of non-classical states), which to date have been difficult to realize due to small non-linearity in typical optomechanical devices. Here we introduce an optomechanical system combining strong nonlinear optomechanical coupling, low mass and large optical mode spacing. This nanoscale "paddle nanocavity" supports mechanical resonances with hundreds of fg mass which couple nonlinearly to optical modes with a quadratic optomechanical coupling coefficient $g^{(2)} > 2\pi\times400$ MHz/nm$^2$, and a two phonon to single photon optomechanical coupling rate $\Delta \omega_0 > 2\pi\times 16$ Hz. This coupling relies on strong phonon-photon interactions in a structure whose optical mode spectrum is highly non--degenerate. Nonlinear optomechanical readout of thermally driven motion in these devices should be observable for T $> 50 $ mK, and measurement of phonon shot noise is achievable. This shows that strong nonlinear effects can be realized without relying on coupling between nearly degenerate optical modes, thus avoiding parasitic linear coupling present in two mode systems.

id: 1412.4482
title: Sensing Short-Range Forces with a Nanosphere Matter-Wave Interferometer
authors: Andrew A. Geraci, Hart Goldman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4482
abstract: We describe a method for sensing short range forces using matter wave interference in dielectric nanospheres. When compared with atom interferometers, the larger mass of the nanosphere results in reduced wave packet expansion, enabling investigations of forces nearer to surfaces in a free-fall interferometer. By laser cooling a nanosphere to the ground state of an optical potential and releasing it by turning off the optical trap, acceleration sensing at the $10^{-8}$m/s$^2$ level is possible. The approach can yield improved sensitivity to Yukawa-type deviations from Newtonian gravity at the $5$ $\mu$m length scale by a factor of $10^4$ over current limits.

id: 1412.4486
title: 16-QAM Quantum Receiver with Hybrid Structure Outperforming the Standard Quantum Limit
authors: Yuan Zuo, Ke Li, Bing Zhu
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures, CLEO2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4486
abstract: We present a quantum receiver for 16-QAM signals discrimination with hybrid structure containing a homodyne receiver and a displacement receiver, which can outperform the SQL, and the performance can be improved by an optimized displacement.

id: 1412.4497
title: Optomechanical laser cooling with mechanical modulations
authors: Marc Bienert, Pablo Barberis-Blostein
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4497
abstract: We theoretically study the laser cooling of cavity optomechanics when the mechanical resonance frequency and damping depend on time. In the regime of weak optomechanical coupling we extend the theory of laser cooling using an adiabatic approximation. We discuss the modifications of the cooling dynamics and compare it with numerical simulations in a wide range of modulation frequencies.

id: 1412.4519
title: Control of molecular dynamics with zero-area fields: Application to molecular orientation and photofragmentation
authors: D. Sugny, St¨¦phane Vranckx, Mamadou Ndong, Nathalie Vaeck, Osman Atabek, Mich¨¨le Desouter-Lecomte
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4519
abstract: The constraint of time-integrated zero-area on the laser field is a fundamental, both theoretical and experimental requirement in the control of molecular dynamics. By using techniques of local and optimal control theory, we show how to enforce this constraint on two benchmark control problems, namely molecular orientation and photofragmentation. The origin and the physical implications on the dynamics of this zero-area control field are discussed.

id: 1412.4611
title: Transformation of a single photon field into bunches of pulses
authors: R.N. Shakhmuratov, F.G. Vagizov, V.A. Antonov, Y.V. Radeonychev, O. Kocharovskaya
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and Supplemental Material (15 pages and 9 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4611
abstract: We propose a method to transform a single photon field into bunches of pulses with controllable timing and number of pulses in a bunch. This method is based on transmission of a photon through an optically thick single-line absorber vibrated with a frequency appreciably exceeding the width of the absorption line. The spectrum of the quasi-monochromatic incoming photon is 'seen' by the vibrated absorber as a comb of equidistant spectral components separated by the vibration frequency. Tuning the absorber in resonance with m-th spectral component transforms the output radiation into bunches of pulses with m pulses in each bunch. We experimentally demonstrated the proposed technique with single 14.4 keV photons and produced for the first time gamma-photonic time-bin qudits with dimension d=2m.

id: 1412.4633
title: Confining the state of light to a quantum manifold by engineered two-photon loss
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Steven Touzard, Ioan M. Pop, Angela Kou, Brian Vlastakis, Andrei Petrenko, Katrina M. Sliwa, Anirudh Narla, Shyam Shankar, Michael J. Hatridge, Matthew Reagor, Luigi Frunzio, Robert J. Schoelkopf, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 
journal: Science (2015), Vol. 347, No. 6224
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4633
abstract: Physical systems usually exhibit quantum behavior, such as superpositions and entanglement, only when they are sufficiently decoupled from a lossy environment. Paradoxically, a specially engineered interaction with the environment can become a resource for the generation and protection of quantum states. This notion can be generalized to the confinement of a system into a manifold of quantum states, consisting of all coherent superpositions of multiple stable steady states. We have experimentally confined the state of a harmonic oscillator to the quantum manifold spanned by two coherent states of opposite phases. In particular, we have observed a Schrodinger cat state spontaneously squeeze out of vacuum, before decaying into a classical mixture. This was accomplished by designing a superconducting microwave resonator whose coupling to a cold bath is dominated by photon pair exchange. This experiment opens new avenues in the fields of nonlinear quantum optics and quantum information, where systems with multi-dimensional steady state manifolds can be used as error corrected logical qubits.

id: 1412.4657
title: Applications of differential geometry and representation theory to description of quantum correlations
authors: Micha? Oszmaniec
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Warsaw 2014, 186 pages, 7 chapters (+ appendix). Results are contained in Chapters 3-6. Contains parts of arXiv:1111.1005, arXiv:1306.2376, arXiv:1312.7359, arXiv:1406.1577 and a number of unpublished results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4657
abstract: One of the most important questions in quantum information theory is the so-called separability problem. It involves characterizing the set of separable (or, equivalently entangled) states among mixed states of a multipartite quantum system. In this thesis we study the generalization of this problem to types of quantum correlations that are defined in a manner analogous to entanglement. We start with the subset of set of pure states of a given quantum system and call states belonging to the convex hull of this subset "non-correlated" states. Consequently, the states laying outside the convex hull are referred to as "correlated". In this work we focus on cases when there exist a symmetry group that preserves the class of "non-correlated" pure states. The presence of symmetries allows to obtain a unified treatment of many types of seemingly unrelated types of correlations. We apply our general results to particular types of correlations: (i) entanglement of distinguishable particles, (ii) particle entanglement of bosons, (iii) "entanglement" of fermions, (iv) non-convex-Gaussian correlations in fermionic systems, (v) genuine multiparty entanglement, and finally (vi) refined notions of bipartite entanglement based on the concept of the Schmidt number. We investigate the natural problems and questions concerning the correlations defined above: (I) We provide explicit polynomial characterization of various types of correlations for pure states. (II) We examine cases in which it is possible to give a complete analytical characterization of correlated mixed states. (III) We derive a variety of polynomial criteria for detection of correlations in mixed states.(IV) We use the above criteria and the technique of measure concentration to study typical properties of correlations on sets of isospectral density matrices.

id: 1412.4680
title: Multipartite Entangled Spatial Modes of Ultracold Atoms Generated and Controlled by Quantum Measurement
authors: Thomas J. Elliott, Wojciech Kozlowski, Santiago Caballero-Benitez, Igor B. Mekhov
comments: 6 Pages, 3 Figures, Supplemental Material included
journal: Physical Review Letters 114, 113604 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4680
abstract: We show that the effect of measurement back-action results in the generation of multiple many-body spatial modes of ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice, when scattered light is detected. The multipartite mode entanglement properties and their nontrivial spatial overlap can be varied by tuning the optical geometry in a single setup. This can be used to engineer quantum states and dynamics of matter fields. We provide examples of multimode generalizations of parametric down-conversion, Dicke, and other states, investigate the entanglement properties of such states, and show how they can be transformed into a class of generalized squeezed states. Further, we propose how these modes can be used to detect and measure entanglement in quantum gases.

id: 1412.4687
title: Simulating Hamiltonian dynamics with a truncated Taylor series
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Andrew M. Childs, Richard Cleve, Robin Kothari, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090502 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4687
abstract: We describe a simple, efficient method for simulating Hamiltonian dynamics on a quantum computer by approximating the truncated Taylor series of the evolution operator. Our method can simulate the time evolution of a wide variety of physical systems. As in another recent algorithm, the cost of our method depends only logarithmically on the inverse of the desired precision, which is optimal. However, we simplify the algorithm and its analysis by using a method for implementing linear combinations of unitary operations to directly apply the truncated Taylor series.

id: 1412.4693
title: Quantum mechanics and the square root of the Brownian motion
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Changed style and reformatted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4693
abstract: Using the Euler--Maruyama technique, we show that a class of Wiener processes exists that are obtained by computing an arbitrary positive power of them. This can be accomplished with a proper set of definitions that makes meaningful the realization at discrete times of these processes and make them computable. Then, we are able to show that quantum mechanics is not directly a stochastic process characterizing Brownian motion but rather its square root. Schr\"odinger equation is immediately derived without further assumptions as the Fokker--Planck equation for this process. This generalizes without difficulty to a Clifford algebra that makes immediate the introduction of spin and a generalization to the Dirac equation. A relevant conclusion is that the introduction of spin is essential to recover the Brownian motion from its square root.

id: 1412.4704
title: Quantum++ - A C++11 quantum computing library
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu
comments: Any comments or suggestions are welcome! Code available at: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4704
abstract: Quantum++ is a general-purpose multi-threaded quantum computing library written in C++11 and composed solely of header files. The library is not restricted to qubit systems or specific quantum information processing tasks, being capable of simulating arbitrary quantum processes. The main design factors taken in consideration were ease of use, portability, and performance.

id: 1412.4724
title: Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Maximal Noncontextuality in a Broad Class of Quantum Mechanical Systems
authors: Janne V. Kujala, Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: under review; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4724
abstract: The notion of noncontextuality pertains to sets of properties measured one subset at a time, with different subsets (contexts) generally overlapping. A noncontextual description of a system is such that measurement outcomes of any one property in different contexts are perfectly correlated (equal to each other with probability 1). Here we extend this notion to include so-called inconsistently-connected systems, for which the measurement outcomes of a given property in different contexts may have different distributions, due to contextual biases in experimental design or physical interactions (signaling). The extended notion, maximal noncontextuality, merely requires the outcomes in different contexts to be maximally correlated (equal to each other with maximal probability) given their different distributions in different contexts. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for maximal noncontextuality within a broad class of quantum-mechanical systems including Klyachko-Can-Binicio\u{g}lu-Shumvosky-type (KCBS), EPR-Bell-type, and Leggett-Garg-type systems. Because these conditions allow for inconsistent connectedness, they are applicable to real experiments with measurement errors and interactions. We illustrate this by analyzing an experiment by Lapkiewicz and colleagues aimed at testing contextuality in a KCBS-type system.

id: 1412.4803
title: Out-of-equilibrium Thermodynamics of Quantum Optomechanical Systems
authors: M. Brunelli, A. Xuereb, A. Ferraro, G. De Chiara, N. Kiesel, M. Paternostro
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, RevTeX4.-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4803
abstract: We address the out-of-equilibrium thermodynamics of an isolated quantum system consisting of a cavity optomechanical device. We explore the dynamical response of the system when driven out of equilibrium by a sudden quench of the coupling parameter and compute analytically the full distribution of the work generated by the process. We consider linear and quadratic optomechanical coupling, where the cavity field is parametrically coupled to either the position or the square of the position of a mechanical oscillator, respectively. In the former case we find that the average work generated by the quench is zero, whilst the latter leads to a non-zero average value. Through fluctuations theorems we access the most relevant thermodynamical figures of merit, such as the free energy difference and the amount of irreversible work generated. We thus provide a full characterization of the out-of-equilibrium thermodynamics in the quantum regime for nonlinearly coupled bosonic modes. Our study is the first due step towards the construction and full quantum analysis of an optomechanical machine working fully out of equilibrium.

id: 1412.4819
title: Dynamical Casimir effect and minimal temperature in quantum thermodynamics
authors: G. Benenti, G. Strini
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 020502(R) (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4819
abstract: We study the fundamental limitations of cooling to absolute zero for a qubit, interacting with a single mode of the electromagnetic field. Our results show that the dynamical Casimir effect, which is unavoidable in any finite-time thermodynamic cycle, forbids the attainability of the absolute zero of temperature, even in the limit of an infinite number of cycles.

id: 1412.4865
title: State-selective intersystem crossing in nitrogen-vacancy centers
authors: M. L. Goldman, M. W. Doherty, A. Sipahigil, N. Y. Yao, S. D. Bennett, N. B. Manson, A. Kubanek, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 165201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4865
abstract: The intersystem crossing (ISC) is an important process in many solid-state atomlike impurities. For example, it allows the electronic spin state of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond to be initialized and read out using optical fields at ambient temperatures. This capability has enabled a wide array of applications in metrology and quantum information science. Here, we develop a microscopic model of the state-selective ISC from the optical excited state manifold of the NV center. By correlating the electron-phonon interactions that mediate the ISC with those that induce population dynamics within the NV center's excited state manifold and those that produce the phonon sidebands of its optical transitions, we quantitatively demonstrate that our model is consistent with recent ISC measurements. Furthermore, our model constrains the unknown energy spacings between the center's spin-singlet and spin-triplet levels. Finally, we discuss prospects to engineer the ISC in order to improve the spin initialization and readout fidelities of NV centers.

id: 1412.4868
title: Non-Gaussian pure states and positive Wigner functions
authors: J. F. Corney, M. K. Olsen
comments: Corrected the rather obvious typos in Eqs (9)-(10). Expanded discussion on +P, sampling error and related issues. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 023824 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4868
abstract: Non-Gaussian correlations in a pure state are inextricably linked with non-classical features, such as a non positive-definite Wigner function. In a commonly used simulation technique in ultracold atoms and quantum optics, known as the truncated Wigner method, the quantum dynamics is mapped to stochastic trajectories in phase space, governed by a positive approximation to the true Wigner distribution. The question thus arises: how accurate is this approach in predicting truly non-classical behaviour? In this article, we benchmark the ability of the truncated Wigner phase-space method to reproduce the non-Gaussian statistics of the single mode anharmonic oscillator. We find that the this method can reliably predict departures from Gaussian statistics over a wide range of particle numbers, whereas the positive-P representation method, which is in principle exact, can suffer from divergent instabilities. The truncated Wigner function, furthermore, is able to reproduce the non-Gaussian correlations while satisfying the condition for purity.

id: 1412.4883
title: Entanglement dynamics in qutrit-qutrit system: DM interaction as a resource to free the bound entangled states
authors: Kapil K. Sharma, S. N. Pandey
comments: 10 pages, 6 pdf figures, (Submitted 6 july 2014), International journal of quantum information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4883
abstract: We consider a tripartite system of a non-interacting qutrit pair and one enviornmental qutrit which interact with any one of the qutrit of the pair through Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. The purpose of this study is to show that DM interaction convert bound entangled states to free entangled states, which are easily distillable. Here we take two qutrit bound entangled states investigated by Jurkowski \textit{et al.} [Open Sys. Info. Dynamics, Vol 16, pp. 235-242, 2009]. It is also interesting to note that probability amplitude of environmental qutrit do not play any role in free entanglement conversion. In this work we have used the computable cross norm realignment criteria to detect the bound entanglement, and negativity have been used to measure free entanglement. We also investigate the distillability sudden death and its possibility in the two qutrits system.

id: 1412.4885
title: Feedback-optimized Extraordinary Optical Transmission of Continuous-variable Entangled States
authors: Dong Wang, Chuanqing Xia, Qianjin Wang, Yang Wu, Fang Liu, Yong Zhang, Min Xiao
comments: 10 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4885
abstract: We report on the feedback-optimized extraordinary optical transmission of continuous-variable entangled states through a hexagonal metal-hole array. The continuous-variable entanglements from a nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier are first demonstrated to survive after a photon-plasmon-photon conversion process. By controlling the reflected light from the metal-hole array, a significant enhancement of quantum correlations has then been experimentally achieved comparing to the case of without such coherent feedback control. This result presents a useful technique to efficiently recover the substantial reflective losses in the plasmonic circuits for quantum information processing.

id: 1412.4888
title: Negative probabilities and Counterfactual Reasoning on the double-slit Experiment
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, Gary Oas, Patrick Suppes
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, submitted to a volume in honor of Patrick Suppes edited by Jean-Yves Beziau and Decio Krause
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4888
abstract: In this paper we attempt to establish a theory of negative (quasi) probability distributions from fundamental principles and apply it to the study of the double-slit experiment in quantum mechanics. We do so in a way that preserves the main conceptual issues intact but allow for a clearer analysis, by representing the double-slit experiment in terms of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, and show that the main features of quantum systems relevant to the double-slit are present also in the Mach-Zehnder. This converts the problem from a continuous to a discrete random variable representation. We then show that, for the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, negative probabilities do not exist that are consistent with interference and which-path information, contrary to what Feynman believed. However, consistent with Scully et al.'s experiment, if we reduce the amount of experimental information about the system and rely on counterfactual reasoning, a joint negative probability distribution can be constructed for the Mach-Zehnder experiment.

id: 1412.4910
title: Quantum Correlations in Dimers
authors: N. Doustimotlagh
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4910
abstract: It has been proven that the quantum discord is a more general tool to capture non-classical correlation than quantum entanglement, because there is a non-zero quantum discord in several mixed states that could not be measured by quantum entanglement. But because of optimization part in formulating quantum discord, it is very difficult and nearly impossible to find quantum discord for some quantum states. So people proposed geometric quantum discord, which in a bipartite state could be describe as the distance of the states from the closest zero-discord state. To understand better geometric quantum discord, this paper is devoted to compare it with quantum discord and measurement induced non-locality that is in some sense dual to the geometric quantum discord. As studying the quantum correlation experimentally is one of the important thing in quantum information processing, so as our example for illustrating the difference of geometric quantum discord, quantum discord and measurement induced non-locality, our quantum system is a dimer (two spin-1/2 particles) in multiple quantum nuclear magnetic resonance.

id: 1412.4963
title: Robust Adaptive Quantum Phase Estimation
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures, Journal version (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4963
abstract: Quantum parameter estimation is central to many fields such as quantum computation, communications and metrology. Optimal estimation theory has been instrumental in achieving the best accuracy in quantum parameter estimation, which is possible when we have very precise knowledge of and control over the model. However, uncertainties in key parameters underlying the system are unavoidable and may impact the quality of the estimate. We show here how quantum optical phase estimation of a squeezed state of light exhibits improvement when using a robust fixed-interval smoother designed with uncertainties explicitly introduced in parameters underlying the phase noise.

id: 1412.5014
title: Fast thermometry for trapped ions using dark resonances
authors: Johannes Ro?nagel, Karl Nicolas Tolazzi, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 045004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5014
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a method to determine the temperature of trapped ions which is suitable for monitoring fast thermalization processes. We show that observing and analyzing the lineshape of dark resonances in the fluorescence spectrum provides a temperature measurement which accurate over a large dynamic range, applied to single ions and small ion crystals. Laser induced fluorescence is detected over a time of only $20\,\mu$s allowing for rapid determination of the ion temperature. In the measurement range of $10^{-1}-10^{+2}\,$mK we reach better than $15\,\%$ accuracy. Tuning the cooling laser to selected resonance features allows for controlling the ion temperatures between $0.7\,$mK and more than $10\,$mK. Experimental work is supported by a solution of the 8-level optical Bloch equations when including the ions classical motion. This technique paves the way for many experiments comprising heat transport in ion strings, heat engines, non-equilibrium thermodynamics or thermometry of large ion crystals.

id: 1412.5051
title: Smooth optimal quantum control for robust solid state spin magnetometry
authors: Tobias N?bauer, Andreas Angerer, Bj?rn Bartels, Michael Trupke, Stefan Rotter, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Florian Mintert, Johannes Majer
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5051
abstract: Nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond show great potential as magnetic, electric and thermal sensors which are naturally packaged in a bio-compatible material. In particular, NV-based magnetometers combine small sensor volumes with high sensitivities under ambient conditions. The practical operation of such sensors, however, requires advanced quantum control techniques that are robust with respect to experimental and material imperfections, control errors, and noise. Here, we present a novel approach that uses Floquet theory to efficiently generate smooth and simple quantum control pulses with tailored robustness properties. We verify their performance by applying them to a single NV center and by characterising the resulting quantum gate using quantum process tomography. We show how the sensitivity of NV-ensemble magnetometry schemes can be improved by up to two orders of magnitude by compensating for inhomogeneities in both the control field and the spin transition frequency. Our approach is ideally suited for a wide variety of quantum technologies requiring high-fidelity, robust control under tight bandwidth requirements, such as spin-ensemble based memories involving high-Q cavities.

id: 1412.5079
title: Dimensional Jump in Quantum Error Correction
authors: H. Bombin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5079
abstract: Topological stabilizer codes with different spatial dimensions have complementary properties. Here I show that the spatial dimension can be switched using gauge fixing. Combining 2D and 3D gauge color codes in a 3D qubit lattice, fault-tolerant quantum computation can be achieved with constant time overhead on the number of logical gates, up to efficient global classical computation, using only local quantum operations. Single-shot error correction plays a crucial role.

id: 1412.5086
title: Central limit theorem for reducible and irreducible open quantum walks
authors: Przemys?aw Sadowski, ?ukasz Pawela
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5086
abstract: In this work we aim at proving central limit theorems for open quantum walks on $\mathbb{Z}^d$. We study the case when there are various classes of vertices in the network. Furthermore, we investigate two ways of distributing the vertex classes in the network. First we assign the classes in a regular pattern. Secondly, we assign each vertex a random class with a uniform distribution. For each way of distributing vertex classes, we obtain an appropriate central limit theorem, illustrated by numerical examples. These theorems may have application in the study of complex systems in quantum biology and dissipative quantum computation.

id: 1412.5089
title: Fast and stable manipulation of a charged particle in a Penning trap
authors: A. Kiely, J. P. L. McGuinness, J. G. Muga, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5089
abstract: We propose shortcuts to adiabaticity which achieve fast and stable control of the state of a charged particle in an electromagnetic field. In particular we design a non-adiabatic change of the magnetic field strength in a Penning trap which changes the radial spread without final excitations. We apply a streamlined version of the fast-forward formalism as well as an invariant based inverse engineering approach. We compare both methods and examine their stability.

id: 1412.5095
title: Long Distance Coupling of a Quantum Mechanical Oscillator to the Internal States of an Atomic Ensemble
authors: B. Vogell, T. Kampschulte, M. T. Rakher, A. Faber, P. Treutlein, K. Hammerer, P. Zoller
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 043044 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5095
abstract: We propose and investigate a hybrid optomechanical system consisting of a micro-mechanical oscillator coupled to the internal states of a distant ensemble of atoms. The interaction between the systems is mediated by a light field which allows to couple the two systems in a modular way over long distances. Coupling to internal degrees of freedom of atoms opens up the possibility to employ high-frequency mechanical resonators in the MHz to GHz regime, such as optomechanical crystal structures, and to benefit from the rich toolbox of quantum control over internal atomic states. Previous schemes involving atomic motional states are rather limited in both of these aspects. We derive a full quantum model for the effective coupling including the main sources of decoherence. As an application we show that sympathetic ground-state cooling and strong coupling between the two systems is possible.

id: 1412.5102
title: Teleportation and Multipartite Quantum State Sharing using a Seven Qubit Genuinely Entangled State
authors: Mrittunjoy Guha Majumdar, Prasanta Panigrahi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5102
abstract: We have tried to gauge the utility of a recently introduced seven-qubit state by Xin-Wei Zha et al for quantum teleportation and quantum state sharing. It is shown that this state can be used for the teleportation of an arbitrary single, double and triple qubit systems. We have also come up with 3 proposals for Quantum State Sharing using the Xin-Wei Zha state.

id: 1412.5105
title: Computationally efficient analytic representation of relativistic transition matrix elements in the Lamb shift calculations for hydrogenic atoms
authors: J. Seke, A.V. Soldatov, M. Polak, G. Adam
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5105
abstract: By using the plane-wave expansion for the electromagnetic-field vector potential, transition matrix elements between the relativistic bound and unbound states of hydrogenic atoms were expressed explicitly in terms of finite series made of hypergeometric functions. This representation for the above mentioned matrix elements proved very convenient for direct numerical calculation of their contributions to the Lamb shift in hydrogenic atoms.

id: 1412.5133
title: Bohm's Quantum Potential as an Internal Energy
authors: Glen Dennis, Maurice de Gosson, Basil Hiley
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5133
abstract: We pursue our discussion of Fermi's surface initiated in Dennis, de Gosson and Hiley and show that Bohm's quantum potential can be viewed as an internal energy of a quantum system. This gives further insight into the role it played by the quantum potential in stationary states. It also allows us to provide a physically motivated derivation of Schr\"odinger's equation for a particle in an external potential.

id: 1412.5135
title: Quantum hashing. Group approach
authors: Mansur Ziatdinov
comments: Draft of the article that is sent to Lobachevskii Journal of Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5135
abstract: In this paper we consider a generalization of quantum hash functions for arbitrary groups. We show that quantum hash function exists for arbitrary abelian group. We construct a set of "good" automorphisms --- a key component of quantum hash funciton. We prove some restrictions on Hilbert space dimension and group used in quantum hash function

id: 1412.5192
title: Giant Narrowband Twin-Beam Generation along the Pump Energy Propagation
authors: Angela M. Perez, Kirill Yu. Spasibko, Polina R. Sharapova, Olga V. Tikhonova, Gerd Leuchs, Maria V. Chekhova
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5192
abstract: Walk-off effects, originating from the difference between the group and phase velocities, limit the efficiency of nonlinear optical interactions. While transverse walk-off can be eliminated by proper medium engineering, longitudinal walk-off is harder to avoid. In particular, ultrafast twin- beam generation via pulsed parametric down-conversion (PDC) and four-wave mixing (FWM) is only possible in short crystals or fibres or in double-path schemes. Here we show that in high-gain PDC, one can overcome the destructive role of both effects and even turn them into useful tools for shaping the emission. In our experiment, one of the twin beams is emitted along the pump Poynting vector or its group velocity matches that of the pump. The result is dramatically enhanced generation of both twin beams, with the simultaneous narrowing of angular and frequency spectrum. The effect will enable efficient generation of ultrafast twin photons and beams in cavities, waveguides, and whispering-gallery mode resonators.

id: 1412.5206
title: Quantum Darwinism, Classical Reality, and the Randomness of Quantum Jumps
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: This manuscript, after cuts and edits to comply with Physics Today limits and style, was published last October. It may have some rough edges, but it also contains technical elaborations omitted from the published version for lack of space that may be of interest to some readers. Thus, while the essence is the same, but there are differences (starting with the title and abstract)
journal: Physics Today, vol. 67, pp. 44-50 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5206
abstract: Tracing flows of information in our quantum Universe explains why we see the world as classical.

id: 1412.5213
title: A classification of multipartite states by degree of non-locality
authors: Samson Abramsky, Carmen Constantin
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 10-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5213
abstract: We propose a novel form of classification of multipartite states, in terms of the maximum degree of non-locality they can exhibit under any choice of local observables. This uses the hierarchy of notions previously introduced by Abramsky and Brandenburger: strong contextuality, logical contextuality, and probabilistic contextuality. We study n-qubit pure states. We conjecture that for more than 2 parties, all entangled states are logically contextual. We prove a number of results in support of this conjecture: (1) We show that all permutation-symmetric states are logically non-local. (2) We study the class of balanced states with functional dependencies. These states are described by Boolean functions and have a rich structure, allowing a detailed analysis, which again confirms the conjecture in this case.

id: 1412.5235
title: Preparing ground states and squeezed states of nanomechanical cantilevers by fast dissipation
authors: Xin Wang, Hong-rong Li, Peng-bo Li, Chen-wei Jiang, Hong Gao, Fu-li Li
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: PhysRevA.90.013838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5235
abstract: We propose a protocol that enables strong coupling between a flux qubit and the quantized motion of a magnetized nanomechanical cantilever. The flux qubit is driven by microwave fields with suitable parameters to induce sidebands, which will lead to the desired coupling. We show that the nanomechanical modes can be cooled to the ground states and the single-mode squeezed vacuum states can be generated via fast dissipation of the flux qubit. In our scheme, the qubit decay plays a positive role and can help drive the system to the target states.

id: 1412.5243
title: Quantum storage of high-dimensional orbital-angular-momentum entanglement in a crystal
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Yi-Lin Hua, Xiao Liu, Geng Chen, Jin-Shi Xu, Yong-Jian Han, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Supplementary Information can be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5243
abstract: Quantum repeater has been proposed to efficiently extend quantum communication beyond its current distance limit of the order of 100 km. The low data rate in quantum communication, which represents one of the main obstacles to the practical realization of quantum networks based on quantum repeater, promises significant speedups by the utilizations of high-dimensional encodings and multimode memories. Here, we present the quantum storage of 3-dimensional orbital-angular-momentum photonic entanglement in a rare-earth ion doped crystal. The properties of the entanglement and the storage process are confirmed by the violation of the Bell-type inequality generalized to 3 dimensions after storage ($S=2.152\pm0.033$). An assessment of the visibility of the stored superposition states in higher dimensions, demonstrates that the memory is highly reliable, even for quantum states spanning 51 dimensions. These results pave the way towards the construction of high-dimensional and multiplexed quantum repeaters for large-scale quantum networks.

id: 1412.5271
title: Efficient scheme for generation of photonic NOON states in circuit QED
authors: Shao-Jie Xiong, Tong Liu, Jin-Ming Liu, Zhe Sun, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5271
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for generating photonic NOON states of two resonators coupled to a four-level superconducting flux device (coupler). This proposal operates essentially by employing a technique of a coupler resonantly interacting with two resonators simultaneously. As a consequence, the NOON-state preparation requires only N+1 operational steps and thus is much faster when compared with a recent proposal [Q. P. Su et al., Scientific Reports 4, 3898 (2014)] requiring 2N steps of operation. Moreover, due to the use of only two resonators and a coupler, the experimental setup is much simplified when compared with previous proposals requiring three resonators and two superconducting qubits/qutrits.

id: 1412.5283
title: Multi-partite quantum nonlocality and Bell-type inequalities in an infinite-order quantum phase transition of the one-dimensional spin-1/2 XXZ chain
authors: Zhao-Yu Sun, Shuang Liu, Hai-Lin Huang, Duo Zhang, Yu-Yin Wu, Jian Xu, Bi-Fu Zhan, Hong-Guang Cheng, Cheng-Bo Duan, Bo Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5283
abstract: In this paper, combined with infinite time-evolving block decimation (iTEBD) algorithm and Bell-type inequalities, we investigate multi-partite quantum nonlocality in an infinite one-dimensional quantum spin-1/2 XXZ system. High hierarchy of multipartite nonlocality can be observed in the gapless phase of the model, meanwhile only the lowest hierarchy of multipartite nonlocality is observed in most regions of the gapped anti-ferromagnetic phase. Thereby, Bell-type inequalities disclose different correlation structures in the two phases of the system. Furthermore, at the infinite-order QPT (or Kosterlitz-Thouless QPT) point of the model, the correlation measures always show a local minimum value, regardless of the length of the subchains. It indicates that relatively low hierarchy of multi-partite nonlocality would be observed at the infinite-order QPT point in a Bell-type experiment. The result is in contrast to the existing results of the second-order QPT in the one-dimensional XY model, where multi-partite nonlocality with the hierarchy has been observed. Thus, multi-partite nonlocality provides us an alternative perspective to distinguish between these two kinds of QPTs. Reliable clues for the existence of tripartite quantum entanglement have also been found.

id: 1412.5285
title: Global quantum discord in infinite quantum spin chains
authors: Zhao-Yu Sun, Yan-E Liao, Bin Guo, Hai-Lin Huang, Duo Zhang, Jian Xu, Bi-Fu Zhan, Yu-Yin Wu, Hong-Guang Cheng, Guo-Zhi Wen, Chao Fang, Cheng-Bo Duan, Bo Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5285
abstract: In this paper, we study global quantum discord (GQD) in infinite-size spin chains. For this purpose, in the framework of matrix product states (MPSs), we propose an effective procedure to calculate GQD (denoted as Gn) for consecutive n-site subchains in infinite chains. For a spin-1/2 three-body interaction model, whose ground state can be exactly expressed as MPSs, We use the procedure to study Gn with n up to $24$. Then for a spin-1/2 XXZ chain, we firstly use infinite time-evolving block decimation (iTEBD) algorithm to obtain the approximate wavefunction in the from of MPSs, and then figure out Gn with n up to $18$. In both models, Gn shows an interesting linear growth as the increase of n, that is, Gn = k*n+b. Moreover, in non-critical regions the slope $k$ of Gn converges very fast, while in critical regions it converges relatively slow, and the behaviors are explained in a clear physical picture with the short-range and long-range correlations. Based on these results, we propose to use Gn/n to describe the global correlations in infinite chains. Gn/n has twofold physical meanings. Firstly, it can be regarded as "global discord per site", very similar to "energy per site" or "magnetization per site" in quantum magnetic systems. Secondly, Gn/n (when n is large enough) describes the quantum correlation between a single site and an (n-1)-site block. Then we successfully apply our theory to an exactly soluble infinite-size spin XY chain which is beyond the matrix product formula, and the Hamiltonian can reduce to the transverse-field Ising model and the XX model. The relation between GQD and quantum phase transitions in these models is discussed.

id: 1412.5286
title: Signal Flows in Non-Markovian Linear Quantum Feedback Networks
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5286
abstract: Enabled by rapidly developing quantum technologies, it is possible to network quantum systems at a much larger scale in the near future. To deal with non-Markovian dynamics that is prevalent in solid-state devices, we propose a general transfer function based framework for modeling linear quantum networks, in which signal flow graphs are applied to characterize the network topology by flow of quantum signals. We define a noncommutative ring $\mathbb{D}$ and use its elements to construct Hamiltonians, transformations and transfer functions for both active and passive systems. The signal flow graph obtained for direct and indirect coherent quantum feedback systems clearly show the feedback loop via bidirectional signal flows. Importantly, the transfer function from input to output field is derived for non-Markovian quantum systems with colored inputs, from which the Markovian input-output relation can be easily obtained as a limiting case. Moreover, the transfer function possesses a symmetry structure that is analogous to the well-know scattering transformation in \sd picture. Finally, we show that these transfer functions can be integrated to build complex feedback networks via interconnections, serial products and feedback, which may include either direct or indirect coherent feedback loops, and transfer functions between quantum signal nodes can be calculated by the Riegle's matrix gain rule. The theory paves the way for modeling, analyzing and synthesizing non-Markovian linear quantum feedback networks in the frequency-domain.

id: 1412.5287
title: Limits of optimal control yields achievable with quantum controllers
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Constantin Brif, Matthew R. James, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042327 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5287
abstract: In quantum optimal control theory, kinematic bounds are the minimum and maximum values of the control objective achievable for any physically realizable system dynamics. For a given initial state of the system, these bounds depend on the nature and state of the controller. We consider a general situation where the controlled quantum system is coupled to both an external classical field (referred to as a classical controller) and an auxiliary quantum system (referred to as a quantum controller). In this general situation, the kinematic bound is between the classical kinematic bound (CKB), corresponding to the case when only the classical controller is available, and the quantum kinematic bound (QKB), corresponding to the ultimate physical limit of the objective's value. Specifically, when the control objective is the expectation value of a quantum observable (a Hermitian operator on the system's Hilbert space), the QKBs are the minimum and maximum eigenvalues of this operator. We present, both qualitatively and quantitatively, the necessary and sufficient conditions for surpassing the CKB and reaching the QKB, through the use of a quantum controller. The general conditions are illustrated by examples in which the system and controller are initially in thermal states. The obtained results provide a basis for the design of quantum controllers capable of maximizing the control yield and reaching the ultimate physical limit.

id: 1412.5342
title: Quantum Optical Channels that are `Classical'
authors: Krishna Kumar Sabapathy
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5342
abstract: The Glauber-Sudarshan diagonal weight function provides a natural divide between classical and nonclassical states of continuous variables systems. Based on this division, a channel is said to be classical (or nonclassicality breaking) if the output of the channel is always classical for any input state. We classify all multimode Bosonic Gaussian channels that are classical. This is achieved by introducing a new criterion that needs to be satisfied by the matrices representing the Bosonic Gaussian channels, which can be interpreted as a kind of quantum benchmark for Bosonic Gaussian channels. We then prove a striking duality between classical and entanglement breaking Bosonic Gaussian channels, namely, we show that every classical Bosonic Gaussian channel is entanglement breaking, whereas every entanglement breaking Bosonic Gaussian channel can be rendered classical by the action of a Gaussian unitary whose active component consists only of parallel single-mode canonical squeezing elements. Consequently, Bosonic Gaussian channels that are classical have additive classical capacity and zero quantum capacity.

id: 1412.5403
title: Outcome strategies in geometrical Bell inequalities
authors: Marcin Wie?niak, Arijit Dutta, Junghee Ryu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5403
abstract: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states are intuitively known to be the most non-classical ones. They lead to the most radically nonclassical behavior of three or more entangled quantum subsystems. However, in case of two-dimensional systems, it has been shown that GHZ states lead to more robustness of Bell nonclassicality in case of geometrical inequalities than in case of Mermin inequalities. We investigate various strategies of constructing geometrical Bell inequalities (BIs) for GHZ states for any dimensionality of subsystems.

id: 1412.5410
title: A von Neumann Entropy Measure of Entanglement Transfer in a Double Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: Samina S. Masood, Allen Miller
comments: 13 pages file
journal: IJESIT, Vol.4, (2015) 8-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5410
abstract: We study the entanglement in a system consisting of two non-interacting atoms located in separate cavities, both in their ground states. A single incoming photon has a non-zero probability of entering either of the two cavities. The Jaynes-Cummings interaction in the rotating wave approximation describes the coupling of each atom with the radiation field. We compute and analyze the atom-atom entanglement, the entanglement between the two photon modes, and also the entanglement between each atom and each photon mode. The measure of entanglement is the von Neumann entropy. For the case in which the two atom-photon systems have identical properties, but allowing for non-resonant conditions, the sum of the atom-atom and photon-modes-entanglement is time independent. The effect of detuning is to decrease the strength of the largest entanglement achieved and to shorten the time for it to occur. The results support the fact that the state of the photons after emergence from cavities is entangled, notwithstanding its single-particle nature. In addition, for the case of resonance and identical cavity parameters, we demonstrate that von Neumann entropy is always greater than or equal to the measure of entanglement known as negativity.

id: 1412.5412
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of mixed-state geometric phase of dissipative qubits
authors: Wei Guo, Jian Ma, Xiaolei Yin, Wei Zhong, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5412
abstract: We investigate the geometric phase of a two-level atom (qubit) coupled to a bosonic reservoir with Lorentzian spectral density, and find that for the non-Markovian dynamics in which rotating-wave approximation (RWA) is performed, geometric phase has a $\pi$-phase jump at the nodal point. However, the exact result without RWA given by hierarchy equation of motion method shows that there is no such a phase jump or nodal structure in geometric phase. Thus our results demonstrate that the counter-rotating terms significantly contribute to the geometric phase in multi-mode Hamiltonian under certain circumstances.

id: 1412.5421
title: Extremal states for photon number and quadratures as gauges for nonclassicality
authors: Z. Hradil, J. Rehacek, P. de la Hoz, G. Leuchs, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 6 pages, 4 color figures. Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5421
abstract: Rotated quadratures carry the phase-dependent information of the electromagnetic field, so they are somehow conjugate to the photon number. We analyze this noncanonical pair, finding an exact uncertatinty relation, as well as a couple of weaker inequalities obtained by relaxing some restrictions of the problem. We also find the intelligent states saturating that relation and complete their characterization by considering extra constraints on the second-order moments of the variables involved. Using these moments, we construct performance measures tailored to diagnose photon-added and Schr\"odinger catlike states, among others.

id: 1412.5427
title: Ultra-fast heralded single photon source based on telecom technology
authors: Lutfi Arif Ngah, Olivier Alibart, Laurent Labont¨¦, Virginia D'Auria, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Laser and Photon. Rev., vol. 9, L1-L5 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5427
abstract: The realization of an ultra-fast source of heralded single photons emitted at the wavelength of 1540 nm is reported. The presented strategy is based on state-of-the-art telecom technology, combined with off-the-shelf fiber components and waveguide non-linear stages pumped by a 10 GHz repetition rate laser. The single photons are heralded at a rate as high as 2.1 MHz with a heralding efficiency of 42%. Single photon character of the source is inferred by measuring the second-order autocorrelation function. For the highest heralding rate, a value as low as 0.023 is found. This not only proves negligible multi-photon contributions but also represents the best measured value reported to date for heralding rates in the MHz regime. These prime performances, associated with a device-like configuration, are key ingredients for both fast and secure quantum communication protocols.

id: 1412.5441
title: Recursive polarization of nuclear spins in diamond at arbitrary magnetic fields
authors: Daniela Pagliero, Abdelghani Laraoui, Jacob D. Henshaw, Carlos A. Meriles
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 105, 242402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5441
abstract: We introduce an alternate route to dynamically polarize the nuclear spin host of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. Our approach articulates optical, microwave and radio-frequency pulses to recursively transfer spin polarization from the NV electronic spin. Using two complementary variants of the same underlying principle, we demonstrate nitrogen nuclear spin initialization approaching 80% at room temperature both in ensemble and single NV centers. Unlike existing schemes, our approach does not rely on level anti-crossings and is thus applicable at arbitrary magnetic fields. This versatility should prove useful in applications ranging from nanoscale metrology to sensitivity-enhanced NMR.

id: 1412.5445
title: Rationally extended shape invariant potentials in arbitrary D-dimensions associated with exceptional $X_m$ polynomials
authors: Rajesh Kumar Yadav, Nisha Kumari, Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 18 pages, Latex, No figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5445
abstract: Rationally extended shape invariant potentials in arbitrary D-dimensions are obtained by using point canonical transformation (PCT) method. The bound-state solutions of these exactly solvable potentials can be written in terms of X_m Laguerre or X_m Jacobi exceptional orthogonal polynomials. These potentials are isospectral to their usual counterparts and possess translationally shape invariance property.

id: 1412.5460
title: Quantum Searches in a Hard 2SAT Ensemble
authors: Neuhaus Thomas
comments: none
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5460
abstract: Using a recently constructed ensemble of hard 2SAT realizations, that has a unique ground-state we calculate for the quantized theory the median gap correlation length values $\xi_{GAP}$ along the direction of the quantum adiabatic control parameter $\lambda$. We use quantum annealing (QA) with transverse field and a linear time schedule in the adiabatic control parameter $\lambda$. The gap correlation length diverges exponentially $\xi_{\rm GAP} \propto {\rm exp} [+r_{\rm GAP}N]$ in the median with a rate constant $r_{\rm GAP}=0.553(6)$, while the run time diverges exponentially $\tau_{\rm QA} \propto {\rm exp} [+r_{\rm QA}N]$ with $r_{\rm QA}=1.184(16)$. Simulated classical annealing (SA) exhibits a run time rate constant $r_{\rm SA}=0.340(5)$ that is small and thus finds ground-states exponentially faster than QA. There are no quantum speedups in ground state searches on constant energy surfaces that have exponentially large volume. We also determine gap correlation length distribution functions $P(\xi_{\rm GAP})d\xi_{\rm GAP} \approx W_k$ over the ensemble that at $N=18$ are close to Weibull functions $W_k$ with $k \approx 1.2$ i.e., the problems show thin catastrophic tails in $\xi_{\rm GAP}$. The inferred success probability distribution functions of the quantum annealer turn out to be bimodal.

id: 1412.5485
title: A short note on passivity, complete passivity and virtual temperatures
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Ralph Silva, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 3 pages, no figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5485
abstract: We give a simple and intuitive proof that the only states which are completely passive, i.e. those states from which work cannot be extracted even with infinitely many copies, are Gibbs states at positive temperatures. The proof makes use of the idea of virtual temperatures, i.e. the association of temperatures to transitions. We show that (i) passive states are those where every transition is at a positive temperature, and (ii) completely passive states are those where every transition is at the same positive temperature.

id: 1412.5493
title: Ultracold two-level atom in a quadratic potential
authors: F. Soto-Eguibar, A. Z¨²?iga-Segundo, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 11 pages, 2 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5493
abstract: We use a right unitary decomposition to study an ultracold two-level atom interacting with a quantum field. We show that such a right unitary approach simplifies the numerical evolution for arbitrary position-dependent atom-field couplings. In particular, we provide a closed form, analytic time evolution operator for atom-field couplings with quadratic dependence on the position of the atom.

id: 1412.5503
title: Cold atoms as a coolant for levitated optomechanical systems
authors: Gambhir Ranjit, Cris Montoya, Andrew A. Geraci
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5503
abstract: Optically trapped dielectric objects are well suited for reaching the quantum regime of their center of mass motion in an ultra-high vacuum environment. We show that ground state cooling of an optically trapped nanosphere is achievable when starting at room temperature, by sympathetic cooling of a cold atomic gas optically coupled to the nanoparticle. Unlike cavity cooling in the resolved sideband limit, this system requires only a modest cavity finesse and it allows the cooling to be turned off, permitting subsequent observation of strongly-coupled dynamics between the atoms and sphere. Nanospheres cooled to their quantum ground state could have applications in quantum information science or in precision sensing.

id: 1412.5516
title: Theory of high-efficiency sum-frequency generation for single-photon waveform conversion
authors: John M. Donohue, Michael D. Mazurek, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 13 pages including two appendices, 4 figures. Update contains additional references, minor changes to the text and figures to match refereed version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033809 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5516
abstract: The optimal properties for single photons may vary drastically between different quantum technologies. Along with central frequency conversion, control over photonic temporal waveforms will be paramount to the effective coupling of different quantum systems and efficient distribution of quantum information. Through the application of pulse shaping and the nonlinear optical process of sum-frequency generation, we examine a framework for manipulation of single-photon waveforms. We use a non-perturbative treatment to determine the parameter regime in which both high-efficiency and high-fidelity conversion may be achieved for Gaussian waveforms and study the effect such conversion techniques have on energy-time entanglement. Additionally, we prove that aberrations due to time ordering are negligible when the phasematching is nonrestrictive over the input bandwidths. Our calculations show that ideal quantum optical waveform conversion and quantum time lensing may be fully realized using these techniques.

id: 1412.5596
title: Replicating the benefits of closed timelike curves without breaking causality
authors: Xiao Yuan, Syed M. Assad, Jayne Thompson, Jing Yan Haw, Vlatko Vedral, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam, Christian Weedbrook, Mile Gu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Comments most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5596
abstract: In general relativity, closed timelike curves can break causality with remarkable and unsettling consequences. At the classical level, they induce causal paradoxes disturbing enough to motivate conjectures that explicitly prevent their existence. At the quantum level, resolving such paradoxes induce radical benefits - from cloning unknown quantum states to solving problems intractable to quantum computers. Instinctively, one expects these benefits to vanish if causality is respected. Here we show that in harnessing entanglement, we can efficiently solve NP-complete problems and clone arbitrary quantum states - even when all time-travelling systems are completely isolated from the past. Thus, the many defining benefits of closed timelike curves can still be harnessed, even when causality is preserved. Our results unveil the subtle interplay between entanglement and general relativity, and significantly improve the potential of probing the radical effects that may exist at the interface between relativity and quantum theory.

id: 1412.5604
title: Matrix product operators for symmetry-protected topological phases
authors: Dominic J. Williamson, Nick Bultinck, Michael Mari?n, Mehmet B. Sahinoglu, Jutho Haegeman, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5604
abstract: Projected entangled pair states (PEPS) provide a natural description of the ground states of gapped, local Hamiltonians in which global characteristics of a quantum state are encoded in properties of local tensors. We show that on-site symmetries, as occurring in systems exhibiting symmetry-protected topological (SPT) quantum order, can be captured by a virtual symmetry of the tensors expressed as a set of matrix product operators labelled by the different group elements. A classification of SPT phases can hence be obtained by studying the topological obstructions to continuously deforming one set of matrix product operators into another. This leads to the classification of bosonic SPT states in terms of group cohomology, as originally derived by Chen et al. in [1106.4772]. Our formalism accommodates perturbations away from fixed point models, and hence opens up the possibility of studying phase transitions between different SPT phases. We furthermore show how the global symmetries of SPT PEPS can be promoted into a set of local gauge constraints by introducing bosonic degrees of freedom on the links of the PEPS lattice, thereby providing a natural and general mapping between PEPS in SPT phases and topologically ordered phases.

id: 1412.5605
title: Local constants of motion imply information propagation
authors: M. Friesdorf, A. H. Werner, M. Goihl, J. Eisert, W. Brown
comments: 4 + 6 pages, stylistic changes in presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5605
abstract: Interacting quantum many-body systems are usually expected to thermalise, in the sense that the evolution of local expectation values approach a stationary value resembling a thermal ensemble. This intuition is notably contradicted in systems exhibiting many-body localisation, a phenomenon receiving significant recent attention. One of its most intriguing features is that, in stark contrast to the non-interacting case, entanglement of states grows without limit over time, albeit slowly. In this work, we establish a novel link between quantum information theory and notions of condensed matter, capturing the phenomenon in the Heisenberg picture. We show that the existence of local constants of motion, often taken as the defining property of many-body localisation, together with a generic spectrum, is sufficient to rigorously prove information propagation: These systems can be used to send a signal over arbitrary distances, in that the impact of a local perturbation can be detected arbitrarily far away. We perform a detailed perturbation analysis of quasi-local constants of motion and also show that they indeed can be used to construct efficient spectral tensor networks, as recently suggested. Our results provide a detailed and model-independent picture of information propagation in many-body localised systems.

id: 1412.5608
title: Efficient Approximation of Diagonal Unitaries over the Clifford+T Basis
authors: Jonathan Welch, Alex Bocharov, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures; corrected presentation of CED algorithm; improved presentation of empirical evaluation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5608
abstract: We present an algorithm for the approximate decomposition of diagonal operators, focusing specifically on decompositions over the Clifford+$T$ basis, that minimize the number of phase-rotation gates in the synthesized approximation circuit. The equivalent $T$-count of the synthesized circuit is bounded by $k \, C_0 \log_2(1/\varepsilon) + E(n,k)$, where $k$ is the number of distinct phases in the diagonal $n$-qubit unitary, $\varepsilon$ is the desired precision, $C_0$ is a quality factor of the implementation method ($1<C_0<4$), and $E(n,k)$ is the total entanglement cost (in $T$ gates). We determine an optimal decision boundary in $(k,n,\varepsilon)$-space where our decomposition algorithm achieves lower entanglement cost than previous state-of-the-art techniques. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art techniques for a practical range of $\varepsilon$ values and diagonal operators and can reduce the number of $T$ gates exponentially in $n$ when $k << 2^n$.

id: 1412.5609
title: On quantum interferometric measurements of temperature
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Marcin Zwierz
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5609
abstract: We provide a detailed description of the interferometric thermometer, which is a device that estimates the temperature of a sample from measurements of the optical phase. For the first time, we rigorously analyze the operation of such a device by studying the interaction of the optical probe system with a heated sample. We find that this approach to thermometry is capable of measuring the temperature of a sample in the nK regime. Furthermore, we compare the theoretical precision of interferometric thermometers with the precision offered by the idealized pyrometers, which infer the temperature from a measurement of the total thermal radiation emitted by the sample.

id: 1412.5612
title: EPR program: a local interpretation of QM
authors: Carlos Lopez
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5612
abstract: An alternative interpretation of QM is presented. Hidden vari- ables prescribe the output of measurements for individual states of the ensemble, but a distribution of amplitudes of probability, instead of a distribution of probabilities, is associated to them, as in orthodox QM. Consequently, Bell's type inequalities do not apply. In this in- terpretation, locality is restored in EPR experiments with entangled subsystems, as the observable relative frequencies are obtained by the usual interference for sum of amplitudes, in complete parallelism with the two slit experiment. The action reaction principle seems to be vio- lated in some QM measurements, and the existence of hidden variables could solve this paradox too. In indirect measurements it remains ob- scure the way it could be restored. A version of the two slit experiment is proposed to search for the hidden reaction.

id: 1412.5613
title: Entanglement entropy of dispersive media from thermodynamic entropy in one higher dimension
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Homer Reid
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 151602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5613
abstract: A dispersive medium becomes entangled with zero-point fluctuations in the vacuum. We consider an arbitrary array of material bodies weakly interacting with a quantum field and compute the quantum mutual information between them. It is shown that the mutual information in D dimensions can be mapped to classical thermodynamic entropy in D+1 dimensions. As a specific example, we compute the mutual information both analytically and numerically for a range of separation distances between two bodies in D=2 dimensions and find a logarithmic correction to the area law at short separations. A key advantage of our method is that it allows the strong subadditivity property---notoriously difficult to prove for quantum systems---to be easily verified.

id: 1412.5629
title: Entropic Dynamics: from Entropy and Information Geometry to Hamiltonians and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ariel Caticha, Daniel Bartolomeo, Marcel Reginatto
comments: 11 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2014, the 34th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (September 21-26, 2014, Amboise, France)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5629
abstract: Entropic Dynamics is a framework in which quantum theory is derived as an application of entropic methods of inference. There is no underlying action principle. Instead, the dynamics is driven by entropy subject to the appropriate constraints. In this paper we show how a Hamiltonian dynamics arises as a type of non-dissipative entropic dynamics. We also show that the particular form of the "quantum potential" that leads to the Schroedinger equation follows naturally from information geometry.

id: 1412.5635
title: Two-axis spin squeezing of two-component BEC via a continuous driving
authors: Wen Huang, Yan-Lei Zhang, Chang-Ling Zou, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5635
abstract: In two-component BEC, the one-axis twisting Hamiltonian leads to spin squeezing with the limitation that scales with the number of atoms as $N^{-\frac{2}{3}}$. We propose a scheme to transform the one-axis twisting Hamiltonian into a two-axis twisting Hamiltonian, resulting in enhanced spin squeezing $\propto N^{-1}$ approaching the Heisenberg limit. Instead of pulse sequences, only one continuous driving field is required to realizing such transforming, thus the scheme is promising for experiment realizations, to an one-axis twisting Hamiltonian. Quantum information processing and quantum metrology may benefit from this method in the future.

id: 1412.5637
title: Entropic Quantization of Scalar Fields
authors: Selman Ipek, Ariel Caticha
comments: 10 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2014, the 34th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (September 21--26, 2014, Amboise, France)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5637
abstract: Entropic Dynamics is an information-based framework that seeks to derive the laws of physics as an application of the methods of entropic inference. The dynamics is derived by maximizing an entropy subject to constraints that represent the physically relevant information that the motion is continuous and non-dissipative. Here we focus on the quantum theory of scalar fields. We provide an entropic derivation of Hamiltonian dynamics and using concepts from information geometry derive the standard quantum field theory in the Schroedinger representation.

id: 1412.5700
title: Quantum Correlations, Entanglement, and Squeezed States of Light in Kerr Optical Frequency Combs
authors: Yanne K. Chembo
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5700
abstract: The dynamical behavior of Kerr optical frequency combs is very well understood today from the perspective of the semi-classical approximation. In this article, we provide a theoretical understanding of the phenomena of quantum correlations, multimode entanglement and squeezed states of light that can occur in these frequency combs when quantum noise is accounted for. We prove that for all stationary spatio-temporal patterns, the side-modes that are symmetrical relatively to the central (pumped) mode in the frequency domain display quantum correlations that can lead to squeezed states of light under some optimal conditions that are analytically determined. We show that these quantum correlations can persist regardless the dynamical state of the system (rolls or solitons), regardless of the spectral extension of the comb (number sidemodes), and regardless of the dispersion regime (normal or anomalous). We study with particular emphasis the two principal architectures for Kerr comb generation, namely the add-through and add-drop configurations. We show that in both cases, the ratio between out-coupling and total losses plays a key role as it directly determines the efficiency of the squeezing. We also explicitly determine the phase quadratures leading to photon entanglement, and analytically calculate their quantum noise spectra. The relevance of Kerr combs for quantum information systems at optical telecommunication wavelengths is also discussed.

id: 1412.5746
title: A positive tensor network approach for simulating open quantum many-body systems
authors: A. H. Werner, D. Jaschke, P. Silvi, T. Calarco, J. Eisert, S. Montangero
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5746
abstract: Open many-body quantum systems play an important role in quantum optics and condensed-matter physics, and capture phenomena like transport, interplay between Hamiltonian and incoherent dynamics, and topological order generated by dissipation. We introduce a versatile method to numerically simulate one-dimensional open quantum many-body dynamics using tensor networks representing mixed quantum states in a locally purified form. This strategy guarantees that positivity is preserved at all times, while keeping the algorithm stable and efficient, thus actually overcoming various obstacles of the known numerical open-system evolution schemes. To exemplify the functioning of the approach, we study both stationary states and transient dissipative behaviour, for various open quantum systems ranging from few to many-body physics.

id: 1412.5768
title: Spurious harmonic response of multipulse quantum sensing sequences
authors: M. Loretz, J. M. Boss, T. Rosskopf, H. J. Mamin, D. Rugar, C. L. Degen
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 021009 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5768
abstract: Multipulse sequences based on Carr-Purcell decoupling are frequently used for narrow-band signal detection in single spin magnetometry. We have analyzed the behavior of multipulse sensing sequences under real-world conditions, including finite pulse durations and the presence of detunings. We find that these non-idealities introduce harmonics to the filter function, allowing additional frequencies to pass the filter. In particular, we find that the XY family of sequences can generate signals at the 2fac, 4fac and 8fac harmonics and their odd subharmonics, where fac is the ac signal frequency. Consideration of the harmonic response is especially important for diamond-based nuclear spin sensing where the NMR frequency is used to identify the nuclear spin species, as it leads to ambiguities when several isotopes are present.

id: 1412.5782
title: Time correlation functions for non-Hermitian quantum systems
authors: Alessandro Sergi, Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5782
abstract: We introduce a formalism for time-dependent correlation functions for systems whose evolutions are governed by non-Hermitian Hamiltonians of general type. It turns out that one can define two different types of time correlation functions. Both these definitions seem to be physically consistent while becoming equivalent only in certain cases. Moreover, when autocorrelation functions are considered, one can introduce another function defined as the relative difference between the two definitions. We conjecture that such a function can be used to assess the positive semi-definiteness of the density operator without computing its eigenvalues. We illustrate these points by studying analytically a number of models with two energy levels.

id: 1412.5812
title: Mutual information-energy inequality for thermal states of a bipartite quantum system
authors: Aleksey Fedorov, Evgeny Kiktenko
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures; presented at the 23rd International Laser Physics Workshop (Sofia, July 14-18, 2014)
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 594, 012045 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5812
abstract: In this work, we consider an upper bound for the quantum mutual information in thermal states of a bipartite quantum system. This bound is related with the interaction energy and logarithm of the partition function of the system. We demonstrate the connection between this upper bound and the value of the mutual information for the bipartite system realized by two spin-1/2 particles in the external magnetic field with the XY-Heisenberg interaction.

id: 1412.5865
title: Unified Description of Classical and Quantum Behaviours in a Variational Principle
authors: Tomoi Koide, Takeshi Kodama, Kazuo Tsushima
comments: 10 pages, no figure, proceedings of DICE 2014, references and discussions were added, errors were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5865
abstract: We give a pedagogical introduction of the stochastic variational method and show that this generalized variational principle describes classical and quantum mechanics in a unified way.

id: 1412.5881
title: Multipartite entanglement dectection with minimal effort
authors: Lukas Knips, Christian Schwemmer, Nico Klein, Marcin Wie?niak, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5881
abstract: Certifying entanglement in a multipartite state is a demanding task. A state of $N$ qubits is parametrized by $4^N-1$ real numbers, so, at first glimpse, one may expect that the measurement complexity of generic entanglement detection is also exponential with $N$. However, here we show how to design indicators for genuine multipartite quantum entanglement which require only two correlation measurements for prominent quantum states. We introduce a constructive method to derive such criteria and apply them in experiments for four-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, cluster states and Dicke states.

id: 1412.5885
title: Towards a Unified Approach to Entanglement Distribution
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Remigiusz Augusiak, Maciej Demianowicz, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5885
abstract: We consider the problem of entanglement distribution, in which two parties, Alice and Bob, initially sharing a quantum state, want to establish the largest possible amount of entanglement between them by exchanging a single particle via a connecting quantum channel. First, we provide several general bounds on this amount involving quantum discord. Then, we investigate the question of whether the task of entanglement distribution is more efficient if some amount of entanglement - or some amount of correlations in general - between the parties is available prior to the transmission stage of the protocol. We show that in the presence of a nontrivial noise the answer to this question strongly depends on the type of it and on the way entanglement is quantified. In particular, subadditive entanglement measures do not display this effect if entanglement is established via single-qubit Pauli channels. On the other hand, based on the superadditivity conjecture of the distillable entanglement, we provide evidence that this phenomenon occurs for this measure. We also present a counter-intuitive phenomenon of the advantage of arbitrarily little entangled states over maximally entangled ones, which may occur for quantum channels relevant in experiments.

id: 1412.5887
title: Is the electron stationary in the ground state of the Dirac hydrogen atom in Bohm's Theory?
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5887
abstract: We show that, in the relativistic Bohm model of a Dirac-like particle, the electron in the ground state of the hydrogen atom is moving, unlike the prediction for the case of a Schr\"{o}dinger-like particle, where the electron is stationary. This accounts for the empirically observed dilation of the decay time of the muon in the ground state of muonium.

id: 1412.5950
title: Photonic Quantum Networks formed from NV- Centers
authors: Kae Nemoto, M. Trupke, S. J. Devitt, B. Scharfenberger, K. Buczak, J. Schmiedmayer, W. J. Munro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5950
abstract: In this article we present a simple repeater scheme based on the negatively-charged nitrogen vacancy centre in diamond (NV-). Each repeater node is built from simple modules comprising an optical cavity containing a single NV-, with one nuclear spin from 15N as quantum memory. The operation in the module only uses deterministic processes and interactions and achieves high fidelity (>99%) operation, and modules are connected by optical fiber. In the repeater node architecture, the processes between modules by photons can be in principle deterministic, however current limitations on optical components lead to the processes to be probabilistic but heralded. The most resource modest repeater architecture contains at least two modules at each node, and the repeater nodes are than connected by telecom wavelength entangled photon pairs. We discuss the performance of quantum repeaters starting from the minimum-resource strategy with several modules (~10) and then incorporating more resource-intense strategies step by step. Our architecture enables large-scale quantum information networks with existing technology.

id: 1412.5953
title: Nonlocality of $W$ and Dicke states subject to losses
authors: Tomer Jack Barnea, Gilles P¨¹tz, Jonatan Bohr Brask, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032108 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5953
abstract: We discuss the nonlocality of the $W$ and the Dicke states subject to losses. We consider two noise models, namely loss of excitations and loss of particles, and investigate how much loss can be tolerated such that the final state remains nonlocal. This leads to a measure of robustness of the nonlocality of Dicke states, with a clear physical interpretation. Our results suggest that the relation between nonlocality and entanglement of Dicke states is not monotonous.

id: 1412.6046
title: Entanglement-based continuous-variable quantum key distribution with multimode states and detectors
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Laszlo Ruppert, Radim Filip
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6046
abstract: Secure quantum key distribution with multimode Gaussian entangled states and multimode homodyne detectors is proposed. In general the multimode character of both the sources of entanglement and the homodyne detectors can cause a security break even for a perfect channel when trusted parties are unaware of the detection structure. Taking into account the multimode structure and potential leakage of information from a homodyne detector reduces the loss of security to some extent. We suggest the symmetrization of the multimode sources of entanglement as an efficient method allowing us to fully recover the security irrespectively to multimode structure of the homodyne detectors. Further, we demonstrate that by increasing the number of the fluctuating but similar source modes the multimode protocol stabilizes the security of the quantum key distribution. The result opens the pathway towards quantum key distribution with multimode sources and detectors.

id: 1412.6062
title: A Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm Applied to a Bounded Occurrence Constraint Problem
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6062
abstract: We apply our recent Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm to the combinatorial problem of bounded occurrence Max E3LIN2. The input is a set of linear equations each of which contains exactly three boolean variables and each equation says that the sum of the variables mod2 is 0 or is 1. Every variable is in no more than D equations. A random string will satisfy 1/2 of the equations. We show that the level one QAOA will efficiently produce a string that satisfies $\left(\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{22 D^{3/4}}\right)$ times the number of equations. This beats the best known classical algorithm for this problem which has an approximation ratio of $\left(\frac{1}{2} + \frac{constant}{D}\right)$. We also show that if the hypergraph that describes the instance has no small loops then the quantum computer will output a string that satisfies $\left(\frac{1}{2}+ \frac{1}{2\sqrt{3e}D^{1/2}}\right)$ times the number of equations.

id: 1412.6074
title: Strong Single-Photon Coupling in Superconducting Quantum Magnetomechanics
authors: Guillem Via, Gerhard Kirchmair, Oriol Romero-Isart
comments: Published Version. 8 pages (including supplementary material), 3 figures,
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 143602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6074
abstract: We show that the inductive coupling between the quantum mechanical motion of a superconducting microcantilever and a flux-dependent microwave quantum circuit can attain the strong single-photon nanomechanical coupling regime with feasible experimental parameters. We propose to use a superconducting strip, which is in the Meissner state, at the tip of a cantilever. A pick-up coil collects the flux generated by the sheet currents induced by an external quadrupole magnetic field centered at the strip location. The position-dependent magnetic response of the superconducting strip, enhanced by both diamagnetism and demagnetizing effects, leads to a strong magnetomechanical coupling to quantum circuits.

id: 1412.6111
title: From quantum metrological precision bounds to quantum computation speed-up limits
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Marcin Markiewicz
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6111
abstract: We propose a scheme for translating metrological precision bounds into lower bounds on query complexity of quantum search algorithms. Within the scheme the link between quadratic performance enhancement in idealized quantum metrological and quantum computing schemes becomes clear. More importantly, we utilize results from the field of quantum metrology on a generic loss of quadratic quantum precision enhancement in presence of decoherence to infer an analogous generic loss of quadratic speed-up in oracle based quantum computing. While most of our reasoning is rigorous, at one of the final steps, we need to make use of an unproven technical conjecture. We hope that we will be able to amend this deficiency in the near future, but we are convinced that even without the conjecture proven our results provide a novel and deep insight into relationship between quantum algorithms and quantum metrology protocols.

id: 1412.6139
title: Quantum- vs. Macro- Realism: What does the Leggett-Garg Inequality actually test?
authors: Owen J.E Maroney, Christopher G Timpson
comments: 45 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6139
abstract: Macroscopic Realism (MR) says that a macroscopic system is always determinately in one or other of the macroscopically distinguishable states available to it. The Leggett-Garg (LG) inequality was derived to allow experimental test of whether or not this doctrine is true; it is also often thought of as a temporal version of a Bell-inequality. Despite recent interest in the inequality, controversy remains regarding what would be shown by its violation. Here we resolve this controversy, which arises due to an insufficiently general and model-independent approach to the question so far. We argue that LG's initial characterisation of MR does not pick out a particularly natural realist position, so we articulate an operationally well-defined and well-motivated position in its place. We show that much weaker conditions than LG's are sufficient to derive the inequality: in the first instance, its violation only demonstrates that certain measurements fail to be non-disturbing at the operational level. We articulate three distinct species of MR-ist position, and argue that it is only the first of these which can be refuted by LG inequality violation. This first position is an attractive one, so ruling it out remains of interest, however. A crucial role is played in LG's argument by the assumption of noninvasive measurability. We show that this notion is ambiguous between the weaker notion of disturbance at the operational level, and the stronger notion of invasiveness at the ontic level of properties of the system. Ontic noninvasiveness would be required to rule out MR per se but this property is not entailed by MR, and its presence cannot be established in a model-independent way. It follows that despite the formal parallels, Bell's and LG's inequalities are not methodologically on a par. We close with some reflections on the implications of our analysis for the pedagogy of quantum superposition.

id: 1412.6142
title: Quantum Speed Limit and Optimal Control of Many-Boson Dynamics
authors: Ioannis Brouzos, Alexej I. Streltsov, Antonio Negretti, Ressa S. Said, Tommaso Caneva, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and supplemental material (4 pages 1 figure)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6142
abstract: We extend the concept of quantum speed limit -- the minimal time needed to perform a driven evolution -- to complex interacting many-body systems. We investigate a prototypical many-body system, a bosonic Josephson junction, at increasing levels of complexity: (a) within the two-mode approximation {corresponding to} a nonlinear two-level system, (b) at the mean-field level by solving the nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation in a double well potential, and (c) at an exact many-body level by solving the time-dependent many-body Schr\"odinger equation. We propose a control protocol to transfer atoms from the ground state of a well to the ground state of the neighbouring well. Furthermore, we show that the detrimental effects of the inter-particle repulsion can be eliminated by means of a compensating control pulse, yielding, quite surprisingly, an enhancement of the transfer speed because of the particle interaction -- in contrast to the self-trapping scenario. Finally, we perform numerical optimisations of both the nonlinear and the (exact) many-body quantum dynamics in order to further enhance the transfer efficiency close to the quantum speed limit.

id: 1412.6172
title: Thresholds for correcting errors, erasures, and faulty syndrome measurements in degenerate quantum codes
authors: Ilya Dumer, Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6172
abstract: We suggest a technique for constructing lower (existence) bounds for the fault-tolerant threshold to scalable quantum computation applicable to degenerate quantum codes with sublinear distance scaling. We give explicit analytic expressions combining probabilities of erasures, depolarizing errors, and phenomenological syndrome measurement errors for quantum LDPC codes with logarithmic or larger distances. These threshold estimates are parametrically better than the existing analytical bound based on percolation.

id: 1412.6188
title: Quantum storage of high-dimensional entanglement
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Wei Zhang, Shuai Shi, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yan Li, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6188
abstract: Quantum entanglement is a fundamental aspect in quantum mechanics, plays a vital role in field of quantum information science. Entangled states in high-dimensional space show many advantages compared with the states entangled in two-dimensional space: enabling communication with higher channel capacity, affording the more secure quantum key distribution, etc. Quantum memory for the high-dimensional entanglement is essential for realizing long-distance high capacity quantum communication, it can reduce the sensitivity to memory coherence time, lead to significant improvements in storage capacity. However, to date, there is a vacancy in storing high-dimensional entanglement although many people are attracted in preparing such a genuine high-dimensional entangled state. Here, we experimentally realize the storage of a high-dimensional photonic entangled state encoded in orbital angular momentum space, establishing the high-dimensional entanglement between two 1-meter separated atomic ensembles. We reconstruct the density matrix of a three-dimensional entanglement, obtain the storage fidelity of 83.9%+/-2.9%. Most importantly, we experimentally perform the storage of an 8-dimensional entanglement, the retrieved state shows the 7-dimensional entanglement by using entanglement witness. This experiment makes a significant step for achieving the high-dimensional quantum network.

id: 1412.6198
title: Geometry, robustness, and emerging unitarity in dissipation-projected dynamics
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6198
abstract: Quantum information can be encoded in the set of steady-states (SSS) of a driven-dissipative system. Non steady-states are separated by a large dissipative gap that adiabatically decouples them way while the dynamics inside the SSS is governed by an effective, dissipation-projected, Hamiltonian. The latter results from a highly non-trivial interplay between a weak driving with the fast relaxation process that continuously projects the system back to the SSS. This amounts to a novel type of environment-induced quantum Zeno effect. We prove that the dissipation-projected dynamics is of geometric nature and that it is robust against different types of hamiltonian and dissipative perturbations. Remarkably, in some cases an effective unitary dynamics can emerge out of purely dissipative interactions.

id: 1412.6213
title: Measurements on the reality of the wavefunction
authors: Martin Ringbauer, Ben Duffus, Cyril Branciard, Eric G. Cavalcanti, Andrew G. White, Alessandro Fedrizzi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6213
abstract: Quantum mechanics is an outstandingly successful description of nature, underpinning fields from biology through chemistry to physics. At its heart is the quantum wavefunction, the central tool for describing quantum systems. Yet it is still unclear what the wavefunction actually is: does it merely represent our limited knowledge of a system, or is it an element of reality? Recent no-go theorems argued that if there was any underlying reality to start with, the wavefunction must be real. However, that conclusion relied on debatable assumptions, without which a partial knowledge interpretation can be maintained to some extent. A different approach is to impose bounds on the degree to which knowledge interpretations can explain quantum phenomena, such as why we cannot perfectly distinguish non-orthogonal quantum states. Here we experimentally test this approach with single photons. We find that no knowledge interpretation can fully explain the indistinguishability of non-orthogonal quantum states in three and four dimensions. Assuming that some underlying reality exists, our results strengthen the view that the entire wavefunction should be real. The only alternative is to adopt more unorthodox concepts such as backwards-in-time causation, or to completely abandon any notion of objective reality.

id: 1412.6242
title: A robust quantum receiver for phase shift keyed signals
authors: Christian R. M¨¹ller, Christoph Marquardt
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6242
abstract: The impossibility of perfectly discriminating non orthogonal quantum states imposes far-reaching consequences both on quantum and classical communication schemes. We propose and numerically analyze an optimized quantum receiver for the discrimination of phase encoded signals. Our scheme outperforms the standard quantum limit and approaches the Helstrom bound for any signal power. The discrimination is performed via an optimized, feedback-mediated displacement prior to a photon counting detector. We provide a detailed analysis of the influence of excess noise and technical imperfections on the average error probability. The results demonstrate the receiver's robustness and show that it can outperform any classical receiver over a wide range of realistic parameters.

id: 1412.6247
title: Distributed quantum dense coding with two receivers in noisy environments
authors: Tamoghna Das, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6247
abstract: We investigate the effect of noisy channels in a classical information transfer through a multipartite state which acts as a substrate for the distributed quantum dense coding protocol between several senders and two receivers. The situation is qualitatively different from the case with one or more senders and a single receiver. We obtain an upper bound on the multipartite capacity which is tightened in case of the covariant noisy channel. We also establish a relation between the genuine multipartite entanglement of the shared state and the capacity of distributed dense coding using that state, both in the noiseless and the noisy scenarios. Specifically, we find that in the case of multiple senders and two receivers, the corresponding generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states possess higher dense coding capacities as compared to a significant fraction of pure states having the same multipartite entanglement.

id: 1412.6311
title: A Differential Phase Shift Scheme for Quantum Key Distribution in Passive Optical Networks
authors: Michael Hentschel, Andreas Poppe, Bernhard Schrenk, Momtchil Peev, Edwin Querasser, Roland Lieger
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6311
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum key distribution (QKD) in a passive optical network (PON) based on differential phase shift (DPS) coding. A centralized station including all expensive components serves many users, making it suitable for a true multi-user network in a local environment with moderate distances on the order of a few kilometers. The emphasis lies on an asymmetric design for cost effective implementation of network end points.

id: 1412.6321
title: Classicalization of Quantum Variables
authors: T. Koide
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6321
abstract: A systematic procedure to extract classical degrees of freedom in quantum mechanics is formulated using the stochastic variational method. With this classicalization, a hybrid model constructed from quantum and classical variables (quantum-classical hybrids) is derived systematically. In this procedure, conservation laws such as energy are maintained, and Eherefest`s theorem is still satisfied with modification. The criterion for the applicability of quantum-classical hybrids is also investigated.

id: 1412.6375
title: Tailored quantum statistics from broadband states of light
authors: S. Hartmann, F. Friedrich, A. Molitor, M. Reichert, W. Els??er, R. Walser
comments: submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6375
abstract: We analyze the statistics of photons originating from amplified spontaneous emission generated by a quantum dot superluminescent diode. Experimentally detectable emission properties are taken into account by parametrizing the corresponding quantum state as a multi-mode phase-randomized Gaussian density operator. The validity of this model is proven in two subsequent experiments using fast two-photon-absorption detection observing second order equal-time- as well as second order fully time-resolved intensity correlations on femtosecond timescales. In the first experiment, we study the photon statistics when the number of contributing longitudinal modes is systematically reduced by applying well-controlled optical feedback. In a second experiment, we add coherent light from a single-mode laserdiode to quantum dot superluminescent diode broadband radiation. Tuning the power ratio, we realize tailored second order correlations ranging from Gaussian to Poissonian statistics. Both experiments are very well matched by theory, thus giving first insights into quantum properties of radiation from quantum dot superluminescent diodes.

id: 1412.6472
title: Variational Principle of Hydrodynamics and Quantization by Stochastic Process
authors: T. Kodama, T. Koide
comments: 13 pages, no figure, references were added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6472
abstract: The well-known hydrodynamical representation of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is reformulated by extending the idea of Nelson-Yasue's stochastic variational method. The fluid flow is composed by the two stochastic processes from the past and the future, which are unified naturally by the principle of maximum entropy. We show that this formulation is easily applicable to the quantization of scalar fields.

id: 1412.6488
title: Storage of hyperentanglement in a solid-state quantum memory
authors: Alexey Tiranov, Jonathan Lavoie, Alban Ferrier, Philippe Goldner, Varun B. Verma, Sae Woo Nam, Richard P. Mirin, Adriana E. Lita, Francesco Marsili, Harald Herrmann, Christine Silberhorn, Nicolas Gisin, Mikael Afzelius, Felix Bussieres
comments: 
journal: Optica, 2, 279--287 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6488
abstract: Two photons can simultaneously share entanglement between several degrees of freedom such as polarization, energy-time, spatial mode and orbital angular momentum. This resource is known as hyperentanglement, and it has been shown to be an important tool for optical quantum information processing. Here we demonstrate the quantum storage and retrieval of photonic hyperentanglement in a solid-state quantum memory. A pair of photons entangled in polarization and energy-time is generated such that one photon is stored in the quantum memory, while the other photon has a telecommunication wavelength suitable for transmission in optical fibre. We measured violations of a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality for each degree of freedom, independently of the other one, which proves the successful storage and retrieval of the two bits of entanglement shared by the photons. Our scheme is compatible with long-distance quantum communication in optical fibre, and is in particular suitable for linear-optical entanglement purification for quantum repeaters.

id: 1412.6490
title: Experimental demonstration of information to energy conversion in a quantum system at the Landauer Limit
authors: John P. P. Silva, Roberto S. Sarthour, Alexandre M. Souza, Ivan S. Oliveira, John Goold, Kavan Modi, Diogo O. Soares-Pinto, Lucas C. C¨¦leri
comments: Some misprints corrected. Merry Xmas and happy new year to all!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6490
abstract: Landauer's principle sets fundamental thermodynamic constraints for classical and quantum information processing. Here we measure, for the first time, the heat dissipated in elementary quantum logic gates, at the Landauer limit, implemented in a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance system. This allows for the detailed study of irreversible entropy production in quantum information processors.

id: 1412.6507
title: The space "just above" BQP
authors: Scott Aaronson, Adam Bouland, Joseph Fitzsimons, Mitchell Lee
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6507
abstract: We explore the space "just above" BQP by defining a complexity class PDQP (Product Dynamical Quantum Polynomial time) which is larger than BQP but does not contain NP relative to an oracle. The class is defined by imagining that quantum computers can perform measurements that do not collapse the wavefunction. This (non-physical) model of computation can efficiently solve problems such as Graph Isomorphism and Approximate Shortest Vector which are believed to be intractable for quantum computers. Furthermore, it can search an unstructured N-element list in $\tilde O$(N^{1/3}) time, but no faster than {\Omega}(N^{1/4}), and hence cannot solve NP-hard problems in a black box manner. In short, this model of computation is more powerful than standard quantum computation, but only slightly so. Our work is inspired by previous work of Aaronson on the power of sampling the histories of hidden variables. However Aaronson's work contains an error in its proof of the lower bound for search, and hence it is unclear whether or not his model allows for search in logarithmic time. Our work can be viewed as a conceptual simplification of Aaronson's approach, with a provable polynomial lower bound for search.

id: 1412.6519
title: Time dynamics of multiparty quantum correlations indicate energy transfer route in light-harvesting complexes
authors: Titas Chanda, Utkarsh Mishra, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 12 + epsilon pages, 12 figures; v2: new subsection added with new results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6519
abstract: The time-evolution of multiparty quantum correlations as quantified by monogamy scores and bipartition collections of quantum correlations is investigated for light-harvesting complexes modeled by the fully connected and the Fenna-Mathews-Olson (FMO) networks. The dynamics consists of a coherent term as well as dissipative, dephasing, and sink operator terms. The multiparty quantum correlation reveals important information regarding the sharability of quantum correlations in the networks, which allow us to categorize the network sites into three distinct groups in the FMO complex and to predict the structural geometry of the complex. In particular, we show that the relative values of the ingredients of multiparty quantum correlation measures in the time dynamics clearly indicate the primary route of energy transfer from the antenna to the bacterial reaction center in the FMO complex.

id: 1412.6525
title: Preserving photon qubits in an unknown quantum state with Knill Dynamical Decoupling - Towards an all optical quantum memory
authors: Manish K. Gupta, Erik J. Navarro, Todd A. Moulder, Jason D. Mueller, Ashkan Balouchi, Katherine L. Brown, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6525
abstract: The implementation of polarization-based quantum communication is limited by signal loss and decoherence caused by the birefringence of a single-mode fiber. We investigate the Knill dynamical decoupling scheme, implemented using half-wave plates, to minimize decoherence and show that a fidelity greater than $99\%$ can be achieved in absence of rotation error and fidelity greater than $96\%$ can be achieved in presence of rotation error. Such a scheme can be used to preserve any quantum state with high fidelity and has potential application for constructing all optical quantum delay line, quantum memory, and quantum repeater.

id: 1412.6634
title: Multiply Degenerate Exceptional Points and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Denis I. Borisov, Frantisek Ruzicka, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pp., 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6634
abstract: The realization of a genuine phase transition in quantum mechanics requires that at least one of the Kato's exceptional-point parameters becomes real. A new family of finite-dimensional and time-parametrized quantum-lattice models with such a property is proposed and studied. All of them exhibit, at a real exceptional-point time $t=0$, the Jordan-block spectral degeneracy structure of some of their observables sampled by Hamiltonian $H(t)$ and site-position $Q(t)$. The passes through the critical instant $t=0$ are interpreted as schematic simulations of non-equivalent versions of the Big-Bang-like quantum catastrophes.

id: 1412.6637
title: Achievable polarization for Heat-Bath Algorithmic Cooling
authors: Nayeli Azucena Rodr¨ªguez-Briones, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6637
abstract: Pure quantum states play a central role in applications of quantum information, both as initial states for many algorithms and as resources for quantum error correction. Preparation of highly pure states that satisfy the threshold for quantum error correction remains a challenge, not only for ensemble implementations like NMR or ESR but also for other technologies. Heat-Bath Algorithmic Cooling is a method to increase the purity of set of qubits coupled to a bath. We investigated the achievable polarization by analyzing the state when no more entropy can be extracted. In particular we give an analytic form for the maximum polarization of the purified qubit and corresponding state of the whole system for the case when the initial state of the qubits is totally mixed. It is however possible to reach higher polarization while starting with other states with higher polarization, thus our result provides an achievable lower bound. We also give an upper bound of the number of steps needed to get a certain required polarization.

id: 1412.6715
title: Social optimality in quantum Bayesian games
authors: Azhar Iqbal, James M. Chappell, Derek Abbott
comments: 12 pages, revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6715
abstract: A significant aspect of the study of quantum strategies is the exploration of the game-theoretic solution concept of the Nash equilibrium in relation to the quantization of a game. Pareto optimality is a refinement on the set of Nash equilibria. A refinement on the set of Pareto optimal outcomes is known as social optimality in which the sum of players' payoffs are maximized. This paper analyzes social optimality in a Bayesian game that uses the setting of generalized Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiments for its physical implementation. We show that for the quantum Bayesian game a direct connection appears between the violation of Bell's inequality and the social optimal outcome of the game and that it attains a superior socially optimal outcome.

id: 1412.6723
title: A Relativistic Dynamical Collapse Model
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6723
abstract: A model is discussed where all operators are constructed from a quantum scalar field whose energy spectrum takes on all real values. The Schr\"odinger picture wave function depends upon space and time coordinates for each particle, as well as an inexorably increasing evolution parameter $s$ which labels a foliation of space-like hypersurfaces. The model is constructed to be manifestly Lorentz invariant in the interaction picture. Free particle states and interactions are discussed in this framework. Then, the formalism of the CSL (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) theory of dynamical collapse is applied. The collapse-generating operator is chosen to to be the particle number space-time density. Unlike previous relativistically invariant models, the vacuum state is not excited. The collapse dynamics depends upon two parameters, a parameter $\Lambda$ which represents the collapse rate/volume and a scale factor $\ell$. A common example of collapse dynamics, involving a clump of matter in a superposition of two locations, is analyzed. The collapse rate is shown to be identical to that of non-relativistic CSL when the GRW-CSL choice of $\ell=a=10^{-5}$cm, is made, along with $\Lambda=\lambda/a^{3}$ (GRW-CSL choice $\lambda=10^{-16}s^{-1}$). However, it is also shown that the change of mass of a nucleon over the age of the universe is then unacceptably large. The case where $\ell$ is the size of the universe is then considered. It is shown that the collapse behavior is satisfactory and the change of mass over the age of the universe is acceptably small, when $\Lambda= \lambda/\ell a^{2}$.

id: 1412.6766
title: Distinguishing nonlinear processes in atomic media via orbital angular momentum transfer
authors: Alexander M. Akulshin, Russell J. McLean, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Irina Novikova
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6766
abstract: We suggest a technique based on the transfer of topological charge from applied laser radiation to directional and coherent optical fields generated in ladder-type excited atomic media to identify the major processes responsible for their appearance. As an illustration, in Rb vapours we analyse transverse intensity and phase profiles of the forward-directed collimated blue and near-IR light using self-interference and astigmatic transformation techniques when either or both of two resonant laser beams carry orbital angular momentum. Our observations unambiguously demonstrate that emission at 1.37 {\mu}m is the result of a parametric four-wave mixing process involving only one of the two applied laser fields.

id: 1412.6771
title: Deformed entropy and information relations for composite and noncomposite systems
authors: Vladimir N. Chernega, Olga V. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: submitted to Foundations of Physics (to special issue "Probing the limits of quantum mechanics: theory and experiment", Conference on Quantum theory: from Problems to Advances, V\"axj\"o, Sweden,9-12 June 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6771
abstract: The notion of conditional entropy is extended to noncomposite systems. The q-deformed entropic inequalities, which usually are associated with correlations of the subsystem degrees of freedom in bipartite systems, are found for the noncomposite systems. New entropic inequalities for quantum tomograms of qudit states including the single qudit states are obtained. The Araki{Lieb inequality is found for systems without subsystems.

id: 1412.6780
title: Resonant photo-ionization of Yb+ to Yb2+
authors: Simon Heugel, Martin Fischer, Vladimir Elman, Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6780
abstract: We demonstrate the three-step fully-resonant photo-ionization of 174Yb+ with weak continuous-wave lasers at ultra violet wavelengths. Starting from an ion crystal of two laser-cooled Yb+ ions localized in a radio-frequency trap, the verification of the ionization process is performed by characterizing the motional dynamics of the resulting mixed-species ion-crystal.

id: 1412.6788
title: The complexity of simulating constant-depth BosonSampling
authors: Daniel J. Brod
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042316 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6788
abstract: BosonSampling is a restricted model of quantum computation proposed recently, where a non-adaptive linear-optical network is used to solve a sampling problem that seems to be hard for classical computers. Here we show that, even if the linear-optical network has a constant number (greater than four) of beam splitter layers, the exact version of the BosonSampling problem is still classically hard, unless the polynomial hierarchy collapses to its third level. This is based on similar result known for constant-depth quantum circuits and circuits of 2-local commuting gates (IQP).

id: 1412.6796
title: Symmetries and self-similarity of many-body wavefunctions
authors: Piotr Migda?
comments: PhD thesis, 156 pages; defended on 12 Dec 2014 at ICFO; advisors: Maciej Lewenstein, Javier Rodr\'{\i}guez-Laguna; reviewers: Seth Lloyd, Karol \.Zyczkowski; chapter on qubism was completely rewritten; other match closely the respective papers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6796
abstract: This PhD thesis is dedicated to the study of the interplay between symmetries of quantum states and their self-similar properties. It consists of three connected threads of research: polynomial invariants for multiphoton states, visualization schemes for quantum many-body systems and a complex networks approach to quantum walks on a graph. First, we study the problem of which many-photon states are equivalent up to the action of passive linear optics. We prove that it can be converted into the problem of equivalence of two permutation-symmetric states, not necessarily restricted to the same operation on all parties. We show that the problem can be formulated in terms of symmetries of complex polynomials of many variables, and provide two families of invariants, which are straightforward to compute and provide analytical results. Second, we study a family of recursive visualization schemes for many-particle systems, for which we have coined the name 'qubism'. While all many-qudit states can be plotted with qubism, it is especially useful for spin chains and one-dimensional translationally invariant states. This symmetry results in self-similarity of the plot, making it more comprehensible and allowing to discover certain structures. Third, we study quantum walks of a single particle on graphs, which are classical analogues of random walks. Our focus is on the long-time limit of the probability distribution and we study how (especially in the long-time limit) off-diagonal elements of the density matrix behave. We use them to perform quantum community detection - splitting of a graph into subgraphs in such a way that the coherence between them is small. Our method captures properties that classical methods cannot - the impact of constructive and destructive interference, as well as the dependence of the results on the tunneling phase.

id: 1412.6809
title: Physical properties as modal operators in the topos approach to quantum mechanics
authors: Hector Freytes, Graciela Domenech, Christian de Ronde
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics, December 2014, Volume 44, Issue 12, pp 1357-1368
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6809
abstract: In the framework of the topos approach to quantum mechanics we give a representation of physical properties in terms of modal operators on Heyting algebras. It allows us to introduce a classical type study of the mentioned properties.

id: 1412.6813
title: Epistemological and Ontological Paraconsistency in Quantum Mechanics: For and Against Bohrian Philosophy
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: Festschrift honoring J.-Y. Beziau's 50th Birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6813
abstract: We interpret the philosophy of Niels Bohr as related to the so called "linguistic turn" and consider paraconsistency in the light of the Bohrian notion of complementarity. Following [16], Jean-Yves Beziau has discussed the seemingly contradictory perspectives found in the quantum mechanical double slit experiment in terms of paraconsistent view-points [7, 8]. This interpretation goes in line with the well known Bohrian Neo-Kantian epistemological account of quantum mechanics. In the present paper, we put forward the idea that one can also consider, within quantum mechanics and departing from the philosophy of the danish physicist, a more radical paraconsistency found within one of the main formal elements of the theory, namely, quantum superpositions. We will argue that, rather than epistemological, the contradictions found within quantum superpositions could be interpreted as ontological contradictions.

id: 1412.6854
title: Precise wavefunction engineering with magnetic resonance
authors: L. M. Bennie, P. B. Wigley, S. S. Szigeti, M. Jasperse, J. J. Hope, L. D. Turner, R. P. Anderson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6854
abstract: Controlling quantum fluids at their fundamental length scale will yield superlative quantum simulators, precision sensors, and spintronic devices. This scale is typically below the optical diffraction limit, precluding precise wavefunction engineering using optical potentials alone. We present a protocol to rapidly control the phase and density of a quantum fluid down to the healing length scale using strong time-dependent coupling between internal states of the fluid in a magnetic field gradient. We demonstrate this protocol by simulating the creation of a single stationary soliton and double soliton states in a Bose-Einstein condensate with control over the individual soliton positions and trajectories, using experimentally feasible parameters. Such states are yet to be realized experimentally, and are a path towards engineering soliton gases and exotic topological excitations.

id: 1412.6864
title: Macroscopic superpositions and gravimetry with quantum magnetomechanics
authors: Mattias T. Johnsson, Gavin K. Brennen, Jason Twamley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6864
abstract: We utilise a magneto-mechanical levitated massive resonator in the quantum regime to prepare highly macroscopic quantum superposition states. Using these macroscopic superpositions we present a novel interferometry protocol to perform absolute gravimetry with a sensitivity that exceeds state of the art atom-interferometric and corner-cube gravimeters by a factor of 20. In addition, our scheme allows probing the gravitational field on a length scale eight orders of magnitude smaller than other methods.

id: 1412.6869
title: Circuit analog of quadratic optomechanics
authors: Eun-jong Kim, J. R. Johansson, Franco Nori
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033835 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6869
abstract: We propose a superconducting electrical circuit that simulates a quadratic optomechanical system. A capacitor placed between two transmission-line (TL) resonators acts like a semi-transparent membrane, and a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) that terminates a TL resonator behaves like a movable mirror. Combining these circuit elements, it is possible to simulate a quadratic optomechanical coupling whose coupling strength is determined by the coupling capacitance and the tunable bias flux through the SQUIDs. Estimates using realistic parameters suggest that an improvement in the coupling strength could be realized, to five orders of magnitude from what has been observed in membrane-in-the-middle cavity optomechanical systems. This leads to the possibility of achieving the strong-coupling regime of quadratic optomechanics.

id: 1412.6870
title: Gaussian private quantum channel with squeezed coherent states
authors: Kabgyun Jeong, Jaewan Kim, Su-Yong Lee
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6870
abstract: We propose a Gaussian private quantum channel (GPQC) with squeezed coherent (SC) states, which is a generalization of GPQC with coherent states [Phys.Rev.A 72, 042313 (2005)]. We show that GPQC with the SC states provides a better upper bound on accessible information than GPQC with coherent states. Then, as a preliminary procedure of GPQC, we briefly demonstrate that the SC states take an advantage over the coherent states for a beam splitting attack in a continuous variable quantum key distribution. In the regime of small squeezing, furthermore, we show that the squeezed coherent state scheme can even consider a non-Gaussian regime by replacing a squeezing operation with a superposition operation of two different displacements.

id: 1412.6891
title: One dimensional lazy quantum walks and occupancy rate
authors: Dan Li, Michael Mc Gettrick, Wei-Wei Zhang, Ke-Jia Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6891
abstract: Lazy quantum walks were presented by Andrew M. Childs to prove that the continuous-time quantum walk is a limit of the discrete-time quantum walk [Commun.Math.Phys.294,581-603(2010)]. In this paper, we discuss properties of lazy quantum walks. Our analysis shows that lazy quantum walks have $O(t^n)$ order of the n-th moment of the corresponding probability distribution, which is the same as that for normal quantum walks. Also, the lazy quantum walk with DFT (Discrete Fourier Transform) coin operator has a similar probability distribution concentrated interval to that of the normal Hadamard quantum walk. Most importantly, we introduce the concepts of occupancy number and occupancy rate to measure the extent to which the walk has a (relatively) high probability at every position in its range. We conclude that lazy quantum walks have a higher occupancy rate than other walks such as normal quantum walks, classical walks and lazy classical walks.

id: 1412.6987
title: Bell as the Copernicus of Probability
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: consistent histories, the use of statistical data from incompatible experiments, no counterfactuals
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6987
abstract: Our aim is to emphasize the role of mathematical models in physics, especially models of geometry and probability. We briefly compare developments of geometry and probability by pointing to similarities and differences: from Euclid to Lobachevsky and from Kolmogorov to Bell. In probability Bell played the same role as Lobachevsky in geometry. In fact, violation of Bell's inequality implies the impossibility to apply the classical probability model of Kolmogorov (1933) to quantum phenomena. Thus quantum probabilistic model (based on Born's rule) is an example of non-Kolmogorovian model of probability, similarly to the Lobachevskian model -- the first example of non-Euclidean model of geometry. We also discuss coupling of the classical probabilistic model with classical (Boolean) logic. The Kolmogorov model of probability is based on the set-theoretic presentation of the Boolean logic. In this framework violation of Bell's inequality implies the impossibility to use the Boolean structure of events for quantum phenomena; instead of it, events have to be represented by linear subspaces. This is the "probability model" interpretation of violation of Bell's inequality. We also criticize the standard interpretation -- an attempt to add to rigorous mathematical probability models additional elements such as (non)locality and (un)realism. Finally, we compare embeddings of non-Euclidean geometries into the Euclidean space with embeddings of the non-Kolmogorovian probabilities (in particular, quantum probability) into the Kolmogorov probability space. As an example, we consider the CHSH-test.

id: 1412.7010
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation for Singlet-Triplet Qubits with Leakage Errors
authors: Sebastian Mehl, Hendrik Bluhm, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 7+ pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 085419 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7010
abstract: We describe and analyze leakage errors of singlet-triplet qubits. Even though leakage errors are a natural problem for spin qubits encoded using quantum dot arrays, they have obtained little attention in previous studies. We describe the realization of leakage correction protocols that can be implemented together with the quantum error correction protocol of the surface code. Furthermore we construct explicit leakage reduction units that need, in the ideal setup, as few as three manipulation steps. Our study shows that leakage errors can be corrected without the need of measurements and at the cost of only a few additional ancilla qubits and gate operations compared to standard quantum error correction codes.

id: 1412.7041
title: Nonlinear potential of quantum oscillator induced by single photons
authors: Kimin Park, Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 013804 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7041
abstract: Experimental investigation of the nonlinear dynamics of a quantum oscillator is a long standing goal of quantum physics. We propose a conditional method for inducing an arbitrary nonlinear potential on a quantum oscillator weakly interacting with light. Such an arbitrary nonlinear potential can be implemented by sequential repetition of an elementary conditional $X$-gate. To implement the $X$-gate, a single photon is linearly coupled to the oscillator and is subsequently detected by optical homodyne detection.

id: 1412.7065
title: Asymptotic entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Rados?aw Adamczak, Rafa? Lata?a, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7065
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations are analyzed for the case of $N$-dimensional Hilbert space and two orthogonal measurements performed in two generic bases, related by a Haar random unitary matrix $U$. We derive estimations for the average norms of truncations of $U$ of a given size, which allow us to study state-independent lower bounds for the sum of two entropies describing the measurements outcomes. In particular, we show that the Maassen--Uffink bound asymptotically behaves as $\ln N - \ln\ln N - \ln 2$, while the strong entropic majorization relation yields a nearly optimal bound, $\ln N - {\rm const}$. Analogous results are also obtained for a more general case of several orthogonal measurements performed in generic bases.

id: 1412.7100
title: Spin-motion entanglement and state diagnosis with squeezed oscillator wavepackets
authors: H.-Y. Lo, D. Kienzler, L. de Clercq, M. Marinelli, V. Negnevitsky, B. Keitch, J. P. Home
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7100
abstract: Mesoscopic superpositions of distinguishable coherent states provide an analog to the Schr\"odinger's cat thought experiment. For mechanical oscillators these have primarily been realised using coherent wavepackets, for which the distinguishability arises due to the spatial separation of the superposed states. Here, we demonstrate superpositions composed of squeezed wavepackets, which we generate by applying an internal-state dependent force to a single trapped ion initialized in a squeezed vacuum state with 9 dB reduction in the quadrature variance. This allows us to characterise the initial squeezed wavepacket by monitoring the onset of spin-motion entanglement, and to verify the evolution of the number states of the oscillator as a function of the duration of the force. In both cases, we observe clear differences between displacements aligned with the squeezed and anti-squeezed axes. We observe coherent revivals when inverting the state-dependent force after separating the wavepackets by more than 19 times the ground state root-mean-square extent, which corresponds to 56 times the r.m.s. extent of the squeezed wavepacket along the displacement direction. Aside from their fundamental nature, these states may be useful for quantum metrology or quantum information processing with continuous variables.

id: 1412.7112
title: The quantum bit from relativity of simultaneity on an interferometer
authors: Andrew J. P. Garner, Markus P. M¨¹ller, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten
comments: 9 pages including 1 appendix. 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7112
abstract: The patterns of fringes produced by an interferometer have always been important testbeds for our best contemporary theories of physics. Historically, interference has been used to contrast quantum mechanics to classical physics, but recently experiments have been performed that test quantum theory against even more exotic alternatives. A physically motivated family of theories are those where the state space of a two-level system is given by a sphere of arbitrary dimension. This includes classical bits, and real, complex and quaternionic quantum theory. In this paper, we consider relativity of simultaneity (that observers may disagree about the order of events at different locations) as applied to a two-armed interferometer. We show that this forbids most interference phenomena more complicated than those of standard complex quantum theory. In this sense, special relativity itself can be used to explain why physics should be described by the rules of quantum theory in this setup. Moreover, our result has consequences for actual interference experiments that are currently performed in the lab: they have to be designed carefully to avoid rendering beyond-quantum effects invisible by relativity of simultaneity.

id: 1412.7161
title: Frozen quantum coherence
authors: Thomas R. Bromley, Marco Cianciaruso, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 6+4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7161
abstract: We analyse under which dynamical conditions the coherence of an open quantum system is totally unaffected by noise. For a single qubit, specific measures of coherence are found to freeze under different conditions, with no general agreement between them. Conversely, for an N-qubit system with even N, we identify universal conditions in terms of initial states and local incoherent channels such that all bona fide distance-based coherence monotones are left invariant during the entire evolution. This finding also provides an insightful physical interpretation for the freezing phenomenon of quantum correlations beyond entanglement. We further obtain analytical results for distance-based measures of coherence in two-qubit states with maximally mixed marginals.

id: 1412.7171
title: Quantum Otto cycle efficiency on coupled qudits
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7171
abstract: Properties of the coupled particles with spin 3/2 (quartits) in a constant magnetic field, as a working substance in the quantum Otto cycle of the heat engine, are considered. It is shown that this system as a converter of heat energy in work (i) shows the efficiency 1 at the negative absolute temperatures of heat baths, (ii) at the temperatures of the opposite sign the efficiency approaches to 1, (iii) at the positive temperatures of heat baths antiferromagnetic interaction raises efficiency threefold in comparison with uncoupled particles.

id: 1412.7174
title: Algebraic Structure of the Minimum Error Discrimination Problem for Linearly Independent Density Matrices
authors: Tanmay Singal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7174
abstract: The minimum error discrimination problem for ensembles of linearly independent pure states are known to have an interesting structure; for such a given ensemble the optimal POVM is given by the pretty good measurment of another ensemble which can be related to the former ensemble by a bijective mapping $\mathscr{R}$ on the "space of ensembles". In this paper we generalize this result to ensembles of general linearly independent states (not necessarily pure) and also give an analytic expression for the inverse of the map, i.e., for $\mathscr{R}^{-1}$. In the process of proving this we also simplify the necessary and sufficient conditions that a POVM needs to satisfy to maximize the probability of success for the MED of an LI ensemble of states. This simplification is then employed to arrive at a rotationally invariant necessary and sufficient conditions of optimality. Using these rotationally invariant conditions it is established that every state of a LI mixed state ensemble can be resolved to a pure state decomposition so that the corresponding pure state ensemble (corresponding to pure states of all mixed states together) has as its optimal POVM a pure state decomposition of the optimal POVM of mixed state ensemble. This gives the necessary and sufficient conditions for the PGM of a LI ensemble to be its optimal POVM; another generalization for the pure state case. Also, these rotationally invariant conditions suggest a technique to give the optimal POVM for an ensemble of LI states. This technique is polynomial in time and outpeforms standard barrier-type interior point SDP in terms of computational complexity.

id: 1412.7200
title: On the Superluminal Quantum Tunneling and "Causality Violation"
authors: Moses Fayngold
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7200
abstract: This is an analysis of some aspects of an old but still controversial topic, superluminal quantum tunneling. Some features of quantum tunneling described in literature, such as definition of the tunneling time and a frequency range of a signal, are discussed. The argument is presented that claim of superluminal signaling allegedly observed in frustrated internal reflection experiment was based on the wrong interpretation of the tunneling process. A thought experiment similar to that in the Tolman paradox is discussed. It shows that a new factor, attenuation, comes in the interplay between tunneled signals and macroscopic causality.

id: 1412.7209
title: Systematic Dimensionality Reduction for Quantum Walks: Optimal Spatial Search and Transport on Non-Regular Graphs
authors: Leonardo Novo, Shantanav Chakraborty, Masoud Mohseni, Hartmut Neven, Yasser Omar
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7209
abstract: Continuous time quantum walks provide an important framework for designing new algorithms and modelling quantum transport and state transfer problems. Often, the graph representing the structure of a problem contains certain symmetries which confine the dynamics to a smaller subspace of the full Hilbert space. In this work, we use a systematic method to compute the reduced set of states that encompass the dynamics of the problem at hand without the specific knowledge of underlying symmetries. First, we apply this method to obtain new instances of graphs where the spatial quantum search algorithm is optimal: complete graphs with broken links and complete bipartite graphs. These examples show that regularity and high-connectivity are not needed to achieve optimal spatial search. In particular, we demonstrate for the first time optimal quantum search on a planar structure, namely the star graph. We also show that this method considerably simplifies the calculation of quantum transport efficiencies. Furthermore, we observe improved efficiencies by removing a few links from highly symmetric graphs. Finally, we show that this reduction method also allows us to obtain an upper bound for the fidelity of a single qubit transfer on an XY spin network.

id: 1412.7212
title: Multipartite Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering and genuine tripartite entanglement with optical networks
authors: Seiji Armstrong, Meng Wang, Run Yan Teh, Qihuang Gong, Qiongyi He, Jiri Janousek, Hans-Albert Bachor, Margaret D. Reid, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Comments are most welcome. Edited version to appear Jan 2015 in peer-reviewed journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7212
abstract: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox established a link between entanglement and nonlocality in quantum mechanics. EPR steering is the nonlocality associated with the EPR paradox and has traditionally only been investigated between two parties. Here, we present the first experimental observations of multipartite EPR steering, and of the genuine tripartite continuous variable entanglement of three mesoscopic optical systems. We explore different linear optics networks - each one with optimised asymmetries - that create multipartite steerable states containing different numbers of quantised optical modes (qumodes). By introducing asymmetric loss on a 7-qumode state, we characterize 8 regimes of directional steering, showing that N + 1 regimes exist for an N-qumode state. Further, we reveal the directional monogamy of steering, and experimentally demonstrate continuous variable one-sided semi device-independent quantum secret sharing. Our methods establish principles for the development of multiparty quantum communication protocols with asymmetric observers, and can be extended to qubits, whether photonic, atomic, superconducting, or otherwise.

id: 1412.7234
title: The Computational Limit to Quantum Determinism and the Black Hole Information Loss Paradox
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7234
abstract: The present paper scrutinizes the principle of quantum determinism, which maintains that the complete information about the initial quantum state of a physical system should determine the system's quantum state at any other time. As it shown in the paper, assuming the strong exponential time hypothesis, SETH, which conjectures that known algorithms for solving computational NP-complete problems (often brute-force algorithms) are optimal, the quantum deterministic principle cannot be used generally, i.e., for randomly selected physical systems, particularly macroscopic systems. In other words, even if the initial quantum state of an arbitrary system were precisely known, as long as SETH is true it might be impossible in the real world to predict the system's exact final quantum state. The paper suggests that the breakdown of quantum determinism in a process, in which a black hole forms and then completely evaporates, might actually be physical evidence supporting SETH.

id: 1412.7279
title: Symplectic Noise & The Classical Analog of the Lindblad Generator
authors: John Gough
comments: 14 pages, no figures - Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7279
abstract: We introduce the concepts of Poisson brackets for classical noise, and of canonically conjugate Wiener processes (symplectic noise). Phase space diffusions driven by these processes are considered and the general form of a stochastic process preserving the full (system and noise) Poisson structure is obtained. We show that, once the classical stochastic model is required to preserve the joint system and noise Poisson bracket, it has much in common with quantum markovian models.

id: 1412.7298
title: Coherent storage of microwave excitations in rare-earth nuclear spins
authors: Gary Wolfowicz, Hannes Maier-Flaig, Robert Marino, Alban Ferrier, Herv¨¦ Vezin, John J.L. Morton, Philippe Goldner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7298
abstract: Interfacing between various elements of a computer - from memory to processors to long range communication - will be as critical for quantum computers as it is for classical computers today. Paramagnetic rare earth doped crystals, such as Nd$^{3+}$:Y$_2$SiO$_5$ (YSO), are excellent candidates for such a quantum interface: they are known to exhibit long optical coherence lifetimes (for communication via optical photons), possess a nuclear spin (memory) and have in addition an electron spin that can offer hybrid coupling with superconducting qubits (processing). Here we study two of these three elements, demonstrating coherent storage and retrieval between electron and $^{145}$Nd nuclear spin states in Nd$^{3+}$:YSO. We find nuclear spin coherence times can reach 9 ms at $\approx 5$ K, about two orders of magnitude longer than the electron spin coherence, while quantum state and process tomography of the storage/retrieval operation reveal an average state fidelity of 0.86. The times and fidelities are expected to further improve at lower temperatures and with more homogeneous radio-frequency excitation.

id: 1412.7338
title: Asymptotic analysis of the one-dimensional quantum walks by the Tsallis and R¨¦nyi entropies
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno, Junji Shikata
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7338
abstract: The Tsallis and R\'enyi entropies are important quantities in the information theory, statistics and related fields because the Tsallis entropy is an one parameter generalization of the Shannon entropy and the R\'enyi entropy includes several useful entropy measures such as the Shannon entropy, Min-entropy and so on, as special choices of its parameter. On the other hand, the discrete-time quantum walk plays important roles in various applications, for example, quantum speed-up algorithm and universal computation. In this paper, we show limiting behaviors of the Tsallis and R\'enyi entropies for discrete-time quantum walks on the line which are starting from the origin and defined by arbitrary coin and initial state. The results show that the Tsallis entropy behaves in polynomial order of time with the parameter dependent exponent while the R\'enyi entropy tends to infinity in logarithmic order of time independent of the choice of the parameter. Moreover, we show the difference between the R\'enyi entropy and the logarithmic function characterizes by the R\'enyi entropy of the limit distribution of the quantum walk. In addition, we show an example of asymptotic behavior of the conditional R\'enyi entropies of the quantum walk.

id: 1412.7339
title: Spontaneous parametric down conversion in chirped, aperiodically-poled crystals
authors: X. Sanchez-Lozano, Jose Luis Lucio
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7339
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) in a non-linear crystal characterized by a linearly-chirped X(2) grating along the direction of propagation. Our analysis leads to an expression for the joint spectral amplitude, based on which we can derive various spectral-temporal properties of the photon pairs and of the heralded single photons obtained from the photon pairs, including: the single photon spectrum, the chronocyclic Wigner function and the Schmidt number. The simulations that we present are for the specific case of a collinear SPDC source based on a PPLN crystal with the signal and idler photons emitted close to the telecom window. We discuss the mechanism for spectral broadening due to the presence of a linearly chirped X(2) grating, showing that not only the width but also to some extent the shape of the SPDC spectrum maybe controlled. Also, we discuss how the fact that the different spectral components are emitted on different planes in the crystal leads to single-photon chirp.

id: 1412.7347
title: Optimizing for an arbitrary perfect entangler: I. Functionals
authors: Paul Watts, Ji?¨ª Vala, Matthias M. M¨¹ller, Tommaso Calarco, K. Birgitta Whaley, Daniel M. Reich, Michael H. Goerz, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7347
abstract: Optimal control theory is a powerful tool for improving figures of merit in quantum information tasks. Finding the solution to any optimal control problem via numerical optimization depends crucially on the choice of the optimization functional. Here, we derive a functional that targets the full set of two-qubit perfect entanglers, gates capable of creating a maximally-entangled state out of some initial product state. The functional depends on easily-computable local invariants and uniquely determines when a gate evolves into a perfect entangler. Optimization with our functional is most useful if the two-qubit dynamics allows for the implementation of more than one perfect entangler. We discuss the reachable set of perfect entanglers for a generic Hamiltonian that corresponds to several quantum information platforms of current interest.

id: 1412.7350
title: Optimizing for an arbitrary perfect entangler. II. Application
authors: Michael H. Goerz, Giulia Gualdi, Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch, Felix Motzoi, K. Birgitta Whaley, Ji?¨ª Vala, Matthias M. M¨¹ller, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7350
abstract: The difficulty of an optimization task in quantum information science depends on the proper mathematical expression of the physical target. Here we demonstrate the power of optimization functionals targeting an arbitrary perfect two-qubit entangler, creating a maximally-entangled state out of some initial product state. For two quantum information platforms of current interest, nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond and superconducting Josephson junctions, we show that an arbitrary perfect entangler can be reached faster and with higher fidelity than specific two-qubit gates or local equivalence classes of two-qubit gates. Our results are obtained with two independent optimization approaches, underlining the crucial role of the optimization target.

id: 1412.7355
title: Perturbation of the ns energy levels of the hydrogen atom in rotationally invariant noncommutative space
authors: Kh. P. Gnatenko, Yu. S. Krynytskyi, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 30, No. 8 (2015) 1550033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7355
abstract: Noncommutative space which is rotationally invariant is considered. The hydrogen atom is studied in this space. We exactly find the leading term in the asymptotic expansion of the corrections to the $ns$ energy levels over the small parameter of noncommutativity.

id: 1412.7399
title: Do quantum strategies always win? A case study in the entangled quantum penny flip game
authors: Namit Anand, Colin Benjamin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7399
abstract: In a seminal paper, Meyer\cite{Meyer} described the advantages of quantum game theory by looking at the classical penny flip game. A player using quantum strategy can win against a classical player almost 100% of the time. Here we make a slight modification of the quantum game in which the two players share an entangled state to begin with. We then analyse two different scenarios one in which the quantum player makes unitary transformations to her qubit while classical player uses a pure strategy of either flipping or not flipping the state of his qubit. In the second scenario we have the quantum player making similar unitary transformations while the classical player makes use of a mixed strategy wherein he either flips or not with some probability "p". We show that in the second scenario 100% win record of a quantum player is drastically reduced and for a particular probability "p" the classical player may even win against the quantum player.

id: 1412.7432
title: Spectral properties and control of an exciton trapped in a multi-layered quantum dot
authors: Mariano Garagiola, Omar Osenda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7432
abstract: The spectral properties of one exciton trapped in a self-assembled multi-layered quantum dot is obtained using a high precision variational numerical method. The exciton Hamiltonian includes the effect of the polarization charges, induced by the presence of the exciton in the quantum dot, at the material interfaces. The method allows to implement rather easily the matching conditions at the interfaces of the hetero-structure. The numerical method also provides accurate approximate eigenfunctions that enable the study of the separability of the exciton eigenfunction in electron and hole states. The separability, or the entanglement content, of the total wave function allows a better understanding of the spectral properties of the exciton and, in particular, shed some light about when the perturbation theory calculation of the spectrum is fairly correct or not. Finally, using the approximate spectrum and eigenfunctions, the controlled time evolution of the exciton wave function is analyzed when an external driving field is applied to the system. It is found that it is possible to obtain pico and sub-picoseconds controlled oscillations between two particular states of the exciton with a rather low leakage of probability to other exciton states, and with a simple pulse shape.

id: 1412.7437
title: Compressibility of positive semidefinite factorizations and quantum models
authors: Cyril J. Stark, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7437
abstract: We investigate compressibility of the dimension of positive semidefinite matrices while approximately preserving their pairwise inner products. This can either be regarded as compression of positive semidefinite factorizations of nonnegative matrices or (if the matrices are subject to additional normalization constraints) as compression of quantum models. We derive both lower and upper bounds on compressibility. Applications are broad and range from the statistical analysis of experimental data to bounding the one-way quantum communication complexity of Boolean functions.

id: 1412.7450
title: A tunable, nonlinear Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer
authors: David Oehri, Mikhail Pletyukhov, Vladimir Gritsev, Gianni Blatter, Sebastian Schmidt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033816 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7450
abstract: We investigate the two-photon scattering properties of a Jaynes-Cummings (JC) nonlinearity consisting of a two-level system (qubit) interacting with a single mode cavity, which is coupled to two waveguides, each containing a single incident photon wave packet initially. In this scattering setup, we study the interplay between the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect arising due to quantum interference and effective photon-photon interactions induced by the presence of the qubit. We calculate the two-photon scattering matrix of this system analytically and identify signatures of interference and interaction in the second order auto- and cross-correlation functions of the scattered photons. In the dispersive regime, when qubit and cavity are far detuned from each other, we find that the JC nonlinearity can be used as an almost linear, in-situ tunable beam splitter giving rise to ideal Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, generating a highly path-entangled two-photon NOON state of the scattered photons. The latter manifests itself in strongly suppressed waveguide cross-correlations and Poissonian photon number statistics in each waveguide. If the two-level system and the cavity are on resonance, the JC nonlinearity strongly modifies the ideal HOM conditions leading to a smaller degree of path entanglement and sub-poissonian photon number statistics. In the latter regime, we find that photon blockade is associated with bunched auto-correlations in both waveguides, while a two-polariton resonance can lead to bunched as well as anti-bunched correlations.

id: 1412.7453
title: Search Via quantum walks with intermediate measurements
authors: Efrain Buksman, Andr¨¦ L. Fonseca de Oliveira, Jes¨²s Garc?a L¨®pez de Lacalle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7453
abstract: A modification of the Tulsi quantum search algorithm with intermediate measurements of the control is presented. In order to analyze the effect of measurements in quantum searches, a different choice of the angular parameter is used. The study is performed for several values of time lapses between measurements, finding close relationships between probabilities and correlations (Mutual Information and Cumulative Correlation Measure). The order of this modified algorithm is estimated, showing that for some time lapses the performance is improved, and became of order $O(N)$ (classical brute force search) when the measurement is taken in every step. The results indicate a possible way to analyze improvements to other quantum algorithms using one, or more, control qubits.

id: 1412.7469
title: Stable subspaces of positive maps of matrix algebras
authors: Marek Miller, Robert Olkiewicz
comments: 11 pages. Added the computation of the entanglement witness associated with the provided example of an extremal map. Corrected typographical errors. Added acknowledgements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7469
abstract: We study stable subspaces of positive extremal maps of finite dimensional matrix algebras that preserve trace and matrix identity (so-called bistochastic maps). We have established the existence of the isometric-sweeping decomposition for such maps. As the main result of the paper, we have shown that all extremal bistochastic maps acting on the algebra of matrices of size 3x3 fall into one of the three possible categories, depending on the form of the stable subspace of the isometric-sweeping decomposition. Our example of an extremal atomic positive map seems to be the first one that handles the case of that subspace being non-trivial. Lastly, we compute the entanglement witness associated with the extremal map and specify a large family of entangled states detected by it.

id: 1412.7471
title: Evaluating the geometric measure of multiparticle entanglement
authors: Lars Erik Buchholz, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7471
abstract: We present an analytical approach to evaluate the geometric measure of multiparticle entanglement for mixed quantum states. Our method allows the computation of this measure for a family of multiparticle states with a certain symmetry and delivers lower bounds on the measure for general states. It works for an arbitrary number of particles, for arbitrary classes of multiparticle entanglement, and can also be used to determine other entanglement measures.

id: 1412.7495
title: Selftrapping triggered by losses in cavity QED
authors: Raul Coto, Miguel Orszag, Vitalie Eremeev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7495
abstract: In a coupled cavity QED network model, we study the transition from a localized super fluid like state to a delocalized Mott insulator like state, triggered by losses. Without cavity losses, the transition never takes place. Further, if one measures the quantum correlations between the polaritons via the negativity, we find a critical cavity damping constant, above which the negativity displays a single peak in the same time region where the transition takes place. Additionally, we identify two regions in the parameter space, where below the critical damping, oscillations of the initial localized state are observed along with a multipeaked negativity, while above the critical value, the oscillations die out and the transition is witnessed by a neat single peaked negativity.

id: 1412.7502
title: Bell inequality violation in the presence of vacancies and incomplete measurements
authors: Kaila C. S. Hall, Daniel K. L. Oi
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7502
abstract: The characterization of a quantum system can be complicated by non-ideal measurement processes. In many systems, the underlying physical measurement is only sensitive to a single fixed state, complementary outcomes are inferred by non-detection leaving them vulnerable to out-of-Hilbert space errors such as particle loss. It is still possible to directly verify the violation of a Bell inequality, hence witness entanglement of a bipartite state, in the presence of large vacancy rates using such an incomplete measurement by optimizing the measurement settings. The scheme is robust against imperfect a priori state knowledge and also moderate amounts of error in state determination.

id: 1412.7578
title: Quantum optical technologies for metrology, sensing and imaging
authors: Jonathan P. Dowling, Kaushik P. Seshadreesan
comments: Published online in the Jounal of Lightwave Technology. To appear in the IEEE/OSA Special Issue on the 23rd International Conference on OPTICAL FIBER SENSORS (OFS23)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7578
abstract: Over the past 20 years, bright sources of entangled photons have led to a renaissance in quantum optical interferometry. Optical interferometry has been used to test the foundations of quantum mechanics and implement some of the novel ideas associated with quantum entanglement such as quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography, quantum lithography, quantum computing logic gates, and quantum metrology. In this paper, we focus on the new ways that have been developed to exploit quantum optical entanglement in quantum metrology to beat the shot-noise limit, which can be used, e.g., in fiber optical gyroscopes and in sensors for biological or chemical targets. We also discuss how this entanglement can be used to beat the Rayleigh diffraction limit in imaging systems such as in LIDAR and optical lithography.

id: 1412.7609
title: Hardy's Paradox and Measurement-disturbance Relations
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, C.H. Oh, Sixia Yu
comments: 6 pages. PRA (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7609
abstract: We establish a quantitative relation between Hardy's paradox and the breaking of uncertainty principle in the sense of measurement-disturbance relations in the conditional measurement of non-commuting operators. The analysis of the inconsistency of local realism with entanglement by Hardy is simplified if this breaking of measurement-disturbance relations is taken into account, and a much simplified experimental test of local realism is illustrated in the framework of Hardy's thought experiment. The essence of Hardy's model is identified as a combination of two conditional measurements, which give rise to definite eigenvalues to two non-commuting operators simultaneously in hidden-variables models. Better understanding of the intimate interplay of entanglement and measurement-disturbance is crucial in the current discussions of Hardy's paradox using the idea of weak measurement, which is based on a general analysis of measurement-disturbance relations.

id: 1412.7630
title: Transmission phase lapse in the non-Hermitian Aharonov-Bohm interferometer near the spectral singularity
authors: G. Zhang, X. Q. Li, X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, Accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012116 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7630
abstract: We study the effect of PT-symmetric imaginary potentials embedded in the two arms of an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer on the transmission phase by finding an exact solution for a concrete tight-binding system. It is observed that the spectral singularity always occurs at k=${\pm}${\pi}/2 for a wide range of fluxes and imaginary potentials. Critical behavior associated with the physics of the spectral singularity is also investigated. It is demonstrated that the quasi-spectral singularity corresponds to a transmission maximum and the transmission phase jumps abruptly by {\pi} when the system is swept through this point. Moreover, We find that there exists a pulse-like phase lapse when the imaginary potential approaches the boundary value of the spectral singularity.

id: 1412.7637
title: The Computational Power of Non-interacting Particles
authors: Daniel J. Brod
comments: PhD Thesis, defended at Universidade Federal Fluminense on March 2014. Final version, 208 pages. New results in Chapter 5 correspond to arXiv:1106.1863, arXiv:1207.2126, and arXiv:1308.1463. New results in Chapter 6 correspond to arXiv:1212.2783, arXiv:1305.3188, arXiv:1311.1622 and arXiv:1412.6788
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7637
abstract: Shortened abstract: In this thesis, I study two restricted models of quantum computing related to free identical particles. Free fermions correspond to a set of two-qubit gates known as matchgates. Matchgates are classically simulable when acting on nearest neighbors on a path, but universal for quantum computing when acting on distant qubits or when SWAP gates are available. I generalize these results in two ways. First, I show that SWAP is only one in a large family of gates that uplift matchgates to quantum universality. In fact, I show that the set of all matchgates plus any nonmatchgate parity-preserving two-qubit gate is universal, and interpret this fact in terms of local invariants of two-qubit gates. Second, I investigate the power of matchgates in arbitrary connectivity graphs, showing they are universal on any connected graph other than a path or a cycle, and classically simulable on a cycle. I also prove the same dichotomy for the XY interaction. Free bosons give rise to a model known as BosonSampling. BosonSampling consists of (i) preparing a Fock state of n photons, (ii) interfering these photons in an m-mode linear interferometer, and (iii) measuring the output in the Fock basis. Sampling approximately from the resulting distribution should be classically hard, under reasonable complexity assumptions. Here I show that exact BosonSampling remains hard even if the linear-optical circuit has constant depth. I also report several experiments where three-photon interference was observed in integrated interferometers of various sizes, providing some of the first implementations of BosonSampling in this regime. The experiments also focus on the bosonic bunching behavior and on validation of BosonSampling devices. This thesis contains descriptions of the numerical analyses done on the experimental data, omitted from the corresponding publications.

id: 1412.7642
title: Symmetry Breaking and the Geometry of Reduced Density Matrices
authors: V. Zauner, D. Draxler, Y. Lee, L. Vanderstraeten, J. Haegeman, F. Verstraete
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7642
abstract: The concept of symmetry breaking and the emergence of corresponding local order parameters constitute the pillars of modern day many body physics. The theory of quantum entanglement is currently leading to a paradigm shift in understanding quantum correlations in many body systems and in this work we show how symmetry breaking can be understood from this wavefunction centered point of view. We demonstrate that the existence of symmetry breaking is a consequence of the geometric structure of the convex set of reduced density matrices of all possible many body wavefunctions. The surfaces of those convex bodies exhibit non-analytic behavior in the form of ruled surfaces, which turn out to be the defining signatures for the emergence of symmetry breaking and of an associated order parameter. We illustrate this by plotting the convex sets arising in the context of three paradigmatic examples of many body systems exhibiting symmetry breaking: the quantum Ising model in transverse magnetic field, exhibiting a second order quantum phase transition; the classical Ising model at finite temperature in two dimensions, which orders below a critical temperature $T_c$; and a system of free bosons at finite temperature in three dimensions, exhibiting the phenomenon of Bose-Einstein condensation together with an associated order parameter $\langle\psi\rangle$. Remarkably, these convex sets look all very much alike. We believe that this wavefunction based way of looking at phase transitions demystifies the emergence of order parameters and provides a unique novel tool for studying exotic quantum phenomena.

id: 1412.7644
title: Comment on "Teleportation of Three-Qubit State via Six-qubit Cluster State"
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Chitra Shukla
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7644
abstract: Recently Yu and Sun [Int. J. Theor. Phys. DOI 10.1007/s10773-014-2360-x] have presented probabilistic teleportation of 3-qubit cat state via 6-qubit cluster state. The success probability depends on absolute value of only two of the coefficients of cluster state i.e. |c|^2 + |d|^2. We have demonstrated the feasibility to teleport 3-qubit cat state via 2-qubit non maximally entangled Bell state instead of a complex state like 6-qubit non maximally entangled cluster state. In this comment we have prescribed an optimal protocol for teleportation of n-qubit state of the form (\alpha|x> + \beta|\bar{x}>)_n via non maximally entangled Bell state a|00> + b|11> henceforth allowing teleportation of n-qubit state via 2-qubit Bell state. The success probability of the prescribed protocol is |b|^2.

id: 1412.7648
title: Towards continuous-wave regime teleportation for light matter quantum relay stations
authors: Florian Kaiser, Amandine Issautier, Lutfi A. Ngah, Djeylan Aktas, Tom Delord, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 
journal: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, Volume 21, Issue 3, 6400709 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7648
abstract: We report a teleportation experiment involving narrowband entangled photons at 1560 nm and qubit photons at 795 nm emulated by faint laser pulses. A nonlinear difference frequency generation stage converts the 795 nm photons to 1560 nm in order to enable interference with one photon out of the pairs, i.e., at the same wavelength. The spectral bandwidth of all involved photons is of about 25 MHz, which is close to the emission bandwidth of emissive quantum memory devices, notably those based on ensembles of cold atoms and rare earth ions. This opens the route towards the realization of hybrid quantum nodes, i.e., combining quantum memories and entanglement-based quantum relays exploiting either a synchronized (pulsed) or asynchronous (continuous- wave) scenario.

id: 1412.7657
title: Dichotomous-context-induced superselection rule for a one-dimensional completed scattering
authors: Nikolay L. Chuprikov
comments: 7 pages, no figures, some corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7657
abstract: We present a superselection rule (SSR) which restricts the validity of the superposition principle in the rigged Hilbert space of states of a particle taking part in a one-dimensional completed scattering (OCS). This rule is induced by a dichotomous physical context which determines the quantum dynamics of a particle in the nonoverlapped spatial regions located at the asymptotically large distances from the barrier, on the different sides from it. The role of a superselection operator is played by the Pauli matrix $\sigma_3$ that divides the Hilbert space into two coherent sectors associated with this context. The unitary Schr\"{o}dinger evolution crosses these sectors, in the case of the OCS, and hence this process must be treated as the result of superimposing two coherent inseparable subprocesses -- transmission and reflection, and all physical observables can be introduced only for them. We show how to restore in-states for both subprocesses, according to the corresponding out-states.

id: 1412.7730
title: Detecting multipartite entanglement with untrusted measurements in asymmetric quantum networks
authors: D. Cavalcanti, P. Skrzypczyk, G. H. Aguilar, R. V. Nery, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. v2: text improved, typos and references corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7730
abstract: The future of quantum communication relies on quantum networks composed by observers sharing multipartite quantum states. The certification of multipartite entanglement will be crucial to the usefulness of these networks. In many real situations it is natural to assume that some observers are more trusted than others in the sense that they have more knowledge of their measurement apparatuses. Here we propose a general method to certify all kinds of multipartite entanglement in this scenario and experimentally demonstrate it in an optical experiment. Our work fills a gap in the characterization of quantum correlations and provides a basis for semi-device-independent cryptographic applications in quantum networks.

id: 1412.7731
title: A first-principles approach to physics based on locality and operationalism
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX + PoS, contribution to the proceedings of the conference "Frontiers of Fundamental Physics 14" (Marseille, 2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7731
abstract: Starting from the guiding principles of spacetime locality and operationalism, a general framework for a probabilistic description of nature is proposed. Crucially, no notion of time or metric is assumed, neither any specific physical model. Remarkably, the emerging framework converges with a recently proposed formulation of quantum theory, obtained constructively from known quantum physics. At the same time the framework also admits statistical theories of classical physics.

id: 1412.7733
title: Enhanced Optomechanical Levitation of Minimally Supported Dielectrics
authors: Tina M¨¹ller, Christoph Reinhardt, Jack C. Sankey
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7733
abstract: Optically levitated mechanical sensors promise isolation from thermal noise far beyond what is possible using flexible materials alone. One way to access this potential is to apply a strong optical trap to a minimally supported mechanical element, thereby increasing its quality factor $Q_m$. Current schemes, however, require prohibitively high laser power ($\sim10$ W), and the $Q_m$ enhancement is ultimately limited to a factor of $\sim$ 50 by hybridization between the trapped mode and the dissipative modes of the supporting structure. Here we propose a levitation scheme taking full advantage of an optical resonator to reduce the circulating power requirements by many orders of magnitude. Applying this scheme to the case of a dielectric disk in a Fabry-Perot cavity, we find a tilt-based tuning mechanism for optimizing both center-of-mass and torsional mode traps. Notably, the two modes are trapped with comparable efficiency, and we estimate that a 10-micron-diameter, 100-nm-thick Si disc could be trapped to a frequency of $\sim$ 10 MHz with only $30$ mW circulating in a cavity of (modest) finesse 1500. Finally, we simulate the effect such a strong trap would have on a realistic doubly-tethered disc. Of central importance, we find torsional motion is comparatively immune to $Q_m$-limiting hybridization, allowing a $Q_m$ enhancement factor of $\sim$ 1500. This opens the possibility of realizing a laser-tuned 10 MHz mechanical system with a quality factor of order a billion.

id: 1412.7790
title: Experimental Proof of Nonlocal Wavefunction Collapse for a Single Particle Using Homodyne Measurement
authors: Maria Fuwa, Shuntaro Takeda, Marcin Zwierz, Howard M. Wiseman, Akira Furusawa
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 6, 6665 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7790
abstract: A single quantum particle can be described by a wavefunction that spreads over arbitrarily large distances, but it is never detected in two (or more) places. This strange phenomenon is explained in quantum theory by what Einstein repudiated as "spooky action at a distance": the instantaneous nonlocal collapse of the wavefunction to wherever the particle is detected. We demonstrate this single-particle spooky action, for the first time with no efficiency loophole, by splitting a single photon between two laboratories and experimentally testing if the choice of measurement in one lab really causes a change in the local quantum state in the other lab. To this end, we use homodyne measurements with six different measurement settings and quantitatively verify Einstein's spooky action by violating an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-steering inequality by $0.042 \pm 0.006$. Our experiment also verifies the entanglement of the split single photon even when one side is untrusted.

id: 1412.7815
title: Computation of spontaneous emission dynamics in colored vacua
authors: Mohammad Hosain Teimourpour, Ramy El-Ganainy
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7815
abstract: We present an efficient time domain numerical scheme for computing spontaneous emission dynamics in colored vacua. Starting from first principles, we map the unitary evolution of a dressed two-level quantum emitter onto the problem of electromagnetic radiation from a complex harmonic oscillator under self-interaction conditions. This latter oscillator-field system can be efficiently integrated by using finite difference time domain method without the need for calculating the photonic eigenmodes of the surrounding environment. In contrast to earlier investigations, our computational framework provides a unified numerical treatment for both weak and strong coupling regimes alike. We illustrate the versatility of our scheme by considering several different examples.

id: 1412.7829
title: Entanglement Relativity in the Foundations of The Open Quantum Systems Theory
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, D. Todorovic, M. Dugic
comments: Invited chapter for a published book in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7829
abstract: Realistic many-particle systems dynamically exchange particles with their environments. In classical physics, small variations in the number of constituent particles are commonly considered practically irrelevant. However, in the quantum mechanical context, such and similar structural variations are generically taxed due to the so-called Entanglement Relativity. In this paper we point out difficulties in deriving master equation for a subsystem of an alternative partition of the closed quantum system. We find that the Nakajima-Zwanzig projection method cannot be straightforwardly used to solve the problem. The emerging tasks and prospects for the consistent foundations are examined.

id: 1412.7862
title: A Review of Unitary Quantum Premeasurement Theory An Algebraic Study of Basic Kinds of Premeasurements
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 20 pages, one diagram, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7862
abstract: A detailed theory of quantum premeasurement dynamics is presented in which a unitary composite-system operator that contains the relevant object-measuring-instrument interaction brings about the final premeasurement state. It does not include collapse, and it does not consider the environment. It is assumed that a discrete degenerate or non-degenerate observable is measured. Premeasurement is defined by the calibration condition, which requires that every initially statistically sharp value of the measured observable has to be detected with statistical certainty by the measuring instrument. The entire theory is derived as a logical consequence of this definition using the standard quantum formalism. The study has a comprehensive coverage, hence the article is actually a topical review. Connection is made with results of other authors, particularly with basic works on premeasurement. The article is a conceptual review, not a historical one. General exact premeasurement is defined in 7 equivalent ways. Nondemolition premeasurement, defined by requiring preservation of any sharp value of the measured observable, is characterized in 10 equivalent ways. Overmeasurement, i. e., a process in which the observable is measured on account of being a function of a finer observable that is actually measured, is discussed. Disentangled premeasurement, in which, by definition, to each result corresponds only one pointer-observable state in the final composite-system state, is investigated. Ideal premeasurement, a special case of both nondemolition premeasurement and disentangled premeasurement, is defined, and its most important properties are discussed. Finally, disentangled and entangled premeasurements, in conjunction with nondemolition or demolition premeasurements, are used for classification of all premeasurements.

id: 1412.7873
title: Pauli equation for joint tomographic probability distribution of spin 1/2 particle
authors: Ya. A. Korennoy, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7873
abstract: The positive vector optical tomogram fully describing the quantum state of spin 1/2 particle without any redundancy is introduced. Reciprocally the vector symplectic tomogram and vector quasidistributions $\vec W({\mathbf q},{\mathbf p})$, $\vec Q({\mathbf q},{\mathbf p})$, $\vec P(\vec\alpha)$ are introduced. The evolution equations for proposed vector optical and symplectic tomograms and vector quasidistributions for arbitrary Hamiltonian are obtained. The quantum system of charged spin 1/2 particle in arbitrary electro-magnetic field is considered in proposed representations and evolution equations which are analogs of Pauli equation are obtained. The propagator of evolution equation in the case of homogeneous and stationary magnetic field in Landau gauge is found and the evolution of initial entangled superposition of lower Landau levels in the vector optical representation is considered. The system of linear quantum oscillator with spin in vector optical tomography representation is considered and the evolution of initial entangled superposition of two lower Fock states and spin-up, spin-down states is studied in this representation.

id: 1412.7895
title: Quantum trajectories under frequent measurements in non-Markovian environment
authors: Luting Xu, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7895
abstract: The quantum trajectory (QT) theory, which is broadly utilized nowadays in quantum measurement and control studies, essentially corresponds to unraveling of the Lindblad master equation. However, the QT theory of this type is not compatible with quantum Zeno effect. In this work we propose a scheme for the quantum trajectories conditioned on frequent measurements in non-Markovian environment. The non-Markovian environment is characterized by a finite bandwidth ($\Lambda$), which we show has a perfect "scaling" property with the measurement frequency ($1/\tau$). As a result, the incompatibility between the QT theory and the Zeno effect can be naturally eliminated. The new QT theory tells us that the scaling variable $x=\Lambda \tau$ is an important parameter that should be taken into account. The present study sheds also new light on the confusing concept of continuous null-result informational evolution.

id: 1412.7917
title: Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic
authors: Bob Coecke, Matty Hoban
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7917
abstract: This volume contains the proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL X), which was held July 17-19, 2013 at ICFO in Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain. The goal of this workshop series is to bring together researchers working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum computing and spatio-temporal causal structures, and in particular those that use logical tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures, formal languages, semantic methods and other computer science methods for the study of physical behavior in general. Over the past few years, there has been growing activity in these foundational approaches, together with a renewed interest in the foundations of quantum theory, which complement the more mainstream research in quantum computation.

id: 1412.7921
title: Entanglement Generation by Communication using Phase-Squeezed Light with Photon Loss
authors: Fumiaki Matsuoka, Akihisa Tomita, Atsushi Okamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7921
abstract: In order to implement fault-tolerant quantum computation, entanglement generation with low error probability and high success probability is required. We have proposed the use of squeezed coherent light as a probe to generate entanglement between two atoms by communication, and shown that the error probability is reduced well below the threshold of fault-tolerant quantum computation [Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 88}, 022313 (2013)]. Here, we investigate the effect of photon loss mainly due to finite coupling efficiency to the cavity. The error probability with the photon loss is calculated by the beam-splitter model for homodyne measurement on probe light. Optimum condition on the amplitude of probe light to minimize the error probability is examined. It is shown that the phase-squeezed probe light yields lower error probability than coherent-light probe. A fault-tolerant quantum computation algorithm can be implemented under 0.59 dB loss by concatenating five-qubit error correction code.

id: 1412.7940
title: Bell inequalities from group actions of single-generator groups
authors: V. Ugur Guney, Mark Hillery
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062121 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7940
abstract: We study a method of generating Bell inequalities by using group actions of single-generator abelian groups. Two parties, Alice and Bob, each make one of M possible measurements on a system, with each measurement having K possible outcomes. The probabilities for the outcomes of these measurements are P(a_j = k, b_{j'}=k'), where j,j' are in the set {1,2,... M} and k,k' are in the set {0,1,... K-1}. The sums of some subsets of these probabilities have upper bounds when the probabilities result from a local, realistic theory that can be violated if the probabilities come from quantum mechanics. In our case the subsets of probabilities are generated by a group action, in particular, a representation of a single-generator group acting on product states in a tensor-product Hilbert space. We show how this works for several cases, including M=2, K=3, and general M, K=2. We also discuss the resulting inequalities in terms of nonlocal games.

id: 1412.7948
title: Phase-space noncommutative extension of the Robertson-Schroedinger formulation of Ozawa's uncertainty principle
authors: Catarina Bastos, Alex E. Bernardini, Orfeu Bertolami, Nuno Costa Dias, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 31 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 065036 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7948
abstract: We revisit Ozawa's uncertainty principle (OUP) in the framework of noncommutative (NC) quantum mechanics. We derive a matrix version of OUP accommodating any NC structure in the phase-space, and compute NC corrections to lowest order for two measurement interactions, namely the Backaction Evading Quadrature Amplifier and Noiseless Quadrature Transducers. These NC corrections alter the nature of the measurement interaction, as a noiseless interaction may acquire noise, and an interaction of independent intervention may become dependent of the object system. However the most striking result is that noncommutativity may lead to a violation of the OUP itself. The NC corrections for the Backaction Evading Quadrature Amplifier reveal a new term which may potentially be amplified in such a way that the violation of the OUP becomes experimentally testable. On the other hand, the NC corrections to the Noiseless Quadrature Transducer shows an incompatibility of this model with NC quantum mechanics. We discuss the implications of this incompatibility for NC quantum mechanics and for Ozawa's uncertainty principle.

id: 1412.7950
title: Comment on "Quantum Darwinism, Decoherence, and the Randomness of Quantum Jumps," arXiv:1412.5206
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Accepted for publication as a Letter in Physics Today. Edited version (see v2 for submitted/accepted version). Tentatively scheduled for May issue, pending invited reply from Prof. Zurek
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7950
abstract: This brief note in response to Wojciech Zurek's article "Quantum Darwinism, classical reality, and the randomness of quantum jumps" (Physics Today, October 2014, page 44) points out extant rebuttals in the literature to some of the author's key claims.

id: 1412.7980
title: Inhomogeneity parameter in designing an ion trap
authors: Weikang Fan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author as the supervisor consider it not suitable to publish
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7980
abstract: In designing an ion trap, geometry and rf source should be optimized such that the trap depth is maximized while the ion remain stable. In a quadrupole linear trap, stable parameters $a$ and $q$ are utilized frequently in describing the stability. However, in a surface trap, the trap have to be mapped to the linear quadrupole trap so that $a$ and $q$ can be evaluated. This work explains how to handle them for surface trap designing and how the geometry and rf source affect it. We conclude that the $q$ parameter should be 0.2~0.22 so that the trap is stable.

id: 1412.7984
title: Nonlinear Oscillator Hamiltonian from Nonlinear Differential Equation and Calculation of Accurate Energy Levels
authors: Biswanath Rath, P. Mallick
comments: 7 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7984
abstract: A new method for generating analytical expression of quantum Hamiltonian from non-linear differential equation with stationary energy level has been formulated.Further calculation of energy levels have been carried out analytically using and numerically using matrix diagonalisation method.

id: 1412.8032
title: Attacks exploiting deviation of mean photon number in quantum key distribution and coin tossing
authors: Shihan Sajeed, Igor Radchenko, Sarah Kaiser, Jean-Philippe Bourgoin, Anna Pappa, Laurent Monat, Matthieu Legre, Vadim Makarov
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, Improved Introduction and Conclusion, Published in Physical Review A, Accepted at QCrypt 2014, 4th international conference on quantum cryptography, September 1-5, 2014 in Paris, France this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032326 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8032
abstract: The security of quantum communication using a weak coherent source requires an accurate knowledge of the source's mean photon number. Finite calibration precision or an active manipulation by an attacker may cause the actual emitted photon number to deviate from the known value. We model effects of this deviation on the security of three quantum communication protocols: the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol without decoy states, Scarani-Acin-Ribordy-Gisin 2004 (SARG04) QKD protocol, and a coin-tossing protocol. For QKD, we model both a strong attack using technology possible in principle, and a realistic attack bounded by today's technology. To maintain the mean photon number in two-way systems, such as plug-and-play and relativistic quantum cryptography schemes, bright pulse energy incoming from the communication channel must be monitored. Implementation of a monitoring detector has largely been ignored so far, except for ID Quantique's commercial QKD system Clavis2. We scrutinize this implementation for security problems, and show that designing a hack-proof pulse-energy-measuring detector is far from trivial. Indeed the first implementation has three serious flaws confirmed experimentally, each of which may be exploited in a cleverly constructed Trojan-horse attack. We discuss requirements for a loophole-free implementation of the monitoring detector.

id: 1412.8036
title: Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory: Simulation of Probabilities of Photon Detection with the Aid of Classical Brownian Motion
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8036
abstract: In this paper we present results of numerical simulation based on Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory (PCSFT), a model with hidden variables of the field-type reproducing probabilistic predictions of quantum mechanics (QM). PCSFT is combined with measurement theory based on detectors of the threshold type. The latter describes discrete events corresponding to the continuous fields model, PCSFT. Numerical modeling demonstrated that the classical Brownian motion (the Wiener process valued in complex Hilbert space) producing clicks when approaching the detection threshold gives probabilities of detection predcited by the formalism QM (as well as PCSFT). This numerical result is important, since the transition from PCSFT to the threshold detection has a complex mathematical structure (in the framework of classical random processes) and it was modeled only approximately. We also perform numerical simulation for the PCSFT-value of the coefficient of second order coherence. Our result matches well with the prediction of quantum theory. Thus, opposite to semiclassical theory, PCSFT cannot be rejected as a consequence of measurements of $g^{(2)}(0).$ Finally, we analyze the output of the recent experiment performed in NIST questioning the validity of some predictions of PCSFT.

id: 1412.8098
title: A Generalized Geometric Measurement of Quantum Discord: Exact Treatment
authors: Hai-Tao Cui, Jun-Long Tian, Gui Yang
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures. references are updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8098
abstract: A generalization of the geometric measure of quantum discord is introduced in this article, based on Hellinger distance, which has virtue of computability and independence of local measurements. In addition our definition also does not suffer from the recently raised critiques about quantum discord. Importantly the exact result can be obtained for bipartite pure states with arbitrary levels, which is completely determined by the Schmidt decomposition of the states. For bipartite mixed states the exact result can also be found for $X$ type case, of which the sub matrices are spanned by the Schmidt-typed states. Furthermore this definition has a natural generalization into multipartite states. As for symmetric case, permutational or translational invariance, we shown that it can be evaluated exactly by supposing that the "nearest" completely classical state shares the same symmetry of the state. In addition we show that our definition can also be used to mark the appearance of quantum phase transition in many-body systems.

id: 1412.8178
title: Analogue of the CHSH inequality for steering
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Christopher J. Foster, Maria Fuwa, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8178
abstract: The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality (and its permutations), are necessary and sufficient criteria for Bell nonlocality in the simplest Bell-nonlocality scenario: 2 parties, 2 measurements per party and 2 outcomes per measurement. Here we derive an inequality for EPR-steering that is an analogue of the CHSH, in that it is necessary and sufficient in this same scenario. However, since in the case of steering the device at Bob's site must be specified (as opposed to the Bell case in which it is a black box), the scenario we consider is that where Alice performs two (black-box) dichotomic measurements, and Bob performs two mutually unbiased qubit measurements. We show that this inequality is strictly weaker than the CHSH, as expected, and use it to decide whether a recent experiment involving a single-photon split between two parties has demonstrated EPR-steering.

id: 1412.8181
title: States that are far from being stabilizer states
authors: David Andersson, Ingemar Bengtsson, Kate Blanchfield, Hoan Bui Dang
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8181
abstract: Stabilizer states are eigenvectors of maximal commuting sets of operators in a finite Heisenberg group. States that are far from being stabilizer states include magic states in quantum computation, MUB-balanced states, and SIC vectors. In prime dimensions the latter two fall under the umbrella of Minimum Uncertainty States (MUS) in the sense of Wootters and Sussman. We study the correlation between two ways in which the notion of "far from being a stabilizer state" can be quantified, and give detailed results for low dimensions. In dimension 7 we identify the MUB-balanced states as being antipodal to the SIC vectors within the set of MUS, in a sense that we make definite. In dimension 4 we show that the states that come closest to being MUS with respect to all the six stabilizer MUBs are the fiducial vectors for Alltop MUBs.

id: 1412.8199
title: Reversibility of dynamics and multiple-quantum coherences
authors: A. K. Khitrin
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8199
abstract: In spin systems, the decay of the Loschmidt echo in the time-reversal experiment (evolution, perturbation, time-reversed evolution) is linked to the generation of multiple-quantum coherences. The approach is extended to other systems, and the general problem of reversibility of quantum dynamics is analyzed.

id: 1412.8235
title: Unconditional Room Temperature Quantum Memory
authors: M. Hosseini, G. Campbell, B. M. Sparkes, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics, Vol. 7, 794-798, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8235
abstract: Just as classical information systems require buffers and memory, the same is true for quantum information systems. The potential that optical quantum information processing holds for revolutionising computation and communication is therefore driving significant research into developing optical quantum memory. A practical optical quantum memory must be able to store and recall quantum states on demand with high efficiency and low noise. Ideally, the platform for the memory would also be simple and inexpensive. Here, we present a complete tomographic reconstruction of quantum states that have been stored in the ground states of rubidium in a vapour cell operating at around 80$^o$C. Without conditional measurements, we show recall fidelity up to 98% for coherent pulses containing around one photon. In order to unambiguously verify that our memory beats the quantum no-cloning limit we employ state independent verification using conditional variance and signal transfer coefficients.

id: 1412.8275
title: Sudden death of particle-pair Bloch oscillation and unidirectional propagation in a one-dimensional driven optical lattice
authors: S. Lin, X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 90, 063411 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8275
abstract: We study the dynamics of bound pairs in the extended Hubbard model driven by a linear external field. It is shown that two interacting bosons or singlet fermions with nonzero on-site and nearest-neighbor interaction strengths can always form bound pairs in the absence of an external field. There are two bands of bound pairs, one of which may have incomplete wave vectors when it has an overlap with the scattering band, referred to as an imperfect band. In the presence of the external field, the dynamics of the bound pair in the perfect band exhibits distinct Bloch-Zener oscillation (BZO), while in the imperfect band the oscillation presents a sudden death. The pair becomes uncorrelated after the sudden death and the BZO never comes back. Such dynamical behaviors are robust even for the weak-coupling regime and thus can be used to characterize the phase diagram of the bound states.

id: 1412.8323
title: Toolbox for reconstructing quantum theory from rules on information acquisition
authors: Philipp A Hoehn
comments: 69 pages, many figures, graphs and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8323
abstract: We develop a novel operational approach for reconstructing (qubit) quantum theory from elementary rules on information acquisition. The focus lies on an observer O interrogating a system S with binary questions and S's state is taken as O's `catalogue of knowledge' about S. The mathematical tools of the framework are simple and we attempt to highlight all underlying assumptions to provide a handle for future generalizations. Five principles are imposed, asserting (1) a limit on the amount of information available to O; (2) the mere existence of complementary information; (3) the possibility for O's information to be `in superposition'; (4) O's information to be preserved in between interrogations; and, (5) continuity of time evolution. This approach permits a constructive derivation of quantum theory, elucidating how the ensuing independence, complementarity and compatibility structure of O's questions matches that of projective measurements in quantum theory, how entanglement and monogamy of entanglement and, more generally, how the correlation structure of arbitrarily many qubits and rebits arises. The principles yield a reversible time evolution and a quadratic measure, quantifying O's information about S. Finally, it is shown that the five principles admit two solutions for the simplest case of a single elementary system: the Bloch ball and disc as state spaces for a qubit and rebit, respectively, together with their symmetries as time evolution groups. The reconstruction is completed in a companion paper where an additional postulate eliminates the rebit case. This approach is conceptually close to the relational interpretation of quantum theory.

id: 1412.8325
title: Non-commutativity measure of quantum discord
authors: Yu Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8325
abstract: Quantum discord is a manifestation of quantum correlations due to non-commutativity rather than due to entanglement. We present here two measures of quantum discord by the amount of non-commutativity via the trace norm and the Hilbert-Schmidt norm respectively. They vanish only for the zero discord states and are invariant under any local unitary operation. Our measures can be calculated easily for any state with arbitrary dimension. It is shown by several examples that these measures reflect the amount of the origin quantum discord in a nice way.

id: 1412.8327
title: Addressing a single NV$^{-}$ spin with a macroscopic dielectric microwave cavity
authors: J.-M. Le Floch, C. Bradac, N. Nand, S. Castelletto, M.E. Tobar, T. Volz
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 105, 133101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8327
abstract: We present a technique for addressing single NV$^{-}$ center spins in diamond over macroscopic distances using a tunable dielectric microwave cavity. We demonstrate optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) for a single NV$^{-}$ center in a nanodiamond (ND) located directly under the macroscopic microwave cavity. By moving the cavity relative to the ND, we record the ODMR signal as a function of position, mapping out the distribution of the cavity magnetic field along one axis. In addition, we argue that our system could be used to determine the orientation of the NV$^{-}$ major axis in a straightforward manner.

id: 1412.8331
title: Extremely nonlocal optical nonlinearities in atoms trapped near a waveguide
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Pjotrs Grisins, Hans Peter Stimming, Igor Mazets, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures + Supplementary Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8331
abstract: Nonlinear optical phenomena are typically local. Here we predict the possibility of highly nonlocal optical nonlinearities for light propagating in atomic media trapped near a nano-waveguide, where long-range interactions between the atoms can be tailored. When the atoms are in an electromagnetically-induced transparency configuration, the atomic interactions are translated to long-range interactions between photons and thus to highly nonlocal optical nonlinearities. We derive and analyze the governing nonlinear propagation equation, finding a roton-like excitation spectrum for light and the emergence of long-range order in its output intensity. These predictions open the door to studies of unexplored wave dynamics and many-body physics with highly-nonlocal interactions of optical fields in one dimension.

id: 1412.8349
title: Implications of a deeper level explanation of the deBroglie-Bohm version of quantum mechanics
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Stud.: Math. Found. 2, 1 (2015), 133-140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8349
abstract: Elements of a "deeper level" explanation of the deBroglie-Bohm (dBB) version of quantum mechanics are presented. Our explanation is based on an analogy of quantum wave-particle duality with bouncing droplets in an oscillating medium, the latter being identified as the vacuum's zero-point field. A hydrodynamic analogy of a similar type has recently come under criticism by Richardson et al., because despite striking similarities at a phenomenological level the governing equations related to the force on the particle are evidently different for the hydrodynamic and the quantum descriptions, respectively. However, said differences are not relevant if a radically different use of said analogy is being made, thereby essentially referring to emergent processes in our model. If the latter are taken into account, one can show that the forces on the particles are identical in both the dBB and our model. In particular, this identity results from an exact matching of our emergent velocity field with the Bohmian "guiding equation". One thus arrives at an explanation involving a deeper, i.e. subquantum, level of the dBB version of quantum mechanics. We show in particular how the classically-local approach of the usual hydrodynamical modeling can be overcome and how, as a consequence, the configuration-space version of dBB theory for $N$ particles can be completely substituted by a "superclassical" emergent dynamics of $N$ particles in real 3-dimensional space.

id: 1412.8374
title: Few-Photon Transport in Nonlinear Cavity Arrays: Probing Signatures of Strongly Correlated States
authors: Changhyoup Lee, Changsuk Noh, Nikolaos Schetakis, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8374
abstract: We consider the quantum transport of multi-photon Fock states in a one-dimensional coupled QED cavity array (CQCA) as a scheme to probe the underlying strongly correlated (many-body) states of the system. To this end, we employ the Lippmann-Schwinger formalism within which an analytical form of the scattering matrix can be found. The latter is evaluated explicitly for the two photon-two site case, from which we calculate the scattering probabilities and auto-correlation functions. The results indicate that the underlying many body structure of the CQCAs can be directly inferred from the probe spectrum and output photon statistics. Our method goes beyond the usual case of using coherent light fields to drive the system and paves the way for CQCAs to serve as a quantum simulator of aspects of quantum transport in strongly correlated bosonic systems.

id: 1412.8381
title: Vacuum energy density and pressure of a massive scalar field
authors: Fernando Daniel Mera, S. A. Fulling
comments: 18 pages; v2 and v3 have minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8381
abstract: With a view toward application of the Pauli-Villars regularization method to the Casimir energy of boundaries, we calculate the expectation values of the components of the stress tensor of a confined massive field in 1+1 space-time dimensions. Previous papers by Hays and Fulling are bridged and generalized. The Green function for the time-independent Schrodinger equation is constructed from the Green function for the whole line by the method of images; equivalently, the one-dimensional system is solved exactly in terms of closed classical paths and periodic orbits. Terms in the energy density and in the eigenvalue density attributable to the two boundaries individually and those attributable to the confinement of the field to a finite interval are distinguished so that their physical origins are clear. Then the pressure is found similarly from the cylinder kernel, the Green function associated most directly with an exponential frequency cutoff of the Fourier mode expansion. Finally, we discuss how the theory could be rendered finite by the Pauli-Villars method.

id: 1412.8385
title: Thermal Fluctuations Enhance Order-from-Disorder of Quantum Correlations in Quenched Disordered Spin Models
authors: Debasis Sadhukhan, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8385
abstract: We consider paradigmatic quenched disordered quantum spin models, viz., the XY spin glass and random-field XY models, and show that quenched averaged quantum correlations can exhibit the order-from-disorder phenomenon for finite-size systems as well as in the thermodynamic limit. Moreover, we find that the order-from-disorder can get more pronounced in the presence of temperature by suitable tuning of the system parameters. The effects are found for entanglement measures as well as for information-theoretic quantum correlation ones, although the former show them more prominently. We also observe that the equivalence between the quenched averages and their self-averaged cousins -- for classical and quantum correlations -- is related to the quantum critical point in the corresponding ordered system.

id: 1412.8427
title: Boson Sampling for Molecular Vibronic Spectra
authors: Joonsuk Huh, Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Borja Peropadre, Jarrod R. McClean, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8427
abstract: Quantum computers are expected to be more efficient in performing certain computations than any classical machine. Unfortunately, the technological challenges associated with building a full-scale quantum computer have not yet allowed the experimental verification of such an expectation. Recently, boson sampling has emerged as a problem that is suspected to be intractable on any classical computer, but efficiently implementable with a linear quantum optical setup. Therefore, boson sampling may offer an experimentally realizable challenge to the Extended Church-Turing thesis and this remarkable possibility motivated much of the interest around boson sampling, at least in relation to complexity-theoretic questions. In this work, we show that the successful development of a boson sampling apparatus would not only answer such inquiries, but also yield a practical tool for difficult molecular computations. Specifically, we show that a boson sampling device with a modified input state can be used to generate molecular vibronic spectra, including complicated effects such as Duschinsky rotations.

id: 1412.8462
title: An operational approach to spacetime symmetries: Lorentz transformations from quantum communication
authors: Philipp A. Hoehn, Markus P. Mueller
comments: 37 pages, 6 figures, added two new sections, additional explanations and motivations, updated references, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8462
abstract: In most approaches to fundamental physics, spacetime symmetries are postulated a priori and then explicitly implemented in the theory. This includes Lorentz covariance in quantum field theory and diffeomorphism invariance in quantum gravity, which are seen as fundamental principles to which the final theory has to be adjusted. In this paper, we suggest, within a much simpler setting, that this kind of reasoning can actually be reversed, by taking an operational approach inspired by quantum information theory. We consider observers in distant laboratories, with local physics described by the laws of abstract quantum theory, and without presupposing a particular spacetime structure. We ask what information-theoretic effort the observers have to spend to synchronize their descriptions of local physics. If there are "enough" observables that can be measured jointly on different types of systems, we show that the observers' descriptions are related by an element of the orthochronous Lorentz group O^+(3,1), together with a global scaling factor. This operational derivation of the Lorentz transformations correctly describes the physics of relativistic Stern-Gerlach measurements in the WKB approximation, and predicts representations of different spin and Wigner little groups. This result also hints at a novel information-theoretic perspective on spacetime.

id: 1412.8477
title: Photon-mediated interactions: a scalable tool to create and sustain entangled many-body states
authors: Camille Aron, Manas Kulkarni, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8477
abstract: Generation and sustenance of entangled many-body states is of fundamental and applied interest. Recent experimental progress in the stabilization of two-qubit Bell states in superconducting quantum circuits using an autonomous feedback scheme [S. Shankar et al., Nature 504, 419 (2013)] has demonstrated the effectiveness and robustness of driven-dissipative approaches, i.e. engineering a fine balance between driven-unitary and dissipative dynamics. Despite the remarkable theoretical and experimental progress in those approaches for superconducting circuits, no demonstrably scalable scheme exists to drive an arbitrary number of spatially separated qubits to a desired entangled quantum many-body state. Here we propose and study such a scalable scheme, based on engineering photon-mediated interactions, for driving a register of spatially separated qubits into multipartite entangled states. We demonstrate how generalized W-states can be generated with remarkable fidelities and the entanglement sustained for an indefinite time. The protocol is primarily discussed for a superconducting circuit architecture but is ideally realized in any platform that permits controllable delivery of coherent light to specified locations in a network of Cavity QED systems.

id: 1412.8486
title: Non-Markovian effects in electronic and spin transport
authors: Pedro Ribeiro, Vitor R. Vieira
comments: 4 pages + 9 pages of supplementary material, 2 + 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8486
abstract: We derive a non-Markovian master equation for the evolution of a class of open quantum systems consisting of quadratic fermionic models coupled to wide-band reservoirs. This is done by providing an explicit correspondence between master equations and non-equilibrium Green's functions approaches. Our findings permit to study non-Markovian regimes characterized by negative decoherence rates. We study the real-time dynamics and the steady-state solution of two illustrative models: a tight-binding and an XY-spin chains. The rich set of phases encountered for the non-equilibrium XY model extends previous studies to the non-Markovian regime.

id: 1412.8497
title: Synchronization of Networked Jahn-Teller Systems in Circuit QED
authors: Yusuf Gul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8497
abstract: We consider the nonlinear e?ects in Jahn-Teller system of two coupled resonators interacting simultaneously with ux qubit using Circuit QED. Two frequency description of Jahn Teller system that inherits the networked structure of both nonlinear Josephson Junctions and harmonic oscillators is employed to describe the synchronous structures in multifrequency scheme. Emergence of dominating mode is investigated to analyze frequency locking by eigenvalue spectrum. Rabi Supersplitting and asymmetry of side peaks in power spectrum is tuned for coupled and uncoupled synchronous con?gurations in terms of frequency entrainment switched by coupling strength between resonators. Second order coherence functions are employed to investigate self-sustained oscillations in resonator mode and qubit dephasing. Snychronous structure between correlations of priviledged mode and qubit is obtained in localization-delocalization and photon blockade regime controlled by the population imbalance.

id: 1412.8523
title: No-Signalling Is Equivalent To Free Choice of Measurements
authors: Samson Abramsky, Adam Brandenburger, Andrei Savochkin
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8523
abstract: No-Signalling is a fundamental constraint on the probabilistic predictions made by physical theories. It is usually justified in terms of the constraints imposed by special relativity. However, this justification is not as clear-cut as is usually supposed. We shall give a different perspective on this condition by showing an equivalence between No-Signalling and Lambda Independence, or "free choice of measurements", a condition on hidden-variable theories which is needed to make no-go theorems such as Bell's theorem non-trivial. More precisely, we shall show that a probability table describing measurement outcomes is No-Signalling if and only if it can be realized by a Lambda-Independent hidden-variable theory of a particular canonical form, in which the hidden variables correspond to non-contextual deterministic predictions of measurement outcomes. The key proviso which avoids contradiction with Bell's theorem is that we consider hidden-variable theories with signed probability measures over the hidden variables - i.e. negative probabilities. Negative probabilities have often been discussed in the literature on quantum mechanics. We use a result proved previously in "The Sheaf-theoretic Structure of Locality and Contextuality" by Abramsky and Brandenburger, which shows that they give rise to, and indeed characterize, the entire class of No-Signalling behaviours. In the present paper, we put this result in a broader context, which reveals the surprising consequence that the No-Signalling condition is equivalent to the apparently completely different notion of free choice of measurements.

id: 1412.8524
title: Non-locality in theories without the no-restriction hypothesis
authors: Peter Janotta, Raymond Lal
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 84-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8524
abstract: The framework of generalized probabilistic theories (GPT) is a widely-used approach for studying the physical foundations of quantum theory. The standard GPT framework assumes the no-restriction hypothesis, in which the state space of a physical theory determines the set of measurements. However, this assumption is not physically motivated. In Janotta and Lal [Phys. Rev. A 87, 052131 (2013)], it was shown how this assumption can be relaxed, and how such an approach can be used to describe new classes of probabilistic theories. This involves introducing a new, more general, definition of maximal joint state spaces, which we call the generalised maximal tensor product. Here we show that the generalised maximal tensor product recovers the standard maximal tensor product when at least one of the systems in a bipartite scenario obeys the no-restriction hypothesis. We also show that, under certain conditions, relaxing the no-restriction hypothesis for a given state space does not allow for stronger non-locality, although the generalized maximal tensor product may allow new joint states.

id: 1412.8525
title: Fibred Coalgebraic Logic and Quantum Protocols
authors: Daniel Marsden
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 90-99
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8525
abstract: Motivated by applications in modelling quantum systems using coalgebraic techniques, we introduce a fibred coalgebraic logic. Our approach extends the conventional predicate lifting semantics with additional modalities relating conditions on different fibres. As this fibred setting will typically involve multiple signature functors, the logic incorporates a calculus of modalities enabling the construction of new modalities using various composition operations. We extend the semantics of coalgebraic logic to this setting, and prove that this extension respects behavioural equivalence. We show how properties of the semantics of modalities are preserved under composition operations, and then apply the calculational aspect of our logic to produce an expressive set of modalities for reasoning about quantum systems, building these modalities up from simpler components. We then demonstrate how these modalities can describe some standard quantum protocols. The novel features of our logic are shown to allow for a uniform description of unitary evolution, and support local reasoning such as "Alice's qubit satisfies condition" as is common when discussing quantum protocols.

id: 1412.8526
title: Duality Theory and Categorical Universal Logic: With Emphasis on Quantum Structures
authors: Yoshihiro Maruyama
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 100-112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8526
abstract: Categorical Universal Logic is a theory of monad-relativised hyperdoctrines (or fibred universal algebras), which in particular encompasses categorical forms of both first-order and higher-order quantum logics as well as classical, intuitionistic, and diverse substructural logics. Here we show there are those dual adjunctions that have inherent hyperdoctrine structures in their predicate functor parts. We systematically investigate into the categorical logics of dual adjunctions by utilising Johnstone-Dimov-Tholen's duality-theoretic framework. Our set-theoretical duality-based hyperdoctrines for quantum logic have both universal and existential quantifiers (and higher-order structures), giving rise to a universe of Takeuti-Ozawa's quantum sets via the tripos-to-topos construction by Hyland-Johnstone-Pitts. The set-theoretical hyperdoctrinal models of quantum logic, as well as all quantum hyperdoctrines with cartesian base categories, turn out to give sound and complete semantics for Faggian-Sambin's first-order quantum sequent calculus over cartesian type theory; in addition, quantum hyperdoctrines with monoidal base categories are sound and complete for the calculus over linear type theory. We finally consider how to reconcile Birkhoff-von Neumann's quantum logic and Abramsky-Coecke's categorical quantum mechanics (which is modernised quantum logic as an antithesis to the traditional one) via categorical universal logic.

id: 1412.8536
title: Multimode phononic correlations in a nondegenerate parametric amplifier
authors: S. Chakram, Y. S. Patil, M. Vengalattore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8536
abstract: We describe the realization of multimode phononic correlations that arise from nonlinear interactions in a mechanical nondegenerate parametric amplifier. The nature of these correlations differs qualitatively depending on the strength of the driving field in relation to the threshold for parametric instability. Below this threshold, the correlations are manifest in a combined quadrature of the coupled mechanical modes. In this regime, the system is amenable to back-action evading measurement schemes for the detection of weak forces. Above threshold, the correlations are manifest in the amplitude difference between the two mechanical modes, akin to intensity difference squeezing observed in optical parametric oscillators. We discuss the crossover of correlations between these two regimes and applications of this quantum-compatible mechanical system to nonlinear metrology and out-of-equilibrium dynamics.

id: 1412.8539
title: Dilation of states and processes in operational-probabilistic theories
authors: Giulio Chiribella
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 1-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8539
abstract: This paper provides a concise summary of the framework of operational-probabilistic theories, aimed at emphasizing the interaction between category-theoretic and probabilistic structures. Within this framework, we review an operational version of the GNS construction, expressed by the so-called purification principle, which under mild hypotheses leads to an operational version of Stinespring's theorem.

id: 1412.8540
title: Quantum Set Theory Extending the Standard Probabilistic Interpretation of Quantum Theory (Extended Abstract)
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 15-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8540
abstract: The notion of equality between two observables will play many important roles in foundations of quantum theory. However, the standard probabilistic interpretation based on the conventional Born formula does not give the probability of equality relation for a pair of arbitrary observables, since the Born formula gives the probability distribution only for a commuting family of observables. In this paper, quantum set theory developed by Takeuti and the present author is used to systematically extend the probabilistic interpretation of quantum theory to define the probability of equality relation for a pair of arbitrary observables. Applications of this new interpretation to measurement theory are discussed briefly.

id: 1412.8541
title: On monogamy of non-locality and macroscopic averages: examples and preliminary results
authors: Rui Soares Barbosa
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 36-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8541
abstract: We explore a connection between monogamy of non-locality and a weak macroscopic locality condition: the locality of the average behaviour. These are revealed by our analysis as being two sides of the same coin. Moreover, we exhibit a structural reason for both in the case of Bell-type multipartite scenarios, shedding light on but also generalising the results in the literature [Ramanathan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060405 (2001); Pawlowski & Brukner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 030403 (2009)]. More specifically, we show that, provided the number of particles in each site is large enough compared to the number of allowed measurement settings, and whatever the microscopic state of the system, the macroscopic average behaviour is local realistic, or equivalently, general multipartite monogamy relations hold. This result relies on a classical mathematical theorem by Vorob'ev [Theory Probab. Appl. 7(2), 147-163 (1962)] about extending compatible families of probability distributions defined on the faces of a simplicial complex ??? in the language of the sheaf-theoretic framework of Abramsky & Brandenburger [New J. Phys. 13, 113036 (2011)], such families correspond to no-signalling empirical models, and the existence of an extension corresponds to locality or non-contextuality. Since Vorob'ev's theorem depends solely on the structure of the simplicial complex, which encodes the compatibility of the measurements, and not on the specific probability distributions (i.e. the empirical models), our result about monogamy relations and locality of macroscopic averages holds not just for quantum theory, but for any empirical model satisfying the no-signalling condition. In this extended abstract, we illustrate our approach by working out a couple of examples, which convey the intuition behind our analysis while keeping the discussion at an elementary level.

id: 1412.8549
title: Reflections on the PBR Theorem: Reality Criteria & Preparation Independence
authors: Shane Mansfield
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 102-114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8549
abstract: This paper contains initial work on attempting to bring recent developments in the foundations of quantum mechanics concerning the nature of the wavefunction within the scope of more logical and structural methods. A first step involves dualising a criterion for the reality of the wavefunction proposed by Harrigan & Spekkens, which was central to the Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem. The resulting criterion has several advantages, including the avoidance of certain technical difficulties relating to sets of measure zero. By considering the 'reality' not of the wavefunction but of the observable properties of any ontological physical theory a new characterisation of non-locality and contextuality is found. Secondly, a careful analysis of preparation independence, one of the key assumptions of the PBR theorem, leads to a precise analogy with the kind of locality prohibited by Bell's theorem. Motivated by this, we propose a weakening of the assumption to something analogous to no-signalling. This amounts to allowing global or non-local correlations in the joint ontic state, which nevertheless do not allow for superluminal signalling. This is, at least, consistent with the Bell and Kochen-Specker theorems. We find a counter-example to the PBR argument, which violates preparation independence, but does satisfy this physically motivated assumption. The question of whether the PBR result can be strengthened to hold under the relaxed assumption is therefore posed.

id: 1412.8553
title: The ZX-calculus is complete for the single-qubit Clifford+T group
authors: Miriam Backens
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 293-303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8553
abstract: The ZX-calculus is a graphical calculus for reasoning about pure state qubit quantum mechanics. It is complete for pure qubit stabilizer quantum mechanics, meaning any equality involving only stabilizer operations that can be derived using matrices can also be derived pictorially. Stabilizer operations include the unitary Clifford group, as well as preparation of qubits in the state |0>, and measurements in the computational basis. For general pure state qubit quantum mechanics, the ZX-calculus is incomplete: there exist equalities involving non-stabilizer unitary operations on single qubits which cannot be derived from the current rule set for the ZX-calculus. Here, we show that the ZX-calculus for single qubits remains complete upon adding the operator T to the single-qubit stabilizer operations. This is particularly interesting as the resulting single-qubit Clifford+T group is approximately universal, i.e. any unitary single-qubit operator can be approximated to arbitrary accuracy using only Clifford operators and T.

id: 1412.8560
title: Solutions to the two-mode quantum Rabi model using extended squeezed states
authors: Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8560
abstract: In this work, an analytical exact study has been carried out for the two-mode quantum Rabi model (QRM) using extended squeezed states. The concise G-functions are derived for each Bargmann index q. It shares a common structure with those in the one-pohton [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 , 100401(2011)] and two-photon [Phys. Rev. A 86, 023822(2012)] QRMs. Zeros of the G-function yield the whole regular spectrum. The exceptional eigenvalues, which do not belong to the zeros of the G function, are obtained in the closed-form. The necessary and sufficient condition for their occurrence is given in a transparent manner. The present solution is derived in a simple physical way, and is therefore conceptional clear and practically feasible to the treatments of many physics processes.

id: 1412.8562
title: Tunable narrow band source via the strong coupling between optical emitter and nanowire surface plasmons
authors: J. Yang, G. W. Lin, Y. P. Niu, Y. H. Qi, F. X. Zhou, S. Q. Gong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8562
abstract: The spectrum width can be narrowed to a certain degree by decreasing the coupling strength for the two-level emitter coupled to the propagating surface plasmon. But the width can not be narrowed any further because of the loss of the photon out of system by spontaneous emission from the emitter. Here we propose a new scheme to construct a narrow-band source via a one-dimensional waveguide coupling with a three-level emitter. It is shown that the reflective spectrum width can be narrowed avoiding the impact of the loss. This approach opens up the possibility of plasmonic ultranarrow single-photon source.

id: 1412.8630
title: Positive Operator-Valued Measure reconstruction of a beam-splitter tree based photon-number-resolving detector
authors: F. Piacentini, M. P. Levi, A. Avella, M. Lopez, S. Kueck, S. V. Polyakov, I. P. Degiovanni, G. Brida, M. Genovese
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 40 (2015) 1549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8630
abstract: Here we present a reconstruction of the Positive Operator-Value Measurement of a photon-number-resolving detector comprised of three 50:50 beamsplitters in a tree configuration, terminated with four single-photon avalanche detectors. The four detectors' outputs are processed by an electronic board that discriminates detected photon number states from 0 to 4 and implements a "smart counting" routine to compensate for dead time issues at high count rates.

id: 1412.8635
title: Local and bulk 13C hyperpolarization in NV-centered diamonds at variable fields and orientations
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Christian O. Bretschneider, Ran Fischer, Paz London, Hisao Kanda, Shinobu Onoda, Junichi Isoya, David Gershoni, Lucio Frydman
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8635
abstract: Polarizing nuclear spins is of fundamental importance in biology, chemistry and physics. Methods for hyperpolarizing 13C nuclei from free electrons in bulk, usually demand operation at cryogenic temperatures. Room-temperature approaches targeting diamonds with nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers could alleviate this need, but hitherto proposed strategies lack generality as they demand stringent conditions on the strength and/or alignment of the magnetic field. We report here an approach for achieving efficient electron->13C spin alignment transfers, compatible with a broad range of magnetic field strengths and field orientations with respect to the diamond crystal. This versatility results from combining coherent microwave- and incoherent laser-induced transitions between selected energy states of the coupled electron-nuclear spin manifold. 13C-detected Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) experiments demonstrate that this hyperpolarization can be transferred via first-shell or via distant 13Cs, throughout the nuclear bulk ensemble. This method opens new perspectives for applications of diamond NV centers in NMR, and in quantum information processing.

id: 1412.8649
title: Controlled remote state preparation via partially entangled quantum channel
authors: Chun Wang, Zhi Zeng, Xi-Han Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8649
abstract: We propose two controlled remote state preparation protocols via partially entangled channels. One prepares a single-qubit state and the other prepares a two-qubit state. Different from other controlled remote state preparation schemes which also utilize partially entangled channels, neither auxiliary qubits nor two-qubit unitary transformations are required in our schemes and the success probabilities are independent of the coefficients of the quantum channel. The success probabilities are 50% and 25% for arbitrary single-qubit states and two-qubit states, respectively. We also show that the success probabilities can reach 100% for restricted classes of states.

id: 1412.8671
title: Computation in generalised probabilistic theories
authors: Ciar¨¢n M. Lee, Jonathan Barrett
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8671
abstract: From the existence of an efficient quantum algorithm for factoring, it is likely that quantum computation is intrinsically more powerful than classical computation. At present, the best upper bound known for the power of quantum computation is that BQP is in AWPP. This work investigates limits on computational power that are imposed by physical principles. To this end, we define a circuit-based model of computation in a class of operationally-defined theories more general than quantum theory, and ask: what is the minimal set of physical assumptions under which the above inclusion still holds? We show that given only an assumption of tomographic locality (roughly, that multipartite states can be characterised by local measurements), efficient computations are contained in AWPP. This inclusion still holds even without assuming a basic notion of causality (where the notion is, roughly, that probabilities for outcomes cannot depend on future measurement choices). Following Aaronson, we extend the computational model by allowing post-selection on measurement outcomes. Aaronson showed that the corresponding quantum complexity class is equal to PP. Given only the assumption of tomographic locality, the inclusion in PP still holds for post-selected computation in general theories. Thus in a world with post-selection, quantum theory is optimal for computation in the space of all general theories. We then consider if relativised complexity results can be obtained for general theories. It is not clear how to define a sensible notion of an oracle in the general framework that reduces to the standard notion in the quantum case. Nevertheless, it is possible to define computation relative to a `classical oracle'. Then, we show there exists a classical oracle relative to which efficient computation in any theory satisfying the causality assumption and tomographic locality does not include NP.

id: 1412.8694
title: Quantifying channels output similarity with applications to quantum control
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8694
abstract: In this work we aim at quantifying quantum channel output similarity. In order to achieve this, we introduce the notion of quantum channel superfidelity, which gives us an upper bound on the quantum channel fidelity. This quantity is expressed in a clear form using the Kraus representation of a quantum channel. As examples, we show potential applications of this quantity in the quantum control field.

id: 1412.8745
title: Highly noise resistant multipartite quantum correlations
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Tamas Vertesi, Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8745
abstract: We analyze robustness of correlations of the $N$-qubit GHZ and Dicke states against white noise admixture. For sufficiently large $N$, the Dicke states (for any number of excitations) lead to more robust violation of local realism, than the GHZ states (e.g. for $N=9$ for the W state). We also identify states that are the most resistant to white noise. Surprisingly, it turns out that these states are partially product. As a by-product, we obtain a simple three-setting Bell inequality which is violated by any pure entangled state.

id: 1412.8766
title: Quantum homomorphic encryption for circuits of low $T$-gate complexity
authors: Anne Broadbent, Stacey Jeffery
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8766
abstract: Fully homomorphic encryption is an encryption method with the property that any computation on the plaintext can be performed by a party having access to the ciphertext only. Here, we formally define and give schemes for quantum homomorphic encryption, which is the encryption of quantum information such that quantum computations can be performed given the ciphertext only. Our schemes allows for arbitrary Clifford group gates, but become inefficient for circuits with large complexity, measured in terms of the non-Clifford portion of the circuit (we use the "$\pi/8$" non-Clifford group gate, which is also known as the $T$-gate). More specifically, two schemes are proposed: the first scheme has a decryption procedure whose complexity scales with the square of the number of $T$ gates (compared with a trivial scheme in which the complexity scales with the total number of gates); the second scheme uses a quantum evaluation key of length given by a polynomial of degree exponential in the circuit's $T$-gate depth, yielding a homomorphic scheme for quantum circuits with constant $T$-depth. Both schemes build on a classical fully homomorphic encryption scheme. A further contribution of ours is to formally define the security of encryption schemes for quantum messages: we define quantum indistinguishability under chosen plaintext attacks in both the public and private-key settings. In this context, we show the equivalence of several definitions. Our schemes are the first of their kind that are secure under modern cryptographic definitions, and can be seen as a quantum analogue of classical results establishing homomorphic encryption for circuits with a limited number of multiplication gates. Historically, such results appeared as precursors to the breakthrough result establishing classical fully homomorphic encryption.

id: 1412.0086
title: Long-Range Order of Dilute Rare-Earth Spin Ensemble Revealed with Cavity QED
authors: W.G. Farr, M. Goryachev, J.M. le Floch, P. Bushev, M.E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0086
abstract: This work demonstrates strong coupling regime between an erbium ion spin ensemble and Hybrid Cavity-Whispering Gallery Modes in a Yttrium Aluminium Garnet dielectric crystal. Coupling strengths of $220$~MHz and mode quality factors in excess of $10^6$ are demonstrated. The spin ensemble exhibits memory effects as well as remnant magnetisation. A qualitative change of system magnetic field response between 190 and 445mK is interpreted as a phase transition. This work is the first observation of the long range order in an ensemble of dilute Rare-Earth impurities similar to the phenomenon of dilute ferromagnetism in semiconductors.

id: 1412.0182
title: The Classical-to-Quantum Transition with Broadband Four-Wave Mixing
authors: Rafi Z. Vered, Yaakov Shaked, Yelena Ben-Or, Michael Rosenbluh, Avi Pe'er
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 063902 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0182
abstract: A key question of quantum optics is how nonclassical bi-photon correlations at low power evolve into classical coherence at high-power. Direct observation of the crossover from quantum to classical behavior is desirable, but difficult due to the lack of adequate experimental techniques that cover the ultra-wide dynamic range in photon flux from the single photon regime to the classical level. We investigate bi-photon correlations within the spectrum of light generated by broadband four-wave mixing (FWM) over a \emph{large dynamic range of $\sim80dB$ in photon flux} across the classical-to-quantum transition using a two-photon interference effect that distinguishes between classical and quantum behavior. We explore the quantum-classical nature of the light by observing the interference contrast dependence on internal loss and demonstrate quantum collapse and revival of the interference when the FWM gain in the fiber becomes imaginary.

id: 1412.0226
title: Finite BRST-antiBRST Transformations for the Theories with Gauge Group
authors: Pavel Yu. Moshin, Alexander A. Reshetnyak
comments: 6 pages, based on the talk at "Quantum Field Theory and Gravity 2014" (QFTG'2014, July 28-August 3, 2014, Tomsk, Russia) to appear in TSPU Bulletin 12 (2014)
journal: TSPU Bulletin 12 (2014) 189-194
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0226
abstract: Following our recent study [P.Yu. Moshin, A.A. Reshetnyak, Nucl. Phys. B 888 (2014) 92], we discuss the notion of finite BRST-antiBRST transformations, with a doublet $\lambda_{a}$, $a=1,2$, of anticommuting (both global and field-dependent) Grassmann parameters. It turns out that the global finite BRST-antiBRST transformations form a 2-parametric Abelian supergroup. We find an explicit Jacobian corresponding to this change of variables in the theories with a gauge group. Special field-dependent BRST-antiBRST transformations for the Yang--Mills path integral with $s_{a}$-potential (functionally-dependent) parameters $\lambda_{a}=s_{a}\Lambda$ generated by a finite even-valued functional $\Lambda$ and the anticommuting generators $s_{a}$ of BRST-antiBRST transformations, amount to a precise change of the gauge-fixing functional. This proves the independence of the vacuum functional under such BRST-antiBRST transformations and leads to the presence of modified Ward identities. The form of transformation parameters that induces a change of the gauge in the path integral is found and is exactly evaluated for connecting two arbitrary $R_{\xi}$-like gauges. The finite field-dependent BRST-antiBRST transformations are used to generalize the Gribov horizon functional $h_{ 0 }$, in the Landau gauge of the BRST-antiBRST setting in the Gribov--Zwanziger model, and to find $h_{\xi}$ corresponding to general $R_{\xi}$-like gauges in the form compatible with a gauge-independent $S$-matrix.

id: 1412.0373
title: Generalized fermion algebra
authors: Won Sang Chung, Mohammed Daoud
comments: 11 pages, typos in eqs. 2 and 3 are corrected
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 29, 1450045 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0373
abstract: A one-parameter generalized fermion algebra ${\cal B}_{\kappa}(1)$ is introduced. The Fock representation is studied. The associated coherent states are constructed and the polynomial representation, in the Bargmann sense, is derived. A special attention is devoted to the limiting case $\kappa \rightarrow 0$ where the fermionic coherent states, labeled by Grassmann variables, are obtained. The physical relevance of the algebra is illustrated throughout Calogero-Sutherland system.

id: 1412.0512
title: The Role of Protein Fluctuation Correlations in Electron Transfer in Photosynthetic Complexes
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0512
abstract: We consider the dependence of the electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes on correlation properties of random fluctuations of the protein environment. The electron subsystem is modeled by a finite network of connected electron (exciton) sites. The fluctuations of the protein environment are modeled by random telegraph processes, which act either collectively (correlated) or independently (uncorrelated) on the electron sites. We derived an exact closed system of first-order linear differential equations with constant coefficients, for the average density matrix elements and for their first moments. Under some conditions, we obtain analytic expressions for the electron transfer rates. We compare the correlated and uncorrelated regimes, and demonstrated numerically that the uncorrelated fluctuations of the protein environment can, under some conditions, either increase or decrease the electron transfer rates.

id: 1412.0522
title: Bell and steering scenarios in terms of operator systems
authors: Marcin Marciniak, Michal Horodecki, Zhi Yin
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0522
abstract: The aim of this paper is to indicate possible applications of operator systems in qualitative description of varoius scenarios while studying non-locality. To this end we study in details the notion of generalized non-commuting cube. Following ideas of Fritz and Farenick-Kavruk-Paulsen-Todorov we show in systematic way that various classes of Tsirelson's correlation boxes as well as NPA hierarchies can be described by using various operator system tensor products of generalized non-commuting cubes. Moreover, we show also that noncommuting cubes can be applied for the description of steering assemblages. Next we study some aproximation properties of noncommuting cubes by finite dimensional models. Finaly, we indicate possibility to use the framework operator systems for studying Bell and steering inequalities.

id: 1412.0569
title: Asymptotic model for shape resonance control of diatomics by intense non-resonant light
authors: Anne Crubellier, Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, Christiane P. Koch, Eliane Luc-Koenig
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 045020 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0569
abstract: We derive a universal model for atom pairs interacting with non-resonant light via the polarizability anisotropy, based on the long range properties of the scattering. The corresponding dynamics can be obtained using a nodal line technique to solve the asymptotic Schr\"odinger equation. It consists in imposing physical boundary conditions at long range and vanishing of the wavefunction at a position separating inner zone and asymptotic region. We show that nodal lines which depend on the intensity of the non-resonant light can satisfactorily account for the effect of the polarizability at short range. The approach allows to determine the resonance structure, energy, width, channel mixing and hybridization even for narrow resonances.

id: 1412.0571
title: Topological Hofstadter Insulators in a Two-Dimensional Quasicrystal
authors: Duc-Thanh Tran, Alexandre Dauphin, Nathan Goldman, Pierre Gaspard
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 085125 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0571
abstract: We investigate the properties of a two-dimensional quasicrystal in the presence of a uniform magnetic field. In this configuration, the density of states (DOS) displays a Hofstadter butterfly-like structure when it is represented as a function of the magnetic flux per tile. We show that the low-DOS regions of the energy spectrum are associated with chiral edge states, in direct analogy with the Chern insulators realized with periodic lattices. We establish the topological nature of the edge states by computing the topological Chern number associated with the bulk of the quasicrystal. This topological characterization of the non-periodic lattice is achieved through a local (real-space) topological marker. This work opens a route for the exploration of topological insulating materials in a wide range of non-periodic lattice systems, including photonic crystals and cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1412.0577
title: Microscopic Lensing by a Dense, Cold Atomic Sample
authors: Stetson Roof, Kasie Kemp, Mark Havey, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, 40(7), 1137-1140 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0577
abstract: We demonstrate that a cold, dense sample of 87Rb atoms can exhibit a micron-scale lensing effect, much like that associated with a macroscopically-sized lens. The experiment is carried out in the fashion of traditional z-scan measurements but in much weaker fields and where close attention is paid to the detuning dependence of the transmitted light. The results are interpreted using numerical simulations and by modeling the sample as a thin lens with a spherical focal length.

id: 1412.0594
title: Some Personal Reflections on Quantum Non-locality and the Contributions of John Bell
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0594
abstract: I present the background of the Bohm approach that led John Bell to a study of quantum non-locality from which his famous inequalities emerged. I recall the early experiments done at Birkbeck with an aim to explore the possibility of `spontaneous collapse', a way suggested by Schr\"{o}dinger to avoid the conclusion that quantum mechanics was grossly non-local. I also review some of the work that John did which directly impinged on my own investigations into the foundations of quantum mechanics and report some new investigations towards a more fundamental theory.

id: 1412.0625
title: Quipper: Concrete Resource Estimation in Quantum Algorithms
authors: Jonathan M. Smith, Neil J. Ross, Peter Selinger, Beno?t Valiron
comments: Extended abstract for a talk given at QAPL 2014
journal: 
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0625
abstract: Despite the rich literature on quantum algorithms, there is a surprisingly small amount of coverage of their concrete logical design and implementation. Most resource estimation is done at the level of complexity analysis, but actual concrete numbers (of quantum gates, qubits, etc.) can differ by orders of magnitude. The line of work we present here is a formal framework to write, and reason about, quantum algorithms. Specifically, we designed a language, Quipper, with scalability in mind, and we are able to report actual resource counts for seven non-trivial algorithms found in the quantum computer science literature.

id: 1412.0634
title: Reversing Hydride Ion Formation in Quantum Information Experiments with Be$^+$
authors: Brian C. Sawyer, Justin G. Bohnet, Joseph W. Britton, John J. Bollinger
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 011401(R) (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0634
abstract: We demonstrate photodissociation of BeH$^+$ ions within a Coulomb crystal of thousands of $^9$Be$^+$ ions confined in a Penning trap. Because BeH$^+$ ions are created via exothermic reactions between trapped, laser-cooled Be$^+$($^2\text{P}_{3/2}$) and background H$_2$ within the vacuum chamber, they represent a major contaminant species responsible for infidelities in large-scale trapped-ion quantum information experiments. The rotational-state-insensitive dissociation scheme described here makes use of 157 nm photons to produce Be$^+$ and H as products, thereby restoring Be$^+$ ions without the need for reloading. This technique facilitates longer experiment runtimes at a given background H$_2$ pressure, and may be adapted for removal of MgH$^+$ and AlH$^+$ impurities.

id: 1412.0711
title: The Sagnac effect: 20 years of development in matter-wave interferometry
authors: Brynle Barrett, Remi Geiger, Indranil Dutta, Matthieu Meunier, Benjamin Canuel, Alexandre Gauguet, Philippe Bouyer, Arnaud Landragin
comments: 
journal: Comptes Rendu Physique 15, 875-883 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0711
abstract: Since the first atom interferometry experiments in 1991, measurements of rotation through the Sagnac effect in open-area atom interferometers has been studied. These studies have demonstrated very high sensitivity which can compete with state-of-the-art optical Sagnac interferometers. Since the early 2000s, these developments have been motivated by possible applications in inertial guidance and geophysics. Most matter-wave interferometers that have been investigated since then are based on two-photon Raman transitions for the manipulation of atomic wave packets. Results from the two most studied configurations, a space-domain interferometer with atomic beams and a time-domain interferometer with cold atoms, are presented and compared. Finally, the latest generation of cold atom interferometers and their preliminary results are presented.

id: 1412.0732
title: Tensor Network Renormalization
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: Revised version, with additional appendix. Main text: 5 pages, 4 figures, Appendices: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0732
abstract: We introduce a coarse-graining transformation for tensor networks that can be applied to study both the partition function of a classical statistical system and the Euclidean path integral of a quantum many-body system. The scheme is based upon the insertion of optimized unitary and isometric tensors (disentanglers and isometries) into the tensor network and has, as its key feature, the ability to remove short-range entanglement/correlations at each coarse-graining step. Removal of short-range entanglement results in scale invariance being explicitly recovered at criticality. In this way we obtain a proper renormalization group flow (in the space of tensors), one that in particular (i) is computationally sustainable, even for critical systems, and (ii) has the correct structure of fixed points, both at criticality and away from it. We demonstrate the proposed approach in the context of the 2D classical Ising model.

id: 1412.0794
title: Injection locking of a high power ultraviolet laser diode for laser cooling of ytterbium atoms
authors: Toshiyuki Hosoya, Martin Miranda, Ryotaro Inoue, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0794
abstract: We developed a high-power laser system at a wavelength of 399 nm for laser cooling of ytterbium atoms with ultraviolet laser diodes. The system is composed of an external cavity laser diode providing frequency stabilized output at a power of 40 mW and another laser diode for amplifying the laser power up to 220 mW by injection locking. The systematic method for optimization of our injection locking can also be applied to high power light sources at any other wavelengths. Our system, which does not depend on complex nonlinear frequency-doubling, has great importance for implementing transportable optical lattice clocks, and is also useful for investigations on condensed matter physics or quantum information processing using cold atoms.

id: 1412.0800
title: Dynamical generation of dark solitons in spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Shuai Cao, Chuan-Jia Shan, Dan-Wei Zhang, Xizhou Qin, Jun Xu
comments: 10 pages, 9 figure
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 32, 201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0800
abstract: We numerically investigate the ground state, the Raman-driving dynamics and the nonlinear excitations of a realized spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional harmonic trap. Depending on the Raman coupling and the interatomic interactions, three ground-state phases are identified: stripe, plane wave and zero-momentum phases. A narrow parameter regime with coexistence of stripe and zero-momentum or plane wave phases in real space is found. Several sweep progresses across different phases by driving the Raman coupling linearly in time is simulated and the non-equilibrium dynamics of the system in these sweeps are studied. We find kinds of nonlinear excitations, with the particular dark solitons excited in the sweep from the stripe phase to the plane wave or zero-momentum phase within the trap. Moreover, the number and the stability of the dark solitons can be controlled in the driving, which provide a direct and easy way to generate dark solitons and study their dynamics and interaction properties.

id: 1412.0846
title: Experimental characterization of singlet scattering channels in long-range Rydberg molecules
authors: Heiner Sa?mannshausen, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Merkt, Johannes Deiglmayr
comments: v2 with corrections and modifications - to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0846
abstract: We observe the formation of long-range Cs$_2$ Rydberg molecules consisting of a Rydberg and a ground-state atom by photoassociation spectroscopy in an ultracold Cs gas near 6s$_{1/2}$($F$=3,4)$\rightarrow$np$_{3/2}$ resonances (n=26-34). The spectra reveal two types of molecular states recently predicted by D. A. Anderson, S. A. Miller, and G. Raithel [Phys. Rev. A 90, 062518 (2014)]: states bound purely by triplet s-wave scattering with binding energies ranging from 400 MHz at n=26 to 80 MHz at n=34, and states bound by mixed singlet-triplet s-wave scattering with smaller and F-dependent binding energies. The experimental observations are accounted for by an effective Hamiltonian including s-wave scattering pseudopotentials, the hyperfine interaction of the ground-state atom, and the spin-orbit interaction of the Rydberg atom. The analysis enabled the characterization of the role of singlet scattering in the formation of long-range Rydberg molecules and the determination of an effective singlet s-wave scattering length for low-energy electron-Cs collisions.

id: 1412.0951
title: Quantum reflection of photons off spatio-temporal electromagnetic field inhomogeneities
authors: Holger Gies, Felix Karbstein, Nico Seegert
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 043060
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0951
abstract: We reconsider the recently proposed nonlinear QED effect of quantum reflection of photons off an inhomogeneous strong-field region. We present new results for strong fields varying both in space and time. While such configurations can give rise to new effects such as frequency mixing, estimated reflection rates based on previous one-dimensional studies are corroborated. On a conceptual level, we critically re-examine the validity regime of the conventional locally-constant-field approximation and identify kinematic configurations which can be treated reliably. Our results further underline the discovery potential of quantum reflection as a new signature of the nonlinearity of the quantum vacuum.

id: 1412.1029
title: An atomic clock with $1\times 10^{-18}$ room-temperature blackbody Stark uncertainty
authors: K. Beloy, N. Hinkley, N. B. Phillips, J. A. Sherman, M. Schioppo, J. Lehman, A. Feldman, L. M. Hanssen, C. W. Oates, A. D. Ludlow
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 260801 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1029
abstract: The Stark shift due to blackbody radiation (BBR) is the key factor limiting the performance of many atomic frequency standards, with the BBR environment inside the clock apparatus being difficult to characterize at a high level of precision. Here we demonstrate an in-vacuum radiation shield that furnishes a uniform, well-characterized BBR environment for the atoms in an ytterbium optical lattice clock. Operated at room temperature, this shield enables specification of the BBR environment to a corresponding fractional clock uncertainty contribution of $5.5 \times 10^{-19}$. Combined with uncertainty in the atomic response, the total uncertainty of the BBR Stark shift is now $1\times10^{-18}$. Further operation of the shield at elevated temperatures enables a direct measure of the BBR shift temperature dependence and demonstrates consistency between our evaluated BBR environment and the expected atomic response.

id: 1412.1117
title: A quantum dot single-photon source with on-the-fly all-optical polarization control and timed emission
authors: Dirk Heinze, Artur Zrenner, Stefan Schumacher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1117
abstract: Sources of single photons are key elements in the study of basic quantum optical concepts and applications in quantum information science. Among the different sources available, semiconductor quantum dots excel with their straight forward integrability in semiconductor based on-chip solutions and the potential that photon emission can be triggered on demand. Usually, the photon emission event is part of a cascaded biexciton-exciton emission scheme. Important properties of the emitted photon such as polarization and time of emission are either probabilistic in nature or pre-determined by electronic properties of the system. In this work, we study the direct two-photon emission from the biexciton. We show that emission through this higher-order transition provides a much more versatile approach to generate a single photon. In the scheme we propose, the two-photon emission from the biexciton is enabled by a laser field (or laser pulse) driving the system into a virtual state inside the band gap. From this intermediate virtual state, the single photon of interest is then spontaneously emitted. Its properties are determined by the driving laser pulse, enabling all-optical on-the-fly control of polarization state, frequency, and time of emission of the photon.

id: 1412.1375
title: Negative quench induced excitation dynamics for ultracold bosons in one-dimensional lattices
authors: S.I. Mistakidis, L. Cao, P. Schmelcher
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 91. (2015) 033611
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1375
abstract: The nonequilibrium dynamics following a quench of strongly repulsive bosonic ensembles in one-dimensional finite lattices is investigated by employing interaction quenches and/or a ramp of the lattice potential. Both sudden and time-dependent quenches are analyzed in detail. For the case of interaction quenches we address the transition from the strong repulsive to the weakly-interacting regime, suppressing in this manner the heating of the system. The excitation modes such as the cradle process and the local breathing mode are examined via local density observables. In particular, the cradle mode is inherently related to the initial delocalization and, following a negative interaction quench, can be excited only for incommensurate setups with filling larger than unity. Alternatively, a negative quench of the lattice depth which favors the spatial delocalization is used to access the cradle mode for setups with filling smaller than unity. Our results shed light on possible schemes to control the cradle and the breathing modes. Finally, employing the notion of fidelity we study the dynamical response of the system after a diabatic or adiabatic parameter modulation for short and long evolution times. The evolution of the system is obtained numerically using the ab-initio multi-layer multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method for bosons which permits to follow non-equilibrium dynamics including the corresponding investigation of higher-band effects.

id: 1412.1410
title: Memories of Julian Schwinger
authors: Edward Gerjuoy
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: Asian Journal of Physics Vol. 23, Nos. 1 & 2 (2014) 5-15
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1410
abstract: The career and accomplishments of Julian Schwinger, who shared the Nobel Prize for physics in 1965, have been reviewed in numerous books and articles. For this reason these Memories, which seek to convey a sense of Schwinger's remarkable talents as a physicist, concentrate primariy (though not entirely) on heretofore unpublished pertinent recollections of the youthful Schwinger by this writer, who first encountered Schwinger in 1934 when they both were undergraduates at the City College of New York.

id: 1412.1425
title: On the (2+1)-dimensional Dirac equation in a constant magnetic field with a minimal length uncertainty
authors: P. Pedram, M. Amirfakhrian, H. Shababi
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. D 24 (2015) 1550016
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1425
abstract: We exactly solve the (2+1)-dimensional Dirac equation in a constant magnetic field in the presence of a minimal length. Using a proper ansatz for the wave function, we transform the Dirac Hamiltonian into two 2-dimensional non-relativistic harmonic oscillator and obtain the solutions without directly solving the corresponding differential equations which are presented by Menculini et al. [Phys. Rev. D 87, 065017 (2013)]. We also show that Menculini et al. solution is a subset of the general solution which is related to the even quantum numbers.

id: 1412.1428
title: Measurement of Holmium Rydberg series through MOT depletion spectroscopy
authors: J. Hostetter, J. D. Pritchard, J. E. Lawler, M. Saffman
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1428
abstract: We report measurements of the absolute excitation frequencies of $^{165}$Ho $4f^{11}6sns$ and $4f^{11}6snd$ odd-parity Rydberg series. The states are detected through depletion of a magneto-optical trap via a two-photon excitation scheme. Measurements of 162 Rydberg levels in the range $n=40-101$ yield quantum defects well described by the Rydberg-Ritz formula. We observe a strong perturbation in the $ns$ series around $n=51$ due to an unidentified interloper at 48515.47(4) cm$^{-1}$. From the series convergence, we determine the first ionization potential $E_\mathrm{IP}=48565.939(4)$ cm$^{-1}$, which is three orders of magnitude more accurate than previous work. This work represents the first time such spectroscopy has been done in Holmium and is an important step towards using Ho atoms for collective encoding of a quantum register.

id: 1412.1493
title: Fiber bundle description of number scaling in gauge theory and geometry
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1493
abstract: This work uses fiber bundles as a framework to describe effects of number scaling on gauge theory and geometry. A brief description of number scaling and fiber bundles over a space time manifold, $M$, is followed by a description of gauge theory. A fiber at point $x$ of $M$ contains a vector space, $V_{x},$ and a set, $C_{x},$ of complex scalars and scaled structures, $C_{c,x},V_{c,x}$ for each complex number, $c.$ Number scaling induces connections, $c_{x,y}\times c_{x,y}$ between fibers at $x$ and $y$. Connections are given as exponentials of a complex vector field, $\vec{A}(x)+i\vec{B}(x).$ The choice of the gauge group as $GL(1,C)$ for $V_{x}$ and $C_{x}$ gives the result that $\vec{B}$ is massless, and no mass restrictions for $\vec{A}.$ In the Mexican hat Higgs mechanism $\vec{B}$ combines with a Goldstone boson to create massive vector bosons, the photon field, and the Higgs field. The very speculative possibility that $\vec{A}$ might be the gradient of the Higgs field is noted. The association of $\vec{B}$ to the photon field can be avoided by replacing $\vec{B}$ by two fields, each with different coupling constants. Tangent bundles are used to describe real number scaling in geometry. Each fiber at $x$ contains a tangent space $T_{x}$ and an associated real scalar field, $R_{x}.$ Scaled structures, $T_{r,x}$ and $R_{r,x}$ are also present. Connections between neighbor fields, are defined as in gauge theory with $\vec{B}(x)=0$ everywhere. Number scaling is shown to affect curve lengths and the geodesic equation. The lack of physical evidence for the $\vec{A}$ field means that either it couples very weakly to matter fields, or that $\vec{A}(x)\sim 0$ for all $x$ in a local region of cosmological space and time. It says nothing about the values outside the local region.

id: 1412.1495
title: Quantum dissection of a covalent bond with the entanglement spectrum
authors: Norm M. Tubman, D. ChangMo Yang
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1495
abstract: We propose that spatial density matrices, which are singularly important in the study of quantum entanglement, encode the electronic fluctuations and correlations responsible for covalent bonding. From these density matrices, we develop tools that allow us to analyse how many body wave functions can be broken up into real space pieces. We apply these tools to the first row dimers, and in particular, we address the conflicting evidence in the literature about the presence of an inverted fourth bond and anti-ferromagnetic correlations in the $\text{C}_2$ molecule. Our results show that many body effects enhance anti-ferromagnetic fluctuations but are not related to the formation of an inverted fourth bond. We identify two inverted bonds in the $\text{C}_2$ molecule and establish their correspondence to the bonds in the $\text{Be}_2$ molecule. Additionally, we provide a new interpretation of the Mayer index, introduce partial bonds to fix deficiencies in molecular orbital theory, and prove the Hartree-Fock wave function for C$_{2}$ is not a triple bond. Our results suggest that entanglement-based methods can lead to a more realistic treatment of molecular and extended systems than possible before.

id: 1412.1662
title: The Schr?dinger-Newton equations beyond Newton
authors: Giovanni Manfredi
comments: To appear in General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1662
abstract: The scope of this paper is twofold. First, we derive rigorously a low-velocity and Galilei-covariant limit of the gravitoelectromagnetic (GEM) equations. Subsequently, these reduced GEM equations are coupled to the Schr\"odinger equation with gravitoelectric and gravitomagnetic potentials. The resulting extended Schr\"odinger-Newton equations constitute a minimal model where the three fundamental constants of nature ($G$, $\hbar$, and $c$) appear naturally. We show that the relativistic correction coming from the gravitomagnetic potential scales as the ratio of the mass of the system to the Planck mass, and that it reinforces the standard Newtonian (gravitoelectric) attraction. The theory is further generalized to many particles through a Wigner function approach.

id: 1412.1720
title: Zeeman-Splitting-Assisted Quantum Logic Spectroscopy of Trapped Ions
authors: Huanqian Loh, Shiqian Ding, Roland Hablutzel, Gleb Maslennikov, Dzmitry Matsukevich
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1720
abstract: We present a quantum logic scheme to detect atomic and molecular ions in different states of angular momentum based on their magnetic $g$-factors. The state-dependent magnetic $g$-factors mean that electronic, rotational or hyperfine states may be distinguished by their Zeeman splittings in a given magnetic field. Driving motional sidebands of a chosen Zeeman splitting enables reading out the corresponding state of angular momentum with an auxillary logic ion. As a proof-of-principle demonstration, we show that we can detect the ground electronic state of a ${^{174}}$Yb$^+$ ion using ${^{171}}$Yb$^+$ as the logic ion. Further, we can distinguish between the ${^{174}}$Yb$^+$ ion being in its ground electronic state versus the metastable ${^{2}}D_{3/2}$ state. We discuss the suitability of this scheme for the detection of rotational states in molecular ions.

id: 1412.1802
title: Numerical solutions of the Schrodinger equation with source terms or time-dependent potentials
authors: W. van Dijk, F.M. Toyama
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 063309 (12 pages) (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1802
abstract: We develop an approach to solving numerically the time-dependent Schrodinger equation when it includes source terms and time-dependent potentials. The approach is based on the generalized Crank-Nicolson method supplemented with an Euler-MacLaurin expansion for the time-integrated nonhomogeneous term. By comparing the numerical results with exact solutions of analytically solvable models, we find that the method leads to precision comparable to that of the generalized Crank-Nicolson method applied to homogeneous equations. Furthermore, the systematic increase in precision generally permits making estimates of the error.

id: 1412.1819
title: Holographic renormalization in no-boundary quantum cosmology
authors: Lihui Liu
comments: 68 pages 32 figures; In v2: typos eliminated; a misjudge of mass range in 3d corrected, related contents revised in Sec.2.3, Sec.7 and appendix B; the 4d example in Sec.6.2 is replaced by a 5d one, due to possible author right clash with another paper in preparation; references added or updated
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1819
abstract: Recent results of Hartle-Hawking wave functions on asymptotic dS boundaries show non-normalizability, while the bulk origin is not clear. This paper attempts to addresse this problem by studying (Kerr-)dS_3 cosmology in Einstein gravity deformed by a minimally coupled scalar field. Various saddle-point contributions exp[i(saddle-point action)] to the Hartle-Hawking wave functions are computed with mini-superspace formalism. The saddle-point actions are first obtained in the spacetime bulks by direct computation, then on the asymptotic dS boundary by holographic renormalization. It is found that the imaginary part of the saddle-point actions, as functions of scalar field deformation, are generally bounded in the bulk, but can diverge to -infty on the boundary. This can probably be a source of the scalar field-related non-normalizability of the boundary Hartle-Hawking wave functions. For Kerr-dS_3 cosmology, some saddle-point actions have imaginary parts diverging to -infty both in the bulk and on the boundary, when the boundary T^2 is stretched to infinitely long. This can be an origin of non-normalizability of the boundary Hartle-Hawking wave functions related to temperature divergence. Finally the holographic renormalization is extended to scalar-deformed dS_{d+1} (d>= 3) cosmologies for the imaginary part of the saddle-point actions. The result is tested on a 5d example, and saddle points leading to divergent contribution to the boundary Hartle-Hawking wave function are shown to exist.

id: 1412.1943
title: Transport of Intensity Phase Retrieval of Arbitrary Wave Fields Including Vortices
authors: Axel Lubk, Giulio Guzzinati, Felix B?rrnert, Jo Verbeeck
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 199902 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1943
abstract: The phase problem can be considered as one of the cornerstones of quantum mechanics intimately connected to the detection process and the uncertainty relation. The latter impose fundamental limits on the manifold phase reconstruction schemes invented to date in particular at small magnitudes of the quantum wave. Here, we show that a rigorous solution of the Transport of Intensity Reconstruction (TIE) scheme in terms of a linear elliptic partial differential equation for the phase provides reconstructions even in the presence of wave zeros if particular boundary conditions (BCs) are given. We furthermore discuss how partial coherence hampers phase reconstruction and show that a modified version of the TIE reconstructs the curl-free current density at arbitrary (in-)coherence. This opens the way for a large variety of new applications in fields as diverse as astrophysics, geophysics, photonics, acoustics, and electron microscopy, where zeros in the respective wave field are a ubiquitous feature.

id: 1412.1999
title: Entanglement Dynamics of Quantum Oscillators Nonlinearly Coupled to Thermal Environments
authors: Aurora Voje, Alexander Croy, Andreas Isacsson
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.1999
abstract: We study the asymptotic entanglement of two quantum harmonic oscillators nonlinearly coupled to an environment. Coupling to independent baths and a common bath are investigated. Numerical results obtained using the Wangsness-Bloch-Redfield method are supplemented by analytical results in the rotating wave approximation. The asymptotic negativity as function of temperature, initial squeezing and coupling strength, is compared to results for systems with linear system-reservoir coupling. We find that due to the parity conserving nature of the coupling, the asymptotic entanglement is considerably more robust than for the linearly damped cases. In contrast to linearly damped systems, the asymptotic behavior of entanglement is similar for the two bath configurations in the nonlinearly damped case. This is due to the two-phonon system-bath exchange causing a supression of information exchange between the oscillators via the bath in the common bath configuration at low temperatures.

id: 1412.2079
title: Magic distances in the blockade mechanism of Rydberg p and d states
authors: Beno?t Vermersch, Alexander W. Glaetzle, Peter Zoller
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2079
abstract: We show that the Rydberg blockade mechanism, which is well known in the case of s states, can be significantly different for p and d states due to the van der Waals couplings between different Rydberg Zeeman sublevels and the presence of a magnetic-field. We show, in particular, the existence of magic distances corresponding to the laser-excitation of a superposition of doubly excited states.

id: 1412.2084
title: Cascaded optical transparency in multimode-cavity optomechanical systems
authors: Linran Fan, King Y. Fong, Menno Poot, Hong X. Tang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2084
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency has great theoretical and experimental importance in many physics subjects, such as atomic physics, quantum optics, and more recent cavity optomechanics. Optical delay is the most prominent feature of electromagnetically induced transparency, and in cavity optomechanics optical delay is limited by mechanical dissipation rate of sideband-resolved mechanical modes. Here we demonstrate a cascaded optical transparency scheme by leveraging the parametric phonon-phonon coupling in a multimode optomechanical system, where a low damping mechanical mode in the unresolved-sideband regime is made to couple to an intermediate, high frequency mechanical mode in the resolved-sideband regime of an optical cavity. Extended optical delay and higher transmission, as well as optical advancing are demonstrated. These results provide a route to realize ultra-long optical delay, indicating a significant step toward integrated classical and quantum information storage devices.

id: 1412.2119
title: Quantum description of a rotating and vibrating molecule
authors: Sylvain D. Brechet, Francois A. Reuse, Klaus Maschke, Jean-Philippe Ansermet
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2119
abstract: A rigorous quantum description of molecular dynamics with a particular emphasis on internal observables is developed accounting explicitly for kinetic couplings between nuclei and electrons. Rotational modes are treated in a genuinely quantum framework by defining a molecular orientation operator. Canonical rotational commutation relations are established explicitly. Moreover, physical constraints are imposed on the observables in order to define the state of a molecular system located in the neighborhood of the ground state defined by the equilibrium condition.

id: 1412.2195
title: Do Majorana Fermions really Obey Non-Abelian Statistics?
authors: Qiu-Bo Cheng, Jing He, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 4.5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2195
abstract: Recently, Majorana fermions (MFs) have attracted intensive attention because of their possible non-Abelian statistics. This paper points out MFs in topological superconductors neither obey non-Abelian statistics nor Abelian statistics. Instead, MFs obey gamma-statistics that is an anti-commutating representation of braiding group. Smoking-gun numerical evidence to identify MF's statistics is presented. Finally, the implications of this work are given for topological quantum computation of MFs in topological superconductors.

id: 1412.2207
title: Quantum cascade laser frequency stabilisation at the sub-Hz level
authors: B¨¦reng¨¨re Argence, Bruno Chanteau, Olivier Lopez, Daniele Nicolodi, Michel Abgrall, Christian Chardonnet, Christophe Daussy, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Yann Le Coq, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2207
abstract: Quantum Cascade Lasers (QCL) are increasingly being used to probe the mid-infrared "molecular fingerprint" region. This prompted efforts towards improving their spectral performance, in order to reach ever-higher resolution and precision. Here, we report the stabilisation of a QCL onto an optical frequency comb. We demonstrate a relative stability and accuracy of 2x10-15 and 10-14, respectively. The comb is stabilised to a remote near-infrared ultra-stable laser referenced to frequency primary standards, whose signal is transferred via an optical fibre link. The stability and frequency traceability of our QCL exceed those demonstrated so far by two orders of magnitude. As a demonstration of its capability, we then use it to perform high-resolution molecular spectroscopy. We measure absorption frequencies with an 8x10-13 relative uncertainty. This confirms the potential of this setup for ultra-high precision measurements with molecules, such as our ongoing effort towards testing the parity symmetry by probing chiral species.

id: 1412.2215
title: Saha Equation in an Uniformly Accelerated Reference Frame and Some of Its Physical Implications
authors: Sanchari De, Somenath Chakrabarty
comments: 12 Pages Latex File, No Figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2215
abstract: The Saha equations for the photo-ionization of hydrogen atoms and the electron positron pair production at high temperature are obtained in a reference frame undergoing a uniform accelerated motion in an otherwise flat Minkowski space-time geometry. Some of the physical implications of our findings are discussed.

id: 1412.2242
title: The study of Lorenz and R?ssler strange attractors by means of quantum theory
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, N.A. Bogdanova
comments: Submitted to Laser Physics
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2242
abstract: We have developed a method for complementing an arbitrary classical dynamical system to a quantum system using the Lorenz and R\"ossler systems as examples. The Schr\"odinger equation for the corresponding quantum statistical ensemble is described in terms of the Hamilton-Jacobi formalism. We consider both the original dynamical system in the position space and the conjugate dynamical system corresponding to the momentum space. Such simultaneous consideration of mutually complementary position and momentum frameworks provides a deeper understanding of the nature of chaotic behavior in dynamical systems. We have shown that the new formalism provides a significant simplification of the Lyapunov exponents calculations. From the point of view of quantum optics, the Lorenz and R\"ossler systems correspond to three modes of a quantized electromagnetic field in a medium with cubic nonlinearity. From the computational point of view, the new formalism provides a basis for the analysis of complex dynamical systems using quantum computers.

id: 1412.2308
title: Two-photon Interference with Non-identical Photons
authors: Jianbin Liu, Yu Zhou, Huaibin Zheng, Hui Chen, Fu-Li Li, Zhuo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2308
abstract: The indistinguishability of non-identical photons is dependent on detection system in quantum physics. If two photons with different wavelengths are indistinguishable for a detection system, there can be two-photon interference when these two photons are incident to two input ports of a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer, respectively. The reason why two-photon interference phenomena are different for classical and nonclassical light is not due to interference, but due to the properties of light and detection system. These conclusions are helpful to understand the physics and applications of two-photon interference.

id: 1412.2372
title: Simulation and Analysis of Superconducting Traveling-Wave Parametric Amplifiers
authors: Saptarshi Chaudhuri, Jiansong Gao, Kent Irwin
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2372
abstract: Superconducting parametric amplifiers have great promise for quantum-limited readout of superconducting qubits and detectors. Until recently, most superconducting parametric amplifiers had been based on resonant structures, limiting their bandwidth and dynamic range. Broadband traveling-wave parametric amplifiers based both on the nonlinear kinetic inductance of superconducting thin films and on Josephson junctions are in development. By modifying the dispersion property of the amplifier circuit, referred to as dispersion engineering, the gain can be greatly enhanced and the size can be reduced. We present two theoretical frameworks for analyzing and understanding such parametric amplifiers: (1) generalized coupled-mode equations and (2) a finite difference time domain (FDTD) model combined with a small signal analysis. We show how these analytical and numerical tools may be used to understand device performance.

id: 1412.2409
title: Von Neumann Was Not a Quantum Bayesian
authors: Blake C. Stacey
comments: 24 pages, written in response to 1 sentence on Wikipedia. v2: typo fixed, references updated
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2409
abstract: Wikipedia has claimed for over two years now that John von Neumann was the "first quantum Bayesian." In context, this reads as stating that von Neumann inaugurated QBism, the approach to quantum theory promoted by Fuchs, Mermin and Schack. This essay explores how such a claim is, historically speaking, unsupported.

id: 1412.2501
title: Reactive collisions in confined geometries
authors: Zbigniew Idziaszek, Krzysztof Jachymski, Paul S. Julienne
comments: prepared as a contribution to New Journ. Phys. special issue on cold molecules; v2: minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2501
abstract: We consider low energy threshold reactive collisions of particles interacting via a van der Waals potential at long range in the presence of external confinement and give analytic formulas for the confinement modified scattering in such circumstances. The reaction process is described in terms of the short range reaction probability. Quantum defect theory is used to express elastic and inelastic or reaction collision rates analytically in terms of two dimensionless parameters representing phase and reactivity. We discuss the modifications to Wigner threshold laws for quasi-one-dimensional and quasi-two-dimensional geometries. Confinement-induced resonances are suppressed due to reactions and are completely absent in the universal limit where the short-range loss probability approaches unity.

id: 1412.2509
title: Photon transport in a dissipative chain of nonlinear cavities
authors: Alberto Biella, Leonardo Mazza, Iacopo Carusotto, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 053815 (2015)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2509
abstract: We analyze a chain of coupled nonlinear optical cavities driven by a coherent source of light localized at one end and subject to uniform dissipation. We characterize photon transport by studying the populations and the photon correlations as a function of position. When complemented with input-output theory, these quantities provide direct information about photon transmission through the system. The position of single- and multi-photon resonances directly reflect the structure of the many-body energy levels. This shows how a study of transport along a coupled cavity array can provide rich information about the strongly correlated (many-body) states of light even in presence of dissipation. By means of a numerical algorithm based on the time-evolving block decimation scheme adapted to mixed states, we are able to simulate arrays up to sixty cavities.

id: 1412.2574
title: Bi-$\cal{PT}$ symmetry in nonlinearly damped dynamical systems and tailoring $\cal{PT}$ regions with position dependent loss-gain profiles
authors: S. Karthiga, V.K. Chandrasekar, M. Senthilvelan, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 19 pages, 19 figures, submitted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2574
abstract: We investigate the remarkable role of position dependent damping in determining the parametric regions of symmetry breaking in nonlinear $\cal{PT}$-symmetric systems. In the two dimensional cases of such position dependent damped systems, we unveil the existence of a class of novel bi-$\cal{PT}$-symmetric systems which have two fold $\cal{PT}$ symmetries. We analyze the dynamics of these systems and show how symmetry breaking occurs, that is whether the symmetry breaking of the two $\cal{PT}$ symmetries occurs in pair or occurs one by one. The addition of linear damping in these nonlinearly damped systems induces competition between the two types of damping. This competition results in a $\cal{PT}$ phase transition in which the $\cal{PT}$ symmetry is broken for lower loss/gain strength and is restored by increasing the loss/gain strength. We also show that by properly designing the form of the position dependent damping, we can tailor the $\cal{PT}$-symmetric regions of the system.

id: 1412.2617
title: Partial and quasi dynamical symmetries in quantum many-body systems
authors: A. Leviatan
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, plenary talk at GROUP30: The XXX Int. Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, July 14-18, 2014, Ghent University, Belgium
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 597: 012003, 2015
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2617
abstract: We introduce the notions of partial dynamical symmetry (PDS) and quasi dynamical symmetry (QDS) and demonstrate their relevance to nuclear spectroscopy, to quantum phase transitions and to mixed systems with regularity and chaos. The analysis serves to highlight the potential role of PDS and QDS towards understanding the emergent "simplicity out of complexity" exhibited by complex many-body systems.

id: 1412.2639
title: Dynamical generation of Floquet Majorana flat bands in s-wave superconductors
authors: Amrit Poudel, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to EPL
journal: EPL 110 17004
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2639
abstract: We present quantum control techniques to engineer flat bands of symmetry-protected Majorana edge modes in s-wave superconductors. Specifically, we show how periodic control may be employed for designing time-independent effective Hamiltonians, which support $Floquet$ $Majorana$ $flat$ $bands$, starting from equilibrium conditions that are either topologically trivial or only support individual Majorana pairs. In the first approach, a suitable modulation of the chemical potential simultaneously induces Majorana flat bands and dynamically $activates$ a pre-existing chiral symmetry which is responsible for their protection. In the second approach, the application of effective parity kicks dynamically $generates$ a desired chiral symmetry by suppressing chirality-breaking terms in the static Hamiltonian. Our results demonstrate how the use of time-dependent control enlarges the range of possibilities for realizing gapless topological superconductivity, potentially enabling access to topological states of matter that have no known equilibrium counterpart.

id: 1412.2713
title: Design of a dual species atom interferometer for space
authors: Thilo Schuldt, Christian Schubert, Markus Krutzik, Lluis Gesa Bote, Naceur Gaaloul, Jonas Hartwig, Holger Ahlers, Waldemar Herr, Katerine Posso-Trujillo, Jan Rudolph, Stephan Seidel, Thijs Wendrich, Wolfgang Ertmer, Sven Herrmann, Andr¨¦ Kubelka-Lange, Alexander Milke, Benny Rievers, Emanuele Rocco, Andrew Hinton, Kai Bongs, Markus Oswald, Matthias Franz, Matthias Hauth, Achim Peters, Ahmad Bawamia, Andreas Wicht, Baptiste Battelier, Andrea Bertoldi, Philippe Bouyer, Arnaud Landragin, Didier Massonnet, Thomas L¨¦v¨¨que, Andre Wenzlawski, Ortwin Hellmig, Patrick Windpassinger, Klaus Sengstock, Wolf von Klitzing, Chris Chaloner, David Summers, Philip Ireland, Ignacio Mateos, Carlos F. Sopuerta, Fiodor Sorrentino, Guglielmo M. Tino, Michael Williams, Christian Trenkel, Domenico Gerardi, Michael Chwalla, Johannes Burkhardt, Ulrich Johann, Astrid Heske, Eric Wille, Martin Gehler, Luigi Cacciapuoti, Norman G¨¹rlebeck, Claus Braxmaier, Ernst Rasel, et al. (10 additional authors not shown)
comments: 30 pages, 23 figures, accepted for publication in Experimental Astronomy
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2713
abstract: Atom interferometers have a multitude of proposed applications in space including precise measurements of the Earth's gravitational field, in navigation & ranging, and in fundamental physics such as tests of the weak equivalence principle (WEP) and gravitational wave detection. While atom interferometers are realized routinely in ground-based laboratories, current efforts aim at the development of a space compatible design optimized with respect to dimensions, weight, power consumption, mechanical robustness and radiation hardness. In this paper, we present a design of a high-sensitivity differential dual species $^{85}$Rb/$^{87}$Rb atom interferometer for space, including physics package, laser system, electronics and software. The physics package comprises the atom source consisting of dispensers and a 2D magneto-optical trap (MOT), the science chamber with a 3D-MOT, a magnetic trap based on an atom chip and an optical dipole trap (ODT) used for Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) creation and interferometry, the detection unit, the vacuum system for $10^{-11}$ mbar ultra-high vacuum generation, and the high-suppression factor magnetic shielding as well as the thermal control system. The laser system is based on a hybrid approach using fiber-based telecom components and high-power laser diode technology and includes all laser sources for 2D-MOT, 3D-MOT, ODT, interferometry and detection. Manipulation and switching of the laser beams is carried out on an optical bench using Zerodur bonding technology. The instrument consists of 9 units with an overall mass of 221 kg, an average power consumption of 608 W (819 W peak), and a volume of 470 liters which would well fit on a satellite to be launched with a Soyuz rocket, as system studies have shown.

id: 1412.2730
title: Central Charge and Entangled Gauge Fields
authors: Kuo-Wei Huang
comments: 4+1 pages. v2: minor modification, references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2730
abstract: Entanglement entropy of gauge fields is calculated using the partition function in curved spacetime with boundary. Deriving a Gibbons-Hawking like term from a BRST action produces a Wald entropy like codimension-2 surface term. It is further suggested that boundary degrees of freedom localized on the entanglement surface generated from the gauge redundancy could be used to resolve a subtle mismatch in a universal conformal anomaly-entanglement entropy relation.

id: 1412.2825
title: Long-range micro-pulse aerosol lidar at 1.5 um with an up-conversion single-photon detector
authors: Haiyun Xia, Guoliang Shentu, Mingjia Shangguan, Xiuxiu Xia, Xiaodong Jia, Chong Wang, Jun Zhang, Qiang Zhang, Xiankang Dou, Jianwei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 40, 1579 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2825
abstract: A micro-pulse lidar at eye-safe wavelength is constructed based on an up-conversion single-photon detector. The ultralow noise detector enables using integration technique to improve the signal-to-noise ratio of the atmospheric backscattering even at daytime. With the pulse energy of 110uJ, the pulse repetition rate of 15 kHz, the optical antenna diameter of 100 mm and integration time of 5 minutes, a horizontal detection range of 7 km is realized. In the demonstration experiment, atmospheric visibility over 24 hours is monitored continuously, with results in accordance with the weather forecasts.

id: 1412.2890
title: Atom Localization in two and three dimensions via level populations in an M-type atomic system
authors: Nilesh Chaudhari, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2890
abstract: Schemes for two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) atomic states localization in a five level M-type system using standing-wave laser fields are presented. In the upper two levels of the system we see a `coupled' localization for both 2D and 3D case. Here, the state in which majority of population will be found depends on the sign of the detunings between the upper levels and the intermediate level. The experimental implementation of the scheme using the D2 line of Rb is also proposed. The scheme may be manipulated to achieve subwavelength localization of atoms in one dimension to a spatial width, smaller by a factor of 1000 than the incident wavelength.

id: 1412.2936
title: Ab-initio molecular dynamics simulation of liquid water by Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Andrea Zen, Ye Luo, Guglielmo Mazzola, Leonardo Guidoni, Sandro Sorella
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 142, 144111 (2015)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2936
abstract: Although liquid water is ubiquitous in chemical reactions at roots of life and climate on the earth, the prediction of its properties by high-level ab initio molecular dynamics simulations still represents a formidable task for quantum chemistry. In this article we present a room temperature simulation of liquid water based on the potential energy surface obtained by a many-body wave function through quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) methods. The simulated properties are in good agreement with recent neutron scattering and X-ray experiments, particularly concerning the position of the oxygen-oxygen peak in the radial distribution function, at variance of previous Density Functional Theory attempts. Given the excellent performances of QMC on large scale supercomputers, this work opens new perspectives for predictive and reliable ab-initio simulations of complex chemical systems.

id: 1412.2970
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds, Arveson spectrum and Haag-Ruelle scattering theory for gapped quantum spin systems
authors: Sven Bachmann, Wojciech Dybalski, Pieter Naaijkens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2970
abstract: We consider translation invariant gapped quantum spin systems satisfying the Lieb-Robinson bound and containing single-particle states in a ground state representation. Following the Haag-Ruelle approach from relativistic quantum field theory, we construct states describing collisions of several particles, and define the corresponding $S$-matrix. We also obtain some general restrictions on the shape of the energy-momentum spectrum. For the purpose of our analysis we adapt the concepts of almost local observables and energy-momentum transfer (or Arveson spectrum) from relativistic QFT to the lattice setting. The Lieb-Robinson bound, which is the crucial substitute of strict locality from relativistic QFT, underlies all our constructions. Our results hold, in particular, in the Ising model in strong transverse magnetic fields.

id: 1412.3073
title: Local integrals of motion and the logarithmic lightcone in many-body localized systems
authors: Isaac H. Kim, Anushya Chandran, Dmitry A. Abanin
comments: 10+0.5 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3073
abstract: We propose to define full many-body localization in terms of the recently introduced integrals of motion[Chandran et al., arXiv:1407.8480], which characterize the time-averaged response of the system to a local perturbation. The quasi-locality of such integrals of motion implies an effective lightcone that grows logarithmically in time. This subsequently implies that (i) the average entanglement entropy can grow at most logarithmically in time for a global quench from a product state, and (ii) with high probability, the time evolution of a local operator for a time interval $|t|$ can be classically simulated with a resource that scales polynomially in $|t|$.

id: 1412.3081
title: Quantum Monte Carlo methods for nuclear physics
authors: J. Carlson, S. Gandolfi, F. Pederiva, Steven C. Pieper, R. Schiavilla, K.E. Schmidt, R.B. Wiringa
comments: 57 pages, 40 figures, accepted for publication in Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3081
abstract: Quantum Monte Carlo methods have proved very valuable to study the structure and reactions of light nuclei and nucleonic matter starting from realistic nuclear interactions and currents. These ab-initio calculations reproduce many low-lying states, moments and transitions in light nuclei, and simultaneously predict many properties of light nuclei and neutron matter over a rather wide range of energy and momenta. We review the nuclear interactions and currents, and describe the continuum Quantum Monte Carlo methods used in nuclear physics. These methods are similar to those used in condensed matter and electronic structure but naturally include spin-isospin, tensor, spin-orbit, and three-body interactions. We present a variety of results including the low-lying spectra of light nuclei, nuclear form factors, and transition matrix elements. We also describe low-energy scattering techniques, studies of the electroweak response of nuclei relevant in electron and neutrino scattering, and the properties of dense nucleonic matter as found in neutron stars. A coherent picture of nuclear structure and dynamics emerges based upon rather simple but realistic interactions and currents.

id: 1412.3083
title: Resonances in ultracold dipolar atomic and molecular gases
authors: Bruno Schulz, Simon Sala, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3083
abstract: A previously developed approach for the numerical treatment of two particles that are confined in a finite optical-lattice potential and interact via an arbitrary isotropic interaction potential has been extended to incorporate an additional anisotropic dipole-dipole interaction. The interplay of a model but realistic short-range Born-Oppenheimer potential and the dipole-dipole interaction for two confined particles is investigated. A variation of the strength of the dipole-dipole interaction leads to diverse resonance phenomena. In a harmonic confinement potential some resonances show similarities to $s$-wave scattering resonances while in an anharmonic trapping potential like the one of an optical lattice inelastic confinement-induced dipolar resonances occur. The latter are due to a coupling of the relative and center-of-mass motion caused by the anharmonicity of the external confinement.

id: 1412.3101
title: Fermi Orbital Derivatives in Self-Interaction Corrected Density Functional Theory: Applications to Closed Shell Atoms
authors: Mark R. Pederson
comments: 14 pages. On figure
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3101
abstract: A recent modification of the Perdew-Zunger self-interaction-correction (SIC) to the density-functional formalism (Pederson, Ruzsinszky, Perdew) has provided a framework for explicitly restoring unitary invariance to the expression for the total energy. The formalism depends upon construction of Lowdin orthonormalized Fermi-orbitals (Luken et al) which parametrically depend on variational quasi-classical electronic positions. Derivatives of these quasi-classical electronic positions, required for efficient minimization of the self-interaction corrected energy, are derived and tested here on atoms. Total energies and ionization energies in closed-shell atoms, where correlation is less important, using the PW92 LDA functional are in very good to excellent agreement with experiment and non-relativistic Quantum-Monte-Carlo (QMC) results.

id: 1412.3146
title: Notes on the firewall paradox, complexity, and quantum theory
authors: Karl-Georg Schlesinger
comments: 31 pages; further references added
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3146
abstract: We investigate what it means to apply the solution, proposed to the firewall paradox by Harlow and Hayden, to the famous quantum paradoxes of Sch\"odinger's Cat and Wigner's Friend if ones views these as posing a thermodynamic decoding problem (as does Hawking radiation in the firewall paradox). The implications might point to a relevance of the firewall paradox for the axiomatic and set theoretic foundations underlying mathematics. We reconsider in this context the results of Benioff on the foundational challenges posed by the randomness postulate of quantum theory. A central point in our discussion is that one can mathematically not naturally distinguish between computational complexity (as central to the approach of Harlow and Hayden and further developed by Susskind) and proof theoretic complexity (since they represent the same concept on a Turing machine), with the latter being related to a finite bound on Kolmogorov entropy (due to Chaitin incompleteness).

id: 1412.3164
title: On quantum preimage attacks
authors: R?zvan Ro?ie
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3164
abstract: We propose a preimage attack against cryptographic hash functions based on the speedup enabled by quantum computing. Preimage resistance is a fundamental property cryptographic hash functions must possess. The motivation behind this work relies in the lack of conventional attacks against newly introduced hash schemes such as the recently elected SHA-3 standard. The proposed algorithm consists of two parts: a classical one running in O(log |S|), where S represents the searched space, and a quantum part that contains the bulk of the Deutsch-Jozsa circuit. The mixed approach we follow makes use of the quantum parallelism concept to check the existence of an argument (preimage) for a given hash value (image) in the preestablished search space. For this purpose, we explain how a non-unitary measurement gate can be used to determine if S contains the target value. Our method is entirely theoretical and is based on the assumptions that a hash function can be implemented by a quantum computer and the key measurement gate we describe is physically realizable. Finally, we present how the algorithm finds a solution on S.

id: 1412.3210
title: Testing Gravity with Cold-Atom Interferometers
authors: G. W. Biedermann, X. Wu, L. Deslauriers, S. Roy, C. Mahadeswaraswamy, M. A. Kasevich
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3210
abstract: We present a horizontal gravity gradiometer atom interferometer for precision gravitational tests. The horizontal configuration is superior for maximizing the inertial signal in the atom interferometer from a nearby proof mass. In our device, we have suppressed spurious noise associated with the horizonal configuration to achieve a differential acceleration sensitivity of 4.2$\times10^{-9}g/\sqrt{Hz}$ over a 70 cm baseline or 3.0$\times10^{-9}g/\sqrt{Hz}$ inferred per accelerometer. Using the performance of this instrument, we characterize the results of possible future gravitational tests. We complete a proof-of-concept measurement of the gravitational constant with a precision of 3$\times10^{-4}$ that is competitive with the present limit of 1.2$\times10^{-4}$ using other techniques. From this measurement, we provide a statistical constraint on a Yukawa-type fifth force at 8$\times$10$^{-3}$ near the poorly known length scale of 10 cm. Limits approaching 10$^{-5}$ appear feasible. We discuss improvements that can enable uncertainties falling well below 10$^{-5}$ for both experiments.

id: 1412.3499
title: Possible Role of Interference and Sink Effects in Nonphotochemical Quenching in Photosynthetic Complexes
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Alexander I. Nesterov, Shmuel Gurvitz, Richard T. Sayre
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3499
abstract: We describe a simple and consistent quantum mathematical model that simulates the possible role of quantum interference and sink effects in the nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ) in light-harvesting complexes (LHCs). Our model consists of a network of five interconnected sites (excitonic states) responsible for the NPQ mechanism: (i) Two excited states of chlorophyll molecules, $ChlA^*$ and $ChlB^*$, forming an LHC dimer, which is initially populated; (ii) A "damaging" site which is responsible for production of singlet oxygen and other destructive outcomes; (iii) The $(ChlA-Zea)^*$ heterodimer excited state (Zea indicates zeaxanthin); and (iv) The charge transfer state of this heterodimer, $(ChlA^{-}-Zea^{+})^*$. In our model, both damaging and charge transfer states are described by discrete electron energy levels attached to their sinks, that mimic the continuum part of electron energy spectrum, as at these sites the electron participates in quasi-irreversible chemical reactions. All five excitonic sites interact with the protein environment that is modeled using a stochastic approach. As an example, we apply our model to demonstrate possible contributions of quantum interference and sink effects in the NPQ mechanism in the CP29 minor LHC. Our numerical results on the quantum dynamics of the reduced density matrix, demonstrate a possible way to significantly suppress, under some conditions, the damaging channel using quantum interference effects and sinks. The results demonstrate the possible role of interference and sink effects for modeling, engineering, and optimizing the performance of the NPQ processes in both natural and artificial light-harvesting complexes.

id: 1412.3511
title: Optimizing optical Bragg scattering for single-photon frequency conversion
authors: Simon Lefrancois, Alex S. Clark, Benjamin J. Eggleton
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013837 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3511
abstract: We develop a systematic theory for optimising single-photon frequency conversion using optical Bragg scattering. The efficiency and phase-matching conditions for the desired Bragg scattering conversion as well as spurious scattering and modulation instability are identified. We find that third-order dispersion can suppress unwanted processes, while dispersion above the fourth order limits the maximum conversion efficiency. We apply the optimisation conditions to frequency conversion in highly nonlinear fiber, silicon nitride waveguides and silicon nanowires. Efficient conversion is confirmed using full numerical simulations. These design rules will assist the development of efficient quantum frequency conversion between multicolour single photon sources for integration in complex quantum networks.

id: 1412.3516
title: Alignment dynamics of slow light diffusion in ultracold atomic $^{85}$Rb
authors: S. Balik, R.G. Olave, C.I. Sukenik, M.D. Havey, V.M. Datsyuk, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 051402(R), (2005) (Rapid Communication)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3516
abstract: A combined experimental and theoretical investigation of time- and alignment-dependent propagation of light in an ultracold atomic gas of atomic $^{85}$Rb is reported. Coherences among the scattering amplitudes for light scattering off excited hyperfine levels produce strong variations of the light polarization in the vicinity of atomic resonance. Measurements are in excellent agreement with Monte-Carlo simulations of the multiple scattering process.

id: 1412.3581
title: On the Landau system in noncommutative phase-space
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Anirban Saha, Aslam Halder
comments: 10 pages LaTex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3581
abstract: We consider a charged particle moving in a two dimensional plane in presence of a background magnetic field perpendicular to the plane, i.e. the Landau system in a phase-space where the coordinates and momenta both follow canonical noncommutative algebra. In this set up, we study the Aharonov-Bohm effect and the Landau levels. For the Aharonov-Bohm effect, the phase-shift is found to contain corrections due to phase-space noncommutativity and agrees with those in the literature upto first order in the noncommutative parameters. We obtain the magnetic length and degeneracy of the Landau levels, both are seen to admit NC corrections. The Landau levels are seen to get altered due to phase-space noncommutativity as well. This energy spectrum of the Landau system is computed from two different perspectives, namely the explicit NC variable approach and the commutative-equivalent approach. The results match exactly, solidifying the evidence in favor of the equivalence of the two approaches.

id: 1412.3615
title: Localization-delocalization transition of dipolar bosons in a four-well potential
authors: Giovanni Mazzarella, Vittorio Penna
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 48, 065001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3615
abstract: We study interacting dipolar atomic bosons in a four-well potential within a ring geometry and outline how a four-site Bose-Hubbard (BH) model including next-nearest-neighbor interaction terms can be derived for the above four-well system. We analyze the ground state of dipolar bosons by varying the strength of the interaction between particles in next-nearest-neighbor wells. We perform this analysis both numerically and analytically by reformulating the dipolar-boson model within the continuous variable picture applied in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 061601(R) (2011)]. By using this approach we obtain an effective description of the transition mechanism and show that when the next-nearest-neighbor interaction crosses a precise value of the on-site interaction, the ground state exhibits a change from the uniform state (delocalization regime) to a macroscopic two-pulse state, with strongly localized bosons (localization regime). These predictions are confirmed by the results obtained by diagonalizing numerically the four-site BH Hamiltonian.

id: 1412.3832
title: A Simple Quantum Integro-Differential Solver (SQuIDS)
authors: Carlos Alberto Arguelles Delgado, Jordi Salvado, Christopher N. Weaver
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures. Code available at this https URL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3832
abstract: Simple Quantum Integro-Differential Solver (SQuIDS) is a C++ code designed to solve semi-analytically the evolution of a set of density matrices and scalar functions. This is done efficiently by expressing all operators in an SU(N) basis. SQuIDS provides a base class from which users can derive new classes to include new non-trivial terms from the right hand sides of density matrix equations. The code was designed in the context of solving neutrino oscillation problems, but can be applied to any problem that involves solving the quantum evolution of a collection of particles with Hilbert space of dimension up to six.

id: 1412.3876
title: Hohenberg-Kohn redux
authors: Paul E. Lammert
comments: v2: a lot of bad writing improved, less-pompous title, one-column pagestyle
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3876
abstract: The Hohenberg-Kohn theorem is a cornerstone of electronic density functional theory, yet completing its proof in the traditional way requires the {\em assumption} that ground state wavefunctions never vanish on sets of nonzero Lebesgue measure. This is an unsatisfactory situation, since DFT is supposed to obviate knowledge of many-body wavefunctions. We approach the issue from a more density-centric direction, allowing mild hypotheses on the density which can be regarded as checkable in a DFT context. By ordinary Hilbert space analysis, the following is proved: If the density $\rho$ is continuous and everywhere nonzero, then there can be at most one potential (modulo constants) expressible as a sum of a square-integrable and a bounded function (i.e., Kato-Rellich) with $\rho$ as a ground state density. In case $\rho$ is not nonzero everywhere, the theorem allows an independent constant on each connected component of the set where the density is positive, a weakening which can be reversed by requiring locally weak-$L^3$ potentials and calling on a unique continuation result of Schechter and Simon.

id: 1412.3913
title: On the control by electromagnetic fields of quantum systems with infinite dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Elie Ass¨¦mat, Thomas Chambrion, Dominique Sugny
comments: Journal of Mathematical Chemistry, Springer Verlag (Germany), 2014
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3913
abstract: We analyze the control by electromagnetic fields of quantum systems with infinite dimensional Hilbert space and a discrete spectrum. Based on recent mathematical results, we rigorously show under which conditions such a system can be approximated in a finite dimensional Hilbert space. For a given threshold error, we estimate this finite dimension in terms of the used control field. As illustrative examples, we consider the cases of a rigid rotor and of a harmonic oscillator.

id: 1412.3956
title: Monte Carlo tests of Orbital-Free Density Functional Theory
authors: D. I. Palade
comments: 7 pages, LateX, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3956
abstract: The relationship between the exact kinetic energy density in a quantum system in the frame of Density Functional Theory and the semiclassical functional expression for the same quantity is investigated. The analysis is performed with Monte Carlo simulations of the Kohn-Sham potentials. We find that the semiclassical form represents the statistical expectation value of the quantum nature. Based on the numerical results, we propose an empirical correction to the existing functional and an associated method to improve the Orbital-Free results.

id: 1412.4110
title: Fluorescence in nonlocal dissipative periodic structures
authors: Francesco Intravaia, Kurt Busch
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4110
abstract: We present an approach for the description of fluorescence from optically active material embedded in layered periodic structures. Based on an exact electromagnetic Green's tensor analysis, we determine the radiative properties of emitters such as the local photonic density of states, Lamb shifts, line widths etc. for a finite or infinite sequence of thin alternating plasmonic and dielectric layers. In the effective medium limit, these systems may exhibit hyperbolic dispersion relations so that the large wave-vector characteristics of all constituents and processes become relevant. These include the finite thickness of the layers, the nonlocal properties of the constituent metals, and local-field corrections associated with an emitter's dielectric environment. In particular, we show that the corresponding effects are non-additive and lead to considerable modifications of an emitter's luminescence properties.

id: 1412.4136
title: Enhancing light-harvesting power with coherent vibrational interactions: a quantum heat engine picture
authors: Nathan Killoran, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4136
abstract: Recent evidence suggests that quantum effects may have functional importance in biological light-harvesting systems. Along with delocalized electronic excitations, it is now suspected that quantum coherent interactions with certain near-resonant vibrations contribute to light-harvesting performance. However, the actual quantum advantage offered by such coherent vibrational interactions has not yet been established. We investigate a quantum design principle, whereby coherent exchange of single energy quanta between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom can enhance a light-harvesting system's power above what is possible by thermal mechanisms alone. We present a prototype quantum heat engine which cleanly illustrates this quantum design principle, and quantify its quantum advantage using thermodynamic measures of performance. We also demonstrate the principle's applicability for realistic biological structures.

id: 1412.4232
title: Superintegrable and shape invariant systems with position dependent mass
authors: A. G. Nikitin
comments: This is an improved and essentially extended version
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4232
abstract: Second order integrals of motion for 3d quantum mechanical systems with position dependent masses (PDM) are classified. Namely, all PDM systems are specified which, in addition to their rotation invariance, admit at least one second order integral of motion. All such systems appear to be also shape invariant and exactly solvable. Moreover, some of them possess the property of double shape invariance and can be solved using two different superpotentials. A simple algorithm for calculation the discrete spectrum and the corresponding state vectors for the considered PDM systems is presented and applied to solve five of the found systems. Among them is a system with a double shape invariance which represents a nice bridge between the Coulomb and isotropic oscillator systems.

id: 1412.4295
title: Quantum Defect Theory description of weakly bound levels and Feshbach resonances in LiRb
authors: Jes¨²s P¨¦rez-R¨ªos, Sourav Dutta, Yong P. Chen, Chris H. Greene
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures and 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4295
abstract: The multichannel quantum defect theory (MQDT) in combination with the frame transformation (FT) approach is applied to model the Fano-Feshbach resonances measured for $^{7}$Li$^{87}$Rb and $^{6}$Li$^{87}$Rb [Marzok {\it et al.} Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79} 012717 (2009)]. The MQDT results show a level of accuracy comparable to that of previous models based on direct, fully numerical solutions of the the coupled channel Schr\"odinger equations (CC). Here, energy levels deduced from 2-photon photoassociation spectra for $^{7}$Li$^{85}$Rb are assigned by applying the MQDT approach, obtaining the bound state energies for the coupled channel problem. Our results confirm that MQDT yields a compact description of photoassociation observables as well as the Fano-Feshbach resonance positions and widths.

id: 1412.4331
title: Strong Coupling Between P1 Diamond Impurity Centres and 3D Lumped Photonic Microwave Cavity
authors: Daniel L. Creedon, Jean-Michel Le Floch, Maxim Goryachev, Warrick G. Farr, Stefania Castelletto, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 140408(R) 2015
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4331
abstract: We report strong coupling between an ensemble of N impurity (P1) centres in diamond and microwave photons using a unique double post re-entrant cavity. The cavity is designed so that the magnetic component of the cavity field is spatially separated from the electric component and focused into the small volume in which the diamond sample is mounted. The novelty of the structure simultaneously allows high magnetic filling factor (38.4\%) and low frequencies necessary to interact, at low magnetic field, with transitions in diamond such as those in NV$^{-}$ and P1 centres. Coupling strength (or normal-mode splitting) of 51.42 MHz, was achieved with P1 centres at 6.18 GHz and 220 mT in a centimetre-scale cavity, with a corresponding cooperativity factor of 4.7. This technique offers an alternative way, with some significant advantages, to couple 3D cavities to transitions in diamond and achieve the strong coupling necessary for applications to quantum information processing.

id: 1412.4335
title: Do New Quantum Statistics Exist in Nature?
authors: T.D. Palev
comments: 12 pages; in: Proceedings of the 32 International Workshop on Nuclear Theory, Rila Mountains, Bulgaria - in press
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4335
abstract: We recall the definitions of a Wigner quantum system (WQS) and of A-, (resp B-, C- and D-) quantum (super)statistics. We outline shortly the relation of these new statistics to the classes A, (resp B, C and D) of Lie (super)algebras. We describe in some more details some of the properties of A-oscillator and A-superoscillator. Both of them fall into the category of finite quantum systems and both of them have quite unusual properties. For example let R and P be the position and the momentum operators of an 3D A-superoscillator along the x (or y or z) axes. Then contrary to the canonical uncertainty relations the product of the standard deviations of R and P of the oscillating particle reads: $$ \Delta R .\Delta P \leq {\hbar/2}. $$ i.e., the inequality above $\le$ is just the opposite to the one that appears in the canonical quantum mechanics.

id: 1412.4377
title: Spatially partitioned many-body vortices
authors: Shachar Klaiman, Ofir E. Alon
comments: 5+eps+3 pages, 3+3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4377
abstract: A vortex in Bose-Einstein condensates is a localized object which looks much like a tiny tornado storm. It is well described by mean-field theory. In the present work we go beyond the current paradigm and introduce many-body vortices. These are made of {\it spatially-partitioned} clouds, carry definite total angular momentum, and are fragmented rather than condensed objects which can only be described beyond mean-field theory. A phase diagram based on a mean-field model assists in predicting the parameters where many-body vortices occur. Implications are briefly discussed.

id: 1412.4403
title: Optical integration of a real-valued function by measurement of a Stokes Parameter
authors: Gabriela Barreto Lemos, Paulo Henrique Souto Ribeiro, Stephen Walborn
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. A, Vol. 31, No.4, pp.704-707 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4403
abstract: We experimentally implement an optical algorithm for integration of a real-valued bivariate func- tion. A user-defined function is encoded in the position-dependent phase of one of the polarization components of an optical beam. The integral of this function is retrieved by measuring a Stokes parameter of the polarization. We analyze the performance of the system as an integration device.

id: 1412.4420
title: General ultracold scattering formalism with isotropic spin orbit coupling
authors: Su-Ju Wang, Chris H. Greene
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4420
abstract: A general treatment of ultracold two-body scattering in the presence of isotropic spin-orbit coupling (SOC) is presented. Owing to the mixing of different partial wave channels, scattering with SOC is in general a coupled multichannel problem. A systematic method is introduced to analytically solve a class of coupled differential equations by recasting the coupled channel problem as a simple eigenvalue problem. The exact Green's matrix in the presence of SOC is found, which readily gives the scattering solutions for any two identical particles in any total angular momentum subspace having negligible center of mass momentum. Application of this formalism to two spin-1 bosons shows the ubiquitous low energy threshold behavior for systems with isotropic SOC. A modified threshold behavior shows up, which does not occur for the spin-orbit coupled spin-1/2 system. We also confirm the parity-breaking mechanism for the spontaneous emergency of handedness, that has been proposed by Duan et. al. [1]. Additionally, a two-body bound state is found for any arbitrarily small and negative scattering length. Our study sheds light on the few-body side of SOC physics and provides one step towards understanding ultracold scattering in a non-Abelian gauge field.

id: 1412.4464
title: Effects of lasing in a one-dimensional quantum metamaterial
authors: Hidehiro Asai, Sergey Savel'ev, Shiro Kawabata, Alexandre Zagoskin
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4464
abstract: Electromagnetic pulse propagation in a quantum metamaterial - artificial, globally quantum coherent optical medium - is numerically simulated. We show that for the quantum metamaterials based on superconducting quantum bits, initialized in an easily reachable factorized state, lasing in microwave range is triggered, accompanied by the chaotization of qubit states and generation of higher harmonics. These effects may provide a tool for characterization and optimization of quantum metamaterial prototypes.

id: 1412.4530
title: Optimized Effective Potential for Quantum Electrodynamical Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory
authors: Camilla Pellegrini, Johannes Flick, Ilya V. Tokatly, Heiko Appel, Angel Rubio
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4530
abstract: We propose a practical approximation to the exchange-correlation functional of (time-dependent) density functional theory for many-electron systems coupled to photons. The (time non-local) optimized effective potential (OEP) equation for the electron- photon system is derived. We test the new approximation in the Rabi model from weak to strong coupling regimes. It is shown that the OEP (i) improves the classical description, (ii) reproduces the quantitative behavior of the exact ground-state properties and (iii) accurately captures the dynamics entering the ultra-strong coupling regime. The present formalism opens the path to a first-principles description of correlated electron-photon systems, bridging the gap between electronic structure methods and quantum optics for real material applications.

id: 1412.4685
title: Decoherence induced by long wavelength gravitons
authors: V. A. De Lorenci, L. H. Ford
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, Section II incorporates much of the content of arXiv:1205.2348
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 044038 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4685
abstract: We discuss how a background bath of gravitons can induce decoherence of quantum systems. The mechanism is dephasing, the loss of phase coherence due to quantum geometry fluctuations caused by the gravitons. This effect is illustrated in a simple analog model of quantum particles in a cavity whose walls undergo position fluctuations, and create the same effect expected from spacetime geometry fluctuations. We obtain an explicit result for the decoherence rate in the limit where the graviton wavelength is large compared to the size of the quantum system, and make some estimates for this rate.

id: 1412.4921
title: Ultracold-atom collisions in atomic waveguides : A two-channel analysis
authors: Tom Kristensen, Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, American Physical Society, 2015, 91 ( Issue 4), pp.042703
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4921
abstract: Low dimensional behavior of two ultra-cold atoms trapped in two-and one-dimensional waveguides is investigated in the vicinity of a magnetic Feshbach resonance. A quantitative two-channel model for the Feshbach mechanism is used allowing an exhaustive analysis of low-dimensional resonant scattering behavior and of the confinement induced bound states. The role of the different parameters of the resonance is depicted in this context. Results are compared with the ones of the zero-range approach. The relevance of the effective range approximation in low dimensions is studied. Examples of known resonances are used to illustrate the bound state properties.

id: 1412.4926
title: Quantum integrability in the multistate Landau-Zener problem
authors: Aniket Patra, Emil A. Yuzbashyan
comments: 17+ pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4926
abstract: We analyze Hamiltonians linear in the time variable for which the multistate Landau-Zener problem is known to have an exact solution. We show that they either belong to families of mutually commuting Hamiltonians polynomial in time or reduce to the 2 x 2 Landau-Zener problem, which is considered trivially integrable. The former category includes the equal slope, bow-tie, and generalized bow-tie models. For each of these models we explicitly construct the corresponding families of commuting matrices. The equal slope model is a member of an integrable family that consists of the maximum possible number (for a given matrix size) of commuting matrices linear in time. The bow-tie model belongs to a previously unknown, similarly maximal family of quadratic commuting matrices. We thus conjecture that quantum integrability understood as the existence of nontrivial parameter-dependent commuting partners is a necessary condition for the Landau-Zener solvability. Descendants of the 2 x 2 Landau-Zener Hamiltonian are e.g. general SU(2) and SU(1,1) Hamiltonians, time-dependent linear chain, linear, nonlinear, and double oscillators. We explicitly obtain solutions to all these Landau-Zener problems from the 2 x 2 case.

id: 1412.4950
title: The Spinless Relativistic Kink-Like Problem
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, Franz F. Sch?berl
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 30 (2015) 1550062
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.4950
abstract: We constrain the possible bound-state solutions of the spinless Salpeter equation (the most obvious semirelativistic generalization of the nonrelativistic Schr\"odinger equation) with an interaction between the bound-state constituents given by the kink-like potential (a central potential of hyperbolic-tangent form) by formulating a bunch of very elementary boundary conditions to be satisfied by all solutions of the eigenvalue problem posed by a bound-state equation of this type, only to learn that all results produced by a procedure very much liked by some quantum-theory practitioners prove to be in severe conflict with our expectations.

id: 1412.5070
title: Calculation of the molecular integrals with the range-separated correlation factor
authors: Micha? Silkowski, Micha? Lesiuk, Robert Moszynski
comments: 
journal: published in J. Chem. Phys. 142, 124102 (2015)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5070
abstract: Explicitly correlated quantum chemical calculations require calculations of five types of molecular integrals beyond the standard electron repulsion integrals. We present a novel scheme, which utilises general ideas of the McMurchie-Davidson technique, to compute these integrals when the so-called \range-separated" correlation factor is used. This correlation factor combines the well-known short range behaviour, resulting from the electronic cusp condition, with the exact long-range asymptotics found for the helium atom [M. Lesiuk, B. Jeziorski, and R. Moszynski, J. Chem. Phys. $\textbf{139}$, 134102 (2013)]. Almost all steps of the presented procedure are formulated recursively, so that an efficient implementation and control of the precision are possible. Additionally, the present formulation is very flexible and general, and it allows for use of an arbitrary correlation factor in the electronic structure calculations with minor or no changes.

id: 1412.5078
title: On the influence of a Rashba-type coupling induced by Lorentz-violating effects on a Landau system for a neutral particle
authors: K. Bakke, H. Belich
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 354, 1 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5078
abstract: We study a possible scenario of the Lorentz symmetry violation background that allows us to build an analogue of the Landau system for a nonrelativistic Dirac neutral particle interacting with a field configuration of crossed electric and magnetic fields. We also discuss the arising of analogues of the Rashba coupling, the Zeeman term and the Darwin term from the Lorentz symmetry breaking effects, and the influence of these terms on the analogue of the Landau system confined to a two-dimensional quantum ring. Finally, we show that this analogy with the Landau system confined to a two-dimensional quantum ring allows us to establish an upper bound for the Lorentz symmetry breaking parameters.

id: 1412.5080
title: Relativistic geometric quantum phases from the Lorentz symmetry violation effects in the CPT-even gauge sector of Standard Model Extension
authors: K. Bakke, H. Belich
comments: 16 pages, no figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1304.4833
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5080
abstract: We discuss the appearance of relativistic geometric quantum phases for a Dirac neutral particle based on possible scenarios of the Lorentz symmetry violation background in the CPT-even gauge sector of Standard Model Extension. Relativistic analogues of the Anandan quantum phase [J. Anandan, Phys. Lett. A 138, 347 (1989)] are obtained based on the the parity-even and parity-odd sectors of the tensor $\left(K_{F}\right)_{\mu\nu\alpha\beta}$.

id: 1412.5092
title: Rigged Hilbert spaces and inductive limits
authors: S.A. Pol'shin
comments: 3 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5092
abstract: We construct a nuclear space $\Phi$ as an inductive limit of finite-dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space $H$ in such a way that $(\Phi,H,\Phi')$ becomes a rigged Hilbert space, thus simplifying the construction by Bellomonte and Trapani.

id: 1412.5118
title: A uniformly moving polarizable particle in a thermal radiation field with arbitrary spin direction
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V. Dedkov
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Astrophysics of Galaxies (astro-ph.GA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5118
abstract: We have generalized our recent results (Arm. J. Phys., 2014) relating to the dynamics, heating and radiation of a small rotating polarizable particle moving in a thermal radiation field in the case of arbitrary spin orientation. General expressions for the tangential force, heating rate and intensity of thermal and nonthermal radiation are given. It is shown that the intensity of nonthermal radiation does not depend on the linear velocity and spin direction of the particle.

id: 1412.5119
title: Measurement of Ion Motional Heating Rates over a Range of Trap Frequencies and Temperatures
authors: C.D. Bruzewicz, J.M. Sage, J. Chiaverini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5119
abstract: We present measurements of the motional heating rate of a trapped ion at different trap frequencies and temperatures between $\sim$0.6 and 1.5 MHz and $\sim$4 and 295 K. Additionally, we examine the possible effect of adsorbed surface contaminants with boiling points below $\sim$105$^{\circ}$C by measuring the ion heating rate before and after locally baking our ion trap chip under ultrahigh vacuum conditions. We compare the heating rates presented here to those calculated from available electric-field noise models. We can tightly constrain a subset of these models based on their expected frequency and temperature scaling interdependence. Discrepancies between the measured results and predicted values point to the need for refinement of theoretical noise models in order to more fully understand the mechanisms behind motional trapped-ion heating.

id: 1412.5276
title: Two-dimensional macroscopic quantum tunneling in multi-gap superconductor Josephson junctions
authors: Hidehiro Asai, Shiro Kawabata, Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 568 022006 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5276
abstract: Low-temperature characters of superconducting devices yield definite probes for different superconducting phenomena. We study the macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in a Josephson junction, composed of a single-gap superconductor and a two-gap superconductor. Since this junction has two kinds to the superconducting phase differences, calculating the MQT escape rate requires the analysis of quantum tunneling in a multi-dimensional configuration space. Our approach is the semi-classical approximation along a 1D curve in a 2D potential- energy landscape, connecting two adjacent potential (local) minimums through a saddle point. We find that this system has two plausible tunneling paths; an in-phase path and an out-of-phase path. The former is characterized by the Josephson-plasma frequency, whereas the latter is by the frequency of the characteristic collective mode in a two-band superconductor, Josephson- Leggett mode. Depending on external bias current and inter-band Josephson-coupling energy, one of them mainly contributes to the MQT. Our numerical calculations show that the difference between the in-phase path and the out-of-phase path is manifest, with respect to the bias- current-dependence of the MQT escape rate. This result suggests that our MQT setting be an indicator of the Josephson-Leggett mode.

id: 1412.5518
title: Single-photon cavity optomechanics mediated by a quantum two-level system
authors: J.-M. Pirkkalainen, S. U. Cho, F. Massel, J. Tuorila, T. T. Heikkila, P. J. Hakonen, M. A. Sillanpaa
comments: 5 pages + supplementary
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5518
abstract: Coupling electromagnetic waves in a cavity and mechanical vibrations via the radiation pressure of the photons [1,2] is a promising platform for investigations of quantum mechanical properties of motion of macroscopic bodies and thereby the limits of quantum mechanics [3,4]. A drawback is that the effect of one photon tends to be tiny, and hence one of the pressing challenges is to substantially increase the interaction strength towards the scale of the cavity damping rate. A novel scenario is to introduce into the setup a quantum two-level system (qubit), which, besides strengthening the coupling, allows for rich physics via strongly enhanced nonlinearities [5-8]. Addressing these issues, here we present a design of cavity optomechanics in the microwave frequency regime involving a Josephson junction qubit. We demonstrate boosting of the radiation pressure interaction energy by six orders of magnitude, allowing to approach the strong coupling regime, where a single quantum of vibrations shifts the cavity frequency by more than its linewidth. We observe nonlinear phenomena at single-photon energies, such as an enhanced damping due to the two-level system. This work opens up nonlinear cavity optomechanics as a plausible tool for the study of quantum properties of motion.

id: 1412.5536
title: Microscopic models for charge-noise-induced dephasing of solid-state qubits
authors: F¨¦lix Beaudoin, W. A. Coish
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 165432 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5536
abstract: Several experiments have shown qubit coherence decay of the form $\mathrm{exp}[-(t/T_2)^\alpha]$ due to environmental charge-noise fluctuations. We present a microscopic description for temperature dependences of the parameters $T_2$ and $\alpha$. Our description is appropriate to qubits in semiconductors interacting with spurious two-level charge fluctuators coupled to a thermal bath. We find distinct power-law dependences of $T_2$ and $\alpha$ on temperature depending on the nature of the interaction of the fluctuators with the associated bath. We consider fluctuator dynamics induced by first- and second-order tunneling with a continuum of delocalized electron states. We also study one- and two-phonon processes for fluctuators in either GaAs or Si. These results can be used to identify dominant charge-dephasing mechanisms and suppress them.

id: 1412.5568
title: Vibration-assisted coherent excitation energy transfer in a detuning system
authors: Xin Wang, Hao Chen, Hong-rong Li
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5568
abstract: The roles of the vibration motions played in the excitation energy transfer process are studied. It is found that a strong coherent transfer in the hybrid system emerges when the detuning between the donor and the acceptor equals the intrinsic frequency of the vibrational mode, and as a result the energy can be transferred into the acceptor much effectively. Three cases of the donor and the acceptor coupling with vibrational modes are investigated respectively. We find that the quantum interference between the two different transfer channels via the vibrational modes can affects the dynamics of the system significantly.

id: 1412.5576
title: Ball-grid array architecture for microfabricated ion traps
authors: Nicholas D. Guise, Spencer D. Fallek, Kelly E. Stevens, K. R. Brown, Curtis Volin, Alexa W. Harter, Jason M. Amini, Robert E. Higashi, Son Thai Lu, Helen M. Chanhvongsak, Thi A. Nguyen, Matthew S. Marcus, Thomas R. Ohnstein, Daniel W. Youngner
comments: 
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 117, 174901 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5576
abstract: State-of-the-art microfabricated ion traps for quantum information research are approaching nearly one hundred control electrodes. We report here on the development and testing of a new architecture for microfabricated ion traps, built around ball-grid array (BGA) connections, that is suitable for increasingly complex trap designs. In the BGA trap, through-substrate vias bring electrical signals from the back side of the trap die to the surface trap structure on the top side. Gold-ball bump bonds connect the back side of the trap die to an interposer for signal routing from the carrier. Trench capacitors fabricated into the trap die replace area-intensive surface or edge capacitors. Wirebonds in the BGA architecture are moved to the interposer. These last two features allow the trap die to be reduced to only the area required to produce trapping fields. The smaller trap dimensions allow tight focusing of an addressing laser beam for fast single-qubit rotations. Performance of the BGA trap as characterized with $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions is comparable to previous surface-electrode traps in terms of ion heating rate, mode frequency stability, and storage lifetime. We demonstrate two-qubit entanglement operations with $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ions in a second BGA trap.

id: 1412.5603
title: Optimal Control of Majorana Zero Modes
authors: Torsten Karzig, Armin Rahmani, Felix von Oppen, Gil Refael
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 4 pages of supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 201404 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5603
abstract: Braiding of Majorana zero modes provides a promising platform for quantum information processing, which is topologically protected against errors. Strictly speaking, however, the scheme relies on infinite braiding times as it utilizes the adiabatic limit. Here we show how to minimize nonadiabatic errors for finite braiding times by finding an optimal protocol for the Majorana movement. Interestingly, these protocols are characterized by sharp transitions between Majorana motion at maximal and minimal velocities. We find that these so-called bang-bang protocols can minimize the nonadiabatic transitions of the system by orders of magnitude in comparison with naive protocols.

id: 1412.5829
title: Tensor product methods and entanglement optimization for ab initio quantum chemistry
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay, Max Pfeffer, Valentin Murg, Gergely Barcza, Frank Verstraete, Reinhold Schneider, ?rs Legeza
comments: Tutorial-review paper, 107 pages, 44 figures, 277 references. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5829
abstract: The treatment of high-dimensional problems such as the Schr\"odinger equation can be approached by concepts of tensor product approximation. We present general techniques that can be used for the treatment of high-dimensional optimization tasks and time-dependent equations, and connect them to concepts already used in many-body quantum physics. Based on achievements from the past decade, entanglement-based methods, -- developed from different perspectives for different purposes in distinct communities already matured to provide a variety of tools -- can be combined to attack highly challenging problems in quantum chemistry. The aim of the present paper is to give a pedagogical introduction to the theoretical background of this novel field and demonstrate the underlying benefits through numerical applications on a text book example. Among the various optimization tasks we will discuss only those which are connected to a controlled manipulation of the entanglement which is in fact the key ingredient of the methods considered in the paper. The selected topics will be covered according to a series of lectures given on the topic "New wavefunction methods and entanglement optimizations in quantum chemistry" at the Workshop on Theoretical Chemistry, 18 - 21 February 2014, Mariapfarr, Austria.

id: 1412.5874
title: Ladder operators for solvable potentials connected with exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 14 pages, no figure, communication at the XXXth International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics, 14-18 July, 2014, Ghent, Belgium, published version
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 597 (2015) 012064
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5874
abstract: Exceptional orthogonal polynomials constitute the main part of the bound-state wavefunctions of some solvable quantum potentials, which are rational extensions of well-known shape-invariant ones. The former potentials are most easily built from the latter by using higher-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSYQM) or Darboux method. They may in general belong to three different types (or a mixture of them): types I and II, which are strictly isospectral, and type III, for which k extra bound states are created below the starting potential spectrum. A well-known SUSYQM method enables one to construct ladder operators for the extended potentials by combining the supercharges with the ladder operators of the starting potential. The resulting ladder operators close a polynomial Heisenberg algebra (PHA) with the corresponding Hamiltonian. In the special case of type III extended potentials, for this PHA the k extra bound states form k singlets isolated from the higher excited states. Some alternative constructions of ladder operators are reviewed. Among them, there is one that combines the state-adding and state-deleting approaches to type III extended potentials (or so-called Darboux-Crum and Krein-Adler transformations) and mixes the k extra bound states with the higher excited states. This novel approach can be used for building integrals of motion for two-dimensional superintegrable systems constructed from rationally-extended potentials.

id: 1412.5880
title: Geometric phase in St¨¹ckelberg interferometry
authors: Lih-King Lim, Jean-No?l Fuchs, Gilles Montambaux
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042119 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5880
abstract: We study the time evolution of a two-dimensional quantum particle exhibiting an energy spectrum, made of two bands, with two Dirac cones, as e.g. in the band structure of a honeycomb lattice. A force is applied such that the particle experiences two Landau-Zener transitions in succession. The adiabatic evolution between the two transitions leads to St\"uckelberg interferences, due to two possible trajectories in energy space. In addition to well-known dynamical and Stokes phases, the interference pattern reveals a geometric phase which depends on the chirality (winding number) and the mass sign associated to each Dirac cone, as well as on the type of trajectory (parallel or diagonal with respect to the two cones) in parameter space. This geometric phase reveals the coupling between the bands encoded in the structure of the wavefunctions.

id: 1412.5882
title: Study of decoherence in models for hard-core bosons coupled to optical phonons
authors: A. Dey, M. Q. Lone, S. Yarlagadda
comments: 22 pages; 1 page popular summary in appendix B
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5882
abstract: Understanding coherent dynamics of excitons, spins, or hard-core bosons (HCBs) has tremendous scientific and technological implications for light harvesting and quantum computation. Here, we study decay of excited-state population and decoherence in two models for HCBs, namely: an infinite-range HCB model governed by Markovian dynamics and a two-site HCB model with site-dependent strong potentials and subject to non-Markovian dynamics. Both models are investigated in the regimes of antiadiabaticity and strong HCB-phonon coupling with each site providing a different local optical phonon environment; furthermore, the HCB systems in both models are taken to be initially uncorrelated with the environment in the polaronic frame of reference. For the infinite-range model, we derive an effective many-body Hamiltonian that commutes with the long-range system Hamiltonian and thus has the same set of eigenstates; consequently, a quantum-master-equation approach shows that the quantum states of the system do not decohere. In the case of the two-site HCB model, we show clearly that the degree of decoherence and decay of excited state are enhanced by the proximity of the site-energy difference to the eigenenergy of phonons and are most pronounced when the site-energy difference is at resonance with twice the polaronic energy; additionally, the decoherence and the decay effects are reduced when the strength of HCB-phonon coupling is increased. Even for a multimode situation, the degree of decoherence and decay are again dictated by the nearness of the energy difference to the allowed phonon mode eigenenergies.

id: 1412.5891
title: Quantum nonequilibrium equalities with absolute irreversibility
authors: Ken Funo, Y?to Murashita, Masahito Ueda
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5891
abstract: We derive quantum nonequilibrium equalities in absolutely irreversible processes. Here by absolute irreversibility we mean that in the backward process the density matrix does not return to the subspace spanned by those eigenvectors that have nonzero weight in the initial density matrix. Since the initial state of a memory and the postmeasurement state of the system are usually restricted to a subspace, absolute irreversibility occurs during the measurement and feedback processes. An additional entropy produced in absolute irreversible processes needs to be taken into account to derive nonequilibrium equalities. We discuss a model of a feedback control on a qubit system to illustrate the obtained equalities. By introducing $N$ heat baths each composed of a qubit and letting them interact with the system, we show how the entropy reduction via feedback control can be converted into work. An explicit form of extractable work in the presence of absolute irreversibility is given.

id: 1412.5929
title: Superfluidity and Chaos in low dimensional circuits
authors: Geva Arwas, Amichay Vardi, Doron Cohen
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5929
abstract: We show that the standard Landau and Bogoliubov superfluidity criteria fail in low-dimensional circuits. Proper determination of the superfluidity regime-diagram must account for the crucial role of chaos, an ingredient missing from the conventional stability analysis. Accordingly, we find novel types of superfluidity, associated with irregular or chaotic or breathing vortex states.

id: 1412.5985
title: Topological degeneracy (Majorana zero-mode) and 1+1D fermionic topological order in a magnetic chain on superconductor via spontaneous Z2 symmetry breaking
authors: Joel Klassen, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5985
abstract: We study a chain of ferromagnetic nano-particles or ferromagnetic molecule/atoms on a substrate of fully gapped superconductors. We find that under quite realistic conditions, the fermion-number-parity symmetry $Z_2^f$ can spontaneously break. In other words, such a chain can realize a 1+1D fermionic topologically ordered state and the corresponding two-fold topological degeneracy on an open chain. Such a topological degeneracy becomes the so called Majorana zero mode in the non-interacting limit. More specifically, we find that $Z_2^f$ symmetry breaking or fermionic 1+1D topological order can appear if (1) the electron hopping $t_{ij}$ between nano-particles is larger than the energy splitting $\delta E_{eo}$ between the ground states of even and odd electrons on a nano-particle, (2) the Josephson coupling $J_i$ between the superconducting substrate and the nano-particle is larger than or similar to $\delta E_{eo}$, and (3) the electron hopping amplitude $t_{ij}$ is complex, or more precisely, the phase of gauge invariant combination $J_i t_{ij}^2 J_j^*$ is not zero.

id: 1412.6002
title: Collapse and Revival in Holographic Quenches
authors: Emilia da Silva, Esperanza Lopez, Javier Mas, Alexandre Serantes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6002
abstract: We study holographic models related to global quantum quenches in finite size systems. The holographic set up describes naturally a CFT, which we consider on a circle and a sphere. The enhanced symmetry of the conformal group on the circle motivates us to compare the evolution in both cases. Depending on the initial conditions, the dual geometry exhibits oscillations that we holographically interpret as revivals of the initial field theory state. On the sphere, this only happens when the energy density created by the quench is small compared to the system size. However on the circle considerably larger energy densities are compatible with revivals. Two different timescales emerge in this latter case. A collapse time, when the system appears to have dephased, and the revival time, when after rephasing the initial state is partially recovered. The ratio of these two times depends upon the initial conditions in a similar way to what is observed in some experimental setups exhibiting collapse and revivals.

id: 1412.6044
title: Probing emitter-cavity dressed states through environmental transitions
authors: Jake Iles-Smith, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. v2 - minor edits
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6044
abstract: We show that emitter-cavity dressed states may be probed through interactions with a thermal environment in solid-state cavity QED systems. This is true even in regimes that can be described semiclassically in the absence of such an environment, for example when the emitter-cavity coupling strength is dominated by cavity losses. For this experimentally relevant case, we demonstrate that bath-induced dressed state transitions lead to asymmetries in the cavity emission properties, which are absent otherwise. We attribute this behaviour to the quantum nature of the environment and its resulting sensitivity to the joint eigenstructure of the cavity and emitter. This heralds a failure of the semiclassical approach, and challenges the notion that coupling to a thermal bath supports a more classical description of the system. Bath-induced asymmetries also persist over wider regions of parameter space, including the Fano and quantum strong coupling regimes.

id: 1412.6050
title: Stimulated photon emission from the vacuum
authors: Felix Karbstein, Rashid Shaisultanov
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6050
abstract: We study the effect of stimulated photon emission from the vacuum subjected to strong space-time dependent electromagnetic fields as generated in the focal spot of two counter-propagating, linearly polarized high-intensity laser pulses. The superposition of the two counter-propagating electromagnetic waves results in a standing electromagnetic wave which - in contrast to a single plane wave - is characterized by at least one nonzero electromagnetic field invariant. Focusing on a comparably simple electromagnetic field profile, which should nevertheless capture the essential features of the electromagnetic fields generated in the focal spots of real high-intensity laser beams, we provide estimates for the numbers of emitted photons attainable with present and near future high-intensity laser facilities.

id: 1412.6059
title: Chains with loops - synthetic magnetic fluxes and topological order in one-dimensional spin systems
authors: Tobias Grass, Christine Muschik, Alessio Celi, Ravindra Chhajlany, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6059
abstract: Engineering topological quantum order has become a major field of physics. Many advances have been made by synthesizing gauge fields in cold atomic systems. Here, we carry over these developments to other platforms which are extremely well suited for quantum engineering, namely trapped ions and nano-trapped atoms. Since these systems are typically one-dimensional, the action of artificial magnetic fields has so far received little attention. However, exploiting the long-range nature of interactions, loops with non-vanishing magnetic fluxes become possible even in one-dimensional settings. This gives rise to intriguing phenomena, such as fractal energy spectra, flat bands with localized edge states, and topological many-body states. We elaborate on a simple scheme for generating the required artificial fluxes by periodically driving an XY spin chain. Concrete estimates demonstrating the experimental feasibility for trapped ions and atoms in waveguides are given.

id: 1412.6089
title: Spectra of magnetic chain graphs: coupling constant perturbations
authors: Pavel Exner, Stepan S. Manko
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6089
abstract: We analyze spectral properties of a quantum graph in the form of a ring chain with a $\delta$ coupling in the vertices exposed to a homogeneous magnetic field perpendicular to the graph plane. We find the band spectrum in the case when the chain exhibits a translational symmetry and study the discrete spectrum in the gaps resulting from changing a finite number of vertex coupling constants. In particular, we discuss in details some examples such as perturbations of one or two vertices, weak perturbation asymptotics, and a pair of distant perturbations.

id: 1412.6116
title: Measuring work and heat in ultracold quantum gases
authors: G. De Chiara, A. J. Roncaglia, J. P. Paz
comments: Published version in the Focus Issue on "Quantum Thermodynamics"
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 035004 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6116
abstract: We propose a feasible experimental scheme to direct measure heat and work in cold atomic setups. The method is based on a recent proposal which shows that work is a positive operator valued measure (POVM). In the present contribution, we demonstrate that the interaction between the atoms and the light polarisation of a probe laser allows us to implement such POVM. In this way the work done on or extracted from the atoms after a given process is encoded in the light quadrature that can be measured with a standard homodyne detection. The protocol allows one to verify fluctuation theorems and study properties of the non-unitary dynamics of a given thermodynamic process.

id: 1412.6146
title: Phonon-tuned bright single-photon source
authors: Simone Luca Portalupi, Gaston Hornecker, Val¨¦rian Giesz, Thomas Grange, Aristide Lema?tre, Justin Demory, Isabelle Sagnes, Norberto D. Lanzillotti-Kimura, Lo?c Lanco, Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Pascale Senellart
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + supplementary
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6146
abstract: Pure and bright single photon sources have recently been obtained by inserting solid-state emitters in photonic nanowires or microcavities. The cavity approach presents the attractive possibility to greatly increase the source operation frequency. However, it is perceived as technologically demanding because the emitter resonance must match the cavity resonance. Here we show that the spectral matching requirement is actually strongly lifted by the intrinsic coupling of the emitter to its environment. A single photon source consisting of a single InGaAs quantum dot inserted in a micropillar cavity is studied. Phonon coupling results in a large Purcell effect even when the quantum dot is detuned from the cavity resonance. The phonon-assisted cavity enhanced emission is shown to be a good single-photon source, with a brightness exceeding $40$ \% for a detuning range covering 15 cavity linewidths.

id: 1412.6186
title: A route to non-Abelian quantum turbulence in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Thomas Mawson, Gary Ruben, Tapio Simula
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6186
abstract: We have studied computationally the collision dynamics of spin-2 Bose--Einstein condensates initially confined in a triple-well trap. Depending on the intra- and inter-component relative phases of the initial state spinor wave function, the collision of the three condensate segments produces one of many possible vortex-antivortex lattices after which the system transitions to quantum turbulence. We find that the emerging vortex lattice structures can be described in terms of multi-wave interference. We show that the three-segment collisions can be used to systematically produce staggered vortex-antivortex honeycomb lattices of fractional-charge vortices, whose collision dynamics are known to be non-Abelian. Such condensate collider experiments could potentially be used as a controllable pathway to generating non-Abelian superfluid turbulence with networks of vortex rungs.

id: 1412.6229
title: Quantum vacuum photon-modes and superhydrophobicity
authors: Louis Dellieu, Olivier Deparis, Jerome Muller, Michael Sarrazin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final version published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 024501 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6229
abstract: Nanostructures are commonly used for developing superhydrophobic surfaces. However, available wetting theoretical models ignore the effect of vacuum photon-modes alteration on van der Waals forces and thus on hydrophobicity. Using first-principle calculations, we show that superhydrophibicity of nanostructured surfaces is dramatically enhanced by vacuum photon-modes tuning. As a case study, wetting contact angles of a water droplet above a polyethylene nanostructured surface are obtained from the interaction potential energy calculated as function of the droplet-surface separation distance. This new approach could pave the way for the design of novel superhydrophobic coatings.

id: 1412.6320
title: Erratum: Glassy Chimeras Could Be Blind to Quantum Speedup. . . [Phys. Rev. X 4, 021008 (2014)]
authors: Martin Weigel, Helmut G. Katzgraber, Jonathan Machta, Firas Hamze, Ruben S. Andrist
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. X 5, 019901 (2015)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6320
abstract: Erratum to Phys. Rev. X 4, 021008 (2014): The critical exponent associated with the ferromagnetic susceptibility was computed incorrectly. Furthermore, Ising ferromagnets on the Chimera topology have the same universality class as two-dimensional Ising ferromagnets.

id: 1412.6332
title: Accelerating ab initio path integral molecular dynamics with multilevel sampling of potential surface
authors: Hua Y. Geng
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Computational Physics 283, 299 (2015)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6332
abstract: A multilevel approach to sample the potential energy surface in a path integral formalism is proposed. The purpose is to reduce the required number of ab initio evaluations of energy and forces in ab initio path integral molecular dynamics (AI-PIMD) simulation, without compromising the overall accuracy. To validate the method, the internal energy and free energy of an Einstein crystal are calculated and compared with the analytical solutions. As a preliminary application, we assess the performance of the method in a realistic model, the FCC phase of dense atomic hydrogen, in which the calculated result shows that the acceleration rate is about 3 to 4 fold for a two-level implementation, and can be increased to 10 times if extrapolation is used. With only 16 beads used for the ab initio potential sampling, this method gives a well converged internal energy. The residual error in pressure is just about 3 GPa, whereas it is about 20 GPa for a plain AI-PIMD calculation with the same number of beads. The vibrational free energy of the FCC phase of dense hydrogen at 300 K is also calculated with an AI-PIMD thermodynamic integration method, which gives a result of about 0.51 eV/proton at a density of $r_{s}=0.912$.

id: 1412.6442
title: Work and heat for two-level systems in dissipative environments: Strong driving and non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Rebecca Schmidt, M. Florencia Carusela, Jukka P. Pekola, Samu Suomela, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, this version: added one new author, changed figures 2 and 4, minor changes in the text
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6442
abstract: Work, moments of work and heat flux are studied for the generic case of a strongly driven twolevel system immersed in a bosonic heat bath in domains of parameter space where perturbative treatments fail. This includes particularly the interplay between non-Markovian dynamics and moderate to strong external driving. Exact data are compared with predictions from weak coupling approaches. Further, the role of system-bath correlations in the initial thermal state and their impact on the heat flux are addressed. The relevance of these results for current experimental activities on solid state devices is discussed.

id: 1412.6467
title: Generalized Uncertainty Principle Corrections to the Simple Harmonic Oscillator in Phase Space
authors: Saurya Das, Matthew P. G. Robbins, Mark A. Walton
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6467
abstract: We compute Wigner functions for the harmonic oscillator including corrections from generalized uncertainty principles (GUPs), and study the corresponding marginal probability densities and other properties. We show that the GUP corrections to the Wigner functions can be significant, and comment on their potential measurability in the laboratory.

id: 1412.6529
title: Particle partition entanglement of bosonic Luttinger liquids
authors: C. M. Herdman, A. Del Maestro
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; updated figure 5, added references, revised text, reformatted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 184507 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6529
abstract: We consider the R\'{e}nyi entanglement entropy of bosonic Luttinger liquids under a particle bipartition and demonstrate that the leading order finite-size scaling is logarithmic in the system size with a prefactor equal to the inverse Luttinger parameter. While higher order corrections involve a microscopic length scale, the leading order scaling depends only on this sole dimensionless parameter which characterizes the low energy quantum hydrodynamics. This result contrasts the leading entanglement entropy scaling under a spatial bipartition, for which the coefficient is universal and independent of the Luttinger parameter. Using quantum Monte Carlo calculations, we explicitly confirm the scaling predictions of Luttinger liquid theory for the Lieb-Liniger model of $\delta$-function interacting bosons in the one dimensional spatial continuum.

id: 1412.6573
title: Unusual behavior of sound velocity of a Bose gas in an optical superlattice at quasi-one-dimension
authors: Lei Chen, Zhu Chen, Wu Li, Zhidong Zhang, Zhaoxin Liang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 68, 375 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6573
abstract: A Bose gas trapped in a one-dimensional optical superlattice has emerged as a novel superfluid characterized by tunable lattice topologies and tailored band structures. In this work, we focus on the propagation of sound in such a novel system and have found new features on sound velocity, which arises from the interplay between the two lattices with different periodicity and is not present in the case of a condensate in a monochromatic optical lattice. Particularly, this is the first time that the sound velocity is found to first increase and then decrease as the superlattice strength increases even at one dimension. Such unusual behavior can be analytically understood in terms of the competition between the decreasing compressibility and the increasing effective mass due to the increasing superlattice strength. This result suggests a new route to engineer the sound velocity by manipulating the superlattice's parameters. All the calculations based on the mean-field theory are justified by checking the exponent $\gamma$ of the off-diagonal one-body density matrix that is much smaller than 1. Finally, the conditions for possible experimental realization of our scenario are also discussed.

id: 1412.6600
title: Generation of Ensembles of Individually Resolvable Nitrogen Vacancies Using Nanometer-Scale Apertures in Ultrahigh-Aspect Ratio Planar Implantation Masks
authors: Igal Bayn, Edward H. Chen, Matthew E. Trusheim, Luozhou Li, Tim Schr?der, Ophir Gaathon, Ming Lu, Aaron Stein, Mingzhao Liu, Kim Kisslinger, Hannah Clevenson, Dirk Englund
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6600
abstract: A central challenge in developing magnetically coupled quantum registers in diamond is the fabrication of nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers with localization below ~20 nm to enable fast dipolar interaction compared to the NV decoherence rate. Here, we demonstrate the targeted, high throughput formation of NV centers using masks with a thickness of 270 nm and feature sizes down to ~1 nm. Super-resolution imaging resolves NVs with a full-width maximum distribution of $26\pm7$ nm and a distribution of NV-NV separations of $16\pm5$ nm.

id: 1412.6738
title: Floquet resonant states and validity of the Floquet-Magnus expansion in the periodically driven Friedrichs models
authors: Takashi Mori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 020101 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6738
abstract: The Floquet eigenvalue problem is analyzed for periodically driven Friedrichs models on discrete and continuous space. In the high-frequency regime, there exists a Floquet bound state consistent with the Floquet-Magnus expansion in the discrete Friedrichs model, while it is not the case in the continuous model. In the latter case, however, the bound state predicted by the Floquet-Magnus expansion appears as a metastable state whose lifetime diverges in the limit of large frequencies. We obtain the lifetime by evaluating the imaginary part of the quasi-energy of the Floquet resonant state. In the low-frequency regime, there is no Floquet bound state and instead the Floquet resonant state with exponentially small imaginary part of the quasi-energy appears, which is understood as the quantum tunneling in the energy space.

id: 1412.6754
title: Inhomogeneous broadening of optical transitions of 87Rb atoms in an optical nanofiber trap
authors: J. Lee, J. A. Grover, J. E. Hoffman, L. A. Orozco, S. L. Rolston
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6754
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optical trapping of 87Rb atoms using a two-color evanescent field around an optical nanofiber. In our trapping geometry, a blue-detuned traveling wave whose polarization is nearly parallel to the polarization of a red-detuned standing wave produce significant vector light shifts that lead to broadening of the absorption profile of a near-resonant beam at the trapping site. A model that includes scalar, vector, and tensor light shifts of the probe transition $5S_{1/2}$-$5P_{3/2}$ from the trapping beams; weighted by the temperature-dependent position of the atoms in the trap qualitatively describe the observed asymmetric profile, and explained differences with previous experiments that used Cs atoms. The model provides a consistent way to extract the number of atoms in the trap.

id: 1412.6761
title: Classical and quantum counter automata on promise problems
authors: Masaki Nakanishi, Abuzer Yakary?lmaz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6761
abstract: In this paper, we show that one-way quantum one-counter automaton with zero-error is more powerful than its probabilistic counterpart on promise problems. Then, we obtain a similar separation result between Las Vegas one-way probabilistic one-counter automaton and one-way deterministic one-counter automaton. Lastly, it was conjectured that one-way probabilistic one blind-counter automata cannot recognize Kleene closure of equality language [A. Yakaryilmaz: Superiority of one-way and realtime quantum machines. RAIRO - Theor. Inf. and Applic. 46(4): 615-641 (2012)]. We show that this conjecture is false.

id: 1412.6893
title: The Hawking Radiation as Gravitational Fowler-Nordheim Emission in Uniformly Accelerated Frame, in The Non-Relativistic Scenario
authors: Sanchari De, Sutapa Ghosh, Somenath Chakrabarty
comments: Title has been changed, the result is re-analyzed, the conclusion part is changed accordimgly. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1412.2215
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6893
abstract: In the conventional scenario, the Hawking radiation is believed to be a tunneling process at the event horizon of the black hole. In the quantum field theoretic approach the Schwinger's mechanism is generally used to give an explanation of this tunneling process. It is the decay of quantum vacuum into particle anti-particle pairs near the black hole surface. However, in a reference frame undergoing an uniform accelerated motion in an otherwise flat Minkowski space-time geometry, in the non-relativistic approximation, the particle production near the event horizon of a black hole may be treated as a kind of Fowler-Nordheim field emission, which is the typical electron emission process from a metal surface under the action of an external electrostatic field. This type of emission from metal surface is allowed even at extremely low temperature. It has been noticed that in one-dimensional scenario, the Schr$\ddot{\rm{o}}$dinger equation satisfied by the created particle (anti-particle) near the event horizon, can be reduced to a differential form which is exactly identical with that obeyed by an electron immediately after the emission from the metal surface under the action of a strong electrostatic field. The mechanism of particle production near the event horizon of a black hole is therefore identified with Schwinger process in relativistic quantum field theory, whereas in the non-relativistic scenario it may be interpreted as Fowler-Nordheim emission process, when observed from an uniformly accelerated frame.

id: 1412.6974
title: Local and Quasilocal Conserved Quantities in Integrable Systems
authors: Marcin Mierzejewski, Peter Prelovsek, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 7 pages in RevTex with 5 eps figures, version as accepted in Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 140601 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6974
abstract: We outline a procedure for counting and identifying a complete set of local and quasilocal conserved operators in integrable lattice systems. The method yields a systematic generation of all independent, conserved quasilocal operators related to time-average of local operators with a support on up to M consecutive sites. As an example we study the anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain and show that the number of independent conserved operators grows linearly with M. Besides the known local operators there exist novel quasilocal conserved quantities in all the parity sectors. The existence of quasilocal conserved operators is shown also for the isotropic Heisenberg model. Implications for the anomalous relaxation of quenched systems are discussed as well.

id: 1412.6991
title: Functional Integral approach to time-dependent heat exchange in open quantum systems: general method and applications
authors: M. Carrega, P. Solinas, A. Braggio, M. Sassetti, U. Weiss
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 045030
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6991
abstract: We establish the path integral approach for the time-dependent heat exchange of an externally driven quantum system coupled to a thermal reservoir. We derive the relevant influence functional and present an exact formal expression for the moment generating functional which carries all statistical properties of the heat exchange process for general linear dissipation. The general method is applied to the time-dependent average heat transfer in the dissipative two-state system. We show that the heat can be written as a convolution integral which involves the population and coherence correlation functions of the two-state system and additional correlations due to a polarization of the reservoir. The corresponding expression can be solved in the weak-damping limit both for white noise and for quantum mechanical coloured noise. The implications of pure quantum effects are discussed. Altogether a complete description of the dynamics of the average heat transfer ranging from the classical regime down to zero temperature is achieved.

id: 1412.7029
title: On the von Neumann entropy of a bath linearly coupled to a driven quantum system
authors: Erik Aurell, Ralf Eichhorn
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7029
abstract: The change of the von Neumann entropy of a set of harmonic oscillators initially in thermal equilibrium and interacting linearly with an externally driven quantum system is computed by adapting the Feynman-Vernon influence functional formalism. This quantum entropy production has the form of the expectation value of three functionals of the forward and backward paths describing the system history in the Feynman-Vernon theory. In the classical limit of Kramers-Langevin dynamics (Caldeira-Leggett model) these functionals combine to three terms, where the first is the entropy production functional of stochastic thermodynamics, the classical work done by the system on the environment in units of $k_BT$, the second another functional with no analogue in stochastic thermodynamics, and the third is a boundary term.

id: 1412.7052
title: Existence, Uniqueness, and Construction of the Density-Potential Mapping in Time-Dependent Density-Functional Theory
authors: Michael Ruggenthaler, Markus Penz, Robert van Leeuwen
comments: Topical review, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27, 203202 (2015)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7052
abstract: In this work we review the mapping from densities to potentials in quantum mechanics, which is the basic building block of time-dependent density-functional theory and the Kohn-Sham construction. We first present detailed conditions such that a mapping from potentials to densities is defined by solving the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. We specifically discuss intricacies connected with the unboundedness of the Hamiltonian and derive the local-force equation. This equation is then used to set up an iterative sequence that determines a potential that generates a specified density via time propagation of an initial state. This fixed-point procedure needs the invertibility of a certain Sturm-Liouville problem, which we discuss for different situations. Based on these considerations we then present a discussion of the famous Runge-Gross theorem which provides a density-potential mapping for time-analytic potentials. Further we give conditions such that the general fixed-point approach is well-defined and converges under certain assumptions. Then the application of such a fixed-point procedure to lattice Hamiltonians is discussed and the numerical realization of the density-potential mapping is shown. We conclude by presenting an extension of the density-potential mapping to include vector-potentials and photons.

id: 1412.7256
title: Categorical Operator Algebraic Foundations of Relational Quantum Theory
authors: Paolo Bertozzini
comments: 6 pages, AMS-LaTeX2e. Submitted to PoS by SISSA for the proceedings of the FFP14 symposium "Frontiers of Fundamental Phyisics 14", 15-18 July 2014, Aix Marseille University, Marseille, France
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7256
abstract: We provide an algebraic formulation of C.Rovelli's relational quantum theory that is based on suitable notions of "non-commutative" higher operator categories, originally developed in the study of categorical non-commutative geometry. As a way to implement C.Rovelli's original intuition on the relational origin of space-time, in the context of our proposed algebraic approach to quantum gravity via Tomita-Takesaki modular theory, we tentatively suggest to use this categorical formalism in order to spectrally reconstruct non-commutative relational space-time geometries from categories of correlation bimodules between operator algebras of observables. Parts of this work are joint collaborations with: Dr.Roberto Conti (Sapienza Universita' di Roma), Assoc.Prof.Wicharn Lewkeeratiyutkul (Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok), Dr.Rachel Dawe Martins (Istituto Superior Tecnico, Lisboa), Dr.Matti Raasakka (Paris 13 University), Dr.Noppakhun Suthichitranont.

id: 1412.7320
title: Nonlocal random motions: The trapping problem
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski, Mariusz ?aba
comments: 11 pp, 7 figures
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 46 (2), 231-246, (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7320
abstract: L\'evy stable (jump-type) processes are examples of intrinsically nonlocal random motions. This property becomes a serious obstacle if one attempts to model conditions under which a particular L\'evy process may be subject to physically implementable manipulations, whose ultimate goal is to confine the random motion in a spatially finite, possibly mesoscopic trap. We analyze thisissue for an exemplary case of the Cauchy process in a finiteinterval. Qualitatively, our observations extend to general jump-type processes that are driven by non-gaussian noises, classified by the integral part of the L\'evy-Khintchine formula.For clarity of arguments we discuss, as a reference model, the classic case of the Brownian motion in the interval.

id: 1412.7322
title: Incomplete measurement of work in a dissipative two level system
authors: Klaara L. Viisanen, Samu Suomela, Simone Gasparinetti, Olli-Pentti Saira, Joachim Ankerhold, Jukka P. Pekola
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7322
abstract: We discuss work performed on a quantum two-level system coupled to multiple thermal baths. To evaluate the work, a measurement of photon exchange between the system and the baths is envisioned. In a realistic scenario, some photons remain unrecorded as they are exchanged with baths that are not accessible to the measurement, and thus only partial information on work and heat is available. The incompleteness of the measurement leads to substantial deviations from standard fluctuation relations. We propose a recovery of these relations, based on including the mutual information given by the counting efficiency of the partial measurement. We further present the experimental status of a possible implementation of the proposed scheme, i.e. a calorimetric measurement of work, currently with nearly single-photon sensitivity.

id: 1412.7352
title: Testing the Everett Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics with Cosmology
authors: Aurelien Barrau
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7352
abstract: In this brief note, we argue that contrarily to what is still often stated, the Everett many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics is not in principle impossible to test. It is actually not more difficult (but not easier either) to test than most other kinds of multiverse theories. We also remind why multiverse scenarios can be falsified.

id: 1412.7353
title: Refined Applications of the "Collapse of the Wavefunction"
authors: Leo Stodolsky
comments: Twenty-four pages, no figures, further typos corrected, In section 6.4 `' direct CP violation for the flavor eigenstates' replaced by `flavor change for the flavor eigenstates'
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 096008 (2015)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7353
abstract: In a two-part system the "collapse of the wavefunction" of one part can put the other part in a state which would be difficult or impossible to achieve otherwise, in particular one sensitive to small effects in the `collapse' interaction. We present some applications to the very symmeteric and experimentally accessible situations of the decays $\phi(1020)\to K^oK^o$, $\psi(3770)\to D^oD^o$, or $\Upsilon(4s)\to B^oB^o$, involving the internal state of the two-state $K^o$, $D^o$ or $B^o$ mesons. The "collapse of the wavefunction" occasioned by a decay of one member of the pair (`away side') fixes the state vector of that side's two-state system. Bose-Einstein statistics then determines the state of the recoiling meson (`near side'), whose evolution can then be followed further. In particular the statistics requirement dictates that the `away side' and `near side' internal states must be orthogonal at the time of the "collapse". Thus a CP violation in the `away side', decay implies a complementary CP impurity on the `near side', which can be detected in the further evolution. The CP violaion so manifested is necessarily direct CP violation, since neither the mass matrix nor time evolution was involved in the "collapse". A parametrization of the direct CP violation is given and various manifestations are presented. Certain rates or combination of rates are identified which are nonzero only if there is direct CP violation. The very explicit and detailed use made of "collapse of the wavefunction" makes the procedure interesting with respect to the fundamentals of quantum mechanics. We note an experimental consistency test for our treatment of the "collapse of the wavefunction", which can be carried out by a certain measurement of partial decay rates.

id: 1412.7372
title: Ultrastrong coupling in two-resonator circuit QED
authors: A. Baust, E. Hoffmann, M. Haeberlein, M. J. Schwarz, P. Eder, J. Goetz, F. Wulschner, E. Xie, L. Zhong, F. Quijandria, D. Zueco, J.-J. Garcia Ripoll, L. Garcia-Alvarez, G. Romero, E. Solano, K. G. Fedorov, E. P. Menzel, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7372
abstract: We report on ultrastrong coupling between a superconducting flux qubit and a resonant mode of a system comprised of two superconducting coplanar stripline resonators coupled galvanically to the qubit. With a coupling strength as high as 17% of the mode frequency, exceeding that of previous circuit quantum electrodynamics experiments, we observe a pronounced Bloch-Siegert shift. The spectroscopic response of our multimode system reveals a clear breakdown of the Jaynes-Cummings model. In contrast to earlier experiments, the high coupling strength is achieved without making use of an additional inductance provided by a Josephson junction.

id: 1412.7429
title: Global modes in nonlinear non-normal evolutionary models: exact solutions, perturbation theory, direct numerical simulation, and chaos
authors: Lennon O. Naraigh
comments: 34 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7429
abstract: This paper is concerned with the theory of generic non-normal nonlinear evolutionary equations, with potential applications in Fluid Dynamics and Optics. Two theoretical models are presented. The first is a model two-level non-normal nonlinear system that not only highlights the phenomena of linear transient growth, subcritical transition and global modes, but is also of potential interest in its own right in the field of nonlinear optics. The second is the fairly familiar inhomogeneous nonlinear complex Ginzburg--Landau (CGL) equation. The two-level model is exactly solvable for the nonlinear global mode and its stability, while for the spatially-extended CGL equation, perturbative solutions for the global mode and its stability are presented, valid for inhomogeneities with arbitrary scales of spatial variation and global modes of small amplitude, corresponding to a scenario near criticality. For other scenarios, a numerical iterative nonlinear eigenvalue technique is preferred. Two global modes of different amplitudes are revealed in the numerical approach. For both the two-level system and the nonlinear CGL equation, the analytical calculations are supplemented with direct numerical simulation, thus showing the fate of unstable global modes. For the two-level model this results in unbounded growth of the full nonlinear equations. For the spatially-extended CGL model in the subcritical regime, the global mode of larger amplitude exhibits a `one-sided' instability leading to a chaotic dynamics, while the global mode of smaller amplitude is always unstable (theory confirms this). However, advection can stabilize the mode of larger amplitude.

id: 1412.7470
title: WKB - type approximations in the theory of vacuum particle creation in strong fields
authors: S.A. Smolyansky, V.V. Dmitriev, A.D. Panferov, A.V. Prozorkevich, D. Blaschke, L. Juchnowski
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, Proceedings of the XXII International Baldin Seminar on High Energy Physics Problems, September 15-20, 2014, Dubna, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7470
abstract: Within the theory of vacuum creation of an $e^{+}e^{-}$ - plasma in the strong electric fields acting in the focal spot of counter-propagating laser beams we compare predictions on the basis of different WKB-type approximations with results obtained in the framework of a strict kinetic approach. Such a comparison demonstrates a considerable divergence results. We analyse some reasoning for this observation and conclude that WKB-type approximations have an insufficient foundation for QED in strong nonstationary fields. The results obtained in this work on the basis of the kinetic approach are most optimistic for the observation of an $e^{+}e^{-}$ - plasma in the range of optical and x-ray laser facilities. We discuss also the influence of unphysical features of non-adiabatic field models on the reliability of predictions of the kinetic theory.

id: 1412.7485
title: Ettore Majorana: his work and his life
authors: Erasmo Recami
comments: Plane LaTeX. 20 pages, including two photos. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0708.2855, arXiv:0709.1183
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics D 23(13) (2014) 1444009 (17 pages)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7485
abstract: In this paper we present a panoramic view of the main scientific articles published by Ettore Majorana, the brightest Italian theoretical physicist of the XX century (actually, Enrico Fermi regarded him as the brighest in the world of his time, and compared him to Galileo and Newton; even if to some people Majorana is often known mainly for his mysterious disappearance in 1938, when he was 31). Extensive information and comments are added with regard to the scientific manuscripts left unpublished by him. We also outline his life, the biographical data being based on letters, documents, testimonies discovered or collected by the author during more than four decades, and contained for instance in Recami's 1987 book quoted in the text. Two pictures complete the paper.

id: 1412.7496
title: Low Loss Light Feld Modes in Nano Planar Waveguide: An Analytical Approach Based on the Rytov-Leontovich Boundary Conditions
authors: Narkis M. Arslanov, Ali A. Kamli, Sergey A. Moiseev
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7496
abstract: We develop an analytical approach based on the Rytov-Leontovich boundary conditions to study light field modes in the nano planar waveguides. The analytical results thus obtained demonstrate new conditions for optical low loss surface plasmon-polariton modes in the planar waveguides with dielectric-metamaterial interfaces. The obtained results are confirmed with existing numerical calcultions. More general conditions for using the proposed analytical approach to study light field in the nano waveguides are also considered.

id: 1412.7576
title: Interpretations of Quantum Theory in the Light of Modern Cosmology
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Roberto Laura, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7576
abstract: The difficult issues related to the interpretation of quantum mechanics and, in particular, the "measurement problem" are revisited using as motivation the process of generation of structure from quantum fluctuations in inflationary cosmology. The unessential mathematical complexity of the particular problem is bypassed, facilitating the discussion of the conceptual issues, by considering, within the paradigm set up by the cosmological problem, another problem where symmetry serves as a focal point: a simplified version of Mott's problem.

id: 1412.7605
title: Proposal for feasible experiments of cold-atom quantum simulator of U(1) lattice gauge-Higgs model
authors: Yoshihito Kuno, Kenichi Kasamatsu, Yoshiro Takahashi, Ikuo Ichinose, Tetsuo Matsui
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7605
abstract: Lattice gauge theory has provided us with a crucial non-perturbative method in studying canonical models in high-energy physics such as quantum chromodynamics. Among other models of lattice gauge theory, the lattice gauge-Higgs model is a quite important one because it describes wide variety of phenomena/models related to the Anderson-Higgs mechanism such as superconductivity, the standard model of particle physics, and inflation process of the early universe. In this paper, to realize a quantum simulator of the U(1) lattice gauge-Higgs model on an optical lattice filled by cold atoms, we propose two feasible methods: (i) Wannier states in the excited bands and (ii) dipolar atoms in a multilayer optical lattice. We pay attentions to respect the constraint of Gauss's law and avoid nonlocal gauge interactions. Numerical simulations of the time development of an electric flux by using the Gross-Pitaevskii equations reveal some interesting characteristics of dynamical aspect of the model.

id: 1412.7756
title: Improving the gate fidelity of capacitively coupled spin qubits
authors: Xin Wang, Edwin Barnes, S. Das Sarma
comments: 9+ pages, 4 figures. To be published in npj Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7756
abstract: Capacitively coupled semiconductor spin qubits hold promise as the building blocks of a scalable quantum computing architecture with long-range coupling between distant qubits. However, the two-qubit gate fidelities achieved in experiments to date have been severely limited by decoherence originating from charge noise and hyperfine interactions with nuclear spins, and are currently unacceptably low for any conceivable multi-qubit gate operations. Here, we present control protocols that implement two-qubit entangling gates while substantially suppressing errors due to both types of noise. These protocols are obtained by making simple modifications to control sequences already used in the laboratory and should thus be easy enough for immediate experimental realization. Together with existing control protocols for robust single-qubit gates, our results constitute an important step toward scalable quantum computation using spin qubits in semiconductor platforms.

id: 1412.7799
title: Normal-mode splitting in the coupled system of hybridized nuclear magnons and microwave photons
authors: Leonid V. Abdurakhimov, Yuriy M. Bunkov, Denis Konstantinov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7799
abstract: In the weak ferromagnetic MnCO$_3$ system, a low-frequency collective spin excitation (magnon) is the hybridized oscillation of nuclear and electron spins coupled through the hyperfine interaction. By using a split-ring resonator, we performed transmission spectroscopy measurements of MnCO$_3$ system and observed, for the first time, avoiding crossing between the hybridized nuclear-electron magnon mode and the resonator mode in the NMR-frequency range. The splitting strength is quite large due to the large spin density of $^{55}$Mn, and the cooperativity value $C=0.2$ (magnon-photon coupling parameter) is close to the conditions of strong coupling. The results reveal a new class of spin systems, in which the coupling between nuclear spins and photons is mediated by electron spins via the hyperfine interaction, and in which the similar normal-mode splitting of the hybridized nuclear magnon mode and the resonator mode can be observed.

id: 1412.7807
title: Modified Bloch-Redfield Master Equation for Incoherent Excitation of Multilevel Quantum Systems
authors: Timur V. Tscherbul, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7807
abstract: We present an efficient theoretical method for calculating the time evolution of the density matrix of a multilevel quantum system weakly interacting with incoherent light. The method combines the Bloch-Redfield theory with a partial secular approximation for one-photon coherences, resulting in a master equation that explicitly exposes the reliance on transition rates and the angles between transition dipole moments in the energy basis. The modified Bloch-Redfield master equation allows an unambiguous distinction between the regimes of quantum coherent vs. incoherent energy transfer under incoherent light illumination. The fully incoherent regime is characterized by orthogonal transition dipole moments in the energy basis, leading to a dynamical evolution governed by a coherence-free Pauli-type master equation. The coherent regime requires non-orthogonal transition dipole moments in the energy basis, and leads to the generation of noise-induced quantum coherences and population-to-coherence couplings. As a first application, we consider the dynamics of excited state coherences arising under incoherent light excitation from a single ground state, and observe population-to-coherence transfer and the formation of non-equilibrium quasisteady states in the regime of small excited state splitting. Analytical expressions derived earlier for the V-type system [Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 113601 (2014)] are found to provide a nearly quantitative description of multilevel excited-state populations and coherences in both the small- and large-molecule limits.

id: 1412.7841
title: Full decoherence induced by local fields in open spin chains with strong boundary couplings
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Mario Salerno, Roberto Livi
comments: 11 pages, 7 Figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015) 023066
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7841
abstract: We investigate an open $XYZ$ spin $1/2$ chain driven out of equilibrium by boundary reservoirs targeting different spin orientations, aligned along the principal axes of anisotropy. We show that by tuning local magnetic fields, applied to spins at sites near the boundaries, one can change any nonequilibrium steady state to a fully uncorrelated Gibbsian state at infinite temperature. This phenomenon occurs for strong boundary coupling and on a critical manifold in the space of the fields amplitudes. The structure of this manifold depends on the anisotropy degree of the model and on the parity of the chain size.

id: 1412.8003
title: Minimizing the Latency of Quantum Circuits during Mapping to the Ion-Trap Circuit Fabric
authors: Mohammad Javad Dousti, Massoud Pedram
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8003
abstract: Quantum computers are exponentially faster than their classical counterparts in terms of solving some specific, but important problems. The biggest challenge in realizing a quantum computing system is the environmental noise. One way to decrease the effect of noise (and hence, reduce the overhead of building fault tolerant quantum circuits) is to reduce the latency of the quantum circuit that runs on a quantum circuit. In this paper, a novel algorithm is presented for scheduling, placement, and routing of a quantum algorithm, which is to be realized on a target quantum circuit fabric technology. This algorithm, and the accompanying software tool, advances state-of-the-art in quantum CAD methodologies and methods while considering key characteristics and constraints of the ion-trap quantum circuit fabric. Experimental results show that the presented tool improves results of the previous tool by about 41%.

id: 1412.8004
title: Squash: A Scalable Quantum Mapper Considering Ancilla Sharing
authors: Mohammad Javad Dousti, Alireza Shafaei, Massoud Pedram
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8004
abstract: Quantum algorithms for solving problems of interesting size often result in circuits with a very large number of qubits and quantum gates. Fortunately, these algorithms also tend to contain a small number of repetitively-used quantum kernels. Identifying the quantum logic blocks that implement such quantum kernels is critical to the complexity management for realizing the corresponding quantum circuit. Moreover, quantum computation requires some type of quantum error correction coding to combat decoherence, which in turn results in a large number of ancilla qubits in the circuit. Sharing the ancilla qubits among quantum operations (even though this sharing can increase the overall circuit latency) is important in order to curb the resource demand of the quantum algorithm. This paper presents a multi-core reconfigurable quantum processor architecture, called Requp, which supports a layered approach to mapping a quantum algorithm and ancilla sharing. More precisely, a scalable quantum mapper, called Squash, is introduced, which divides a given quantum circuit into a number of quantum kernels- each kernel comprises k parts such that each part will run on exactly one of k available cores. Experimental results demonstrate that Squash can handle large-scale quantum algorithms while providing an effective mechanism for sharing ancilla qubits.

id: 1412.8102
title: Proceedings of the 11th workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic
authors: Bob Coecke, Ichiro Hasuo, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8102
abstract: This volume contains the proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL 2014), which was held from the 4th to the 6th of June, 2014, at Kyoto University, Japan. The goal of the QPL workshop series is to bring together researchers working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum computing and spatio-temporal causal structures, and in particular those that use logical tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures, formal languages, semantic methods and other computer science methods for the study of physical behavior in general. Over the past few years, there has been growing activity in these foundational approaches, together with a renewed interest in the foundations of quantum theory, which complement the more mainstream research in quantum computation. Earlier workshops in this series, with the same acronym under the name "Quantum Programming Languages", were held in Ottawa (2003), Turku (2004), Chicago (2005), and Oxford (2006). The first QPL under the new name Quantum Physics and Logic was held in Reykjavik (2008), followed by Oxford (2009 and 2010), Nijmegen (2011), Brussels (2012) and Barcelona (2013).

id: 1412.8145
title: Unitary limit in crossed Andreev transport
authors: I. A. Sadovskyy, G. B. Lesovik, V. M. Vinokur
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8145
abstract: Crossed Andreev reflection splitting a Cooper pair into the metal through spatially separated terminals as two spin and energy entangled electrons is one of the most promising approaches to generation of entangled electron pairs. However, while the conventional (local) Andreev reflection occurs with the probability of unity, the probability of crossed Andreev reflection is significantly suppressed. We propose a one-dimensional model capturing main features of the hybrid normal metal-superconductor setups used in experiments, which allows to achieve a unitary limit of crossed Andreev transport, i.e. splitting of Cooper pairs with the 100% efficiency. We calculate and analyze electron-to-hole transmission probability, differential conductance, and cross-correlations of currents passing through different terminals thus putting the ideas of maximum possible outcome on a firm analytical basis.

id: 1412.8157
title: On Kossakowski construction of positive maps in matrix algebras
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: Dedicated to Andrzej Kossakowski on his 75th birthday
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 21, 1450001 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8157
abstract: We provide a further analysis of the class of positive maps proposed ten years ago by Kossakowski. In particular we propose a new parametrization which reveals an elegant geometric structure and an interesting interplay between group theory and a certain class of positive maps.

id: 1412.8188
title: Photonic dark matter portal and quantum physics
authors: S. A. Alavi, F. S. Kazemian
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, Typos corrected, Some new references added, New discussion added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8188
abstract: To identify the nature and properties of dark matter is one of the most serious open problems in modern physics. We study a model of dark matter in which the hidden sector interacts with ordinary matter (standard model particles) via photonic portal(hidden photonic portal). We search for the effects of this new interaction in quantum physics, therefore we study its effects on hydrogen atom because it is a simple and a well-studied quantum system so it can be considered as an outstanding test for dark matter signatures. Using the accuracy of the measurement of energy, we obtain an upper bound for the coupling constant of the model. We also calculate the contribution to the anomalous magnetic moment of muon due to the hidden photonic portal. At the moment there is a deviation between the standard model prediction for muon anomalous magnetic moment and its experimental value so the anomalous magnetic moment of muon can provide an important test of the standard model and the theories beyond it.

id: 1412.8234
title: Probing the quantum vacuum with ultra intense laser pulses
authors: B. Manuel Hegelich, Gerard Mourou, Johann Rafelski
comments: Contribution in Special Topics issue for IZEST, 12 pages incl 1 figure. Contains extended citation list compared to published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics {\bf 223}, 1093-1104 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8234
abstract: This article presents: 1) The theoretical background of strong field physics and vacuum structure and stability; 2) The instrumental developments in the area of pulse lasers and considers the physics case for ultra intense laser facilities; and 3) Discussion of the applied and fundamental uses of ultra-intense lasers.

id: 1412.8238
title: The first- and second-order temporal interference between thermal and laser light
authors: Jianbin Liu, Huaibin Zheng, Hui Chen, Yu Zhou, Fu-li Li, Zhuo Xu
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Submitted for publication and comments are welcome
journal: Optics Express, 23, 11869 (2015)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8238
abstract: The first- and second-order temporal interference between two independent thermal and laser light beams is discussed by employing the superposition principle in Feynman's path integral theory. It is concluded that the first-order temporal interference pattern can not be observed by superposing thermal and laser light, while the second-order temporal interference pattern can be observed in the same condition. These predictions are experimentally verified by employing pseudothermal light to simulate thermal light. The conclusions and method in the paper can be generalized to any order interference of light or massive particles, which is helpful to understand the physics of interference.

id: 1412.8376
title: Electron-correlation driven capture and release in double quantum dots
authors: Federico M. Pont, Annika Bande, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8376
abstract: We recently predicted that the interatomic Coulombic electron capture (ICEC) process, a long-range electron correlation driven capture process, is achievable in gated double quantum dots (DQDs) [F. M. Pont, A. Bande, L. S. Cederbaum, Phys. Rev. B {\bf 88} 241304(R)(2013)]. In ICEC an incoming electron is captured by one QD and the excess energy is used to remove an electron from the neighboring QD. In this work we present systematic full three-dimensional electron dynamics calculations in quasi-one dimensional model potentials that allow for a detailed understanding of the connection between the DQD geometry and the reaction probability for the ICEC process. Investigation of the electronic structure of various DQD geometries that are capable of undergoing the ICEC process clarify the offspring of its remarkably high probability in the presence of two electron resonances. The quasi-one dimensional geometry allows to construct an effective one-dimensional model whose results compare very well with those obtained using the full calculations.

id: 1412.8403
title: Traces of Integrability in Relaxation of One-Dimensional Two-Mass Mixtures
authors: Zaijong Hwang, Frank Cao, Maxim Olshanii
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Updated acknowledgements
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8403
abstract: We study relaxation in a one-dimensional two-mass mixture of hard-core particles. A heavy-light-heavy triplet of three neighboring particles can form a little known unequal mass generalization of Newton's cradle at particular light-to-heavy mass ratios. An anomalous slow-down in the relaxation of the whole system is expected due to the presence of these triplets, and we provide numerical evidence to support this prediction. The expected experimental realization of our model involves mixtures of two internal states in optical lattices, where the ratio between effective masses can be controlled at will.

id: 1412.8428
title: On Consistent Lagrangian Quantization of Yang--Mills Theories without Gribov Copies
authors: Alexander A. Reshetnyak
comments: 13 pages, contribution to the Proceedings of QUARKS-2014, June 2-8, 2014, Suzdal, Russia
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8428
abstract: We review the results of our research [A.A. Reshetnyak, IJMPA 29 (2014) 1450184; P.Yu. Moshin, A.A. Reshetnyak, Nucl. Phys. B 888 (2014) 92; P.Yu. Moshin, A.A. Reshetnyak, Phys. Lett. B 739 (2014) 110; P.Yu. Moshin, A.A. Reshetnyak, arXiv:1406.5086[hep-th]], devoted to Lagrangian quantization for gauge theories with soft BRST symmetry breaking, in particular, for various descriptions of the YM theory without Gribov copies. The cited works rely on finite BRST and BRST-antiBRST transformations, respectively, with a singlet $\Lambda$ and a doublet $\lambda_{a}$, $a=1,2$, of anticommuting Grassmann parameters, both global and field-dependent. It turns out that global finite BRST and BRST-antiBRST transformations form a 1-parametric and a 2-parametric Abelian supergroup, respectively. Explicit superdeterminants corresponding to these changes of variables in the partition function allow one to calculate precise changes of the respective gauge-fixing functional. These facts provide the basis for a proof of gauge independence of the corresponding path integral under respective BRST and BRST-antiBRST transformations. It is shown that the gauge independence becomes restored for path integrals with soft BRST and BRST-antiBRST symmetry breaking terms. In this case, the form of transformation parameters is found to induce a precise change of the gauge in the path integral, thus connecting two arbitrary $R_{\xi}$-like gauges in the average effective action. Finite field-dependent BRST-antiBRST transformations are used to solve (perturbatively) the Gribov problem in the Gribov--Zwanziger approach. A modification of the path integral for theories with a gauge group, being consistent with gauge invariance and providing a restriction of the integration measure to the first Gribov region with a non-vanishing Faddeev--Popov determinant, is suggested.

id: 1412.8472
title: Exotic roton excitations in quadrupolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. Lahrz, Mikhail Lemeshko, L. Mathey
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 17 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8472
abstract: We investigate the occurrence of rotons in a quadrupolar Bose-Einstein condensate confined to two dimensions. Depending on the particle density, the ratio of the contact and quadrupole-quadrupole interactions, and the alignment of the quadrupole moments with respect to the confinement plane, the dispersion relation features two or four point-like roton minima, or one ring-shaped minimum. We map out the entire parameter space of the roton behavior and identify the instability regions. We propose to observe the exotic rotons by monitoring the characteristic density wave dynamics resulting from a short local perturbation, and discuss the possibilities to detect the predicted effects in state-of-the-art experiments with ultracold homonuclear molecules.

id: 1412.8483
title: ER=EPR, GHZ, and the Consistency of Quantum Measurements
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8483
abstract: This paper illustrates various aspects of the ER=EPR conjecture.It begins with a brief heuristic argument, using the Ryu-Takayanagi correspondence, for why entanglement between black holes implies the existence of Einstein-Rosen bridges. The main part of the paper addresses a fundamental question: Is ER=EPR consistent with the standard postulates of quantum mechanics? Naively it seems to lead to an inconsistency between observations made on entangled systems by different observers. The resolution of the paradox lies in the properties of multiple black holes, entangled in the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger pattern. The last part of the paper is about entanglement as a resource for quantum communication. ER=EPR provides a way to visualize protocols like quantum teleportation. In some sense teleportation takes place through the wormhole, but as usual, classical communication is necessary to complete the protocol.

id: 1412.8527
title: From Logical to Distributional Models
authors: Anne Preller
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 113-131
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8527
abstract: The paper relates two variants of semantic models for natural language, logical functional models and compositional distributional vector space models, by transferring the logic and reasoning from the logical to the distributional models. The geometrical operations of quantum logic are reformulated as algebraic operations on vectors. A map from functional models to vector space models makes it possible to compare the meaning of sentences word by word.

id: 1412.8545
title: Semantics for a Quantum Programming Language by Operator Algebras
authors: Kenta Cho
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 165-190
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8545
abstract: This paper presents a novel semantics for a quantum programming language by operator algebras, which are known to give a formulation for quantum theory that is alternative to the one by Hilbert spaces. We show that the opposite category of the category of W*-algebras and normal completely positive subunital maps is an elementary quantum flow chart category in the sense of Selinger. As a consequence, it gives a denotational semantics for Selinger's first-order functional quantum programming language QPL. The use of operator algebras allows us to accommodate infinite structures and to handle classical and quantum computations in a unified way.

id: 1412.8546
title: Observational Equivalence Using Schedulers for Quantum Processes
authors: Kazuya Yasuda, Takahiro Kubota, Yoshihiko Kakutani
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 191-203
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8546
abstract: In the study of quantum process algebras, researchers have introduced different notions of equivalence between quantum processes like bisimulation or barbed congruence. However, there are intuitively equivalent quantum processes that these notions do not regard as equivalent. In this paper, we introduce a notion of equivalence named observational equivalence into qCCS. Since quantum processes have both probabilistic and nondeterministic transitions, we introduce schedulers that solve nondeterministic choices and obtain probability distribution of quantum processes. By definition, the restrictions of schedulers change observational equivalence. We propose some definitions of schedulers, and investigate the relation between the restrictions of schedulers and observational equivalence.

id: 1412.8547
title: On G¨¢cs' quantum algorithmic entropy
authors: Toru Takisaka
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 204-216
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8547
abstract: We define an infinite dimensional modification of lower-semicomputability of density operators by G¨¢cs with an attempt to fix some problem in the paper. Our attempt is partly achieved by showing the existence of universal operator under some additional assumption. It is left as a future task to eliminate this assumption. We also see some properties and examples which stimulate further research. In particular, we show that universal operator has certain nontrivial form if it exists.

id: 1412.8548
title: A 2-Categorical Analysis of Complementary Families, Quantum Key Distribution and the Mean King Problem
authors: Krzysztof Bar, Jamie Vicary
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2014, arXiv:1412.8102
journal: EPTCS 172, 2014, pp. 316-332
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8548
abstract: This paper explores the use of 2-categorical technology for describing and reasoning about complex quantum procedures. We give syntactic definitions of a family of complementary measurements, and of quantum key distribution, and show that they are equivalent. We then show abstractly that either structure gives a solution to the Mean King problem, which we also formulate 2-categorically.

id: 1412.8575
title: Zeta function for perturbed surfaces of revolution
authors: Pedro Morales-Almazan
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8575
abstract: In this paper we explore the Zeta function arising from a small perturbation on a surface of revolution and the effect of this on the functional determinant and in the change of the Casimir energy associated with this configuration.

id: 1412.8583
title: Relativity of arithmetics as a fundamental symmetry of physics
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: in v2 the Cantor set is redefined so that $f$ is indeed bijective, a plot and some typos were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8583
abstract: Arithmetic operations can be defined in various ways, even if one assumes commutativity and associativity of addition and multiplication, and distributivity of multiplication with respect to addition. In consequence, whenever one encounters `plus' or `times' one has certain freedom of interpreting this operation. This leads to some freedom in definitions of derivatives, integrals and, thus, practically all equations occurring in natural sciences. A change of realization of arithmetics, without altering the remaining structures of a given equation, plays the same role as a symmetry transformation. An appropriate construction of arithmetics turns out to be particularly important for dynamical systems in fractal space-times. Simple examples from classical and quantum, relativistic and nonrelativistic physics are discussed.

id: 1412.8619
title: Detection of Nonlocal Spin Entanglement by Light Emission from a Superconducting p-n Junction
authors: Alexander Schroer, Patrik Recher
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8619
abstract: We model a superconducting p-n junction in which the n- and the p-sides are contacted through two optical quantum dots (QDs), each embedded into a photonic nanocavity. Whenever a Cooper pair is transferred from the n-side to the p-side, two photons are emitted. When the two electrons of a Cooper pair are transported through different QDs, polarization-entangled photons are created, provided that the Cooper pairs retain their spin singlet character while being spatially separated on the two QDs. We show that a CHSH Bell-type measurement is able to detect the entanglement of the photons over a broad range of microscopic parameters, even in the presence of parasitic processes and imperfections.

id: 1412.8644
title: Mott insulator breakdown through pattern formation
authors: Pedro Ribeiro, Andrey E. Antipov, Alexey N. Rubtsov
comments: 5 pages + 4 pages of supplemental material, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8644
abstract: We study the breakdown of a Mott insulator with the thermodynamic imbalance induced by an applied bias voltage. By analyzing the instabilities of the magnetic susceptibility, we describe a rich non-equilibrium phase diagram, obtained for different applied voltages, that exhibits phases with a spatially patterned charge gap. For a finite voltage, smaller than the value of the equilibrium Mott gap, the formation of patterns coincides with the emergence of mid-gap states contributing to a finite steady-state conductance. We discuss the experimental implications of this new scenario of Mott breakdown.

id: 1412.8704
title: Quantum Structure in Cognition and the Foundations of Human Reasoning
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8704
abstract: Traditional cognitive science rests on a foundation of classical logic and probability theory. This foundation has been seriously challenged by several findings in experimental psychology on human decision making. Meanwhile, the formalism of quantum theory has provided an efficient resource for modeling these classically problematical situations. In this paper, we start from our successful quantum-theoretic approach to the modeling of concept combinations to formulate a unifying explanatory hypothesis. In it, human reasoning is the superposition of two processes -- a conceptual reasoning, whose nature is emergence of new conceptuality, and a logical reasoning, founded on an algebraic calculus of the logical type. In most cognitive processes however, the former reasoning prevails over the latter. In this perspective, the observed deviations from classical logical reasoning should not be interpreted as biases but, rather, as natural expressions of emergence in its deepest form.

id: 1412.8743
title: A Classical Approach to Multichromophoric Resonance Energy Transfer
authors: Sebastian Duque, Paul Brumer, Leonardo A. Pachon
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8743
abstract: Enhanced rates in multichromophoric resonance energy transfer are shown to be well described by a classical theory based on classical electrodynamics. In a coupling configuration between $N_A$ acceptors and $N_D$ donors, the theory correctly predicts an enhancement of the energy transfer rate dependent on the total number of donor-acceptor pairs, $N_A N_D$. As an example, the theory, applied to the transfer rate in LH II, gives results in excellent agreement with experiment.

id: 1412.8473
title: Optimization of collisional Feshbach cooling of an ultracold nondegenerate gas
authors: Marlon Nuske, Eite Tiesinga, L. Mathey
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 043626 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.8473
abstract: We optimize a collision-induced cooling process for ultracold atoms in the nondegenerate regime. It makes use of a Feshbach resonance, instead of rf radiation in evaporative cooling, to selectively expel hot atoms from a trap. Using functional minimization we analytically show that for the optimal cooling process the resonance energy must be tuned such that it linearly follows the temperature. Here, optimal cooling is defined as maximizing the phase-space density after a fixed cooling duration. The analytical results are confirmed by numerical Monte-Carlo simulations. In order to simulate more realistic experimental conditions, we show that background losses do not change our conclusions, while additional non-resonant two-body losses make a lower initial resonance energy with non-linear dependence on temperature preferable.

id: 1412.6562
title: Theory of temporal fluctuations in isolated quantum systems
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, tutorial-review paper
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6562
abstract: When an isolated quantum system is driven out of equilibrium, expectation values of general observables start oscillating in time. This article reviews the general theory of such \emph{temporal fluctuations}. We first survey some results on the strength of such temporal fluctuations. For example temporal fluctuations are exponentially small in the system's volume for generic systems whereas they fall-off algebraically in integrable systems. We then concentrate on the the so-called quench scenario where the system is driven out-of-equilibrium under the application of a sudden perturbation. For sufficiently small perturbations, temporal fluctuations of physical observables can be characterized in full generality and can be used as an effective tool to probe quantum criticality of the underlying model. In the off-critical region the distribution becomes Gaussian. Close to criticality the distribution becomes a universal function uniquely characterized by a single critical exponent, that we compute explicitly. This contrasts standard equilibrium quantum fluctuations for which the critical distribution depends on a numerable set of critical coefficients and is known only for limited examples. The possibility of using temporal fluctuations to determine pseudo-critical boundaries in optical lattice experiments is further reviewed.

