id: 1505.01248
title: Ramsauer effect in one-dimensional quantum walk with multiple defects
authors: Ho Tat Lam, Kwok Yip Szeto
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.01248
abstract: Experimental observations of quantum walks in one dimension have provided many exciting applications in quantum computing, while recent theoretical investigation of single phase defect in these system points towards interesting phenomena associated with bounds states. Here we obtain analytical solutions of quantum walk with a general quantum coin in one dimension with multiple defects, with new prediction on the condition for zero reflectance for scattering state, and the existence of an analogy to the Ramsauer effect for multiple defects. We also show the transition from the zero reflectance state to the bound state can provide a method for preparing the quantum walk in a bound state. Applications to systems similar to thin film optics are suggested.

id: 1505.01435
title: An Effective Hamiltonian Approach to Quantum Random Walk
authors: Debajyoti Sarkar, Niladri Paul, Kaushik Bhattacharya, Tarun Kanti Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.01435
abstract: In this article we present an effective Hamiltonian approach for Discrete Time Quantum Random Walk. A form of the Hamiltonian for one dimensional quantum walk has been prescribed, utilizing the fact that Hamiltonians are the generators of time translations. Then an attempt has been made to generalize the techniques to higher dimensions. We find that the Hamiltonian can be written as the sum of a Weyl Hamiltonian and a Dirac comb potential. The time evolution operator obtained from this prescribed Hamiltonian is in complete agreement with that of the standard approach. But in higher dimension we find that the time evolution operator is additive, instead of being multiplicative \cite{Chandrasekhar:2013SREP08229}. We showed that in case of two-step walk, effectively the time evolution operator can have multiplicative form. In case of a square lattice, quantum walk has been studied computationally for different coins and the results for both the additive and the multiplicative approaches have been compared. Using the Graphene Hamiltonian the walk has been studied on a Graphene lattice and we conclude the preference of additive approach over the multiplicative one.

id: 1505.02035
title: Correcting for Potential Barriers in Quantum Walk Search
authors: Andris Ambainis, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 15(15&16), 1365 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.02035
abstract: A randomly walking quantum particle searches in Grover's $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$ iterations for a marked vertex on the complete graph of $N$ vertices by repeatedly querying an oracle that flips the amplitude at the marked vertex, scattering by a "coin" flip, and hopping. Physically, however, potential energy barriers can hinder the hop and cause the search to fail, even when the amplitude of not hopping decreases with $N$. We correct for these errors by interpreting the quantum walk search as an amplitude amplification algorithm and modifying the phases applied by the coin flip and oracle such that the amplification recovers the $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$ runtime.

id: 1505.04761
title: The Staggered Quantum Walk Model
authors: R. Portugal, R.A.M. Santos, T.D. Fernandes, D.N. Gon?alves
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.04761
abstract: There are at least three models of discrete-time quantum walks (QWs) on graphs currently under active development. In this work we focus on the equivalence of two of them, known as Szegedy's and staggered QWs. We give a formal definition of the staggered model and discuss generalized versions for searching marked vertices. Using this formal definition, we prove that any instance of Szegedy's model is equivalent to an instance of the staggered model. On the other hand, we show that there are instances of the staggered model that cannot be cast into Szegedy's framework. Our analysis also works when there are marked vertices. We show that Szegedy's spatial search algorithms can be converted into search algorithms in staggered QWs. We take advantage of the similarity of those models to define the quantum hitting time in the staggered model and to describe a method to calculate the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the evolution operator of staggered QWs.

id: 1505.07023
title: Quantum walks in curved spacetime
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini, Marcelo Forets
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.07023
abstract: A discrete-time Quantum Walk (QW) is essentially a unitary operator driving the evolution of a single particle on the lattice. Some QWs admit a continuum limit, leading to familiar PDEs (e.g. the Dirac equation), and thus provide us with discrete toy models of familiar particles (e.g. the electron). In this paper, we study the continuum limit of a wide class of QWs, and show that it leads to all those PDEs corresponding to the Hamiltonian form of the massive curved Dirac equation in (1 + 1) dimensions. Therefore a certain QW, which we make explicit, provides us with a unitary discrete toy model of the electron as a test particle in curved spacetime, in spite of the fixed background lattice. Mathematically we have introduced two novel ingredients for taking the continuum limit of a QW, but which apply to any quantum cellular automata: encoding and grouping.

id: 1505.07996
title: Classical-like behavior in quantum walks with inhomogeneous, time-dependent coin operators
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Revised and extended version: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.07996
abstract: Although quantum walks exhibit distinctive properties that distinguish them from random walks, classical behavior can be recovered in the asymptotic limit by destroying the coherence of the pure state associated to the quantum system. Here I show that this is not the only way: I introduce a quantum walk driven by an inhomogeneous, time-dependent coin operator, which mimics the statistical properties of a random walk at all time scales. The quantum particle undergoes unitary evolution and, in fact, the high correlation evidenced by the components of the wave function can be used to revert the outcome of an accidental measurement of its chirality.

id: 1505.00683
title: The discrete-time quaternionic quantum walk on a graph
authors: Norio Konno, Hideo Mitsuhashi, Iwao Sato
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.00683
abstract: Recently, the quaternionic quantum walk was formulated by the first author as a generalization of discrete-time quantum walks. We treat the right eigenvalue problem of quaternionic matrices to analysis the spectra of its transition matrix. The way to obtain all the right eigenvalues of a quaternionic matrix is given. From the unitary condition on the transition matrix of the quaternionic quantum walk, we deduce some properties about it. Our main results, Theorem 5.3, determine all the right eigenvalues of a quaternionic quantum walk by use of those of the corresponding weighted matrix. In addition, we give some examples of quaternionic quantum walks and their right eigenvalues.

id: 1505.03264
title: Unveiling hidden topological phases of a one-dimensional Hadamard quantum walk
authors: Hideaki Obuse, Janos K. Asboth, Yuki Nishimura, Norio Kawakami
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 92, 045424 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.03264
abstract: Quantum walks, whose dynamics is prescribed by alternating unitary coin and shift operators, possess topological phases akin to those of Floquet topological insulators, driven by a time-periodic field. While there is ample theoretical work on topological phases of quantum walks where the coin operators are spin rotations, in experiments a different coin, the Hadamard operator is often used instead. This was the case in a recent photonic quantum walk experiment, where protected edge states were observed between two bulks whose topological invariants, as calculated by the standard theory, were the same. This hints at a hidden topological invariant in the Hadamard quantum walk. We establish a relation between the Hadamard and the spin rotation operator, which allows us to apply the recently developed theory of topological phases of quantum walks to the one-dimensional Hadamard quantum walk. The topological invariants we derive account for the edge state observed in the experiment, we thus reveal the hidden topological invariant of the one-dimensional Hadamard quantum walk.

id: 1505.04513
title: Localization, delocalization, and topological phase transitions in the one-dimensional split-step quantum walk
authors: Tibor Rakovszky, Janos K. Asboth
comments: version 2, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.04513
abstract: Quantum walks are promising for information processing tasks because on regular graphs they spread quadratically faster than random walks. Static disorder, however, can turn the tables: unlike random walks, quantum walks can suffer Anderson localization, whereby the spread of the walker stays within a finite region even in the infinite time limit. It is therefore important to understand when we can expect a quantum walk to be Anderson localized and when we can expect it to spread to infinity even in the presence of disorder. In this work we analyze the response of a generic one-dimensional quantum walk -- the split-step walk -- to different forms of static disorder. We find that introducing static, symmetry-preserving disorder in the parameters of the walk leads to Anderson localization. In the completely disordered limit, however, a delocalization sets in, and the walk spreads subdiffusively. Using an efficient numerical algorithm, we calculate the bulk topological invariants of the disordered walk, and interpret the disorder-induced Anderson localization and delocalization transitions using these invariants.

