id: 1510.00508
title: A quantum system strongly coupled to a finite size reservoir: the case of a hybrid opto-mechanical device
authors: Cyril Elouard, Alexia Auff¨¨ves
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.00508
abstract: We study the dynamics of a mechanical resonator dispersively interacting with a driven dissipative quantum emitter in the ultra-strong coupling regime. We show that this regime is fully compatible with a semi-classical treatment, and we derive master equations for the emitter and the resonator. Our framework allows studying a situation recently observable experimentally, where the emitter behaves as a finite size reservoir whose dynamics is strongly influenced by the mechanical evolution. The emitter induced fluctuations of the mechanical quadratures feature a random walk in phase space.

id: 1510.01674
title: Microscopic derivation of open quantum walk on two node graph
authors: Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1340007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.01674
abstract: A microscopic derivation of an open quantum walk on a two node graph is presented. It is shown that for the considered microscopic model of the system-bath interaction the resulting quantum master equation takes the form of a generalized master equation. The explicit form of the "quantum coin" operators is derived. The formalism is demonstrated for the example of a two-level system walking on a two-node graph.

id: 1510.01677
title: Microscopic derivation of Open Quantum Walks
authors: Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 92, 032105 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.01677
abstract: Open Quantum Walks (OQWs) are exclusively driven by dissipation and are formulated as completely positive trace preserving (CPTP) maps on underlying graphs. The microscopic derivation of discrete and continuous in time OQWs is presented. It is assumed that connected nodes are weakly interacting via a common bath. The resulting reduced master equation of the quantum walker on the lattice is in the generalised master equation form. The time discretisation of the generalised master equation leads to the OQWs formalism. The explicit form of the transition operators establishes a connection between dynamical properties of the OQWs and thermodynamical characteristics of the environment. The derivation is demonstrated for the examples of the OQW on a circle of nodes and on a finite chain of nodes. For both examples a transition between diffusive and ballistic quantum trajectories is observed and found to be related to the temperature of the bath.

id: 1510.02885
title: Localization and limit laws of a three-state alternate quantum walk on a two-dimensional lattice
authors: Takuya Machida, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.02885
abstract: A two-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk (DTQW) can be realized by alternating a two-state DTQW in one spatial dimension followed by an evolution in the other dimension. This was shown to reproduce a probability distribution for a certain configuration of a four-state DTQW on a two-dimensional lattice. In this work we present a three-state alternate DTQW with a parameterized coin-flip operator and show that it can produce localization that is also observed for a certain other configuration of the four-state DTQW and non-reproducible using the two-state alternate DTQW. We will present two limit theorems for the three-state alternate DTQW. One of the limit theorems describes a long-time limit of a return probability, and the other presents a convergence in distribution for the position of the walker on a rescaled space by time. We will also outline the relevance of these walks in physical systems.

id: 1510.03045
title: Optimal Classical Random Access Codes Using Single d-level Systems
authors: Andris Ambainis, Dmitry Kravchenko, Ashutosh Rai
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03045
abstract: Recently, in the letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 114}, 170502 (2015)], Tavakoli et al. derived interesting results by studying classical and quantum random access codes (RACs) in which the parties communicate higher-dimensional systems. They construct quantum RACs with a bigger advantage over classical RACs compared to previously considered RACs with binary alphabet. However, these results crucially hinge upon an unproven assertion that the classical strategy "majority-encoding-identity-decoding" leads to the maximum average success probability achievable for classical RACs; in this article we provide a proof of this intuition. We characterize all optimal classical RACs and show that indeed "majority-encoding-identity-decoding" is one among the several optimal strategies. Along with strengthening the results in Tavakoli et al., our result provides a firm basis for future research on this topic.

id: 1510.03046
title: A localized quantum walk with a gap in distribution
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03046
abstract: Quantum walks behave differently from what we expect and their probability distributions have unique structures. They have localization, singularities, a gap, and so on. Those features have been discovered from the view point of mathematics and reported as limit theorems. In this paper we focus on a time-dependent three-state quantum walk on the line and demonstrate a limit distribution. Three coin states at each position are iteratively updated by a coin-flip operator and a position-shift operator. As the result of the evolution, we end up to observe both localization and a gap in the limit distribution.

id: 1510.03089
title: Quantum Walk Topology and Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Graciana Puentes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1409.1273
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03089
abstract: In a recent detailed research program we proposed to study the complex physics of topological phases by an all optical implementation of a discrete-time quantum walk. The main novel ingredient proposed for this study is the use of non-linear parametric amplifiers in the network which could in turn be used to emulate intra-atomic interactions and thus analyze many-body effects in topological phases even when using light as the quantum walker. In this paper, and as a first step towards the implementation of our scheme, we analize the interplay between quantum walk lattice topology and spatial correlations of bi-photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We also describe different detection methods suitable for our proposed experimental scheme.

id: 1510.04671
title: Random walk on quantum blobs
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures, based on talk at ISQS-23 Conference, Prague, June 23-27, 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.04671
abstract: We describe the action of the symplectic group on the homogeneous space of squeezed states (quantum blobs) and extend this action to the semigroup. We then extend the metaplectic representation to the metaplectic (or oscillator) semigroup and study the properties of such an extension using Bargmann-Fock space. The shape geometry of squeezing is analyzed and noncommuting elements from the symplectic semigroup are proposed to be used in simultaneous monitoring of noncommuting quantum variables - which should lead to fractal patterns on the manifold of squeezed states.

id: 1510.05245
title: BosonSampling with Lost Photons
authors: Scott Aaronson, Daniel J. Brod
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.05245
abstract: BosonSampling is an intermediate model of quantum computation where linear-optical networks are used to solve sampling problems expected to be hard for classical computers. Since these devices are not expected to be universal for quantum computation, it remains an open question of whether any error-correction techniques can be applied to them, and thus it is important to investigate how robust the model is under natural experimental imperfections, such as losses and imperfect control of parameters. Here we investigate the complexity of BosonSampling under photon losses---more specifically, the case where an unknown subset of the photons are randomly lost at the sources. We show that, if $k$ out of $n$ photons are lost, then we cannot sample classically from a distribution that is $1/n^{\Theta(k)}$-close (in total variation distance) to the ideal distribution, unless a $\text{BPP}^{\text{NP}}$ machine can estimate the permanents of Gaussian matrices in $n^{O(k)}$ time. In particular, if $k$ is constant, this implies that simulating lossy BosonSampling is hard for a classical computer, under exactly the same complexity assumption used for the original lossless case.

id: 1510.08388
title: Quantum walks on embedded hypercubes: Non-symmetric and non-local cases
authors: Adi Makmal, Markus Tiersch, Clemens Ganahl, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.08388
abstract: The expected hitting time of discrete quantum walks on the hypercube (HC) is numerically known to be exponentially shorter than their classical analogues in terms of the scaling with the HC dimension. Recent numerics illustrated that this scaling exists not only on the bare HC, but also when the HC graph is symmetrically and locally embedded into larger graphs. The present work investigates the necessity of symmetry and locality for the speed-up by considering embeddings that are non-symmetric or non-local. We provide numerical evidence that the exponential speed-up survives also in these cases. Furthermore, our numerical simulations demonstrate that removing a single edge from the HC also does not destroy the exponential speed-up. In the non-local embedding of the HC we encounter "dark states", which we analyze. We provide a general and detailed presentation of the mapping that reduces the exponentially large Hilbert space of the quantum walk to an effective subspace of polynomial scaling. This mapping is our essential tool to numerically study quantum walks in such large dimensional structures.

id: 1510.08652
title: Non-Markovian continuous-time quantum walks on lattices with dynamical disorders
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.08652
abstract: We address the dynamics of continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimensional disordered lattices. Noise is introduced as time-dependent fluctuations of the tunneling amplitudes between adjacent sites, and attention is focused on non-Gaussian telegraph noise. We demonstrate the emergence of two different dynamical behaviors for the walker, corresponding to two opposite noise regimes: {\em slow} noise confines the walker into few lattice nodes, while {\em fast} noise induce a transition between quantum and classical diffusion over the lattice. By tuning the ratio between the autocorrelation time of the noise and the coupling between the walker and the external environment generating the noise, it is possible to move continuosly from one dynamical behavior to the other. We also address the non-Markovianity of the quantum map by assessing its divisibility as well as evaluating the information backflow to the system. Our results suggest that the non-Markovian character of the evolution is linked to the dynamical behavior in the slow noise regime, and that fast noise induces a Markovian dynamics for the walker.

id: 1510.08657
title: Efficient Quantum Walk on a Quantum Processor
authors: Xiaogang Qiang, Thomas Loke, Ashley Montanaro, Kanin Aungskunsiri, Xiaoqi Zhou, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Jingbo Wang, Jonathan C. F. Matthews
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.08657
abstract: The random walk formalism is used across a wide range of applications, from modelling share prices to predicting population genetics. Likewise quantum walks have shown much potential as a frame- work for developing new quantum algorithms. In this paper, we present explicit efficient quantum circuits for implementing continuous-time quantum walks on the circulant class of graphs. These circuits allow us to sample from the output probability distributions of quantum walks on circulant graphs efficiently. We also show that solving the same sampling problem for arbitrary circulant quantum circuits is intractable for a classical computer, assuming conjectures from computational complexity theory. This is a new link between continuous-time quantum walks and computational complexity theory and it indicates a family of tasks which could ultimately demonstrate quantum supremacy over classical computers. As a proof of principle we have experimentally implemented the proposed quantum circuit on an example circulant graph using a two-qubit photonics quantum processor.

id: 1510.08905
title: Revivals in Quantum Walks with quasi-periodically time-dependent coin
authors: C. Cedzich, R. F. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.08905
abstract: We provide an explanation of recent experimental results of Xue et al., where full revivals in a time-dependent quantum walk model with a periodically changing coin are found. Using methods originally developed for "electric" walks with a space-dependent, rather than a time-dependent coin, we provide a full explanation of the observations of Xue et al. We extend the analysis from periodic time-dependence to quasi-periodic behaviour with periods incommensurate to the step size. Spectral analysis, one of the principal tools for the study of electric walks, fails for time-dependent systems, but we find qualitative propagation behaviour of the time-dependent system in close analogy to the electric case.

id: 1510.06910
title: Theory of low-energy behaviors in topological $s$-wave pairing superconductors
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Yuki Nagai, Masahiko Machida
comments: Proceedings of 27th International Symposium on Superconductivity (ISS2014). Comments are welcome
journal: Physica C 518 (2015) 5-9
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.06910
abstract: We construct a low-energy effective theory of topological $s$-wave pairing superconductors, focusing on the mean-field model of superconductor $\mbox{Cu}_{x}\mbox{Bi}_{2}\mbox{Se}_{3}$. Our approach is second-order perturbation with respect to the inverse of the mass (i.e., large-mass expansion) in the Dirac-type electron dispersion from topological insulator $\mbox{Bi}_{2}\mbox{Se}_{3}$. Since the Dirac-type dispersion with a large mass describes non-relativistic electrons, the large-mass expansion corresponds to a low-energy theory with respect to the original setup. We show that the effective gap function has not only a $p$-wave-like component as the primary contribution, but also an $s$-wave-like one as higher-order corrections. The mixture of $p$- and $s$-wave explains the numerical results [Phys. Rev. B 89 (2014) 214506] of the non-magnetic impurity effects.

