id: 1512.01989
title: Quantum correlations of identical particles subject to classical environmental noise
authors: Andrea Beggi, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 16 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.01989
abstract: In this work we propose a measure for the quantum discord of indistinguishable particles, based on the definition of entanglement of particles given in [H. M. Wiseman et al., Phis. Rev. Lett 91, 097902 (2003)]. This discord of particles is then used to evaluate the quantum correlations in a system of two identical bosons (fermions), where the particles perform a quantum random walk described by the Hubbard hamiltonian in a 1D lattice. The dynamics of the particles is either unperturbed or subject to a classical environmental noise - such as random telegraph, pink or brown noise. The observed results are consistent with those for the entanglement of particles, and we observe that on-site interaction between particles have an important protective effect on correlations against the decoherence of the system.

id: 1512.02802
title: Lively quantum walks on cycles
authors: Przemys?aw Sadowski, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, Mateusz Ostaszewski
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.02802
abstract: We introduce a family of quantum walks on cycles parametrized by their liveliness, defined as the ability to execute a long-range move. We investigate the behavior of the probability distribution and time-averaged probability distribution. We show that the liveliness parameter has a direct impact on the periodicity of the limiting distribution. We also show that the introduced model provides a simple recipe for improving the efficiency of the network exploration.

id: 1512.04016
title: Sculpting Quantum Speedups
authors: Scott Aaronson, Shalev Ben-David
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.04016
abstract: Given a problem which is intractable for both quantum and classical algorithms, can we find a sub-problem for which quantum algorithms provide an exponential advantage? We refer to this problem as the "sculpting problem." In this work, we give a full characterization of sculptable functions in the query complexity setting. We show that a total function f can be restricted to a promise P such that Q(f|_P)=O(polylog(N)) and R(f|_P)=N^{Omega(1)}, if and only if f has a large number of inputs with large certificate complexity. The proof uses some interesting techniques: for one direction, we introduce new relationships between randomized and quantum query complexity in various settings, and for the other direction, we use a recent result from communication complexity due to Klartag and Regev. We also characterize sculpting for other query complexity measures, such as R(f) vs. R_0(f) and R_0(f) vs. D(f). Along the way, we prove some new relationships for quantum query complexity: for example, a nearly quadratic relationship between Q(f) and D(f) whenever the promise of f is small. This contrasts with the recent super-quadratic query complexity separations, showing that the maximum gap between classical and quantum query complexities is indeed quadratic in various settings - just not for total functions! Lastly, we investigate sculpting in the Turing machine model. We show that if there is any BPP-bi-immune language in BQP, then every language outside BPP can be restricted to a promise which places it in PromiseBQP but not in PromiseBPP. Under a weaker assumption, that some problem in BQP is hard on average for P/poly, we show that every paddable language outside BPP is sculptable in this way.

id: 1512.05554
title: Laplacian versus Adjacency Matrix in Quantum Walk Search
authors: Thomas G. Wong, Lu¨ªs Tarrataca, Nikolay Nahimov
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.05554
abstract: A quantum particle evolving by Schr\"{o}dinger's equation contains, from the kinetic energy of the particle, a term in its Hamiltonian proportional to Laplace's operator. In discrete space, this is replaced by the discrete or graph Laplacian, which gives rise to a continuous-time quantum walk. Besides this natural definition, some quantum walk algorithms instead use the adjacency matrix to effect the walk. While this is equivalent to the Laplacian for regular graphs, it is different for non-regular graphs, and is thus an inequivalent quantum walk. We algorithmically explore this distinction by analyzing search on the complete bipartite graph with multiple marked vertices, using both the Laplacian and adjacency matrix. The two walks differ qualitatively and quantitatively in their required jumping rate, runtime, sampling of marked vertices, and in what constitutes a natural initial state. Thus the choice of the Laplacian or adjacency matrix to effect the walk has important algorithmic consequences.

id: 1512.06399
title: Continuous time quantum walks performing quantum gates via higher energy states
authors: Dmitry Solenov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.06399
abstract: It has recently been noticed that quantum gates can be performed faster and can utilize interaction between qubits more effectively if performed via continuous time quantum walks through states outside of the computational basis. We formulate general requirements for such walks and illustrate them with examples of single-, two- and three-qubit gates, including Hadamard, Control-NOT, and Toffoli gates. Continuous-time quantum walks on graphs involved in these gates are investigated.

id: 1512.06775
title: Hamiltonian quantum computer in one dimension
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, John C. Liang
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 92, 062334 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.06775
abstract: Quantum computation can be achieved by preparing an appropriate initial product state of qudits and then letting it evolve under a fixed Hamiltonian. The readout is made by measurement on individual qudits at some later time. This approach is called the Hamiltonian quantum computation and it includes, for example, the continuous-time quantum cellular automata and the universal quantum walk. We consider one spatial dimension and study the compromise between the locality $k$ and the local Hilbert space dimension $d$. For geometrically 2-local (i.e., $k=2$), it is known that $d=8$ is already sufficient for universal quantum computation but the Hamiltonian is not translationally invariant. As the locality $k$ increases, it is expected that the minimum required $d$ should decrease. We provide a construction of Hamiltonian quantum computer for $k=3$ with $d=5$. One implication is that simulating 1D chains of spin-2 particles is BQP-complete. Imposing translation invariance will increase the required $d$. For this we also construct another 3-local ($k=3$) Hamiltonian that is invariant under translation of a unit cell of two sites but that requires $d$ to be 8.

id: 1512.07050
title: Heisenberg's error-disturbance relations: a joint measurement-based experimental test
authors: Yuan-yuan Zhao, Pawe? Kurzy¨½ski, Guo-yong Xiang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.07050
abstract: The Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation is a cornerstone of quantum physics. It was recently shown to be not universally valid and two different approaches to reformulate it were proposed.The first one focuses on how error and disturbance of two observables, A and B, depend on a particular quantum state. The second one asks how a joint measurement of A and B affects their eigenstates. Previous experiments focused on the first approach. Here, we focus on the second one. Firstly, we propose and implement an extendible method for quantum walk-based joint measurements of noisy Pauli operators to test the error-disturbance relation for qubits. Then, we formulate and experimentally test a new universally valid relation for the three mutually unbiased observables. We therefore establish a fundamentally new method of testing error-disturbance relations.

id: 1512.07433
title: Electric quantum walks in two dimensions
authors: Luis A. Bru, Margarida Hinarejos, Fernando Silva, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.07433
abstract: We study electric quantum walks in two dimensions considering Grover, Alternate, Hadamard, and DFT quantum walks. In the Grover walk the behaviour under an electric field is easy to summarize: when the field direction coincides with the x or y axes, it produces a transient trapping of the probability distribution along the direction of the field, while when it is directed along the diagonals, a perfect 2D trapping is frustrated. The analysis of the alternate walk helps to understand the behaviour of the Grover walk as both walks are partially equivalent; in particular, it helps to understand the role played by the existence of conical intersections in the dispersion relations, as we show that when these are removed a perfect 2D trapping can occur for suitable directions of the field. We complete our study with the electric DFT and Hadamard walks in 2D, showing that the latter can exhibit perfect 2D trapping.

id: 1512.08358
title: Quantum walk as a simulator of nonlinear dynamics: Nonlinear Dirac equation and solitons
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Pawe? Kurzy¨½ski, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 92, 052336 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.08358
abstract: Quantum walk (QW) provides a versatile tool to study fundamental physics and also to make a variety of practical applications. We here start with the recent idea of {\it nonlinear} QW and show that introducing {\it nonlinearity} to QW can lead to a wealth of remarkable possibilities, e.g., simulating nonlinear quantum dynamics thus enhancing the applicability of QW above the existing level for a universal quantum simulator. As an illustration, we show that the dynamics of a nonlinear Dirac particle can be simulated on an optical nonlinear QW platform implemented with a measurement-based-feedforward scheme. The nonlinear evolution induced by the feed-forward introduces a self-coupling mechanism to (otherwise linear) Dirac particles, which accordingly behave as a \emph{soliton}. We particularly consider two kinds of nonlinear Dirac equations, one with a scalar-type self-coupling (Gross-Neveu model) and the other with a vector-type one (Thirring model), respectively. Using their known stationary solutions, we confirm that our nonlinear QW framework is capable of exhibiting characteristic features of a soliton. Furthermore, we show that the nonlinear QW enables us to observe and control an enhancement and suppression of the ballistic diffusion.

id: 1512.08700
title: Interacting with a quantum bath is not only decoherence producing: distinguishable particles
authors: Marco Nizama, Manuel O. C¨¢ceres
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, have been submitted to JPA 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.08700
abstract: Bath-induced correlations in an infinite dimension Hilbert space has been shown. Quantum correlations between two free spinless dissipative distinguishable particles (initially uncorrelated) are studied analytically using the quantum master equation. We show that for temperature $T>0$ the time-evolution of the reduced density matrix cannot be written as the direct product of two independent particles. We found a time-scale that characterizes the time when the bath-induced correlation is maximum before being wipe out by dissipation (purity, spatial, and mirror correlations are studied). We introduce a Wigner function associated to the Wannier lattice where the dissipative quantum walks move. Thus we discuss the peculiarities of the scenario of enlarging the lattice to the semi-integers in order to fulfilll all the fundamental properties of the Wigner function. We have supported the quantum character of the correlations by analyzing the negativity of the Wigner function.

id: 1512.00731
title: Nonequilibrium dynamics of the Ising chain in a fluctuating transverse field
authors: G. Ro¨®sz, R. Juh¨¢sz, F. Igl¨®i
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.00731
abstract: We study nonequilibrium dynamics of the quantum Ising chain at zero temperature when the transverse field is varied stochastically. In the equivalent fermion representation, the equation of motion of Majorana operators is derived in the form of a one-dimensional, continuous-time quantum random walk with stochastic, time-dependent transition amplitudes. This type of external noise gives rise to decoherence in the associated quantum walk and the semiclassical wave-packet generally has a diffusive behavior. As a consequence, in the quantum Ising chain, the average entanglement entropy grows in time as $t^{1/2}$ and the logarithmic average magnetization decays in the same form. In the case of a dichotomous noise, when the transverse-field is changed in discrete time-steps, $\tau$, there can be excitation modes, for which coherence is maintained, provided their energy satisfies $\epsilon_k \tau\approx n\pi$ with a positive integer $n$. If the dispersion of $\epsilon_k$ is quadratic, the long-time behavior of the entanglement entropy and the logarithmic magnetization is dominated by these ballistically traveling coherent modes and both will have a $t^{3/4}$ time-dependence.

