id: 1601.00294
title: Large Block Properties of the Entanglement Entropy of Disordered Fermions
authors: A.Elgart, L.Pastur, M. Shcherbina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.00294
abstract: We consider the macroscopic disordered system of free lattice fermions with the one-bodyHamiltonian, which is the d-dimensional Schrodinger operator with ergodic potential. Weassume that the expectation of the entries of the Fermi projection of the Hamiltonian decays exponentially (a typical behavior in the localization regime). We prove that for any dimension d the expectation of entanglement entropy of the cubic block of side length L divided by the surface area of the block has a finite limit as L tends to infinity and we identify the limit. We then prove that for d = 1 the entanglement entropy admits a well defined asymptotic form with probability 1. According to recent numerical results by Pastur L., Slavin V., Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 (2014) 150404, the asymptotic form is not selfaveraging for d = 1, i.e., its fluctuations do not vanish for large L even for an i.i.d. potential. On the other hand, for d >1 and an i.i.d. potential with sufficiently regular probability distribution, we prove that the variance of the entanglement entropy per unit area has a power law decay for large L, i.e., that for d >1 the entanglement entropy per unit area is selfaveraging.

id: 1601.01154
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Search on Balanced Trees
authors: Pascal Philipp, Lu¨ªs Tarrataca, Stefan Boettcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.01154
abstract: We examine the effect of network heterogeneity on the performance of quantum search algorithms. To this end, we study quantum search on a tree for the oracle Hamiltonian formulation employed by continuous-time quantum walks. We use analytical and numerical arguments to show that the exponent of the asymptotic running time $\sim N^{\beta}$ changes uniformly from $\beta=0.5$ to $\beta=1$ as the searched-for site is moved from the root of the tree towards the leaves. These results imply that the time complexity of the quantum search algorithm on a balanced tree is closely correlated with certain path-based centrality measures of the searched-for site.

id: 1601.01774
title: Realizing Topological Transition in a Non-Hermitian Quantum Walk with Circuit QED
authors: Yizhou Huang, Zhang-qi Yin, W. L. Yang
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.01774
abstract: We extend the non-Hermitian one-dimension quantum walk model [PRL 102, 065703 (2009)] by taking the dephasing effect into account. We prove that the feature of topological transition does not change even the dephasing between the sites within units is present. The potential experimental observation of our theoretical results in the circuit QED system consisting of superconducting qubit coupled to a superconducting resonator mode is discussed and numerically simulated. The results clearly show a topological transition in quantum walk, and display the robustness of such a system to the decay and dephasing of qubits. We also discuss how to extend model to higher dimension in the circuit QED system.

id: 1601.02032
title: Complete hyperentangled Bell state analysis for polarization and time-bin hyperentanglement
authors: Xihan Li, Shohini Ghose
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.02032
abstract: We present a complete hyperentangled Bell state analysis protocol for two-photon four-qubit states which are simultaneously entangled in the polarization and time-bin degrees of freedom. The 16 hyperentangled states can be unambiguously distinguished via two steps. In the first step, the polarization entangled state is distinguished deterministically and nondestructively with the help of the cross-Kerr nonlinearity. Then, in the second step, the time-bin state is analyzed with the aid of the polarization entanglement. We also discuss the applications of our protocol for quantum information processing. Compared with hyperentanglement in polarization and spatial-mode degrees of freedom, the polarization and time-bin hyperentangled states provide saving in quantum resources since there is no requirement for two spatial modes for each photon. This is the first complete hyperentangled Bell state analysis scheme for polarization and time-bin hyperentangled states, and it can provide new avenues for high-capacity, long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1601.02882
title: On Hidden States in Quantum Random Walks
authors: Ulrich Faigle, Alexander Sch?nhuth
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.02882
abstract: It was recently pointed out that identifiability of quantum random walks and hidden Markov processes underlie the same principles. This analogy immediately raises questions on the existence of hidden states also in quantum random walks and their relationship with earlier debates on hidden states in quantum mechanics. The overarching insight was that not only hidden Markov processes, but also quantum random walks are finitary processes. Since finitary processes enjoy nice asymptotic properties, this also encourages to further investigate the asymptotic properties of quantum random walks. Here, answers to all these questions are given. Quantum random walks, hidden Markov processes and finitary processes are put into a unifying model context. In this context, quantum random walks are seen to not only enjoy nice ergodic properties in general, but also intuitive quantum-style asymptotic properties. It is also pointed out how hidden states arising from our framework relate to hidden states in earlier, prominent treatments on topics such as the EPR paradoxon or Bell's inequalities.

id: 1601.02931
title: Bounds on Collapse Models from Matter-Wave Interferometry: Calculational details
authors: Marko Toro?, Angelo Bassi
comments: 44 pages,17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.02931
abstract: We present a simple derivation of the interference pattern in matter-wave interferometry as predicted by a class of master equations, by using the density matrix formalism. We apply the obtained formulae to the most relevant collapse models, namely the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (GRW) model, the continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) model together with its dissipative (dCSL) and non-markovian generalizations (cCSL) and the Di\'{o}si-Penrose (DP) model. We discuss the separability of the collapse models dynamics along the 3 spatial directions, the validity of the paraxial approximation and the amplification mechanism. We obtain analytical expressions both in the far field and near field limits. These results agree with those already derived in the Wigner function formalism. We compare the theoretical predictions with the experimental data from two relevant matter-wave experiments: the 2012 far-field experiment and the 2013 Kapitza Dirac Talbot Lau (KDTL) near-field experiment of Arndt's group. We show the region of the parameter space for each collapse model, which is excluded by these experiments. We show that matter-wave experiments provide model insensitive bounds, valid for a wide family of dissipative and non-markovian generalizations.

id: 1601.03756
title: Efficient hyperconcentration of nonlocal multipartite entanglement via the cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Xihan Li, Shohini Ghose
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: OPTICS EXPRESS 23 3550(2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03756
abstract: We propose two schemes for concentration of hyperentanglement of nonlocal multipartite states which are simultaneously entangled in the polarization and spatial modes. One scheme uses an auxiliary singlephoton state prepared according to the parameters of the less-entangled states. The other scheme uses two less-entangled states with unknown parameters to distill the maximal hyperentanglement. The procrustean concentration is realized by two parity check measurements in both the two degrees of freedom. Nondestructive quantum nondemolition detectors based on cross-Kerr nonlinearity are used to implement the parity check, which makes the unsuccessful instances reusable in the next concentration round. The success probabilities in both schemes can be made to approach unity by iteration. Moreover, in both schemes only one of the N parties has to perform the parity check measurements. Our schemes are efficient and useful for quantum information processing involving hyperentanglement.

id: 1601.03827
title: Time Evolution of Gaussian Wave Packets under Dirac Equation with Fluctuating Mass and Potential
authors: Atis Yosprakob, Sujin Suwanna
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03827
abstract: Electron behaviors in graphene have revived research interests on the behaviors of Dirac particles in recent years. Moreover, localization of relativistic particles have been of great research interests over many decades. We investigate the time evolution of the Gaussian wave packets governed by the one dimensional Dirac equation. For the free Dirac equation, we obtain the evolution profiles analytically in many approximation regimes, and numerical simulations consistent with other numerical schemes. Interesting behaviors such as the Klein-paradox and the Zitterbewegung behaviors are observed. In particular, the dispersion rate as a function of mass is calculated, and it yields a surprising result the super-massive and massless particle both exhibit no dispersion in free space. For the Dirac equation with random potential or mass, we employ the numerical algorithm to investigate the probability profiles of the displacement distribution when the potential is uniformly distributed. We observe that the widths of the Gaussian wave packets decrease rapidly as the randomness strength increases. This suggests an onset of localization, but it is weaker than Anderson localization.

id: 1601.04212
title: Quantum Walk Search on Johnson Graphs
authors: Thomas G. Wong
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.04212
abstract: The Johnson graph $J(n,k)$ is defined by $n$ symbols, where vertices are $k$-element subsets of the symbols, and vertices are adjacent if they differ in exactly one symbol. In particular, $J(n,1)$ is the complete graph $K_n$, and $J(n,2)$ is the strongly regular triangular graph $T_n$, both of which are known to support fast spatial search by continuous-time quantum walk. In this paper, we prove that $J(n,3)$, which is the $n$-tetrahedral graph, also supports fast search. In the process, we show that a change of basis is needed for degenerate perturbation theory to accurately describe the dynamics. This method can also be applied to general Johnson graphs $J(n,k)$ with fixed $k$.

id: 1601.04592
title: Quantum walks, deformed relativity, and Hopf algebra symmetries
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 11 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1503.01017
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.04592
abstract: We show how the Weyl quantum walk derived from principles in Ref. [1], enjoying a nonlinear Lorentz symmetry of dynamics, allows one to introduce Hopf algebras for position and momentum of the emerging particle. We focus on two special models of Hopf algebras--the usual Poincar\'e and the k-Poincar\'e algebras.

id: 1601.04691
title: Efficient Computation of Decoherent Quantum Walks through Eigenvalue Perturbation
authors: Andrea Torsello, Luca Rossi
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.04691
abstract: A number of recent studies have investigated the introduction of decoherence in quantum walks and the resulting transition to classical random walks. Interestingly, it has been shown that algorithmic properties of quantum walks with decoherence such as the spreading rate are sometimes better than their purely quantum counterparts. Not only quantum walks with decoherence provide a generalization of quantum walks that naturally encompasses both the quantum and classical case, but they also give rise to new and different probability distribution. The application of quantum walks with decoherence to large graphs is limited by the necessity of evolving a state vector whose size is quadratic in the number of nodes of the graph, as opposed to the linear state vector of the purely quantum (or classical) case. In this technical report, we show how to use perturbation theory to reduce the computational complexity of evolving a continuous-time quantum walk subject to decoherence. More specifically, given a graph over n nodes, we show how to approximate the eigendecomposition of the n^2 x n^2 Lindblad super-operator from the eigendecomposition of the n x n graph Hamiltonian.

id: 1601.06006
title: Polariton mediated quantum information processing
authors: Thi Ha Kyaw, Sebastian Allende, Leong-Chuan Kwek, Guillermo Romero
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.06006
abstract: We study the equilibrium and nonequilibrium properties of two qubits interacting through a polariton bus with an ultrastrong coupled qubit-cavity system. By tuning the energy gap of the qubits maintaining the polariton within the vacuum, we demonstrate an improvement of two-qubit gate operation time and excitations transfer as the ultrastrong coupling strength is increased. Our proposal might pave the way for multipurpose parity protected quantum information tasks, and for the enhancement of excitations transfer in disordered systems.

id: 1601.06483
title: Extraordinary behaviors in two-dimensional decoherent alternative quantum walk
authors: Tian Chen, Xiangdong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.06483
abstract: The quantum and classical behaviors of two-dimensional (2D) alternative quantum walk (AQW) in the presence of decoherence have been discussed in detail. For any kinds of decoherence, the analytic expressions for the moments of position distribution of AQW have been obtained. Taking the broken line noise and coin-decoherence as examples of decoherence, we find that when the decoherence only emerges in one direction, the anisotropic position distribution pattern appears, and not all the motions of quantum walkers exhibit the transition from quantum to classical behaviors. The correlations between the walkers and the coin in 2D AQW have been discussed. The anisotropic correlations between walkers and coin have been revealed in the presence of decoherence.

id: 1601.06617
title: Spontaneously emitted X-rays: an experimental signature of the dynamical reduction models
authors: C. Curceanu, S. Bartalucci, A. Bassi, M. Bazzi, S. Bertolucci, C. Berucci, A. M. Bragadireanu, M. Cargnelli, A. Clozza, L. De Paolis, S. Di Matteo, S. Donadi, A. DUffizi, J-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, M. Laubenstein, J. Marton, E. Milotti, A. Pichler, D. Pietreanu, K. Piscicchia, T .Ponta, E. Sbardella, A. Scordo, H. Shi, D.L. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, O. Vazquez Doce, J. Zmeskal
comments: to be published in Foundation of Physics 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.06617
abstract: We present the idea of searching for X-rays as a signature of the mechanism inducing the spontaneous collapse of the wave function. Such a signal is predicted by the continuous spontaneous localization theories, which are solving the "measurement problem" by modifying the Schrodinger equation. We will show some encouraging preliminary results and discuss future plans and strategy.

id: 1601.07061
title: Entanglement and localization transitions in eigenstates of interacting chaotic systems
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan, Shashi C. L. Srivastava, Roland Ketzmerick, Arnd B?cker, Steven Tomsovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.07061
abstract: The entanglement and localization in eigenstates of strongly chaotic subsystems are studied as a function of their interaction strength. Excellent measures for this purpose are the von-Neumann entropy, Havrda-Charv{\' a}t-Tsallis entropies, and the averaged inverse participation ratio. All the entropies are shown to follow a remarkably simple exponential form, which describes a universal and rapid transition to nearly maximal entanglement for increasing interaction strength. An unexpectedly exact relationship between the subsystem averaged inverse participation ratio and purity is derived that infers the transition in the localization as well.

id: 1601.07171
title: Indeterminate Space-time Quantum Mechanics: a Computer-augmented Framework using Wiener-like Processes
authors: Carlton Frederick
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1406.5248
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.07171
abstract: Wiener processes (the formalization of Brownian Motion random walk) provide a basis for a model of discrete, mobile elements (Dx, Dy, Dz, Dt) that 'tile' space-time. The possible migrations of these elements are shown graphically via computer simulation. The Wiener process is modified by not taking the process to infinitesimals, and by also allowing the process to be a random walk in time as well as space. While migrations of a single element can easily be expressed with such a Wiener-like process, migrations within the completely tiled space-time (without introducing extra dimensions) require curvature. And since the quantum vacuum energy fluctuations imply curvature fluctuations, we use those curvature fluctuations in the model. The process of measurement, the nature of particle spin, and the quantum mechanical implications of the model are explored. The following results are obtained: In regions outside mass, the Schwarzschild metric is deduced (using a plausibility argument) without employing the General Relativity field equations. And inside mass, the model gives the remarkable result that for spherical masses greater than the Planck mass, there is no wave function, so, for example, the 2-slit experiment will not (even theoretically) show interference when performed with cannonballs.

id: 1601.01764
title: Anomalous Topological Phases and Unpaired Dirac Cones in Photonic Floquet Topological Insulators
authors: Daniel Leykam, M. C. Rechtsman, Y. D. Chong
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.01764
abstract: We propose a class of photonic Floquet topological insulators based on staggered helical lattices and an efficient numerical method for calculating their Floquet bandstructure. The lattices support anomalous Floquet topological insulator phases with vanishing Chern number and tunable topological transitions. At the critical point of the topological transition, the bandstructure hosts a single unpaired Dirac cone, which yields a variety of unusual transport effects: a discrete analogue of conical diffraction, weak antilocalization not limited by intervalley scattering, and suppression of Anderson localization. Unlike previous designs, the effective gauge field strength can be controlled via lattice parameters such as the inter-helix distance, significantly reducing radiative losses and enabling applications such as switchable topological wave-guiding.

id: 1601.02344
title: Two-photon tomography using on-chip quantum walks
authors: James Titchener, Alexander Solntsev, Andrey Sukhorukov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.02344
abstract: We present a conceptual approach to quantum tomography based on first expanding a quantum state across extra degrees of freedom and then exploiting the introduced sparsity to perform reconstruction. We formulate its application to photonic circuits, and show that measured spatial photon correlations at the output of a specially tailored discrete-continuous quantum-walk can enable full reconstruction of any two-photon spatially entangled and mixed state at the input. This approach does not require any tunable elements, so is well suited for integration with on-chip superconducting photon detectors.

id: 1601.03383
title: On polynomial Lieb-Robinson bounds for the XY chain in a decaying random field
authors: Martin Gebert, Marius Lemm
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03383
abstract: We consider the isotropic XY quantum spin chain in a random external field in the $z$ direction, with single site distributions given by i.i.d. random variables times the critical decaying envelope $j^{-1/2}$. Our motivation is the study of many-body localization. We investigate transport properties in terms of polynomial Lieb-Robinson (PLR) bounds. We prove a zero-velocity PLR bound for large disorder strength $\lambda$ and for small $\lambda$ we show a partial converse, which suggests the existence of non-trivial transport in the model.

id: 1601.03557
title: Spontaneous decay of an atom excited in a dense and disordered atomic ensemble: quantum microscopic approach
authors: A.S. Kuraptsev, I.M. Sokolov
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 90, 012511 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03557
abstract: On the basis of general theoretical results developed previously in [I. M. Sokolov et al., J. Exp. Theor. Phys. 112, 246 (2011)], we analyze spontaneous decay of a single atom inside cold atomic clouds under conditions when the averaged interatomic separation is less or comparable with the wavelength of quasi resonant radiation. Beyond the decay dynamics we analyze shifts of resonance as well as distortion of the spectral shape of the atomic transition.

id: 1601.03573
title: Reflection of resonant light from a plane surface of an ensemble of motionless point scatters: Quantum microscopic approach
authors: A.S. Kuraptsev, I.M. Sokolov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 91, 053822 (2015)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03573
abstract: On the basis of general theoretical results developed previously in [JETP 112, 246 (2011)], we analyze the reflection of quasiresonant light from a plane surface of dense and disordered ensemble of motionless point scatters. Angle distribution of the scattered light is calculated both for s and p polarizations of the probe radiation. The ratio between coherent and incoherent (diffuse) components of scattered light is calculated. We analyze the contributions of scatters located at different distances from the surface and determine on this background the thickness of surface layer responsible for reflected beam generation. The inhomogeneity of dipole-dipole interaction near the surface is discussed.We study also dependence of total reflected light power on the incidence angle and compare the results of the microscopic approach with predictions of the Fresnel reflection theory. The calculations are performed for different densities of scatters and different frequencies of a probe radiation.

id: 1601.03784
title: Localization of weakly disordered flat band states
authors: Daniel Leykam, Joshua D. Bodyfelt, Anton S. Desyatnikov, Sergej Flach
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.03784
abstract: Certain tight binding lattices host macroscopically degenerate flat spectral bands. Their origin is rooted in local symmetries of the lattice, with destructive interference leading to the existence of compact localized eigenstates. A recent study of a particular one-dimensional lattice [EPL 105, 30001 (2014)] showed that weak diagonal disorder hybridizes compact eigenstates with dispersive bands, leading to Fano resonances, Cauchy-tailed effective disorder potentials, and a loss of single parameter scaling. Here we generalize to different classes of flat band lattices in one and two dimensions as well as off-diagonal disorder, revealing different scaling exponents for the Anderson localization length and confirming the broad applicability of the underlying Fano-Cauchy physics.

id: 1601.04728
title: Superradiance at the localization-delocalization crossover in tubular chlorosomes
authors: Rafael A. Molina, Enrique Benito-Mat¨ªas, Alejandro Somoza, Lipeng Chen, Yang Zhao
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.04728
abstract: We study the effect of disorder on spectral properties of tubular chlorosomes in green sulfur bacteria Cf. aurantiacus. Employing a Frenkel-exciton Hamiltonian with diagonal and off-diagonal disorder consistent with spectral and structural studies, we analyze excitonic localization and spectral statistics of the chlorosomes. A size-dependent localization-delocalization crossover is found to occur as a function of the excitonic energy. The crossover energy region coincides with the more optically active states with maximized superradiance, and is, consequently, more conducive for energy transfer.

id: 1601.05785
title: Atom optics simulator of lattice transport phenomena
authors: Eric J. Meier, Fangzhao Alex An, Bryce Gadway
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; 3 pages of supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.05785
abstract: We experimentally investigate a novel scheme for studying lattice transport phenomena, based on the controlled momentum-space dynamics of ultracold atomic matter waves. In the effective tight-binding models that can be simulated, we demonstrate that this technique allows for a local and time-dependent control over all system parameters, and additionally allows for single-site resolved detection of atomic populations. We demonstrate full control over site-to-site off-diagonal tunneling elements (amplitude and phase) and diagonal site-energies, through the observation of continuous-time quantum walks, Bloch oscillations, and negative tunneling. These capabilities open up new prospects in the experimental study of disordered and topological systems.

