id: 1508.04164
title: Photon Correlations Generated by Inelastic Scattering in a One-Dimensional Waveguide Coupled to Three-Level Systems
authors: Yao-Lung L. Fang, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04164
abstract: We study photon correlations generated by scattering from three-level systems (3LS) in one dimension. The two systems studied are a 3LS in a semi-infinite waveguide (3LS plus a mirror) and two 3LS in an infinite waveguide (double 3LS). Our scattering approach naturally connects photon correlation effects with inelastically scattered photons; it corresponds to input-output theory in the weak-probe limit. At the resonance where electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) occurs, we find that no photons are scattered inelastically and hence there are no induced correlations. Slightly away from EIT, the total inelastically scattered flux is large, being substantially enhanced due to the additional interference paths. This enhancement carries over to the two-photon correlation function, which exhibits non-classical behavior such as strong bunching with a very long time-scale. The long time scale originates from the slow-light effect associated with EIT.

id: 1508.04342
title: Linear optics only allows every possible quantum operation for one photon or one port
authors: Julio Jos¨¦ Moyano-Fern¨¢ndez, Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin
comments: 4 pages + references. First version. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04342
abstract: We study the evolution of the quantum state of $n$ photons in $m$ different modes when they go through a lossless linear optical system. We show that there are quantum evolution operators $U$ that cannot be built with linear optics alone unless the number of photons or the number of modes is equal to one. The evolution for single photons can be controlled with the known realization of any unitary proved by Reck, Zeilinger, Bernstein and Bertani. The evolution for a single mode corresponds to the trivial evolution in a phase shifter. We analyze these two cases and prove that any other combination of the number of photons and modes produces a Hilbert state too big for the linear optics system to give any desired evolution.

