id: 1505.01513
title: Transient and steady-state entanglement mediated by three-dimensional plasmonic waveguides
authors: S. Ali Hassani Gangaraj, Andrei Nemilentsau, George W. Hanson, Stephen Hughes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.01513
abstract: Entanglement between two qubits (two level atoms) mediated by surface plasmons in three-dimensional plasmonic waveguides is studied using a quantum master equation formalism. Two types of waveguides, a nanowire and a V-shaped channel cut in a flat metal plane, are considered. The Green functions for the waveguides, which rigorously describes the dissipative qubit environment, are calculated numerically using a direct finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) solution of Maxwell's equations. Finite-length effects are shown to play a crucial role in enhancing entanglement, and resonant-length plasmonic waveguides can provide higher entanglement between qubits than infinite-length waveguides. It is also shown that coupling slots can improve entanglement via stronger qubit-waveguide coupling, for both the infinite- and finite-waveguide cases.

id: 1505.01651
title: Local zeta regularization and the scalar Casimir effect III. The case with a background harmonic potential
authors: Davide Fermi, Livio Pizzocchero
comments: Some overlaps with our previous works arXiv:1104.4330, arXiv:1505.00711, arXiv:1505.01044. These overlaps aim to make the present paper self-contained, and do not involve the main results
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.01651
abstract: Applying the general framework for local zeta regularization proposed in Part I of this series of papers, we renormalize the vacuum expectation value of the stress-energy tensor (and of the total energy) for a scalar field in presence of an external harmonic potential.

id: 1505.01763
title: Force sensor for chameleon and Casimir force experiments with parallel-plate configuration
authors: Attaallah Almasi, Philippe Brax, Davide Iannuzzi, Ren¨¦ I. P. Sedmik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 102002 (2015)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.01763
abstract: The search for non-Newtonian forces has been pursued following many different paths. Recently it was suggested that hypothetical chameleon interactions, which might explain the mechanisms behind dark energy, could be detected in a high-precision force measurement. In such an experiment, interactions between parallel plates kept at constant separation could be measured as a function of the pressure of an ambient gas, thereby identifying chameleon interactions by their unique inverse dependence on the local mass density. During the past years we have been developing a new kind of setup complying with the high requirements of the proposed experiment. In this article we present the first and most important part of this setup -- the force sensor. We discuss its design, fabrication, and characterization. From the results of the latter we derive limits on chameleon interaction parameters that could be set by the forthcoming experiment. Finally, we describe the opportunity to use the same setup to measure Casimir forces at large surface separations with unprecedented accuracy, thereby potentially giving unambiguous answers to long standing open questions.

id: 1410.3627
title: Full analysis of multi-photon pair effects in spontaneous parametric down conversion based photonic quantum information processing
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Rui-Bo Jin, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 043030 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3627
abstract: 

