id: 1503.07951
title: Non-Markovian quantum Brownian motion: a non-Hamiltonian approach
authors: A. O. Bolivar
comments: Review article, 188 pages. Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.07951
abstract: We generalize the classical theory of Brownian motion so as to reckon with non-Markovian effects on both Klein-Kramers and Smoluchowski equations. For a free particle and a harmonic oscillator, it is shown that such non-Markovian effects account for the differentiability of the Brownian trajectories as well as the breakdown of the energy equipartition of statistical mechanics at short times in some physical situations. This non-Markovian approach is also extended to look at anomalous diffusion. Next, we bring in the dynamical-quantization method for investigating open quantum systems, which does consist in quantizing the classical Brownian motion starting directly from our non-Markovian Klein-Kramers and Smoluchowski equations, without alluding to any model Hamiltonian. Accordingly, quantizing our non-Markovian Klein-Kramers in phase space gives rise to a non-Markovian quantum master equation in configuration space, whereas quantizing our non-Markovian Smoluchowski equation in configuration space leads to a non-Markovian quantum Smoluchowski equation in phase space. In addition, it is worth noticing that non-Markovian quantum Brownian motion takes place in presence of a generic environment (e.g. a non-thermal quantum fluid). As far as the special case of a heat bath comprising of quantum harmonic oscillators is concerned, a non-Markovian Caldeira-Leggett master equation and a thermal quantum Smoluchowski equation are derived and extended to bosonic and fermionic heat baths valid for all temperatures.

id: 1503.07999
title: Quantum filter for a class of non-Markovian quantum systems
authors: Shibei Xue, Matthew R. James, Alireza Shabani, Valery Ugrinovskii, Ian R. Petersen
comments: submitted to the 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.07999
abstract: In this paper we present a Markovian representation approach to constructing quantum filters for a class of non-Markovian quantum systems disturbed by Lorenztian noise. An ancillary system is introduced to convert white noise into Lorentzian noise which is injected into a principal system via a direct interaction. The resulting dynamics of the principal system are non-Markovian, which are driven by the Lorentzian noise. By probing the principal system, a quantum filter for the augmented system can be derived from standard theory, where the conditional state of the principal system can be obtained by tracing out the ancillary system. An example is provided to illustrate the non-Markovian dynamics of the principal system.

