id: 1505.06755
title: Single Photon Transport through an Atomic Chain Coupled to a One-dimensional Nanophotonic Waveguide
authors: Zeyang Liao, Xiaodong Zeng, Shi-Yao Zhu, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.06755
abstract: We study the dynamics of a single photon pulse travels through a linear atomic chain coupled to a one-dimensional (1D) single mode photonic waveguide. We derive a time-dependent dynamical theory for this collective many-body system which allows us to study the real time evolution of the photon transport and the atomic excitations. Our analytical result is consistent with previous numerical calculations when there is only one atom. For an atomic chain, the collective interaction between the atoms mediated by the waveguide mode can significantly change the dynamics of the system. The reflectivity of a photon can be tuned by changing the ratio of coupling strength and the photon linewidth or by changing the number of atoms in the chain. The reflectivity of a single photon pulse with finite bandwidth can even approach $100\%$. The spectrum of the reflected and transmitted photon can also be significantly different from the single atom case. Many interesting physical phenomena can occur in this system such as the photonic bandgap effects, quantum entanglement generation, Fano-like interference, and superradiant effects. For engineering, this system may serve as a single photon frequency filter, single photon modulation and may find important applications in quantum information.

id: 1505.07023
title: Quantum walks in curved spacetime
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini, Marcelo Forets
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.07023
abstract: A discrete-time Quantum Walk (QW) is essentially a unitary operator driving the evolution of a single particle on the lattice. Some QWs admit a continuum limit, leading to familiar PDEs (e.g. the Dirac equation), and thus provide us with discrete toy models of familiar particles (e.g. the electron). In this paper, we study the continuum limit of a wide class of QWs, and show that it leads to all those PDEs corresponding to the Hamiltonian form of the massive curved Dirac equation in (1 + 1) dimensions. Therefore a certain QW, which we make explicit, provides us with a unitary discrete toy model of the electron as a test particle in curved spacetime, in spite of the fixed background lattice. Mathematically we have introduced two novel ingredients for taking the continuum limit of a QW, but which apply to any quantum cellular automata: encoding and grouping.

id: 1412.5865
title: Unified Description of Classical and Quantum Behaviours in a Variational Principle
authors: Tomoi Koide, Takeshi Kodama, Kazuo Tsushima
comments: 10 pages, no figure, proceedings of DICE 2014, references and discussions were added, errors were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.5865
abstract: 

