id: 1504.05970
title: Optical Signatures of Non-Markovian Behaviour in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Dara P.S. McCutcheon
comments: Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05970
abstract: We derive an extension to the quantum regression theorem which facilitates the calculation of two-time correlation functions and emission spectra for systems undergoing non-Markovian evolution. The derivation exploits projection operator techniques, with which we obtain explicit equations of motion for the correlation functions, making only a second order expansion in the system-environment coupling strength, and invoking the Born approximation at a fixed initial time. The results are used to investigate a driven semiconductor quantum dot coupled to an acoustic phonon bath, where we find the non-Markovian nature of the dynamics has observable signatures in the form of phonon sidebands in the resonance fluorescence emission spectrum.

id: 1412.6442
title: Work and heat for two-level systems in dissipative environments: Strong driving and non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Rebecca Schmidt, M. Florencia Carusela, Jukka P. Pekola, Samu Suomela, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, this version: added one new author, changed figures 2 and 4, minor changes in the text
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6442
abstract: 

id: 1504.05398
title: Nonhomogeneous quantum Markov chains and a notion of ergodicity
authors: Carlos F. Lardizabal, Rafael R. Souza
comments: 14 pages, corrections made on one example
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05398
abstract: 

id: 1504.06152
title: Enhancing quantum transport in a photonic network using controllable decoherence
authors: Devon N. Biggerstaff, Ren¨¦ Heilmann, Aidan A. Zecevik, Markus Gr?fe, Matthew A. Broome, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Stefan Nolte, Alexander Szameit, Andrew G. White, Ivan Kassal
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.06152
abstract: Transport phenomena on a quantum scale appear in a variety of systems, ranging from photosynthetic complexes to engineered quantum devices. It has been predicted that the efficiency of quantum transport can be enhanced through dynamic interaction between the system and a noisy environment. We report the first experimental demonstration of such environment-assisted quantum transport, using an engineered network of laser-written waveguides, with relative energies and inter-waveguide couplings tailored to yield the desired Hamiltonian. Controllable decoherence is simulated via broadening the bandwidth of the input illumination, yielding a significant increase in transport efficiency relative to the narrowband case. We show integrated optics to be suitable for simulating specific target Hamiltonians as well as open quantum systems with controllable loss and decoherence.

