id: 1505.05150
title: Dynamical Quasicondensation of Hard-Core Bosons at Finite Momenta
authors: L. Vidmar, J. P. Ronzheimer, M. Schreiber, S. Braun, S. S. Hodgman, S. Langer, F. Heidrich-Meisner, I. Bloch, U. Schneider
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05150
abstract: Long-range order in quantum many-body systems is usually associated with equilibrium situations. Here, we experimentally investigate the quasicondensation of strongly-interacting bosons at finite momenta in a far-from-equilibrium case. We prepare an inhomogeneous initial state consisting of one-dimensional Mott insulators in the center of otherwise empty one-dimensional chains in an optical lattice with a lattice constant $d$. After suddenly quenching the trapping potential to zero, we observe the onset of coherence in spontaneously forming quasicondensates in the lattice. Remarkably, the emerging phase order differs from the ground-state order and is characterized by peaks at finite momenta $\pm (\pi/2) (\hbar / d)$ in the momentum distribution function.

id: 1505.05217
title: Modulation-assisted tunneling in laser-fabricated photonic Wannier-Stark ladders
authors: Sebabrata Mukherjee, Alexander Spracklen, Debaditya Choudhury, Nathan Goldman, Patrik ?hberg, Erika Andersson, Robert R. Thomson
comments: 5 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05217
abstract: We observe Wannier-Stark localization in curved photonic lattices, realized using arrays of evanescently coupled optical waveguides. By correctly tuning the strength of inter-site coupling in the lattice, we observe that Wannier-Stark states become increasingly localized, and eventually fully localized to one site, as the curvature of the lattice is increased. We then demonstrate that tunneling can be successfully restored in the lattice by applying a sinusoidal modulation to the lattice position, an effect that is a direct analogue of photon-assisted tunneling. This precise tuning of the tunneling matrix elements, through laser-fabricated on-site modulations, opens a novel route for the creation of gauge fields in photonic lattices.

