id: 1509.02921
title: Introduction to Quantum Gate Set Tomography
authors: Daniel Greenbaum
comments: 57 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.02921
abstract: Quantum gate set tomography (GST) has emerged as a promising method for the full characterization of quantum logic gates. In contrast to quantum process tomography (QPT), GST self-consistently and correctly accounts for state preparation and measurement (SPAM) errors. It therefore provides significantly more accurate estimates than QPT as gate fidelities increase into the fault-tolerant regime. We give a detailed review of GST and provide a self-contained guide to its implementation. The method is presented in a step-by-step fashion and relevant mathematical background material is included. Our goal is to demonstrate the utility of GST as both an accurate characterization technique and a simple and effective diagnostic tool. As an illustration, we compare the output of GST and QPT using simulated example data for a single qubit. In agreement with the original literature, we find that coherent errors are poorly estimated by QPT near quantum error correction thresholds, while GST is accurate in this regime.

id: 1509.02944
title: Making Existential-Unforgeable Signatures Strongly Unforgeable in the Quantum Random-Oracle Model
authors: Edward Eaton, Fang Song
comments: 15 pages, to appear in Proceedings TQC 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.02944
abstract: Strongly unforgeable signature schemes provide a more stringent security guarantee than the standard existential unforgeability. It requires that not only forging a signature on a new message is hard, it is infeasible as well to produce a new signature on a message for which the adversary has seen valid signatures before. Strongly unforgeable signatures are useful both in practice and as a building block in many cryptographic constructions. This work investigates a generic transformation that compiles any existential-unforgeable scheme into a strongly unforgeable one, which was proposed by Teranishi et al. and was proven in the classical random-oracle model. Our main contribution is showing that the transformation also works against quantum adversaries in the quantum random-oracle model. We develop proof techniques such as adaptively programming a quantum random-oracle in a new setting, which could be of independent interest. Applying the transformation to an existential-unforgeable signature scheme due to Cash et al., which can be shown to be quantum-secure assuming certain lattice problems are hard for quantum computers, we get an efficient quantum-secure strongly unforgeable signature scheme in the quantum random-oracle model.

id: 1509.03239
title: Doubled Color Codes
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Andrew Cross
comments: 53 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.03239
abstract: We show how to perform a fault-tolerant universal quantum computation in 2D architectures using only transversal unitary operators and local syndrome measurements. Our approach is based on a doubled version of the 2D color code. It enables a transversal implementation of all logical gates in the Clifford+T basis using the gauge fixing method proposed recently by Paetznick and Reichardt. The gauge fixing requires six-qubit parity measurements for Pauli operators supported on faces of the honeycomb lattice with two qubits per site. Doubled color codes are promising candidates for the experimental demonstration of logical gates since they do not require state distillation. Secondly, we propose a Maximum Likelihood algorithm for the error correction and gauge fixing tasks that enables a numerical simulation of logical circuits in the Clifford+T basis. The algorithm can be used in the online regime such that a new error syndrome is revealed at each time step. We estimate the average number of logical gates that can be implemented reliably for the smallest doubled color code and a toy noise model that includes depolarizing memory errors and syndrome measurement errors.

