id: 1509.04849
title: Quantum extensions of dynamical systems and of Markov semigroups
authors: Ivan Bardet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.04849
abstract: We investigate some particular completely positive maps which admit a stable commutative Von Neumann subalgebra. The restriction of such maps to the stable algebra is then a Markov operator. In the first part of this article, we propose a recipe in order to find a quantum extension of a given Markov operator in the above sense. We show that the existence of such an extension is linked with the existence of a special form of dilation for the Markov operator studied by Attal in \cite{Att1}, reducing the problem to the extension of dynamical system. We then apply our method to the same problem in continuous time, proving the existence of a quantum extension for L\'evy processes. In the second part of this article, we focus on the case where the commutative algebra is isomorphic to $\Acal=l^\infty(1,...,N)$ with $N$ either finite or infinite. We propose a classification of the CP maps leaving $\Acal$ stable, producing physical examples of each classes.

id: 1509.05001
title: Solving constrained quadratic binary problems via quantum adiabatic evolution
authors: Pooya Ronagh, Brad Woods, Ehsan Iranmanesh
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.05001
abstract: Quantum adiabatic evolution is perceived as useful for binary quadratic programming problems that are a priori unconstrained. For constrained problems, it is a common practice to relax linear equality constraints as penalty terms in the objective function. However, there has not yet been proposed a method for efficiently dealing with inequality constraints using the quantum adiabatic approach. In this paper, we give a method for solving the Lagrangian dual of a binary quadratic programming (BQP) problem in the presence of inequality constraints and employ this procedure within a branch-and-bound framework for constrained BQP (CBQP) problems.

id: 1503.02437
title: Hybrid quantum device based on NV centers in diamond nanomechanical resonators plus superconducting waveguide cavities
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Yong-Chun Liu, S.-Y. Gao, Ze-Liang Xiang, Peter Rabl, Yun-Feng Xiao, Fu-Li Li
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. Applied
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1503.02437
abstract: 

