id: 1504.03070
title: On derivation of Markovian master equation with time coarse graining
authors: Yasusada Nambu, Shingo Kukita
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03070
abstract: We present a derivation of the Markovian master equation using the time coarse graining method. Starting from a naive perturbative solution of the von Neumann equation, the reduced density matrix with the coarse grained time steps is obtained using the assumption of short correlation time of the bath field. Then applying the renormalization group method, it is shown that dependence of the specific initial time in the solution can be removed and the Markovian semi-group master equation in Lindblad form is attained in the weak coupling limit.

id: 1504.03158
title: Quantum Lattice Boltzmann is a quantum walk
authors: Sauro Succi, Francois Fillion-Gourdeau, Silvia Palpacelli
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03158
abstract: Numerical methods for the 1-D Dirac equation based on operator splitting and on the quantum lattice Boltzmann (QLB) schemes are reviewed. It is shown that these discretizations fall within the class of quantum walks, i.e. discrete maps for complex fields, whose continuum limit delivers Dirac-like relativistic quantum wave equations. The correspondence between the quantum walk dynamics and these numerical schemes is given explicitly, allowing a connection between quantum computations, numerical analysis and lattice Boltzmann methods. The QLB method is then extended to the Dirac equation in curved spaces and it is demonstrated that the quantum walk structure is preserved. Finally, it is argued that the existence of this link between the discretized Dirac equation and quantum walks may be employed to simulate relativistic quantum dynamics on quantum computers.

id: 1504.03178
title: Control of two-photon quantum walk in a complex multimode system by wavefront shaping
authors: Hugo Defienne, Marco Barbieri, Ian A. Walmsley, Brian J. Smith, Sylvain Gigan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03178
abstract: Multi-photon interferences in complex multimode structures - quantum walks - are of both funda- mental and technological interest. They rely on the ability to design the complex network where the walk occurs. Here, we demonstrate the control of quantum walks of two indistinguishable photons in a complex linear system - a highly multimode fiber - by means of wavefront shaping techniques. Using the measured transmission matrix of the fiber, we demonstrate the ability to address arbitrary output modes of the two-photon speckle pattern, and simultaneous control of the quantum inter- ferences. This work provides a reconfigurable platform for multi-photon, multimode interference experiments and a route to high-dimensional quantum systems.

id: 1503.07999
title: Quantum filter for a class of non-Markovian quantum systems
authors: Shibei Xue, Matthew R. James, Alireza Shabani, Valery Ugrinovskii, Ian R. Petersen
comments: submitted to the 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.07999
abstract: 

id: 1504.02105
title: Quantum Darwinism and non-Markovian dissipative dynamics from quantum phases of the spin-1/2 XX model
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.02105
abstract: 

id: 1409.6953
title: Quasipinning and selection rules for excitations in atoms and molecules
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Michael Springborg
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures, new references, some typos corrected and a new section added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.6953
abstract: 

id: 1504.02908
title: Superconducting Circuitry for Quantum Electromechanical Systems
authors: Matthew D. LaHaye, Francisco Rouxinol, Yu Hao, Seung-Bo Shim, Elinor K. Irish
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, Proceedings of the SPIE, 9500-48
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.02908
abstract: Superconducting systems have a long history of use in experiments that push the frontiers of mechanical sensing. This includes both applied and fundamental research, which at present day ranges from quantum computing research and efforts to explore Planck-scale physics to fundamental studies on the nature of motion and the quantum limits on our ability to measure it. In this paper, we first provide a short history of the role of superconducting circuitry and devices in mechanical sensing, focusing primarily on efforts in the last decade to push the study of quantum mechanics to include motion on the scale of human-made structures. This background sets the stage for the remainder of the paper, which focuses on the development of quantum electromechanical systems (QEMS) that incorporate superconducting quantum bits (qubits), superconducting transmission line resonators and flexural nanomechanical elements. In addition to providing the motivation and relevant background on the physical behavior of these systems, we discuss our recent efforts to develop a particular type of QEMS that is based upon the Cooper-pair box (CPB) and superconducting coplanar waveguide (CPW) cavities, a system which has the potential to serve as a testbed for studying the quantum properties of motion in engineered systems.

