id: 1508.04869
title: Ultrafast Optimal Sideband Cooling under Non-Markovian Evolution
authors: Johan F. Triana, Andr¨¦s F. Estrada, Leonardo A. Pachon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04869
abstract: A sideband cooling strategy that incorporates (i) the dynamics induced by structured (non-Markovian) environments in the target and auxiliary systems and (ii) the optimally-time-modulated interaction between them is developed. For the context of cavity optomechanics, when non-Markovian dynamics are considered in the target system, ground state cooling is reached at much faster rates and at much lower phonon occupation number than previously reported. In constrast to similar current strategies, ground state cooling is reached here for coupling-strength rates that are experimentally accesible for the state-of-the-art implementations. After the ultrafast optimal-ground-state-cooling protocol is accomplished, an additional optimal control strategy is considered to maintain the phonon number as closer as possible to the one obtained in the cooling procedure. Contrary to the conventional expectation, when non-Markovian dynamics are considered in the auxiliary system, the efficiency of the cooling protocol is undermined.

id: 1506.04213
title: Coherent chemical kinetics as quantum walks I: Reaction operators for radical pairs
authors: A. Chia, A. Gorecka, K. C. Tan, L. Pawela, P. Kurzynski, T. Paterek, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1506.04213
abstract: 

id: 1508.04938
title: Recursive simulation of quantum annealing
authors: A. P. Sowa, M. J. Everitt, J. H. Samson, S. E. Savel'ev, A. M. Zagoskin, S. Heidel, J. C. Z¨²?iga-Anaya
comments: 17 pages, accepted by Journal of Physics A: Theoretical and Mathematical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04938
abstract: The evaluation of the performance of adiabatic annealers is hindered by lack of efficient algorithms for simulating their behaviour. We exploit the analyticity of the standard model for the adiabatic quantum process to develop an efficient recursive method for its numerical simulation in case of both unitary and non-unitary evolution. Numerical simulations show distinctly different distributions for the most important figure of merit of adiabatic quantum computing --- the success probability --- in these two cases.

id: 1508.04847
title: Coupling an ensemble of electrons on superfluid helium to a superconducting circuit
authors: Ge Yang, A. Fragner, G. Koolstra, L. Ocola, D.A. Czaplewski, R.J. Schoelkopf, D.I. Schuster
comments: main text 5 pages, 4 figures, supplemental information includes 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04847
abstract: The quantized lateral motional states and the spin states of electrons trapped on the surface of superfluid helium have been proposed as basic building blocks of a scalable quantum computer. Circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) allows strong dipole coupling between electrons and a high-Q superconducting microwave resonator, enabling such sensitive detection and manipulation of electron degrees of freedom. Here we present the first realization of a hybrid circuit in which a large number of electrons are trapped on the surface of superfluid helium inside a coplanar waveguide resonator. The high finesse of the resonator allows us to observe large dispersive shifts that are many times the linewidth and make fast and sensitive measurements on the collective vibrational modes of the electron ensemble, as well as the superfluid helium film underneath. Furthermore, a large ensemble coupling is observed in the dispersive regime during experiment, and it shows excellent agreement with our numeric model. The coupling strength of the ensemble to the cavity is found to be >1 MHz per electron, indicating the feasibility of achieving single electron strong coupling.

