id: 1509.00889
title: Symmetries of general non-Markovian Gaussian diffusive unravelings
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.00889
abstract: By using a condition of average trace preservation we derive a general class of non-Markovian Gaussian diffusive unravelings [L. Diosi and L. Ferialdi, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{113}, 200403 (2014)], here valid for arbitrary non-Hermitian system operators and noise correlations. The conditions under which the generalized stochastic Schrodinger equation has the same symmetry properties (invariance under unitary changes of operator base) than a microscopic system-bath Hamiltonian dynamics are determined. While the standard quantum diffusion model (standard noise correlations) always share the same invariance symmetry, the generalized stochastic dynamics can be mapped with an arbitrary bosonic environment only if some specific correlation constraints are fulfilled. These features are analyzed for different non-Markovian unravelings equivalent in average. Results based on quantum measurement theory that lead to specific cases of the generalized dynamics [J. Gambetta and H. M. Wiseman, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{66}, 012108 (2002)]\ are studied from the perspective of the present analysis.

id: 1509.00960
title: Suitable bases for quantum walks with Wigner coins
authors: Iva Bezdekova, Martin Stefanak, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 92, 022347 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.00960
abstract: The analysis of a physical problem simplifies considerably when one uses a suitable coordinate system. We apply this approach to the discrete-time quantum walks with coins given by $2j+1$-dimensional Wigner rotation matrices (Wigner walks), a model which was introduced in T. Miyazaki et al., Phys. Rev. A 76, 012332 (2007). First, we show that from the three parameters of the coin operator only one is physically relevant for the limit density of the Wigner walk. Next, we construct a suitable basis of the coin space in which the limit density of the Wigner walk acquires a much simpler form. This allows us to identify various dynamical regimes which are otherwise hidden in the standard basis description. As an example, we show that it is possible to find an initial state which reduces the number of peaks in the probability distribution from generic $2j+1$ to a single one. Moreover, the models with integer $j$ lead to the trapping effect. The derived formula for the trapping probability reveals that it can be highly asymmetric and it deviates from purely exponential decay. Explicit results are given up to the dimension five.

id: 1509.01001
title: Dynamic Entanglement Evolution of Two-qubit XYZ Spin Chain in Markovian Environment
authors: Ren Yi-Chong, Fan Hong-Yi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.01001
abstract: We propose a new approach called Ket-Bra Entangled State (KBES) Method for converting master equation into Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation. With this method, we investigate decoherence process and entanglement dynamics induced by a $2$-qubit spin chain that each qubit coupled with reservoir. The spin chain is an anisotropy $XYZ$ Heisenberg model in the external magnetic field $B$, the corresponding master equation is solved concisely by KBES method; Furthermore, the effects of anisotropy, temperature, external field and initial state on concurrence dynamics is analyzed in detail for the case that initial state is Extended Wenger-Like(EWL) state. Finally we research the coherence and concurrence of the final state (namely the density operator for time tend to infinite)

id: 1509.01239
title: Universal set of Dynamically Protected Gates for Bipartite Qubit Networks II: Soft Pulse Implementation of the [[5,1,3]] Quantum Error Correcting Code
authors: Amrit De, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.01239
abstract: We model repetitive quantum error correction (QEC) with the single-error-correcting five-qubit code on a network of individually-controlled qubits with always-on Ising couplings, using our previously designed universal set of quantum gates based on sequences of shaped decoupling pulses. In addition to serving as accurate quantum gates, the sequences also provide dynamical decoupling (DD) of low-frequency phase noise. The simulation involves integrating unitary dynamics of six qubits over the duration of tens of thousands of control pulses, using classical stochastic phase noise as a source of decoherence. The combined DD/QEC protocol dramatically improves the coherence, with the QEC alone responsible for more than an order of magnitude infidelity reduction.

id: 1509.01017
title: A Hamiltonian treatment of stimulated Brillouin scattering in nanoscale integrated waveguides
authors: J. E. Sipe, M. J. Steel
comments: 39 pages: 20 pages for main article + 19 pages supplementary information; 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.01017
abstract: We present a multimode Hamiltonian formulation for the problem of opto-acoustic interactions in optical waveguides. We establish a Hamiltonian representation of the acoustic field and then introduce a full system with a simple opto-acoustic coupling that includes both photoelastic/electrostrictive and radiation pressure/moving boundary effects. The Heisenberg equations of motion are used to obtain coupled mode equations for quantized envelope operators for the optical and acoustic fields. We show that the coupling coefficients obtained coincide with those established earlier, but our formalism provides a much simpler demonstration of the connection between radiation pressure and moving boundary effects than in previous work [C. Wolff et al, Physical Review A 92, 013836 (2015)].

