id: 1509.05098
title: Quantum optical signal processing in diamond
authors: Kent A.G. Fisher, Duncan. G. England, Jean-Phillipe W. Maclean, Philip J. Bustard, Kevin J. Resch, Benjamin J. Sussman
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.05098
abstract: Controlling the properties of single photons is essential for a wide array of emerging optical quantum technologies spanning quantum sensing, quantum computing, and quantum communications. Essential components for these technologies include single photon sources, quantum memories, waveguides, and detectors. The ideal spectral operating parameters (wavelength and bandwidth) of these components are rarely similar; thus, frequency conversion and spectral control are key enabling steps for component hybridization. Here we perform signal processing of single photons by coherently manipulating their spectra via a modified quantum memory. We store 723.5 nm photons, with 4.1 nm bandwidth, in a room-temperature diamond crystal; upon retrieval we demonstrate centre frequency tunability over 4.2 times the input bandwidth, and bandwidth modulation between 0.5 to 1.9 times the input bandwidth. Our results demonstrate the potential for diamond, and Raman memories in general, to be an integrated platform for photon storage and spectral conversion.

id: 1509.05216
title: Few-photon coherent nonlinear optics with a single molecule
authors: Andreas Maser, Benjamin Gmeiner, Tobias Utikal, Stephan G?tzinger, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.05216
abstract: The pioneering experiments of linear spectroscopy were performed using flames in the 1800s, but nonlinear optical measurements had to wait until lasers became available in the twentieth century. Because the nonlinear cross section of materials is very small, usually macroscopic bulk samples and pulsed lasers are used. Numerous efforts have explored coherent nonlinear signal generation from individual nanoparticles or small atomic ensembles with millions of atoms. Experiments on a single semiconductor quantum dot have also been reported, albeit with a very small yield. Here, we report on coherent nonlinear spectroscopy of a single molecule under continuous-wave single-pass illumination, where efficient photon-molecule coupling in a tight focus allows switching of a laser beam by less than a handful of pump photons nearly resonant with the sharp molecular transition. Aside from their fundamental importance, our results emphasize the potential of organic molecules for applications such as quantum information processing, which require strong nonlinearities.

id: 1509.05307
title: Non-Markovian dynamics in two-qubit dephasing channels with an application to superdense coding
authors: Antti Karlsson, Henri Lyyra, Elsi-Mari Laine, Sabrina Maniscalco, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.05307
abstract: We study the performance of two measures of non-Markovianity in detecting memory effects in two-qubit dephasing channels. By combining independent Markovian and non-Markovian noise on the qubits, our results show that the trace distance measure is able to detect the memory effects when at least one of the local channels displays non-Markovianity. A measure based on channel capacity, in turn, becomes non-zero when the global two-qubit dynamics shows memory effects. We apply these schemes to a well-known superdense coding protocol and demonstrate an optimal noise configuration to maximize the information transmission with independent local noises.

