id: 1504.03635
title: Direct observation of ultrafast many-body electron dynamics in a strongly-correlated ultracold Rydberg gas
authors: Nobuyuki Takei, Christian Sommer, Claudiu Genes, Guido Pupillo, Haruka Goto, Kuniaki Koyasu, Hisashi Chiba, Matthias Weidem¨¹ller, Kenji Ohmori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03635
abstract: Many-body interactions govern a variety of important quantum phenomena ranging from superconductivity and magnetism in condensed matter to solvent effects in chemistry. Understanding those interactions beyond mean field is a holy grail of modern sciences. AMO physics with advanced laser technologies has recently emerged as a new platform to study quantum many-body systems. One of its latest developments is the study of long-range interactions among ultracold particles to reveal the effects of many-body correlations. Rydberg atoms distinguish themselves by their large dipole moments and tunability of dipolar interactions. Most of ultracold Rydberg experiments have been performed with narrow-band lasers in the Rydberg blockade regime. Here we demonstrate an ultracold Rydberg gas in a complementary regime, where electronic coherence is created using a broadband picosecond laser pulse, thus circumventing the Rydberg blockade to induce strong many-body correlations. The effects of long-range Rydberg interactions have been investigated by time-domain Ramsey interferometry with attosecond precision. This approach allows for the real-time observation of coherent and ultrafast many-body dynamics in which the electronic coherence is modulated by the interaction-induced correlations. The modulation evolves more rapidly than expected for two-body correlations by several orders of magnitude. We have actively controlled such ultrafast many-body dynamics by tuning the principal quantum number and the population of the Rydberg state. The observed Ramsey interferograms are well reproduced by a theoretical model beyond mean-field approximation, which can be relevant to other similar many-body phenomena in condensed matter physics and chemistry. Our new approach opens a new avenue to observe and manipulate nonequilibrium dynamics of strongly-correlated quantum many-body systems on the ultrafast timescale.

id: 1504.03356
title: Quantum theory of light emission from quantum dots coupled to structured photonic reservoirs and acoustic phonons
authors: Kaushik Roy-Choudhury, Stephen Hughes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03356
abstract: Electron-phonon coupling in semiconductor quantum dots plays a significant role in determining the optical properties of excited excitons, especially the spectral nature of emitted photons. This paper presents a comprehensive theory and analysis of emission spectra from artificial atoms or quantum dots coupled to structured photon reservoirs and acoustic phonons, when excited with incoherent pump fields. As specific examples of structured reservoirs, we chose a Lorentzian cavity and a coupled cavity waveguide, which are of current experimental interest. For the case of optical cavities, we directly compare and contrast the spectra from three distinct theoretical approaches to treat electron-phonon coupling, including a Markovian polaron master equation, a non-Markovian phonon correlation expansion technique and a semiclassical linear susceptibility approach, and we point out the limitations of these models. For the cavity-QED polaron master equation, we give closed form analytical solutions to the phonon-assisted scattering rates in the weak excitation approximation, fully accounting for temperature, cavity-exciton detuning and cavity dot coupling. We show explicitly why the semiclassical linear susceptibility approach fails to correctly account for phonon-mediated cavity feeding. For weakly coupled cavities, we calculate the optical spectra using a more general reservoir approach and explain its differences from the above approaches in the low Q limit of a Lorentzian cavity. We subsequently use this general reservoir to calculate the emission spectra from quantum dots coupled to slow-light photonic crystal waveguides, which demonstrate a number of striking photon-phonon coupling effects. Our quantum theory can be applied to a wide range of photonic structures including photonic molecules and coupled-cavity waveguide systems.

id: 1504.03382
title: Single-photon Resolved Cross-Kerr Interaction for Autonomous Stabilization of Photon-number States
authors: E. T. Holland, B. Vlastakis, R. W. Heeres, M. J. Reagor, U. Vool, Z. Leghtas, L. Frunzio, G. Kirchmair, M. H. Devoret, M. Mirrahimi, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.03382
abstract: Quantum states can be stabilized in the presence of intrinsic and environmental losses by either applying active feedback conditioned on an ancillary system or through reservoir engineering. Reservoir engineering maintains a desired quantum state through a combination of drives and designed entropy evacuation. We propose and implement a quantum reservoir engineering protocol that stabilizes Fock states in a microwave cavity. This protocol is realized with a circuit quantum electrodynamics platform where a Josephson junction provides direct, nonlinear coupling between two superconducting waveguide cavities. The nonlinear coupling results in a single photon resolved cross-Kerr effect between the two cavities enabling a photon number dependent coupling to a lossy environment. The quantum state of the microwave cavity is discussed in terms of a net polarization and is analyzed by a measurement of its steady state Wigner function.

