id: 1510.02885
title: Localization and limit laws of a three-state alternate quantum walk on a two-dimensional lattice
authors: Takuya Machida, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.02885
abstract: A two-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk (DTQW) can be realized by alternating a two-state DTQW in one spatial dimension followed by an evolution in the other dimension. This was shown to reproduce a probability distribution for a certain configuration of a four-state DTQW on a two-dimensional lattice. In this work we present a three-state alternate DTQW with a parameterized coin-flip operator and show that it can produce localization that is also observed for a certain other configuration of the four-state DTQW and non-reproducible using the two-state alternate DTQW. We will present two limit theorems for the three-state alternate DTQW. One of the limit theorems describes a long-time limit of a return probability, and the other presents a convergence in distribution for the position of the walker on a rescaled space by time. We will also outline the relevance of these walks in physical systems.

id: 1510.03045
title: Optimal Classical Random Access Codes Using Single d-level Systems
authors: Andris Ambainis, Dmitry Kravchenko, Ashutosh Rai
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03045
abstract: Recently, in the letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 114}, 170502 (2015)], Tavakoli et al. derived interesting results by studying classical and quantum random access codes (RACs) in which the parties communicate higher-dimensional systems. They construct quantum RACs with a bigger advantage over classical RACs compared to previously considered RACs with binary alphabet. However, these results crucially hinge upon an unproven assertion that the classical strategy "majority-encoding-identity-decoding" leads to the maximum average success probability achievable for classical RACs; in this article we provide a proof of this intuition. We characterize all optimal classical RACs and show that indeed "majority-encoding-identity-decoding" is one among the several optimal strategies. Along with strengthening the results in Tavakoli et al., our result provides a firm basis for future research on this topic.

id: 1510.03046
title: A localized quantum walk with a gap in distribution
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03046
abstract: Quantum walks behave differently from what we expect and their probability distributions have unique structures. They have localization, singularities, a gap, and so on. Those features have been discovered from the view point of mathematics and reported as limit theorems. In this paper we focus on a time-dependent three-state quantum walk on the line and demonstrate a limit distribution. Three coin states at each position are iteratively updated by a coin-flip operator and a position-shift operator. As the result of the evolution, we end up to observe both localization and a gap in the limit distribution.

id: 1510.03089
title: Quantum Walk Topology and Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Graciana Puentes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1409.1273
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.03089
abstract: In a recent detailed research program we proposed to study the complex physics of topological phases by an all optical implementation of a discrete-time quantum walk. The main novel ingredient proposed for this study is the use of non-linear parametric amplifiers in the network which could in turn be used to emulate intra-atomic interactions and thus analyze many-body effects in topological phases even when using light as the quantum walker. In this paper, and as a first step towards the implementation of our scheme, we analize the interplay between quantum walk lattice topology and spatial correlations of bi-photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We also describe different detection methods suitable for our proposed experimental scheme.

