id: 1505.05542
title: Non-Markovianity induced by a single-photon packet in a one-dimensional waveguide
authors: M. F. Z. Arruda, D. Valente, T. Werlang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05542
abstract: The concept of non-Markovianity (NM) in quantum dynamics is still an open debate. Understanding how to generate and measure NM in specific models may aid in this quest. In quantum optics, an engineered electromagnetic environment coupled to a single atom can induce NM. The most common scenario of structured electromagnetic environment is an optical cavity, composed by a pair of mirrors. Here, we show how to generate and measure NM on a two-level system coupled to a one-dimensional waveguide with no mirrors required. The origin of the non-Markovian behavior lies in the initial state of the field, prepared as a single-photon packet. We analyze how NM depends on two experimentally controllable parameters, namely, the linewidth of the packet and its central frequency. We relate the presence of NM to a $\pi$-phase shift between incoming and emitted fields. We also show how the two output channels of the waveguide provide distinct signatures of NM, both experimentally accessible.

id: 1505.05748
title: The short-time and long-time behaviors of non-Markovianity measure using two-time correlation functions in open quantum systems
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Ping-Yuan Lo, Matisse Wei-Yuan Tu, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05748
abstract: We investigate non-Markovianity measure using two-time correlation functions for open quantum systems. We define non-Markovianity measure as the difference between the exact two-time correlation function and the one obtained in the Markov limit. Such non-Markovianity measure can easily be measured in experiments. We found that the non-Markovianity dynamics in different time scale crucially depends on the system-environment coupling strength and other physical parameters such as the initial temperature of the environment and the initial state of the system. In particular, we obtain the short-time and long-time behaviors of non-Markovianity for different spectral densities. We also find that the thermal fluctuation always reduce the non-Markovian memory effect. Also, the non-Markovianity measure shows non-trivial initial state dependence in different time scales.

id: 1505.05810
title: Delineating incoherent non-Markovian dynamics using quantum coherence
authors: Titas Chanda, Samyadeb Bhattacharya
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05810
abstract: We introduce a method of characterization of non-Markovianity using coherence of a system interacting with the environment. We show that under the allowed incoherent operations, monotonicity of a valid coherence measure is affected due to non-Markovian features of the system-environment evolution. We also define a measure to quantify non-Markovianity of the underlying dynamics based on the non-monotonic behavior of the coherence measure. We investigate our proposed non-Markovianity marker in the behavior of dephasing and dissipative dynamics for one and two qubit cases. We also show that our proposed measure captures the back-flow of information from the environment to the system and compatible with well known distinguishability criteria of non-Markovianity.

id: 1406.6642
title: Direct observation of coherent inter-orbital spin-exchange dynamics
authors: Giacomo Cappellini, Marco Mancini, Guido Pagano, Pietro Lombardi, Lorenzo Livi, Mario Siciliani de Cumis, Pablo Cancio, Marco Pizzocaro, Davide Calonico, Filippo Levi, Carlo Sias, Jacopo Catani, Massimo Inguscio, Leonardo Fallani
comments: In this version of the preprint we have swapped the assignment of the eg+ and eg- states to the spectroscopic signals, thus correcting a wrong attribution in the previous version. As a consequence, the scattering lengths of the two states have been inverted. Hovewer, the main results of the paper remain unchanged. 5 pages (paper) + 3 pages (Supplemental Material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 120402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.6642
abstract: 

