id: 1505.03726
title: Markovian Theory of Dynamical Decoupling by Periodic Control
authors: Krzysztof Szczygielski, Robert Alicki
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03726
abstract: The recently developed formalism of Markovian Master Equations for quantum open systems with external periodic driving is applied to the theory of dynamical decoupling by periodic control. This new approach provides a more detailed quantitative picture of this phenomena applicable to traditional NMR spectroscopy and more recent attempts to reduce decoherence in quantum devices based on two-level systems. For the popular choices of bath spectral densities exact formulas for the parameters in the corresponding Bloch equations are available. In the context of NMR imaging a new parameter describing bath relaxation time can be extracted by comparing the exact solutions with experimental data.

id: 1505.03626
title: Continuous Variable Quantum Repeaters
authors: Josephine Dias, Tim Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03626
abstract: We propose a quantum repeater for continuous variable (CV) quantum optical states. Our repeater relies on an error correction protocol for loss on CV states based on CV teleportation and entanglement distillation via noiseless linear amplification. The error correction protocol is concatenated to preserve the same effective transmission coefficient for the quantum channel over increasing distance. The probability of successful operation of the repeater scales polynomially with distance. However, the protocol is limited by a trade-off between fidelity and probability of success.

id: 1505.03715
title: Hong-Ou-Mandel Interference with a Single Atom
authors: K.A. Ralley, I.V. Lerner, I.V. Yurkevich
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03715
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) effect is widely regarded as the quintessential quantum interference phenomenon in optics. In this work we examine how nonlinearity can smear statistical photon bunching in the HOM interferometer. We model both the nonlinearity and a balanced beam splitter with a single two-level system and calculate a finite probability of anti-bunching arising in this geometry. We thus argue that the presence of such nonlinearity would reduce the visibility in the standard HOM setup, offering some explanation for the diminution of the HOM visibility observed in many experiments. We use the same model to show that the nonlinearity affects a resonant two-photon propagation through a two-level impurity in a waveguide due to a "weak photon blockade" caused by the impossibility of double-occupancy and argue that this effect might be stronger for multi-photon propagation.

