id: 1505.00301
title: Trace-distance correlations for X states and emergence of the pointer basis in Markovian and non-Markovian regimes
authors: Paola C. Obando, Fagner M. Paula, Marcelo S. Sarandy
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00301
abstract: We provide analytical expressions for classical and total trace-norm (Schatten 1-norm) geometric correlations in the case of two-qubit X states. As an application, we consider the open-system dynamical behavior of such correlations under phase and generalized amplitude damping evolutions. Then, we show that geometric classical correlations can characterize the emergence of the pointer basis of an apparatus subject to decoherence in either Markovian or non-Markovian regimes. In particular, as a non-Markovian effect, we obtain a time delay for the information to be retrieved from the apparatus by a classical observer. Moreover, we show that the set of initial X states exhibiting sudden transitions in the geometric classical correlation has nonzero measure.

id: 1505.00683
title: The discrete-time quaternionic quantum walk on a graph
authors: Norio Konno, Hideo Mitsuhashi, Iwao Sato
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00683
abstract: Recently, the quaternionic quantum walk was formulated by the first author as a generalization of discrete-time quantum walks. We treat the right eigenvalue problem of quaternionic matrices to analysis the spectra of its transition matrix. The way to obtain all the right eigenvalues of a quaternionic matrix is given. From the unitary condition on the transition matrix of the quaternionic quantum walk, we deduce some properties about it. Our main results, Theorem 5.3, determine all the right eigenvalues of a quaternionic quantum walk by use of those of the corresponding weighted matrix. In addition, we give some examples of quaternionic quantum walks and their right eigenvalues.

id: 1409.2260
title: A Trotter-Kato Theorem for Quantum Markov Limits
authors: Luc Bouten, Rolf Gohm, John Gough, Hendra Nurdin
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2260
abstract: 

id: 1505.00711
title: Local zeta regularization and the scalar Casimir effect I. A general approach based on integral kernels
authors: Davide Fermi, Livio Pizzocchero
comments: Some overlaps with our previous work arXiv:1104.4330 . These overlaps aim to make the present paper self-contained, and do not involve the main results
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00711
abstract: This is the first one of a series of papers about zeta regularization of the divergences appearing in the vacuum expectation value (VEV) of several local and global observables in quantum field theory. More precisely we consider a quantized, neutral scalar field on a domain in any spatial dimension, with arbitrary boundary conditions and, possibly, in presence of an external classical potential. We analyze, in particular, the VEV of the stress-energy tensor, the corresponding boundary forces and the total energy, thus taking into account both local and global aspects of the Casimir effect. In comparison with the wide existing literature on these subjects, we try to develop a more systematic approach, allowing to treat specific configurations by mere application of a general machinery. The present Part I is mainly devoted to setting up this general framework; at the end of the paper, this is exemplified in a very simple case. In Parts II, III and IV we will consider more engaging applications, indicated in the Introduction of the present work.

