id: 1505.04850
title: Lattice topology and spontaneous parametric down-conversion in quadratic nonlinear waveguide arrays
authors: Daniel Leykam, Alexander S. Solntsev, Andrey A. Sukhorukov, Anton S. Desyatnikov
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04850
abstract: We analyze spontaneous parametric down-conversion in various experimentally feasible 1D quadratic nonlinear waveguide arrays, with emphasis on the relationship between the lattice's topological invariants and the biphoton correlations. Nontrivial topology results in a nontrivial "winding" of the array's Bloch waves, which introduces additional selection rules for the generation of biphotons. These selection rules are in addition to, and independent of existing control using the pump beam's spatial profile and phase matching conditions. In finite lattices, nontrivial topology produces single photon edge modes, resulting in "hybrid" biphoton edge modes, with one photon localized at the edge and the other propagating into the bulk. When the single photon band gap is sufficiently large, these hybrid biphoton modes reside in a band gap of the bulk biphoton Bloch wave spectrum. Numerical simulations support our analytical results.

id: 1502.02592
title: Bulk-edge correspondence of one-dimensional quantum walks
authors: C. Cedzich, F. A. Gr¨¹nbaum, C. Stahl, L. Vel¨¢zquez, A. H. Werner, R. F. Werner
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Interactive material and Mathematica-Notebooks at this http URL - updated references, improved argument, removed appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1502.02592
abstract: 

id: 1505.04900
title: Eigenvalue decomposition method for photon statistics of frequency filtered fields and its applications to quantum dot emitters
authors: Kenji Kamide, Satoshi Iwamoto, Yasuhiko Arakawa
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04900
abstract: A simple calculation method for photon statistics of frequency-filtered fields is proposed. This method, based on eigenvalue decompositions of superoperators, allows us to study effects on the photon statistics of spectral filtering by various types of filters, such as Gaussian and rectangular filters as well as Lorentzian filters, which is not possible by conventional approaches. As an example, this method is applied to a simulation of quantum dot single-photon emitters, where we found the efficient choice of the filter types to have pure single photons depends on the excitation conditions i.e. incoherent or coherent (and resonant) excitations.

