id: 1412.7895
title: Quantum trajectories under frequent measurements in non-Markovian environment
authors: Luting Xu, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; discussions in contact with the non-Markovian stochastic Schrodinger equation and a more appendix (large-deviation analysis) are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.7895
abstract: 

id: 1311.3046
title: Jordan-Wigner formalism for arbitrary 2-input 2-output matchgates and their classical simulation
authors: Richard Jozsa, Akimasa Miyake, Sergii Strelchuk
comments: 6 pages; v2: 16 pages. New author added. New title and abstract. Content much expanded with new results
journal: Quant. Inform. Comp. vol 15, p0541-0556 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.3046
abstract: 

id: 1508.03741
title: Strongly driven nonlinear quantum optics in microring resonators
authors: Z. Vernon, J.E. Sipe
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.03741
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of strongly driven spontaneous four-wave mixing in a lossy integrated microring resonator side-coupled to a channel waveguide. A nonperturbative, analytic solution within the undepleted pump approximation is developed for a cw pump input of arbitrary intensity. In the strongly driven regime self- and cross-phase modulation, as well as multi-pair generation, lead to a rich variety of power-dependent effects; the results are markedly different than in the low power limit. The photon pair generation rate, single photon spectrum, and joint spectral intensity (JSI) distribution are calculated. Splitting of the generated single photon spectrum into a doublet structure associated with both pump detuning and cross-phase modulation is predicted, as well as substantial narrowing of the generated signal and idler bandwidths associated with the onset of optical parametric oscillation at intermediate powers. Both the correlated and uncorrelated contributions to the JSI are calculated, and for sufficient powers the uncorrelated part of the JSI is found to form a quadruplet structure. The pump detuning is found to play a crucial role in all of these phenomena, and a critical detuning is identified which divides the system behaviour into distinct regimes, as well as an optimal detuning strategy which preserves many of the low-power characteristics of the generated photons for arbitrary input power.

id: 1508.04033
title: Continuous error correction for Ising anyons
authors: Adrian Hutter, James R. Wootton
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04033
abstract: Quantum gates in topological quantum computation are performed by braiding non-Abelian anyons. These braiding processes can be performed with very low error rates. However, to make a topological quantum computation architecture truly scalable, even rare errors need to be corrected. Error correction for non-Abelian anyons is complicated by the fact that it needs to be performed on a continuous basis and further errors may occur while we are correcting existing ones. Here, we provide the first study of this problem and prove its feasibility, establishing non-Abelian anyons as a viable platform for scalable quantum computation. We thereby focus on Ising anyons as the most prominent example of non-Abelian anyons and show that for these a finite error rate can indeed be corrected continuously. There is a threshold error rate $p_c>0$ such that for all error rates $p<p_c$ the probability of a logical error per time-step can be made exponentially small in the distance of a logical qubit.

id: 1508.04099
title: On computational complexity of some quantum models with bosons
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04099
abstract: Expressions with permanents in quantum processes with bosons deserved recently certain attention. A difference between couple relevant models is discussed in presented work. An oscillator model has certain resemblance with matchgate circuits also known as "fermionic linear optics" and effectively simulated on classical computer. The possibility of effective classical computations of average particle numbers in single-mode measurement for bosonic linear optical networks is shown using the analogy.

