id: 1511.03793
title: The defect-induced localization in many positions of the quantum random walk
authors: Tian Chen, Xiangdong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1511.03793
abstract: We study the localization of probability distribution in a discrete quantum random walk on an infinite chain. With a phase defect introduced in any position of the quantum random walk (QRW), we have found that the localization of the probability distribution in the QRW emerges. Different localized behaviors of the probability distribution in the QRW are presented when the defect occupies different positions. Given that the coefficients of the localized stationary eigenstates relies on the coin operator, we reveal that when the defect occupies different positions, the amplitude of localized probability distribution in the QRW exhibits a non-trivial dependence on the coin operator.

id: 1511.03865
title: Doubling the Success of Quantum Walk Search Using Internal-State Measurements
authors: Kri?j¨¡nis Pr¨±sis, Jevg¨¥nijs Vihrovs, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1511.03865
abstract: In typical discrete-time quantum walk algorithms, one measures the position of the walker while ignoring its internal spin/coin state. Rather than neglecting the information in this internal state, we show that additionally measuring it doubles the success probability of many quantum spatial search algorithms. For example, this allows Grover's unstructured search problem to be solved with certainty, rather than with probability 1/2 if only the walker's position is measured, so the additional measurement yields a search algorithm that is twice as fast as without it, on average. Thus the internal state of discrete-time quantum walks holds valuable information that can be utilized to improve algorithms. Furthermore, we determine conditions for which spatial search problems are amenable to this doubling of the success probability, and this involves diagrammatically analyzing search using degenerate perturbation theory and deriving a useful formula for how the quantum walk acts in its reduced subspace.

id: 1511.03992
title: Virtually Abelian Quantum Walks
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Marco Erba, Paolo Perinotti, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1511.03992
abstract: We introduce quantum walks on Cayley graphs of non-Abelian groups. We focus on the easiest case of virtually Abelian groups, and introduce a technique to reduce the quantum walk to an equivalent one on an Abelian group with coin system having larger dimension. We apply the technique in the case of two quantum walks on virtually Abelian groups with planar Cayley graphs, finding the exact solution.

