id: 1504.05398
title: Nonhomogeneous quantum Markov chains and a notion of ergodicity
authors: Carlos F. Lardizabal, Rafael R. Souza
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05398
abstract: Motivated by a model presented by S. Gudder, we study a quantum generalization of Markov chains and discuss the relation between these maps and open quantum random walks, a class of quantum channels described by S. Attal et al. We consider processes which are nonhomogeneous in time, i.e., at each time step, a possibly distinct evolution kernel. Inspired by a spectral technique described by L. Saloff-Coste and J. Z\'u\~niga, we define a notion of ergodicity for nonhomogeneous quantum Markov chains and describe a criterion for ergodicity of such objects in terms of singular values. As a consequence we obtain a quantum version of the classical probability result concerning the behavior of the columns (or rows) of the iterates of a stochastic matrix induced by a finite, irreducible, aperiodic Markov chain. We are also able to relate the ergodic property presented here with the notions of weak and uniform ergodicity known in the literature of noncommutative $L^1$-spaces.

id: 1504.05480
title: Bosonic interference as a complementary resource for implementation of quantum walks
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Peter P. Rohde, Pawe? Kurzy¨½ski
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05480
abstract: Quantum walks are interesting simple models for describing various fundamental processes in nature ranging from chaos or photosynthesis to universal quantum computation. Their implementation usually comprises a single particle and $O(n^2)$ optical elements, where $n$ is the size of the quantum walk space. The question arises if this can be achieved with fewer or complementary resources. Here we show that this can be done using a multi-particle Hong--Ou--Mandel interference. It employs $O(n)$ indistinguishable bosons and a single beam splitter to achieve a similar quantum walk. In addition we show that a quantum-to-classical transition takes place if the particles become distinguishable. This approach establishes a link between the fundamental indistinguishability of quantum particles and the wavelike coherent nature of the walk.

id: 1307.5922
title: Localized quantum walks as secured quantum memory
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: European Physics Letters 110, 10005 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.5922
abstract: 

id: 1504.05497
title: Microwave Emission from Hybridized States in a Semiconductor Charge Qubit
authors: A. Stockklauser, V. F. Maisi, J. Basset, K. Cujia, C. Reichl, W. Wegscheider, T. Ihn, A. Wallraff, K. Ensslin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05497
abstract: We explore the microwave radiation emitted from a biased double quantum dot due to the inelastic tunneling of single charges. Radiation is detected over a broad range of detuning configurations between the dot energy levels with pronounced maxima occurring in resonance with a capacitively coupled transmission line resonator. The power emitted for forward and reverse resonant detuning is found to be in good agreement with a rate equation model, which considers the hybridization of the individual dot charge states.

id: 1504.05307
title: The effect of noise correlations on randomized benchmarking
authors: Harrison Ball, Thomas M. Stace, Steven T. Flammia, Michael J. Biercuk
comments: Related papers available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.05307
abstract: Randomized benchmarking is an important statistical tool for characterising the performance of high-fidelity quantum gates. Here we study randomized benchmarking in the presence of quasi-static (i.e. low-frequency) errors. We contrast the resulting fidelity with that under the conventional assumption of Markovian errors. We treat these limiting cases analytically by mapping the averaging process to a random walk in "Pauli space". In the quasi-static case, we find a broad, highly skewed distribution of fidelities, while Markovian errors produce a narrow, approximately Gaussian distribution of fidelities. We use the filter-transfer function formalism to reveal the underlying reason for these differences in terms of effective coherent averaging of correlated errors in certain random sequences. Large skew in the distribution towards high-fidelity outcomes -- consistent with existing experimental data -- highlights potential finite-sampling pitfalls when deploying randomized benchmarking. Moreover, these results demonstrate general challenges in extracting useful single-gate fidelities from randomized benchmarking measurements with correlated errors.

