id: 1504.07373
title: Hierarchy of Non-Markovianity and $k$-divisibility phase diagram of Quantum Processes in Open Systems
authors: Hong-Bin Chen, Jiun-Yi Lien, Guang-Yin Chen, Yueh-Nan Chen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.07373
abstract: 

id: 1505.00104
title: Detector dependency of diffusive quantum monitorings
authors: Shakib Daryanoosh, Howard M. Wiseman, Jay M. Gambetta
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00104
abstract: Continuous measurements play a pivotal role in the study of dynamical open quantum systems. `Dyne' detections are among the most widespread and efficient measurement schemes, and give rise to quantum diffusion of the conditioned state. In this work we study under what conditions the detector dependency of the conditional state of a quantum system subject to diffusive monitoring can be demonstrated experimentally, in the sense of ruling our any detector-independent pure-state dynamical model for the system. We consider an arbitrary number L of environments to which the system is coupled, and an arbitrary number K of different types of dyne detections. We prove that non-trivial necessary conditions for such a demonstration can be determined efficiently by semi-definite programming. To determine sufficient conditions, different physical environmental couplings and Hamiltonians for a qubit, and different sets of diffusive monitorings are scrutinized. We compare the threshold efficiencies that are sufficient in the various cases, as well as cases previously considered in the literature, to suggest the most feasible experimental options.

id: 1505.00100
title: Finite Density Matrix Renormalisation Group Algorithm for Anyonic Systems
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Sukhwinder Singh
comments: 24 pages, 37 figure files (25 floating figures). RevTeX 4.1
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00100
abstract: The numerical study of anyonic systems is known to be highly challenging due to their non-bosonic, non-fermionic particle exchange statistics, and with the exception of certain models for which analytical solutions exist, very little is known about their collective behaviour as a result. Meanwhile, the density matrix renormalisation group (DMRG) algorithm is an exceptionally powerful numerical technique for calculating the ground state of a low-dimensional lattice Hamiltonian, and has been applied to the study of bosonic, fermionic, and group-symmetric systems. The recent development of a tensor network formulation for anyonic systems opened up the possibility of studying these systems using algorithms such as DMRG, though this has proved challenging both in terms of programming complexity and computational cost. This paper presents the implementation of DMRG for finite anyonic systems, including a detailed scheme for the implementation of anyonic tensors with optimal scaling of computational cost. The anyonic DMRG algorithm is demonstrated by calculating the ground state energy of the Golden Chain, which has become the benchmark system for the numerical study of anyons, and is shown to produce results comparable to those of the anyonic TEBD algorithm and superior to the variationally optimised anyonic MERA, at far lesser computational cost.

