id: 1411.3382
title: Quantum Limit for Driven Linear Non-Markovian Open-Quantum-Systems
authors: Andres F. Estrada, Leonardo A. Pachon
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033038 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1411.3382
abstract: 

id: 1504.01892
title: Correlated Exciton Transport in Rydberg-Dressed-Atom Spin Chains
authors: H. Schempp, G. G¨¹nter, S. W¨¹ster, M. Weidem¨¹ller, S. Whitlock
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01892
abstract: We investigate the transport of excitations through a chain of atoms with non-local dissipation introduced through coupling to additional short-lived states. The system is described by an effective spin-1/2 model where the ratio of the exchange interaction strength to the reservoir coupling strength determines the type of transport, including coherent exciton motion, incoherent hopping and a regime in which an emergent length scale leads to a preferred hopping distance far beyond nearest neighbors. For multiple impurities, the dissipation gives rise to strong nearest-neighbor correlations and entanglement. These results highlight the importance of non-trivial dissipation, correlations and many-body effects in recent experiments on the dipole-mediated transport of Rydberg excitations.

id: 1504.01854
title: Direct generation of genuine single-longitudinal-mode narrowband photon pairs
authors: Kai-Hong Luo, Harald Herrmann, Stephan Krapick, Benjamin Brecht, Raimund Ricken, Viktor Quiring, Hubertus Suche, Wolfgang Sohler, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01854
abstract: The practical prospect of quantum communication and information processing relies on sophisticated single photon pairs which feature controllable waveform, narrow spectrum, excellent purity, fiber compatibility and miniaturized design. For practical realizations, stable, miniaturized, low-cost devices are required. Sources with one or some of above performances have been demonstrated already, but it is quite challenging to have a source with all of the described characteristics simultaneously. Here we report on an integrated single-longitudinal-mode non-degenerate narrowband photon pair source, which exhibits all requirements needed for quantum applications. The device is composed of a periodically poled Ti-indiffused lithium niobate waveguide with high reflective dielectric mirror coatings deposited on the waveguide end-faces. Photon pairs with wavelengths around 890 nm and 1320 nm are generated via type II phase-matched parametric down-conversion. Clustering in this dispersive cavity restricts the whole conversion spectrum to one single-longitudinal-mode in a single cluster yielding a narrow bandwidth of only 60 MHz. The high conversion efficiency in the waveguide, together with the spectral clustering in the doubly resonant waveguide, leads to a high brightness of $3\times10^4~$pairs/(s$\cdot$mW$\cdot$MHz). This source exhibits prominent single-longitudinal-mode purity and remarkable temporal shaping capability. Especially, due to temporal broadening, we can observe that the coherence time of the two-photon component of PDC state is actually longer than the one of the single photon states. The miniaturized monolithic design makes this source have various fiber communication applications.

