id: 1508.06722
title: Guided magnonic Michelson interferometer
authors: Muhammad H. Ahmed, Jan Jeske, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1508.06722
abstract: Magnonics is an emerging field with potential applications in classical and quantum information processing. Freely propagating magnons in two-dimensional media suffer from dispersion, which limits their effective range and fidelity. We show the design of controllable magnonic circuitry, that utilise surface current carrying wires to create magnonic waveguides. We also show the design of a magnonic directional coupler and controllable Michelson interferometer to demonstrate its utility for information processing tasks.

id: 1508.06984
title: Quantum simulation of the Anderson Hamiltonian with an array of coupled nanoresonators: delocalization and thermalization effects
authors: J. Lozada-Vera, A. Carrillo, O. P. de S¨¢ Neto, J. Khatibi Moqadam, M. D. LaHaye, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1508.06984
abstract: The possibility of using nanoelectromechanical systems as a simulation tool for quantum many-body effects is explored. It is demonstrated that an array of electrostatically coupled nanoresonators can effectively simulate the Bose-Hubbard model without interactions, corresponding in the single-phonon regime to the Anderson tight-binding model. Employing a density matrix formalism for the system coupled to a bosonic thermal bath, we study the interplay between disorder and thermalization, focusing on the delocalization process. It is found that the phonon population remains localized for low enough temperatures even if the total population of excitations is lost from the array due to dissipative effects; with increasing temperatures the localization is lost due to thermal pumping of excitations into the array, producing in the steady regime a fully thermalized system. Finally, we consider a possible experimental design to measure the phonon population in the array by means of a superconducting qubit coupled to individual nanoresonators. We also consider the possibility of using the proposed quantum simulator for realizing continuous-time quantum walks.

id: 1408.6339
title: A nanowaveguide platform for collective atom-light interaction
authors: Y. Meng, J. Lee, M. Dagenais, S. L. Rolston
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures in Appl. Phys. Lett. (2015)
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1408.6339
abstract: 

