id: 1509.04409
title: Synchronization of optical photons for quantum information processing
authors: Kenzo Makino, Yosuke Hashimoto, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Hideaki Ohdan, Takeshi Toyama, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.04409
abstract: A fundamental element of quantum information processing with photonic qubits is the nonclassical quantum interference between two photons when they bunch together via the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) effect. Ultimately, many such pure photons must be processed in complex interferometric networks, and for this it is essential to synchronize the arrival times of the flying photons preserving their purity. Here we demonstrate for the first time the HOM interference of two heralded, pure optical photons synchronized through two independent quantum memories. Controlled storage times up to 1.8 microseconds for about 90 events per second were achieved with purities sufficiently high for a negative Wigner function confirmed with homodyne measurements.

id: 1509.04621
title: Three-step implementation of any nxn unitary with a complete graph of n qubits
authors: Amara Katabarwa, Michael R. Geller
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 92, 032306 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.04621
abstract: Quantum computation with a complete graph of superconducting qubits has been recently proposed, and applications to amplitude amplification, phase estimation, and the simulation of realistic atomic collisions given [Phys. Rev. A 91, 062309 (2015)]. This single-excitation subspace (SES) approach does not require error correction and is practical now. Previously it was shown how to implement symmetric nxn unitaries in a single step, but not general unitaries. Here we show that any element in the unitary group U(n) can be executed in no more than three steps, for any n. This enables the implementation of highly complex operations in constant time, and in some cases even allows for the compilation of an entire algorithm down to only three operations. Using this protocol we show how to prepare any pure state of an SES chip in three steps, and also how to compute, for a given SES state rho, the expectation value of any nxn Hermitian observable O in a constant number of steps.

id: 1507.07651
title: Non-Hermitian transparency and one-way transport in low-dimensional lattices by an imaginary gauge field
authors: Stefano Longhi, Davide Gatti, Giuseppe Della Valle
comments: final version, to appear in Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1507.07651
abstract: 

