id: 1505.03486
title: State-Transfer Simulation in Integrated Waveguide Circuits
authors: Ludovico Latmiral, Carlo Di Franco, Paolo L. Mennea, Myungshik Kim
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03486
abstract: Spin-chain models have been widely studied in terms of quantum information processes, for instance for the faithful transmission of quantum states. Here, we investigate the limitations of mapping this process to an equivalent one through a bosonic chain. In particular, we keep in mind experimental implementations, that the progress in integrated waveguide circuits could make possible in a very near future. We consider the feasibility of exploiting the higher-dimensionality of the Hilbert space of the chain elements, and the effects of unwanted excitations during the process. Finally, we exploit the information-flux method to provide bounds to the transfer fidelity.

id: 1505.03503
title: Measuring and using non-markovianity
authors: Carlos Pineda, Thomas Gorin, David Davalos, Diego A. Wisniacki, Ignacio Garcia-Mata
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03503
abstract: We construct measures for the non-Markovianity of quantum evolution with a physically meaningful interpretation. We first provide a general setting in the framework of channel capacities and propose two families of meaningful quantitative measures, based on the largest revival of a channel capacity, avoiding some drawbacks of other non-Markovianity measures. We relate the proposed measures to the task of information screening. This shows that the non-Markovianity of a quantum process may be used as a resource. Under these considerations, we analyze two paradigmatic examples, a qubit in a quantum environment with classically mixed dynamics and the Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 1505.03264
title: Topological phase of the 1D Hadamard quantum walk: unveiling hidden topological phases of the 1D photonic quantum walk
authors: Hideaki Obuse, Janos K. Asboth, Yuki Nishimura, Norio Kawakami
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03264
abstract: The quantum walk provides a unique way to realize Floquet topological insulators, systems driven by a time-periodic field. While theoretical work on topological phases of quantum walks has mostly concentrated on walks with coin operators described by a spin rotation matrix, in experiments the Hadamard coin operator is often used instead. We establish a relation between the two coin operators to apply the theory of topological phases of quantum walks to the Hadamard quantum walk. We derive correct phase diagrams of the topological numbers for the one-dimensional (1D) Hadamard quantum walks. This accounts for the {\it hidden topological phase} of a recent 1D photonic quantum walk experiment, in which edge states were observed, even though the parameter space was considered to be topologically trivial.

id: 1505.03276
title: Local zeta regularization and the scalar Casimir effect IV. The case of a rectangular box
authors: Davide Fermi, Livio Pizzocchero
comments: Some overlaps with our previous works arXiv:1104.4330, arXiv:1505.00711, arXiv:1505.01044, arXiv:1505.01651. These overlaps aim to make the present paper self-contained, and do not involve the main results
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.03276
abstract: Applying the general framework for local zeta regularization proposed in Part I of this series of papers, we compute the renormalized vacuum expectation value of several observables (in particular, of the stress-energy tensor and of the total energy) for a massless scalar field confined within a rectangular box of arbitrary dimension.

