id: 1404.4241
title: Minimal evolution time and quantum speed limit of non-Markovian open systems
authors: Xiangyi Meng, Chengjun Wu, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4241
abstract: 

id: 1504.01008
title: Classical Optics Analogy of Quantum Resonances
authors: Sara Cruz y Cruz, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01008
abstract: A classical optics waveguide structure is used to simulate resonances of short range one-dimensional potentials in quantum mechanics. The analogy is based on the well known resemblance between the guided and radiation modes of a waveguide with the bound and scattering states of a quantum well. As resonances are scattering states that spend large times in the zone of influence of the scatterer, we associate them with the leaky modes of a waveguide, the latter characterized by suffering attenuation in the direction of propagation but increasing exponentially in the transverse directions. The resemblance is complete since leaky modes (resonances) can be interpreted as guided modes (bound states) with definite short longitudinal shift (lifetime). As an immediate application we calculate the leaky modes (resonances) associated with a dielectric homogeneous slab (square well potential) and show that these modes are attenuated as they propagate.

id: 1504.01054
title: An integrated source of broadband quadrature squeezed light
authors: Ulrich B. Hoff, Bo M. Nielsen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 23 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01054
abstract: An integrated silicon nitride resonator is proposed as an ultra-compact source of bright single-mode quadrature squeezed light at 850 nm. Optical properties of the device are investigated and tailored through numerical simulations, with particular attention paid to loss associated with interfacing the device. An asymmetric double layer stack waveguide geometry with inverse vertical tapers is proposed for efficient and robust fibre-chip coupling, yielding a simulated total loss of -0.75 dB/facet. We assess the feasibility of the device through a full quantum noise analysis and derive the output squeezing spectrum for intra-cavity pump self-phase modulation. Subject to standard material loss and detection efficiencies, we find that the device holds promises for generating substantial quantum noise squeezing over a bandwidth exceeding 1 GHz. In the low-propagation loss regime, approximately -7 dB squeezing is predicted for a pump power of only 50 mW.

