id: 1611.06048
title: Symmetry in the open-system dynamics of quantum correlations
authors: Henri Lyyra, G?ktu? Karpat, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Jyrki Piilo, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.06048
abstract: We study the symmetry properties in the dynamics of quantum correlations for two-qubit systems in one-sided noisy channels, with respect to a switch in the location of noise from one qubit to the other. We consider four different channel types, namely depolarizing, amplitude damping, bit-flip, and bit-phase-flip channel, and identify the classes of initial states leading to symmetric decay of entanglement, non-locality and discord. Our results show that the symmetric decay of quantum correlations is not directly linked to the presence or absence of symmetry in the initial state, while it does depend on the type of correlation considered as well as on the type noise. We prove that asymmetric decay can be used to infer, in certain cases, characteristic properties of the channel. We also show that the location of noise may lead to dramatic changes in the persistence of phenomena such as entanglement sudden death and time-invariant discord.

id: 1611.05895
title: Absence of many-body localization in a continuum
authors: I.V. Gornyi, A.D. Mirlin, M. M¨¹ller, D.G. Polyakov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05895
abstract: We show that many-body localization, which exists in tight-binding models, is unstable in a continuum. Irrespective of the dimensionality of the system, many-body localization does not survive the unbounded growth of the single-particle localization length with increasing energy that is characteristic of the continuum limit. The system remains delocalized down to arbitrarily small temperature $T$, although its dynamics slows down as $T$ decreases. Remarkably, the conductivity vanishes with decreasing $T$ faster than in the Arrhenius law. The system can be characterized by an effective $T$-dependent single-particle mobility edge which diverges in the limit of $T\to 0$. Delocalization is driven by interactions between hot electrons above the mobility edge and the "bath" of thermal electrons in the vicinity of the Fermi level.

id: 1610.09316
title: Entanglement critical length at the many-body localization transition
authors: Francesca Pietracaprina, Giorgio Parisi, Angelo Mariano, Saverio Pascazio, Antonello Scardicchio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.09316
abstract: 

