id: 1603.05312
title: Anomalous edge state in a non-Hermitian lattice
authors: Tony E. Lee
comments: 5 pages + appendix. To appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.05312
abstract: We show that the bulk-boundary correspondence for topological insulators can be modified in the presence of non-Hermiticity. We consider a one-dimensional tight-binding model with gain and loss as well as long-range hopping. The system is described by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian that encircles an exceptional point in momentum space. The winding number has a fractional value of 1/2. There is only one dynamically stable zero-energy edge state due to the defectiveness of the Hamiltonian. This edge state is robust to disorder due to protection by a chiral symmetry. We also discuss experimental realization with arrays of coupled resonator optical waveguides.

id: 1603.05423
title: An Irreconcilable Difference Between Quantum Walks and Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Thomas G. Wong, David A. Meyer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.05423
abstract: Continuous-time quantum walks and adiabatic quantum evolution are two general techniques for quantum computing, both of which are described by Hamiltonians that govern their evolutions by Schr\"odinger's equation. In the former, the Hamiltonian is fixed, while in the latter, the Hamiltonian varies with time. As a result, their formulations of Grover's algorithm evolve differently through Hilbert space. We show that this difference is fundamental; they cannot be made to evolve along each other's path without introducing structure more powerful than the standard oracle for unstructured search. For an adiabatic quantum evolution to evolve like the quantum walk search algorithm, it must interpolate between three fixed Hamiltonians, one of which is complex and introduces structure that is stronger than the oracle for unstructured search. Conversely, for a quantum walk to evolve along the path of the adiabatic search algorithm, it must be a chiral quantum walk on a weighted, directed star graph with structure that is also stronger than the oracle for unstructured search. Thus the two techniques, although similar in being described by Hamiltonians that govern their evolution, compute by fundamentally irreconcilable means.

id: 1603.05473
title: Szegedy's quantum walk with queries
authors: Raqueline A. M. Santos
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.05473
abstract: When searching for a marked vertex in a graph, Szegedy's usual search operator is defined by using the transition probability matrix of the random walk with absorbing barriers at the marked vertices. Instead of using this operator, we analyze searching with Szegedy's quantum walk by using reflections around the marked vertices, that is, queries. We show we can boost the probability to 1 of finding a marked vertex in the complete graph. Numerical simulations suggests that the success probability can be improved for other graphs, like the two-dimensional grid. We also prove that, for a certain class of graphs, we can express Szegedy's search operator, obtained from the absorbing walk, using the query model.

