id: 1607.08611
title: Local Quench Dynamics and Logarithmic Lightcone in Many-Body Localized Systems
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Xiaopeng Li, J. H. Pixley, Yang-Le Wu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages main text + 5 pages Supplementary Material
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.08611
abstract: We theoretically consider the response of a many-body localized system to a local quench. We find that for highly excited states the local quench triggers an {\it unbounded} logarithmic growth of entanglement entropy in spite of many-body localization. This entanglement growth gives rise to a logarithmic lightcone, saturating the Lieb-Robinson bound of quantum information propagation. Strikingly, the final states after the local quench exhibit volume law entanglement, in sharp contrast to the ground state which manifests a {\it bounded} entanglement growth following the local quench.

id: 1607.08617
title: Single spin probe of Many-Body Localization
authors: Evert P.L. van Nieuwenburg, Sebastian D. Huber, R. Chitra
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.08617
abstract: We use an external spin as a dynamical probe of many body localization. The probe spin is coupled to an interacting and disordered environment described by a Heisenberg spin chain in a random field. The spin-chain environment can be tuned between a thermalizing delocalized phase and non-thermalizing localized phase, both in its ground- and high-energy states. We study the decoherence of the probe spin when it couples to the environment prepared in three states: the ground state, the infinite temperature state and a high energy N\'eel state. In the non-thermalizing many body localized regime, the coherence shows scaling behaviour in the disorder strength. The long-time dynamics of the probe spin shows a logarithmic dephasing in analogy with the logarithmic growth of entanglement entropy for a bi-partition of a many-body localized system. In summary, we show that decoherence of the probe spin provides clear signatures of many-body localization.

