id: 1606.04239
title: A non-Markovian Dissipative Maryland Model
authors: Fabio Benatti, Federico Carollo
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1340001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.04239
abstract: The so-called Maryland model is a linear version of the quantum kicked rotor; it exhibits Anderson localization in momentum space. By turning the kicks into a Markovian stochastic process, the dynamics becomes a dissipative quantum process described by a discrete family of completely positive maps that allows to explicitly study the relation between divisibility of the maps and the degree of memory of the process.

id: 1606.04304
title: Separability and entanglement of n-qubits and a qubit with a qudit using Hilbert-Schmidt decompositions
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh, A. Mann
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.04304
abstract: Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) decompositions are employed for analyzing systems of n-qubits, and a qubit with a qudit. Negative eigenvalues, obtained by partial-transpose (PT) plus local unitary transformations (PTU) for one qubit from the whole system, are used for indicating inseparability. A sufficient criterion for full separability of the n-qubits and qubit-qudit systems is given. We use the singular value decomposition (SVD) for improving the criterion for full separability. General properties of entanglement and separability are analyzed for a system of a qubit and a qudit and n-qubits systems, with emphasis on maximally disordered subsystems (MDS) (i.e., density matrices rho(MDS) for which tracing over any subsystem gives the unit density matrix). A sufficient condition that rho(MDS) is not separable is that it has an eigenvalue larger than 1/d for a qubit and a qudit, and larger than 1/2^(n-1) for n-qubits system. The PTU transformation does not change the eigenvalues of the n-qubits MDS density matrices for odd n. Thus the Peres-Horodecki criterion does not give any information about entanglement of these density matrices, but this criterion is useful for indicating inseparability for even n. The changes of the entanglement and separability properties of the GHZ state, the Braid entangled state and the W state by mixing them with white noise are analyzed by the use of the present methods. The entanglement and separability properties of the GHZ-diagonal density matrices, composed of mixture of 8 GHZ density matrices with probabilities p(i), is analyzed as function of these probabilities. In some cases we show that the Peres-Horodecki criterion is both sufficient and necessary.

id: 1603.06442
title: Discrete time Dirac quantum walk in 3+1 dimensions
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Nicola Mosco, Paolo Perinotti, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures. D'Ariano, G.M.; Mosco, N.; Perinotti, P.; Tosini, A. Discrete Time Dirac Quantum Walk in 3+1 Dimensions. Entropy 2016, 18, 228
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.06442
abstract: 

