id: 1607.07357
title: Constructing entanglement measures for fermions
authors: Markus Johansson, Zahra Raissi
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.07357
abstract: In this paper we describe a method for finding polynomial invariants under Stochastic Local Operations and Classical Communication (SLOCC), for a system of delocalized fermions shared between different parties, with global particle number conservation as the only constraint. These invariants can be used to construct entanglement measures for different types of entanglement in such a system. It is shown that the invariants, and the measures constructed from them, take a nonzero value only if the state of the system allows for the observation of Bell-nonlocal correlations. Invariants of this kind are constructed for systems of two and three spin-1/2 fermions and examples of maximally entangled states are given that illustrate the different types of entanglement distinguished by the invariants. A general condition for the existence of SLOCC invariants and their associated measures is given as a relation between the number of fermions, their spin, and the number of spatial modes of the system. In addition, the effect of further constraints on the system, including the localization of a subset of the fermions, is discussed. Finally, a hybrid Ising-Hubbard Hamiltonian is constructed for which the groundstate of a three site chain exhibits a high degree of entanglement at the transition between a regime dominated by on-site interaction and a regime dominated by Ising-interaction. This entanglement is well described by a measure constructed by the introduced method.

id: 1607.06923
title: Vortex formation and dynamics in two-dimensional driven-dissipative condensates
authors: Florian Hebenstreit
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.06923
abstract: We investigate the real-time evolution of lattice bosons in two spatial dimensions whose dynamics is governed by a Markovian quantum master equation. We derive the generalization of the truncated Wigner approximation for open quantum many-body systems to study the initial value problem from first principles. Employing non-Hermitean quantum jump operators that constitute a mechanism for dissipative cooling, we study the buildup of long-range correlations in real-time. We observe the formation of vortex-antivortex pairs if the initially disordered system is dissipatively driven into a state with quasi long-range order. This effect resembles the Kibble-Zurek mechanism for driven-dissipative systems, however, without the necessity of quenching a control parameter to a critical value.

id: 1607.07218
title: Site recurrence of open and unitary quantum walks on the line
authors: Silas L. Carvalho, Leonardo F. Guidi, Carlos F. Lardizabal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.07218
abstract: We study the problem of site recurrence of discrete time nearest neighbor open quantum random walks (OQWs) on the integer line, proving basic properties and some of its relations with the corresponding problem for unitary (coined) quantum walks (UQWs). For both kinds of walks our discussion concerns two notions of recurrence, one given by a monitoring procedure, another in terms of P\'olya numbers, and we study their similarities and differences. In particular, by considering UQWs and OQWs induced by the same pair of matrices, we discuss the fact that recurrence of these walks are related by an additive interference term in a simple way. Based on a previous result of positive recurrence we describe an open quantum version of Kac's lemma for the expected return time to a site.

