id: 1601.01774
title: Realizing Topological Transition in a Non-Hermitian Quantum Walk with Circuit QED
authors: Yizhou Huang, Zhang-qi Yin, W. L. Yang
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.01774
abstract: We extend the non-Hermitian one-dimension quantum walk model [PRL 102, 065703 (2009)] by taking the dephasing effect into account. We prove that the feature of topological transition does not change even the dephasing between the sites within units is present. The potential experimental observation of our theoretical results in the circuit QED system consisting of superconducting qubit coupled to a superconducting resonator mode is discussed and numerically simulated. The results clearly show a topological transition in quantum walk, and display the robustness of such a system to the decay and dephasing of qubits. We also discuss how to extend model to higher dimension in the circuit QED system.

id: 1601.01764
title: Anomalous Topological Phases and Unpaired Dirac Cones in Photonic Floquet Topological Insulators
authors: Daniel Leykam, M. C. Rechtsman, Y. D. Chong
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.01764
abstract: We propose a class of photonic Floquet topological insulators based on staggered helical lattices and an efficient numerical method for calculating their Floquet bandstructure. The lattices support anomalous Floquet topological insulator phases with vanishing Chern number and tunable topological transitions. At the critical point of the topological transition, the bandstructure hosts a single unpaired Dirac cone, which yields a variety of unusual transport effects: a discrete analogue of conical diffraction, weak antilocalization not limited by intervalley scattering, and suppression of Anderson localization. Unlike previous designs, the effective gauge field strength can be controlled via lattice parameters such as the inter-helix distance, significantly reducing radiative losses and enabling applications such as switchable topological wave-guiding.

id: 1512.07433
title: Electric quantum walks in two dimensions
authors: Luis A. Bru, Margarida Hinarejos, Fernando Silva, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: References added and minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.07433
abstract: 

