id: 1607.05256
title: The Complexity of Quantum States and Transformations: From Quantum Money to Black Holes
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 111 pages, 10 figures. Includes a special guest lecture by Adam Bouland and Luke Schaeffer. Enormous thanks to them, Anil Ada, Denis Therien, and the scribes, without whom these notes wouldn't have happened. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.05256
abstract: These are lecture notes from a weeklong course in quantum complexity theory taught at the Bellairs Research Institute in Barbados, February 21-25, 2016. The focus is quantum circuit complexity---i.e., the minimum number of gates needed to prepare a given quantum state or apply a given unitary transformation---as a unifying theme tying together several topics of recent interest in the field. Those topics include the power of quantum proofs and advice states; how to construct quantum money schemes secure against counterfeiting; and the role of complexity in the black-hole information paradox and the AdS/CFT correspondence (through connections made by Harlow-Hayden, Susskind, and others). The course was taught to a mixed audience of theoretical computer scientists and quantum gravity / string theorists, and starts out with a crash course on quantum information and computation in general.

id: 1607.05180
title: Hamiltonian Tomography of Photonic Lattices
authors: Ruichao Ma, Clai Owens, Aman LaChapelle, David I. Schuster, Jonathan Simon
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.05180
abstract: In this letter we introduce a novel approach to Hamiltonian tomography of non-interacting tight-binding photonic lattices. To begin with, we prove that the matrix element of the low-energy effective Hamiltonian between sites $i$ and $j$ may be obtained directly from $S_{ij}(\omega)$, the (suitably normalized) two-port measurement between sites $i$ and $j$ at frequency $\omega$. This general result enables complete characterization of both on-site energies and tunneling matrix elements in arbitrary lattice networks by spectroscopy, and suggests that coupling between lattice sites is actually a topological property of the two-port spectrum. We further provide extensions of this technique for measurement of band-projectors in finite, disordered systems with good flatness ratios, and apply the tool to direct real-space measurement of the Chern number. Our approach demonstrates the extraordinary potential of microwave quantum circuits for exploration of exotic synthetic materials, providing a clear path to characterization and control of single-particle properties of Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard lattices. More broadly, we provide a robust, unified method of spectroscopic characterization of linear networks from photonic crystals to microwave lattices and everything in-between.

id: 1605.04349
title: Effects of long-range hopping and interactions on quantum walk in ordered and disordered lattices
authors: T. Chattaraj, R. V. Krems
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.04349
abstract: 

