id: 1605.01891
title: Bounds on collapse models from cold-atom experiments
authors: Marco Bilardello, Sandro Donadi, Andrea Vinante, Angelo Bassi
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.01891
abstract: The spontaneous localization mechanism of collapse models induces a Brownian motion in all physical systems. This effect is very weak, but experimental progress in creating ultracold atomic systems can be used to detect it. In this paper, we considered a recent experiment [1], where an atomic ensemble was cooled down to picokelvins. Any Brownian motion induces an extra increase of the position variance of the gas. We study this effect by solving the dynamical equations for the Continuous Spontaneous Localizations (CSL) model, as well as for its non-Markovian and dissipative extensions. The resulting bounds, with a 95% of confidence level, are beaten only by measurements of spontaneous X-ray emission and by experiments with cantilever (in the latter case, only for rC > 10^(-7) m, where rC is one of the two collapse parameters of the CSL model). We show that, contrary to the bounds given by X-ray measurements, non-Markovian effects do not change the bounds, for any reasonable choice of a frequency cutoff in the spectrum of the collapse noise. Therefore the bounds here considered are more robust. We also show that dissipative effects are unimportant for a large spectrum of temperatures of the noise, while for low temperatures the excluded region in the parameter space is the more reduced, the lower the temperature.

id: 1605.02053
title: Topological Protection of Photonic Path Entanglement
authors: Mikael C. Rechtsman, Yaakov Lumer, Yonatan Plotnik, Armando Perez-Leija, Alexander Szameit, Mordechai Segev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.02053
abstract: The recent advent of photonic topological insulators has opened the door to using the robustness of topologically protected transport (originated in the domain of condensed matter physics) in optical devices and in quantum simulation. Concurrently, quantum walks in photonic networks have been shown to yield exponential speedup for certain algorithms, such as Boson sampling. Here we theoretically demonstrate that photonic topological insulators can robustly protect the transport of quantum information through photonic networks, despite the presence of disorder.

id: 1507.03546
title: Doubly infinite separation of quantum information and communication
authors: Zi-Wen Liu, Christopher Perry, Yechao Zhu, Dax Enshan Koh, Scott Aaronson
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. v4: minor errors fixed; close to published version; v5: financial support info added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 93, 012347 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1507.03546
abstract: 

