id: 1611.02038
title: Light-matter interaction in disordered photonic nanostructures
authors: Pedro David Garc¨ªa, Peter Lodahl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02038
abstract: Nanophotonics focuses on the control of light and the interaction with matter by the aid of intricate nanostructures. Typically, a photonic nanostructure is carefully designed for a specific application and any imperfections may reduce its performance, i.e., a thorough investigation of the role of unavoidable fabrication imperfections is essential for any application. However, another approach to nanophotonic applications exists where fabrication disorder is used to induce functionalities by enhancing light-matter interaction. Disorder leads to multiple scattering of light, which is the realm of statistical optics where light propagation requires a statistical description. We review here the recent progress on disordered photonic nanostructures and the potential implications for quantum photonics devices.

id: 1611.02520
title: Experimental simulation of next-nearest-neighbor Heisenberg chain with photonic crystal waveguide array
authors: F. Qi, Y. F. Wang, Q. Y. Ma, A. Y. Qi, P. Xu, S. N. Zhu, W. H. Zheng
comments: 22 pages, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02520
abstract: Next-nearest-neighbor Heisenberg chain plays important roles in solid state physics, such as predicting exotic electric properties of two-dimensional materials or magnetic properties of organic compounds. Direct experimental studies of the many-body electron systems or spin systems associating to these materials are challenging tasks, while optical simulation provides an effective and economical way for immediate observation. Comparing with bulk optics, integrated optics are more of fascinating for steady, large scale and long-time evolution simulations. Photonic crystal is an artificial microstructure material with multiple methods to tune the propagation properties, which are essential for various simulation tasks. Here we report for the first time an experimental simulation of next-nearest-neighbor Heisenberg chain with an integrated optical chip of photonic crystal waveguide array. The use of photonic crystal enhances evanescent field thus allows coupling between next-nearest-neighbor waveguides in such a planar waveguide array, without breaking the weak coupling condition of the coupled mode equation. Particularly, similarities between the model and coherent light propagation could reach 0.99 in numerical simulations and 0.89 in experiment. Localization effect induced by second-order coupling and coupling strengthening with increasing wavelengths were also revealed in both numerical simulations and experiments. The platform proposed here is compatible with mature complementary metal oxide semiconductor technology thus possesses the potential for larger-scale problems and photonic crystals further allows simulations of specific target Hamiltonians.

id: 1610.09896
title: Quantum hyperentanglement and its applications in quantum information processing
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Bao-Cang Ren, Xi-Han Li
comments: 30 pages, 24 figures. A review on quantum hyperentanglement. Comments are welcome to fgdeng@bnu.edu.cn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.09896
abstract: 

