id: 1611.02238
title: Direct Equivalence of Coined and Szegedy's Quantum Walks
authors: Thomas G. Wong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02238
abstract: Quantum walks are the quantum analogues of classical random walks, and depending on the quantization scheme, several definitions of them exist. The most popular discrete-time versions are the coined quantum walk and Szegedy's quantum walk. In the coined quantum walk, the randomly walking quantum particle has an internal coin state that encodes the directions in which the particle can hop. The walk consists of a coin flip that shuffles the internal state followed by a shift to adjacent vertices. In Szegedy's quantum walk, the original graph is doubled to create an associated bipartite graph, and the walk occurs on the edges of this graph by applying two reflections. We show that these quantum walks are equivalent to each other, with two applications of the coined walk precisely equal to one of Szegedy's, when the coined walk uses the usual Grover diffusion coin and flip-flop shift. This equivalence also extends to the prototypical spatial search schemes, where the coined quantum walk utilizes the negative identity operator as the coin for marked vertices, and Szegedy's quantum walk utilizes absorbing marked vertices. Thus, the abundance of prior results for each kind of quantum walk immediately apply to the other. A similar equivalence also holds for other search models.

id: 1611.02046
title: Total correlations of the diagonal ensemble as a generic indicator for ergodicity breaking in quantum systems
authors: Francesca Pietracaprina, Christian Gogolin, John Goold
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02046
abstract: The diagonal ensemble is the infinite time average of a quantum state following unitary dynamics. In analogy to the time average of a classical phase space dynamics, it is intimately related to the ergodic properties of the quantum system giving information on the spreading of the initial state in the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. In this work we apply a concept from quantum information, known as total correlations, to the diagonal ensemble. Forming an upper-bound on the multipartite entanglement, it quantifies the combination of both classical and quantum correlations in a mixed state. We generalize the total correlations of the diagonal ensemble to more general $\alpha$-Renyi entropies and focus on the the cases $\alpha=1$ and $\alpha=2$ with further numerical extensions in mind. Here we show that the total correlations of the diagonal ensemble is a generic indicator of ergodicity breaking, displaying a sub-extensive behaviour when the system is ergodic. We demonstrate this by investigating its scaling in a range of spin chain models focusing not only on the cases of integrability breaking but also emphasize its role in understanding the transition from an ergodic to a many body localized phase in systems with disorder or quasi-periodicity.

id: 1611.02093
title: Perfect state transfer on graphs with a potential
authors: Mark Kempton, Gabor Lippner, Shing-Tung Yau
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02093
abstract: In this paper we study quantum state transfer (also called quantum tunneling) on graphs when there is a potential function on the vertex set. We present two main results. First, we show that for paths of length greater than three, there is no potential on the vertices of the path for which perfect state transfer between the endpoints can occur. In particular, this resolves (in the negative) a conjecture of Godsil in [8]. Second, we show that if a graph has two vertices that share a common neighborhood, then there is a potential on the vertex set for which perfect state transfer will occur between those two vertices. This gives numerous examples where perfect state transfer does not occur without the potential, but adding a potential makes perfect state transfer possible. In addition, we investigate perfect state transfer on graph products, which gives further examples where perfect state transfer can occur.

id: 1504.03086
title: Localization of states, Bloch wave and quantum phase transitions in SUSY deformed potentials in non-Hermitian optical systems
authors: Muhammad Imran Afzal, Yong Tak Lee
comments: 24 pages, 5 figrues
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1504.03086
abstract: 

