id: 1609.00173
title: Efficient quantum circuits for Szegedy quantum walks
authors: T. Loke, J.B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.00173
abstract: A major advantage in using Szegedy's formalism over discrete-time and continuous-time quantum walks lies in its ability to define a unitary quantum walk on directed and weighted graphs. In this paper, we present a general scheme to construct efficient quantum circuits for Szegedy quantum walks that correspond to classical Markov chains possessing transformational symmetry in the columns of the transition matrix. In particular, the transformational symmetry criteria do not necessarily depend on the sparsity of the transition matrix, so this scheme can be applied to non-sparse Markov chains. Two classes of Markov chains that are amenable to this construction are cyclic permutations and complete bipartite graphs, for which we provide explicit efficient quantum circuit implementations. We also prove that our scheme can be applied to Markov chains formed by a tensor product. We also briefly discuss the implementation of Markov chains based on weighted interdependent networks. In addition, we apply this scheme to construct efficient quantum circuits simulating the Szegedy walks used in the quantum Pagerank algorithm for some classes of non-trivial graphs, providing a necessary tool for experimental demonstration of the quantum Pagerank algorithm.

id: 1609.00305
title: Quantum walking in curved spacetime: $(3+1)$ dimensions, and beyond
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1505.07023
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.00305
abstract: A discrete-time Quantum Walk (QW) is essentially an operator driving the evolution of a single particle on the lattice, through local unitaries. Some QWs admit a continuum limit, leading to familiar PDEs (e.g. the Dirac equation). Recently it was discovered that prior grouping and encoding allows for more general continuum limit equations (e.g. the Dirac equation in $(1+1)$ curved spacetime). In this paper, we extend these results to arbitrary space dimension and internal degree of freedom. We recover an entire class of PDEs encompassing the massive Dirac equation in $(3+1)$ curved spacetime. This means that the metric field can be represented by a field of local unitaries over a lattice.

id: 1609.00006
title: Chiral Floquet Phases of Many-body Localized Bosons
authors: Hoi Chun Po, Lukasz Fidkowski, Takahiro Morimoto, Andrew C. Potter, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: (15+10) pages; (8+2) figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.00006
abstract: We construct and classify chiral topological phases in driven (Floquet) systems of strongly interacting bosons, with finite-dimensional site Hilbert spaces, in two spatial dimensions. The construction proceeds by introducing exactly soluble models with chiral edges, which in the presence of many body localization in the bulk are argued to lead to stable chiral phases. These chiral phases do not require any symmetry, and in fact owe their existence to the absence of energy conservation in driven systems. Surprisingly, we show that they are classified by a quantized index, taking the form of the logarithm of a rational number, which can be related to the flow of quantum information. We explicitly compute this index for specific models, and show that the nontrivial topology leads to edge thermalization, which provides an interesting link between bulk topology and chaos at the edge. Some parallels with the free fermion Floquet topological phases are discussed, and possible experimental implementations are mentioned.

id: 1609.00312
title: Quantum correlation enhanced super-resolution localization microscopy
authors: Yonatan Israel, Ron Tenne, Dan Oron, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, supporting information is not included. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.00312
abstract: In standard localization microscopy methods a small number of emitters are sparsely photoswitched, typically not more than one flourophore per diffraction limited spot, limiting the temporal resolution of super-resolved images. Localization of a non-sparse scene requires a precise estimate for the number of active emitters. Quantum correlations in the emitted fluorescence can probe the number of activated emitters, exploiting the fact that a single fluorophore emits a single photon at a time. To obtain this additional information, which is not provided by conventional cameras, we employ a new imaging configuration based on single-photon avalanche detectors (SPAD). Here we demonstrate a 20nm resolution localization and single-particle tracking (SPT) of non-sparsely activated emitters, which may facilitate super-resolved imaging at enhanced temporal resolution.

