id: 1610.07820
title: Biseparability of 3-qubits density matrices using Hilbert-Schmidt decompositions: Sufficient conditions and explicit expressions
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh, A. Mann
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.07820
abstract: Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) decompositions and Frobenius norms are used to analyze biseparability of 3-qubit systems, with particular emphasis on density matrices with maximally disordered subsystems (MDS) and on the W state mixed with white noise. The biseparable form of a MDS density matrix is obtained by using the Bell states of a 2-qubit subsystem, multiplied by density matrices of the third qubit, which include the relevant HS parameters. Using our methods a sufficient condition and explicit biseparability of the W state mixed with white noise are given. They are compared with the sufficient condition for explicit full separability given in a previous work.

id: 1610.07611
title: Floquet symmetry-protected topological phases in cold atomic systems
authors: Ionut-Dragos Potirniche, Andrew C. Potter, Monika Schleier-Smith, Ashvin Vishwanath, Norman Y. Yao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.07611
abstract: We propose and analyze two distinct routes toward realizing interacting symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases via periodic driving. First, we demonstrate that a driven transverse-field Ising model can be used to engineer complex interactions which enable the emulation of an equilibrium SPT. This phase remains stable only within a parametric time scale controlled by the driving frequency, beyond which its topological features break down. To overcome this issue, we consider an alternate route based upon realizing an intrinsically Floquet SPT phase that does not have any equilibrium analogue. In both cases, we show that disorder, leading to many-body localization, prevents runaway heating and enables the observation of coherent quantum dynamics at high energy densities. Furthermore, we clarify the distinction between the equilibrium and Floquet SPT phases by identifying a unique micro-motion-based entanglement spectrum signature of the latter. Finally, we propose a unifying implementation in a one dimensional chain of Rydberg-dressed atoms and show that protected edge modes are observable on realistic experimental time-scales.

