id: 1604.08479
title: Localization of wave packets in one-dimensional random potentials
authors: Juan Pablo Ram¨ªrez Valdes, Thomas Wellens
comments: 16 pages and 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.08479
abstract: We study the expansion of an initially strongly confined wave packet in a one-dimensional weak random potential with short correlation length. At long times, the expansion of the wave packet comes to a halt due to destructive interferences leading to Anderson localization. We develop an analytical description for the disorder-averaged localized density profile. For this purpose, we employ the diagrammatic method of Berezinskii which we extend to the case of wave packets, present an analytical expression of the Lyapunov exponent which is valid for small as well as for high energies and, finally, develop a self-consistent Born approximation in order to analytically calculate the energy distribution of our wave packet. By comparison with numerical simulations, we show that our theory describes well the complete localized density profile, not only in the tails, but also in the center.

id: 1604.08295
title: Eigenpairs of Toeplitz and disordered Toeplitz matrices with a Fisher-Hartwig symbol
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Leo P. Kadanoff
comments: 31 pages. Leo P. Kadanoff is deceased as of October 26th of 2015
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.08295
abstract: Toeplitz matrices have entries that are constant along diagonals. They model directed transport, are at the heart of correlation function calculations of the two-dimensional Ising model, and have applications in quantum information science. We derive their eigenvalues and eigenvectors when the symbol is singular Fisher-Hartwig. We then add diagonal disorder and study the resulting eigenpairs. We find that there is a "bulk" behavior that is well captured by second order perturbation theory of non-Hermitian matrices. We find two classes of non-perturbative behavior. First, we call Runaways type I that leave the complex-valued spectrum and become completely real because of eigenvalue attraction. Runaways type II leave the bulk and move very rapidly in response to perturbations. These have high condition numbers and can be predicted. We use entropies and inverse participation ratios to quantify the localization of the eigenvectors. We find that eigenvectors corresponding to Runaways type II are most localized (i.e., super-exponential), whereas Runaways type I are less localized than the unperturbed counterparts and have most of their probability mass in the interior with algebraic decays. We corroborate our results by applying free probability theory and provide various supporting numerical studies.

id: 1604.08522
title: Spin evolution of cold atomic gases in SU(2)$\otimes $U(1) fields
authors: I. V. Tokatly, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.08522
abstract: We consider response function and spin evolution in spin-orbit coupled cold atomic gases in a synthetic gauge magnetic field influencing solely the orbital motion of atoms. We demonstrate that various regimes of spin-orbit coupling strength, magnetic field, and disorder can be treated within a single approach based on the representation of atomic motion in terms of auxiliary collective classical trajectories. Our approach allows for a unified description of fermionic and bosonic gases.

id: 1505.07023
title: Quantum walking in curved spacetime
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Stefano Facchini, Marcelo Forets
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1505.07023
abstract: 

id: 1506.08904
title: Survival Probability of the N¨¦el State in Clean and Disordered Systems: an Overview
authors: E. J. Torres-Herrera, Marco T¨¢vora, Lea F. Santos
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Contribution to the special issue of the Brazilian Journal of Physics for the Workshop: Quantum Information and Thermodynamics
journal: Brazilian Journal of Physics, 46(3), 239-247 (2016)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1506.08904
abstract: 

