id: 1609.09160
title: The gap of Fredkin quantum spin chain is polynomially small
authors: Ramis Movassagh
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.09160
abstract: We prove a new result on the spectral gap and mixing time of a Markov chain with Glauber dynamics on the space of Dyck paths (i.e., Catalan paths) and their generalization, which we call colored Dyck paths. The proof uses the comparison theorem of Diaconis and Saloff-Coste and our previous results. Denoting by $2n$ the number of spins, we prove that the gap of the Fredkin spin chain Hamiltonian is $\Theta(n^{-c})$ with $c\ge2$. Our result on the spectral gap of the Markov chain above is used to prove a lower bound of $O(n^{-13/2})$ on the energy gap of the Fredkin quantum spin chain. We prove an upper bound of $O(n^{-2})$ using the universality of Brownian motion and convergence of Dyck random walks to Brownian excursions. Lastly, the 'unbalanced' ground state energies are proved to be polynomially small in $n$ by mapping the Hamiltonian to an effective hopping Hamiltonian with next nearest neighbor interactions and analytically solving its ground state.

id: 1609.09367
title: Dephasing enhanced spin transport in the ergodic phase of a many-body localizable system
authors: Marko ?nidari?, Juan Jose Mendoza-Areas, Stephen R. Clark, John Goold
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.09367
abstract: We study high temperature spin transport in a disordered Heisenberg chain in the ergodic regime when bulk dephasing is present. We find that while dephasing always renders the transport diffusive, there is nonetheless a remnant of the diffusive to sub-diffusive transition found in a system without dephasing manifested in the behaviour of the diffusion constant with the dephasing strength. By studying finite-size effects we show numerically and theoretically that this feature is caused by the competition between large crossover length scales associated to disorder and dephasing that control the dynamics observed in the thermodynamic limit. We demonstrate that this competition may lead to a dephasing enhanced transport in this model.

id: 1609.09417
title: Supercritical instability of Dirac electrons in the field of two oppositely charged nuclei
authors: O. O. Sobol
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2016. Vol. 61, No. 9
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.09417
abstract: The Dirac equation for an electron in a finite dipole potential has been studied within the method of linear combination of atomic orbitals (LCAO). The Coulomb potential of the nuclei that compose a dipole is regularized, by considering the finite nuclear size. It is shown that if the dipole momentum reaches a certain critical value, the novel type of supercriticality occurs; namely, the wave function of the highest occupied electron bound state changes its localization from the negatively charged nucleus to the positively charged one. This phenomenon can be interpreted as a spontaneous creation of an electron-positron pair in vacuum, with each of the created particles being in the bound state with the corresponding nucleus and partially screening it.

id: 1609.09467
title: Direct observation of chiral currents and magnetic reflection in atomic flux lattices
authors: Fangzhao Alex An, Eric J. Meier, Bryce Gadway
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; 3 pages of supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.09467
abstract: The prospect of studying topologically nontrivial phases with the precision and control of atomic physics has driven the development of many techniques for engineering artificial magnetic fields and spin-orbit interactions in atomic gases. Recently, the idea of engineering nontrivial topology through the use of discrete internal (or external) atomic states as effective "artificial dimensions" has garnered attraction for its versatility and promise of immunity from sources of heating. Here, we directly engineer tunable artificial gauge fields through the local control of tunneling phases in an effectively two-dimensional manifold of discrete atomic momentum states. We demonstrate the ability to engineer homogeneous artificial gauge fields of arbitrary value, directly imaging the site-resolved dynamics of induced chiral currents. We furthermore engineer the first inhomogeneous artificial gauge fields for cold atoms, enabling the observation of magnetic reflection of atoms incident upon a step-like variation of an artificial vector potential. These results open up new possibilities for the study of topological phases and localization phenomena in cold atomic gases.

