id: 1605.03633
title: Robustness of topologically protected edge states in quantum walk experiments with neutral atoms
authors: Thorsten Groh, Stefan Brakhane, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Janos Asb¨®th, Andrea Alberti
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.03633
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks allow Floquet topological insulator materials to be explored using controllable systems such as ultracold atoms in optical lattices. By numerical simulations, we study the robustness of topologically protected edge states in the presence of temporal disorder in one- and two-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks. We also develop a simple analytical model to gain further insight into the robustness of these edge states against either spin or spatial dephasing. We find that the population of topologically protected edge states decays exponentially due to environment-induced decoherence. Moreover, we present an experimental proposal based on neutral atoms in spin-dependent optical lattices to realize spatial boundaries between distinct topological phases. Our proposal relies on a new scheme to implement spin-dependent discrete shift operations in a two-dimensional optical lattice. We analyze under realistic decoherence conditions the experimental feasibility of observing unidirectional, dissipationless transport of matter waves along boundaries separating distinct topological domains.

id: 1605.03799
title: Conservative error measures for classical and quantum metrology
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.03799
abstract: The classical and quantum Cram\'er-Rao bounds have become standard measures of parameter-estimation uncertainty for a variety of sensing and imaging applications in recent years, but their assumption of unbiased estimators potentially undermines their significance as fundamental limits. In this note we advocate a Bayesian approach with Van Trees inequalities and worst-case priors to overcome the problem. Applications to superlocalization and gravitational-wave parameter estimation are discussed.

id: 1605.03842
title: Fredkin Spin Chain
authors: Olof Salberger, Vladimir Korepin
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.03842
abstract: We introduce a new model of interacting spin 1/2. It describes interaction of three nearest neighbors. The Hamiltonian can be expressed in terms of Fredkin gates. The Fredkin gate (also known as the CSWAP gate) is a computational circuit suitable for reversible computing. Our construction generalizes the work of Ramis Movassagh and Peter Shor. Our model can be solved by means of Catalan combinatorics in the form of random walks on the upper half of a square lattice [Dyck walks]. Each Dyck path can be mapped to a wave function of the spins. The ground state is an equally weighted superposition of Dyck walks [instead of Motzkin walks]. We can also express it as a matrix product state. We further construct the model of interacting spins 3/2 and greater half-integer spins. The models with higher spins require coloring of Dyck walks. We construct SU(k) symmetric model [here k is the number of colors]. The leading term of the entanglement entropy is then proportional to the square root of the length of the lattice [like in Shor-Movassagh model]. The gap closes as a high power of the length of the lattice.

