id: 1607.08191
title: Quantum walk on a cylinder
authors: Luis A. Bru, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Armando P¨¦rez, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Fernando Silva
comments: 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.08191
abstract: We consider the 2D alternate quantum walk on a cylinder. We concentrate on the study of the motion along the open dimension, in the spirit of looking at the closed coordinate as a small or "hidden" extra dimension. If one starts from localized initial conditions on the lattice, the dynamics of the quantum walk that is obtained after tracing out the small dimension shows the contribution of several components, which can be understood from the study of the dispersion relations for this problem. In fact, these components originate from the contribution of the possible values of the quasi-momentum in the closed dimension. In the continuous space-time limit, the different components manifest as a set of Dirac equations, with each quasi-momentum providing the value of the corresponding mass. We briefly discuss the possible link of these ideas to the simulation of high energy physical theories that include extra dimensions.

id: 1607.07868
title: Periodically Driving a Many-Body Localized Quantum System
authors: Pranjal Bordia, Henrik L¨¹schen, Ulrich Schneider, Michael Knap, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 4 pages main text + 4 pages supplementary mat
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.07868
abstract: We experimentally study a periodically driven many-body localized system realized by interacting fermions in a one-dimensional quasi-disordered optical lattice. By preparing the system in a far-from-equilibrium state and monitoring the remains of an imprinted density pattern, we identify a localized phase at high drive frequencies and an ergodic phase at low ones. These two distinct phases are separated by a dynamical phase transition which depends on both the drive frequency and the drive strength. Our observations are quantitatively supported by numerical simulations and are directly connected to the change in the statistical properties of the effective Floquet Hamiltonian.

