id: 1604.05834
title: Quantum discord as a tool for comparing collapse models and decoherence
authors: Shreya Banerjee, Sayantani Bera, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.05834
abstract: The quantum to classical transition maybe caused by decoherence or by dynamical collapse of the wave-function. We propose quantum discord as a tool for comparing and contrasting the role of a collapse model (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) and various sources of decoherence (environmental and fundamental), for an experimentally demonstrated macroscopic entanglement. We discuss the experimental conditions under which the detection of either Continuous Spontaneous Localization or fundamental decoherence becomes possible.

id: 1604.05856
title: The discrete-time quaternionic quantum walk and the second weighted zeta function on a graph
authors: Norio Konno, Hideo Mitsuhashi, Iwao Sato
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.05856
abstract: We define the quaternionic quantum walk on a finite graph and investigate its properties. This walk can be considered as a natural quaternionic extension of the Grover walk on a graph. We explain the way to obtain all the right eigenvalues of a quaternionic matrix and a notable property derived from the unitarity condition for the quaternionic quantum walk. Our main results determine all the right eigenvalues of the quaternionic quantum walk by using complex eigenvalues of the quaternionic weighted matrix which is easily derivable from the walk. Since our derivation is owing to a quaternionic generalization of the determinant expression of the second weighted zeta function, we explain the second weighted zeta function and the relationship between the walk and the second weighted zeta function.

id: 1604.05905
title: Localized State in a Two-Dimensional Quantum Walk on a Disordered Lattice
authors: Peng Xue, Rong Zhang, Zhihao Bian, Xian Zhan, Hao Qin, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1401.6109
journal: Phys. Rev. A 92, 042316 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.05905
abstract: We realize a pair of simultaneous ten-step one-dimensional quantum walks with two walkers sharing coins, which we prove is analogous to the ten-step two-dimensional quantum walk with a single walker holding a four-dimensional coin. Our experiment demonstrates a ten-step quantum walk over an 11x11 two-dimensional lattice with a line defect, thereby realizing a localized walker state.

