id: 1611.03323
title: Quantum ratchet in disordered quantum walk
authors: Sagnik Chakraborty, Arpan Das, Arindam Mallick, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.03323
abstract: Symmetrically evolving discrete quantum walk results in dynamic localization with zero mean displacement when the standard evolution operations are replaced by a temporal disorder evolution operation. In this work we show that the quantum ratchet, that is, a directed transport in standard and disordered discrete-time quantum walk can be realized by introducing a pawl like effect using a fixed coin operation at marked positions different from the one used for evolution at other positions. We also show that the combination of standard and disordered evolution operations can be optimized to get the mean displacement of the order $\propto$ t (number of walk steps). This model of quantum ratchet in quantum walk is defined using only a set of entangling unitary operators resulting in the coherent quantum transport.

id: 1611.03352
title: Error-detected generation and complete analysis of hyperentangled Bell states for photons assisted by quantum-dot spins in double-sided optical microcavities
authors: Guan-Yu Wang, Qing Ai, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 10 pages, 8 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.03352
abstract: We construct an error-detected block, assisted by the quantum-dot spins in double-side optical microcavities. With this block, we propose three error-detected schemes for the deterministic generation, the complete analysis, and the complete nondestructive analysis of hyperentangled Bell states in both the polarization and spatial-mode degrees of freedom of two-photon systems. In these schemes, the errors can be detected, which can improve their fidelity largely, far different from other previous schemes assisted by the interaction between the photon and the QD-cavity system. Our scheme for the deterministic generation of hyperentangled two-photon systems can be performed by repeat until success. These features make our schemes more useful in high-capacity quantum communication with hyperentanglement in the future.

id: 1611.03288
title: Experimental signatures of an absorbing-state phase transition in an open driven many-body quantum system
authors: Ricardo Gutierrez, Cristiano Simonelli, Matteo Archimi, Francesco Castellucci, Ennio Arimondo, Donatella Ciampini, Matteo Marcuzzi, Igor Lesanovsky, Oliver Morsch
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.03288
abstract: Understanding and probing phase transitions in non-equilibrium systems is an ongoing challenge in physics. A particular instance are phase transitions that occur between a non-fluctuating absorbing phase, e.g., an extinct population, and one in which the relevant order parameter, such as the population density, assumes a finite value. Here we report the observation of signatures of such a non-equilibrium phase transition in an open driven quantum system. In our experiment rubidium atoms in a quasi one-dimensional cold disordered gas are laser-excited to Rydberg states under so-called facilitation conditions. This conditional excitation process competes with spontaneous decay and leads to a crossover between a stationary state with no excitations and one with a finite number of excitations. We relate the underlying physics to that of an absorbing state phase transition in the presence of a field which slightly offsets the system from criticality. We observe a characteristic power-law scaling of the Rydberg excitation density as well as increased fluctuations close to the transition point. Furthermore, we argue that the observed transition relies on the presence of atomic motion which introduces annealed disorder into the system and enables the formation of long-ranged correlations. Our study paves the road for future investigations into the largely unexplored physics of non-equilibrium phase transitions in open many-body quantum systems.

id: 1604.08295
title: Eigenpairs of Toeplitz and disordered Toeplitz matrices with a Fisher-Hartwig symbol
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Leo P. Kadanoff
comments: v1:31 pages. Leo P. Kadanoff is deceased as of October 26th of 2015\\ v2: 38 pages; new results and journal reference added. J Stat Phys (September 2016)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.08295
abstract: 

id: 1611.02093
title: Perfect state transfer on graphs with a potential
authors: Mark Kempton, Gabor Lippner, Shing-Tung Yau
comments: We mistakenly attributed a conjecture to Godsil in the first version. This is now corrected, as well are a few typos
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02093
abstract: 

