id: 1606.07213
title: Disappearance of macroscopic superpositions in perfectly isolated systems by thermalization processes
authors: Chae-Yeun Park, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.07213
abstract: Schr\"odinger's illustration of an imaginary cat in a box, neither alive nor dead, leads to a question of whether and how long a macroscopic quantum superposition can exist in various situations. It is well known that a macroscopic superposition is destroyed very quickly by environmental effects called decoherence. On the contrary, it is often believed that a macroscopic superposition continues to "survive" if it is ideally isolated from its environment. In this paper, using a well-established measure of macroscopic superpositions and the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis, we show that macroscopic superpositions even in ideally closed systems are destroyed by thermalization processes. We further investigate specific examples of a disordered Heisenberg spin chain varied between the thermalization phase and the many-body localization (MBL) phase. Consistent results are obtained that initial macroscopic superpositions that undergo thermalization disappear while they are preserved in the MBL phase in which thermalization does not occur.

id: 1606.07413
title: Parallelizing quantum circuit synthesis
authors: Olivia Di Matteo, Michele Mosca
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.07413
abstract: Quantum circuit synthesis is the process in which an arbitrary unitary operation is decomposed into a sequence of gates from a universal set, typically one which a quantum computer can implement both efficiently and fault-tolerantly. As physical implementations of quantum computers improve, the need is growing for tools which can effectively synthesize components of the circuits and algorithms they will run. Existing algorithms for exact, multi-qubit circuit synthesis scale exponentially in the number of qubits and circuit depth, leaving synthesis intractable for circuits on more than a handful of qubits. Even modest improvements in circuit synthesis procedures may lead to significant advances, pushing forward the boundaries of not only the size of solvable circuit synthesis problems, but also in what can be realized physically as a result of having more efficient circuits. We present a method for quantum circuit synthesis using deterministic walks. Also termed pseudorandom walks, these are walks in which once a starting point is chosen, its path is completely determined. We apply our method to construct a parallel framework for circuit synthesis, and implement one such version performing optimal $T$-count synthesis over the Clifford+$T$ gate set. We use our software to present examples where parallelization offers a significant speedup on the runtime, as well as directly confirm that the 4-qubit 1-bit full adder has optimal $T$-count 7 and $T$-depth 3.

id: 1606.07237
title: Return to the Origin as a Probe of Atomic Phase Coherence
authors: Cl¨¦ment Hainaut, Isam Manai, Radu Chicireanu, Jean-Fran?ois Cl¨¦ment, Samir Zemmouri, Jean Claude Garreau, Pascal Szriftgiser, Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Nicolas Cherroret, Dominique Delande
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.07237
abstract: We report on the observation of the coherent enhancement of the return probability ("enhanced return to the origin" , ERO) in a periodically kicked cold-atom gas. By submitting an atomic wave packet to a pulsed, periodically shifted laser standing wave, we induce an oscillation of ERO in time and explain it in terms of a periodic, reversible dephasing in the weak-localization interference sequences responsible for ERO. Monitoring the temporal decay of ERO, we exploit its quantum coherent nature to quantify the decoherence rate of the atomic system.

id: 1606.07291
title: Drude weight fluctuations in many-body localized systems
authors: Michele Filippone, Piet W. Brouwer, Jens Eisert, Felix von Oppen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.07291
abstract: We numerically investigate the distribution of Drude weights $D$ of many-body states in disordered one-dimensional interacting electron systems across the transition to a many-body localized phase. Drude weights are proportional to the spectral curvatures induced by magnetic fluxes in mesoscopic rings. They offer a method to relate the transition to the many-body localized phase to transport properties. In the delocalized regime, we find that the Drude weight distribution at a fixed disorder configuration agrees well with the random-matrix-theory prediction $P(D) \propto (\gamma^2+D^2)^{-3/2}$, although the distribution width $\gamma$ strongly fluctuates between disorder realizations. A crossover is observed towards a distribution with different large-$D$ asymptotics deep in the many-body localized phase. We show that the average distribution width, an estimate for the typical magnitude of Drude weights, decays exponentially for increasing system size in this phase.

