id: 1610.03069
title: Observing Topological Invariants Using Quantum Walk in Superconducting Circuits
authors: Emmanuel Flurin, Vinay V. Ramasesh, Shay Hacohen-Gourgy, Leigh S. Martin, Norman Y. Yao, Irfan Siddiqi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.03069
abstract: The direct measurement of topological invariants in both engineered and naturally occurring quantum materials is a key step in classifying quantum phases of matter. Here we motivate a toolbox based on time-dependent quantum walks as a method to digitally simulate single-particle topological band structures. Using a superconducting qubit dispersively coupled to a microwave cavity, we implement two classes of split-step quantum walks and directly measure the topological invariant (winding number) associated with each. The measurement relies upon interference between two components of a cavity Schr\"odinger cat state and highlights a novel refocusing technique which allows for the direct implementation of a digital version of Bloch oscillations. Our scheme can readily be extended to higher dimensions, whereby quantum walk-based simulations can probe topological phases ranging from the quantum spin Hall effect to the Hopf insulator.

id: 1610.03058
title: Intrinsic decoherence in isolated quantum systems
authors: Yang-Le Wu, Dong-Ling Deng, Xiaopeng Li, S. Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.03058
abstract: We study the intrinsic, disorder-induced decoherence of an isolated quantum system under its own dynamics. Specifically, we investigate the characteristic timescale (i.e. the decoherence time) associated with an interacting many-body system losing the memory of its initial state. To characterize the erasure of the initial state memory, we define a new timescale, the intrinsic decoherence time, by thresholding the gradual decay of the disorder-averaged return probability. We demonstrate the system-size independence of the intrinsic decoherence time in different models, and we study its dependence on the disorder strength. We find that the intrinsic decoherence time increases monotonically as the disorder strength increases in accordance with the relaxation of locally measurable quantities. We investigate several interacting spin (e.g. Ising and Heisenberg) and fermion (e.g. Anderson and Aubry-Andr\'e) models to obtain the intrinsic decoherence time as a function of disorder and interaction strength.

