id: 1611.02991
title: Quantum walk transport properties on graphene structures
authors: Hamza Bougroura, Habib Aissaoui, Nicholas Chancellor, Viv Kendon
comments: 12 pages, 21 figures, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.02991
abstract: We present numerical studies of quantum walks on \C60 and related graphene structures, to investigate their transport properties. Also known as a \emph{honeycomb lattice}, the lattice formed by carbon atoms in the graphene phase can be rolled up to form nanotubes of various dimensions. Graphene nanotubes have many important applications, some of which rely on their unusual electrical conductivity and related properties. Quantum walks on graphs provide an abstract setting in which to study such transport properties independent of the other chemical and physical properties of a physical substance. They can thus be used to further the understanding of mechanisms behind such properties. We find that nanotube structures are significantly more efficient in transporting a quantum walk than cycles of equivalent size, provided the symmetry of the structure is respected in how they are used. We find faster transport on zig-zag nanotubes compared to armchair nanotubes, which is unexpected given that for the actual materials the armchair nanotube is metallic, while the zig-zag is semiconducting.

id: 1610.08260
title: Watching the coherent birth of polaron pairs in conjugated polymers
authors: Antonietta De Sio, Filippo Troiani, Margherita Maiuri, Julien R¨¦hault, Ephraim Sommer, James Lim, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio, Carlo Andrea Rozzi, Giulio Cerullo, Elisa Molinari, Christoph Lienau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.08260
abstract: Organic semiconductors have the remarkable property that their optical excitation not only generates charge-neutral electron-hole pairs (excitons) but also charge-separated polaron pairs with high yield. The microscopic mechanisms underlying this charge separation have been debated for many years. Here we use ultrafast two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy to study the dynamics of polaron pair formation in a prototypical polymer thin film on a sub-20-fs time scale. We observe multi-period peak oscillations persisting for up to about 1 ps as distinct signatures of vibronic quantum coherence at room temperature. The measured two-dimensional spectra show pronounced peak splittings revealing that the elementary optical excitations of this polymer are hybridized exciton-polaron-pairs, strongly coupled to a dominant underdamped vibrational mode. Coherent vibronic coupling induces ultrafast polaron pair formation, accelerates the charge separation dynamics and makes it insensitive to disorder. These findings open up new perspectives for tailoring light-to-current conversion in organic materials.

id: 1602.08159
title: Harnessing disordered quantum dynamics for machine learning
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Kohei Nakajima
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.08159
abstract: 

