id: 1605.04349
title: Effects of long-range hopping and interactions on quantum walk in ordered and disordered lattices
authors: T. Chattaraj, R. V. Krems
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.04349
abstract: We study the effects of long-range hopping and long-range inter-particle interactions on quantum walk of hard-core bosons in ideal and disordered one-dimensional lattices. We find that the range of hopping has a much more significant effect on the particle correlation dynamics than the range of interactions. We illustrate that long-range hopping makes the correlation diagrams asymmetric with respect to the sign of the interaction and examine the relative role of repulsive and attractive interactions on the dynamics of scattering by isolated impurities and Anderson localization in dis- ordered lattices. We show that weakly repulsive interactions increase the probability of tunnelling through isolated impurities and decrease the localization length.

id: 1605.04862
title: Engineering the Success of Quantum Walk Search Using Weighted Graphs
authors: Thomas G. Wong, Pascal Philipp
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.04862
abstract: Continuous-time quantum walks are natural tools for spatial search, where one searches for a marked vertex in a graph. Sometimes, the structure of the graph causes the walker to get trapped, such that the probability of finding the marked vertex is limited. We give an example with two linked cliques, proving that the captive probability can be liberated by increasing the weights of the links. This allows the search to succeed with probability 1 without increasing the energy scaling of the algorithm. Further increasing the weights, however, slows the runtime, so the optimal search requires weights that are neither too weak nor too strong.

id: 1605.04546
title: Phase transitions for Quantum Markov Chains associated with Ising type models on a Cayley tree
authors: Farrukh Mukhamedov, Abdessatar Barhoumi, Abdessatar Souissi
comments: 24 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1011.2256
journal: Jour. Stat. Phys. 163 (2016), 544--567
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.04546
abstract: The main aim of the present paper is to prove the existence of a phase transition in quantum Markov chain (QMC) scheme for the Ising type models on a Cayley tree. Note that this kind of models do not have one-dimensional analogous, i.e. the considered model persists only on trees. In this paper, we provide a more general construction of forward QMC. In that construction, a QMC is defined as a weak limit of finite volume states with boundary conditions, i.e. QMC depends on the boundary conditions. Our main result states the existence of a phase transition for the Ising model with competing interactions on a Cayley tree of order two. By the phase transition we mean the existence of two distinct QMC which are not quasi-equivalent and their supports do not overlap. We also study some algebraic property of the disordered phase of the model, which is a new phenomena even in a classical setting.

id: 1605.04894
title: Topologically robust transport of entangled photons in a 2D photonic system
authors: Sunil Mittal, Venkata Vikram Orre, Mohammad Hafezi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.04894
abstract: We theoretically study transport of time-bin entangled photon pairs in a two-dimensional topological photonic system of coupled ring resonators. This system implements the integer quantum Hall model using a synthetic gauge field and exhibits topologically robust edge states. We show that the topological edge states provide a robust channel for on-chip quantum communication when the information is encoded in temporal correlations of photons. In contrast to edge states, transport through bulk states does not preserve these correlations and can lead to significant unwanted temporal bunching or anti-bunching of photons. We also compare the transport of entangled two-photon states to separable two-photon states and show that the entangled states are more fragile. Furthermore, we study the effect of disorder on the quantum transport properties; while the edge transport remains robust, bulk transport is very susceptible, and in the limit of strong disorder, bulk states become localized. We show that this localization is manifested as an enhanced bunching/anti-bunching of photons.

