id: 1606.01682
title: Spontaneous collapse: a solution to the measurement problem and a source of the decay in mesonic systems
authors: K. Simonov, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 20 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.01682
abstract: Dynamical reduction models propose a solution to the measurement problem in quantum mechanics: the collapse of the wave function becomes a physical process. We consider the two most promising collapse models, the QMUPL (Quantum Mechanics with Universal Position Localization) model and the mass-proportional CSL (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) model, and derive their effect onto flavour oscillations of neutral mesons. We find that the dynamics of neutral mesons depends on the very assumptions of the noise field underlying any collapse model, thus the physics of the noise field becomes investigatable for these particular systems. Secondly, we find that the decay property of the mass eigenstates can be dynamically generated by the spontaneous collapse in space. Taking collapse models seriously we conclude that accelerator facilities have measured the absolute masses of eigenstates of the Hamiltonian giving raise to decay; this in turn is at the same footings as the mass difference giving raise to the flavour oscillations (predicted also by standard quantum mechanics). Thus dynamical reduction models can cover the full dynamics, oscillation and decay, of neutral mesons.

id: 1606.01589
title: From quantum turbulence to statistical atom optics: new perspectives in speckle matter wave
authors: P. E. S. Tavares, A. R. Fritsch, G. D. Telles, F. Impens, R. Kaiser, V. S. Bagnato
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.01589
abstract: Quantum Turbulence, the chaotic configuration of tangled quantized vortex lines, can be analyzed from the matter wave perspective in instead of the traditional fluid perspective. We report the observation of a remarkable similarity in between the dynamics of a freely expanding turbulent Bose-Einstein condensate and the propagation of an optical speckle pattern. Both follow very similar basic propagation characteristics. The second-order correlation is calculated and the typical correlation length of the two phenomena is used to substantiate the observations. The analogy between an expanding turbulent atomic condensate and a traveling optical speckle creates exciting prospects to investigate disordered quantum matter including the possibilities of a 3D speckle matter field.

id: 1603.02210
title: Staggered Quantum Walks on Graphs
authors: Renato Portugal
comments: 14 pages, 9 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.02210
abstract: 

id: 1605.03633
title: Robustness of topologically protected edge states in quantum walk experiments with neutral atoms
authors: Thorsten Groh, Stefan Brakhane, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Janos Asb¨®th, Andrea Alberti
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.03633
abstract: 

