id: 1610.04869
title: Noise-induced transport in the motion of trapped ions
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Christian T. Schmiegelow
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, accepted in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.04869
abstract: The interplay of noise and quantum coherence in transport gives rise to rich dynamics relevant for a variety of systems. In this work, we put forward a proposal for an experiment testing noise-induced transport in the vibrational modes of a chain of trapped ions. We focus on the case of transverse modes, considering multiple-isotope chains and an "angle trap", where the transverse trapping varies along the chain. This variation induces localization of the motional modes and therefore suppresses transport. By suitably choosing the action of laser fields that couple to the internal and external degrees of freedom of the ions, we show how to implement effective local dephasing on the modes, broadening the vibrational resonances. This leads to an overlap of the local mode frequencies, giving rise to a pronounced increase in the transport of excitations along the chain. We propose an implementation and measurement scheme which require neither ground-state cooling nor low heating rates, and we illustrate our results with a simulation of the dynamics for a chain of three ions.

id: 1610.04727
title: Gapless spin-liquid ground state in the $S = 1/2$ kagome antiferromagnet
authors: H. J. Liao, Z. Y. Xie, J. Chen, Z. Y. Liu, H. D. Xie, R. Z. Huang, B. Normand, T. Xiang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.04727
abstract: Frustrated quantum magnetism has moved to the forefront of physics research, posing fundamental questions concerning quantum disordered states, entanglement, topology and the nature of the quantum wavefunction. The defining problem in the field is one of the simplest, the ground state of the nearest-neighbour $S = 1/2$ antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice, but has defied all theoretical and numerical methods employed to date. We apply the formalism of tensor-network states (TNS), specifically the method of projected entangled simplex states (PESS), whose combination of a correct accounting for multipartite entanglement and infinite system size provides qualitatively new insight. By studying the ground-state energy, the staggered magnetization we find at all finite tensor bond dimensions and the effects of a second-neighbour coupling, we demonstrate that the ground state is a gapless spin liquid. We discuss the comparison with other numerical studies and the physical interpretation of the gapless ground state.

id: 1610.05279
title: Wigner crystallization in graphene nanoribbons with zigzag edges
authors: Mohsen Modarresi, A. D. G¨¹?l¨¹
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.05279
abstract: We investigate the Wigner crystallization of electrons and holes at the zigzag edges of graphene nanoribbons using a combination of tight-binding, mean field Hubbard and many-body configuration interaction methods. The long-range electron-electrons interaction causes the electronic localization at the zigzag edge of graphene nanoribbon and formation of a Wigner crystal if the ribbon is wide enough. For thinner ribbons (11 \AA width), increased kinetic energy suppresses the Wigner crystal formation. For wider ribbons (28 \AA width), stronger Wigner localization is observed for even number of electrons, revealing an even-odd effect also found in Coulomb blockade addition spectrum. Finally, we show that Wigner crystallization can also occurs for holes, albeit weaker than for electrons.

id: 1604.01493
title: Localization of quantum particles with long-range hopping induced by reducing lattice size
authors: Joshua T. Cantin, Tianrui Xu, Roman V. Krems
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01493
abstract: 

