id: 1609.08595
title: Distinguishing quantum states using Clifford orbits
authors: Richard Kueng, Huangjun Zhu, David Gross
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.08595
abstract: It is a fundamental property of quantum mechanics that information is lost as a result of performing measurements. Indeed, with every quantum measurement one can associate a number -- its POVM norm constant -- that quantifies how much the distinguishability of quantum states degrades in the worst case as a result of the measurement. This raises the obvious question which measurements preserve the most information in these sense of having the largest norm constant. While a number of near-optimal schemes have been found (e.g. the uniform POVM, or complex projective 4-designs), they all seem to be difficult to implement in practice. Here, we analyze the distinguishability of quantum states under measurements that are orbits of the Clifford group. The Clifford group plays an important role e.g. in quantum error correction, and its elements are considered simple to implement. We find that the POVM norm constants of Clifford orbits depend on the effective rank of the states that should be distinguished, as well as on a quantitative measure of the "degree of localization in phase space" of the vectors in the orbit. The most important Clifford orbit is formed by the set of stabilizer states. Our main result implies that stabilizer measurements are essentially optimal for distinguishing pure quantum states. As an auxiliary result, we use the methods developed here to prove new entropic uncertainty relations for stabilizer measurements. This paper is based on a very recent analysis of the representation theory of tensor powers of the Clifford group.

id: 1609.08216
title: Critical thermalization of a disordered dipolar spin system in diamond
authors: Georg Kucsko, Soonwon Choi, Joonhee Choi, Peter C. Maurer, Hitoshi Sumiya, Shinobu Onoda, Junich Isoya, Fedor Jelezko, Eugene Demler, Norman Y. Yao, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 16+25 pages, 4+9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.08216
abstract: Statistical mechanics underlies our understanding of macroscopic quantum systems. It is based on the assumption that out-of-equilibrium systems rapidly approach their equilibrium states, forgetting any information about their microscopic initial conditions. This fundamental paradigm is challenged by disordered systems, in which a slowdown or even absence of thermalization is expected. We report the observation of critical thermalization in a three dimensional ensemble of $\sim10^6$ electronic spins coupled via dipolar interactions. By controlling the spin states of nitrogen vacancy color centers in diamond, we observe slow, sub-exponential relaxation dynamics consistent with power laws that exhibit disorder-dependent exponents; this behavior is modified at late times owing to many-body interactions. These observations are quantitatively explained by a resonance counting theory that incorporates the effects of both disorder and interactions.

id: 1609.08459
title: Delocalization effects, entanglement entropy and spectral collapse of boson mixtures in a double well
authors: F. Lingua, G. Mazzarella, V. Penna
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.08459
abstract: We investigate the ground-state properties of a two-species condensate of interacting bosons in a double-well potential. Each atomic species is described by a two-space-mode Bose-Hubbard model. The coupling of the two species is controlled by the interspecies interaction $W$. To analyze the ground state when $W$ is varied in both the repulsive ($W>0$) and the attractive ($W<0$) regime, we apply two different approaches. First we solve the problem numerically i) to obtain an exact description of the ground-state structure and ii ) to characterize its correlation properties by studying (the appropriate extensions to the present case of) the quantum Fisher information, the coherence visibility and the entanglement entropy as functions of $W$. Then we approach analytically the description of the low-energy scenario by means of the Bogoliubov scheme. In this framework the ground-state transition from delocalized to localized species (with space separation for $W>0$, and mixing for $W<0$) is well reproduced. These predictions are qualitatively corroborated by our numerical results. We show that such a transition features a spectral collapse reflecting the dramatic change of the dynamical algebra of the four-mode model Hamiltonian.

