id: 1604.01786
title: Post Markovian Dynamics of Quantum Correlations: Entanglement vs. Discord
authors: Hamidreza Mohammadi
comments: 26 pages, 8figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0906.2534
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01786
abstract: Dynamics of an open two-qubit system is investigated in the post-Markovian regime, where the environments have a short-term memory. Each qubit is coupled to separate environment which is held in its own temperature. The inter-qubit interaction is modeled by XY-Heisenberg model in the presence of spin-orbit interaction and inhomogeneous magnetic field. The dynamical behavior of entanglement and discord has been considered. The results show that, quantum discord is more robust than quantum entanglement, during the evolution. Also the asymmetric feature of quantum discord can be monitored by introducing the asymmetries due to inhomogeneity of magnetic field and temperature difference between the reservoirs. By employing proper parameters of the model, it is possible to maintain non-vanishing quantum correlation at high degree of temperature. The results can provide a useful recipe for studying of dynamical behavior of two-qubit systems such as trapped spin-electrons in coupled quantum dots.

id: 1604.01790
title: The Mathematics of Entanglement
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Matthias Christandl, Aram W. Harrow, Michael Walter
comments: Lecture notes for the 5th Summer School on Mathematical Physics at the Universidad de Los Andes, Bogot\'a, Colombia this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01790
abstract: These notes are from a series of lectures given at the Universidad de Los Andes in Bogot\'a, Colombia on some topics of current interest in quantum information. While they aim to be self-contained, they are necessarily incomplete and idiosyncratic in their coverage. For a more thorough introduction to the subject, we recommend one of the textbooks by Nielsen and Chuang or by Wilde, or the lecture notes of Mermin, Preskill or Watrous. Our notes by contrast are meant to be a relatively rapid introduction into some more contemporary topics in this fast-moving field. They are meant to be accessible to advanced undergraduates or starting graduate students.

id: 1604.01807
title: Realization of a twin beam source based on four-wave mixing in Cesium
authors: G. Adenier, D. Calonico, S. Micalizio, N. Samantaray, I. P. Degiovanni, I. Ruo Berchera
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01807
abstract: Four-wave mixing (4WM) is a known source of intense non-classical twin beams. It can be generated when an intense laser beam (the pump) and a weak laser beam (the seed) overlap in a $\chi^{(3)}$ medium (here cesium vapor), with frequencies close to resonance with atomic transitions. The twin beams generated by 4WM have frequencies naturally close to atomic transitions, and can be intense (gain $\gg 1$) even in the CW pump regime, which is not the case for PDC $\chi^{(2)}$ phenomenon in non-linear crystals. So, 4WM is well suited for atom-light interaction and atom-based quantum protocols. Here we present the first realization of a source of 4-wave mixing exploiting $D_2$ line of Cesium atoms.

id: 1604.01817
title: Short periodic orbits theory for partially open quantum maps
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01817
abstract: We extend the semiclassical theory of short periodic orbits [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 80}, 035202(R) (2009)] to partially open quantum maps. They correspond to classical maps where the trajectories are partially bounced back due to a finite reflectivity $R$. These maps are representative of a class that has many experimental applications. The open scar functions are conveniently redefined, providing a suitable tool for the investigation of these kind of systems. Our theory is applied to the paradigmatic partially open tribaker map. We find that the set of periodic orbits that belong to the classical repeller of the open map ($R=0$) are able to support the set of long-lived resonances of the partially open quantum map in a perturbative regime. By including the most relevant trajectories outside of this set, the validity of the approximation is extended to a broad range of $R$ values. Finally, we identify the details of the transition from qualitatively open to qualitatively closed behaviour, providing an explanation in terms of short periodic orbits.

id: 1604.01834
title: Quartz-superconductor quantum electromechanical system
authors: M. J. Woolley, M. F. Emzir, G. J. Milburn, M. Jerger, M. Goryachev, M. E. Tobar, A. Fedorov
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01834
abstract: We propose and analyse a quantum electromechanical system composed of a monolithic quartz bulk acoustic wave (BAW) oscillator coupled to a superconducting transmon qubit via an intermediate LC electrical circuit. Monolithic quartz oscillators offer unprecedentedly high effective masses and quality factors for the investigation of mechanical oscillators in the quantum regime. Ground-state cooling of such mechanical modes via resonant piezoelectric coupling to an LC circuit, which is itself sideband cooled via coupling to a transmon qubit, is shown to be feasible. The fluorescence spectrum of the qubit, containing motional sideband contributions due to the couplings to the oscillator modes, is obtained and the imprint of the electromechanical steady-state on the spectrum is determined. This allows the qubit to function both as a cooling resource for, and transducer of, the mechanical oscillator. The results described are relevant to any hybrid quantum system composed of a qubit coupled to two (coupled or uncoupled) thermal oscillator modes.

id: 1604.01885
title: Quasiclassical analysis of Bloch oscillations in non-Hermitian tight-binding lattices
authors: E M Graefe, H J Korsch, A Rush
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01885
abstract: Many features of Bloch oscillations in one-dimensional quantum lattices with a static force can be described by quasiclassical considerations for example by means of the acceleration theorem, at least for Hermitian systems. Here the quasiclassical approach is extended to non-Hermitian lattices, which are of increasing interest. The analysis is based on a generalised non-Hermitian phase space dynamics developed recently. Applications to a single-band tight-binding system demonstrate that many features of the quantum dynamics can be understood from this classical description qualitatively and even quantitatively. Two non-Hermitian and $PT$-symmetric examples are studied, a Hatano-Nelson lattice with real coupling constants and a system with purely imaginary couplings, both for initially localised states in space or in momentum. It is shown that the time-evolution of the norm of the wave packet and the expectation values of position and momentum can be described in a classical picture.

id: 1604.01915
title: More randomness from a prepare-and-measure scenario with independent devices
authors: Han Yun-Guang, Yin Zhen-Qiang, Li Hong-Wei, Chen Wei, Wang Shuang, Guo Guang-Can, Han Zheng-Fu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 93, 032332 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01915
abstract: How to generate genuine quantum randomness from untrusted devices is an important problem in quantum information processing. Inspired by previous work on a self-testing quantum random number generator [T. Lunghi et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 150501 (2015)], we present a method to generate quantum randomness from a prepare-and-measure scenario with independent devices. In existing protocols, the quantum randomness depends only on a witness value (e.g., Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt value), which is calculated with the observed probabilities. Differently, here all the observed probabilities are directly used to calculate the min-entropy in our method. Through numerical simulation, we find that the min-entropy of our proposed scheme is higher than that in the previous work when a typical untrusted Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) setup is used. Consequently, thanks to the proposed method, more genuine quantum random numbers may be obtained than before.

id: 1604.01949
title: Remarks on the tensor product structure of no-signaling theories
authors: Tomasz I. Tylec, Marek Ku?
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01949
abstract: In the quantum logic framework we show that the no-signaling box model is a particular type of tensor product of the logics of single boxes. Such notion of tensor product is too strong to apply in the category of logics of quantum mechanical systems. Consequently, we show that the no-signaling box models cannot be considered as generalizations of quantum mechanical models.

id: 1604.01954
title: Degradability of Fermionic Gaussian Channels
authors: Eli?ka Greplov¨¢, G¨¦za Giedke
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures + Supplementary Material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01954
abstract: We study the degradability of fermionic Gaussian channels. Fermionic quantum channels are a central building block of quantum information processing with fermions and the family of Gaussian channels, in particular, is relevant in the emerging field of electron quantum optics and its applications for quantum information. Degradable channels are of particular interest since they have additive quantum capacity. We derive a simple standard form for fermionic Gaussian channels. This allows us fully characterize all degradable $n$-mode fermionic Gaussian channels. Consequences for the quantum capacity of those channels are discussed.

id: 1604.01960
title: Deterministic reshaping of single-photon spectra using cross-phase modulation
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda
comments: 
journal: Science Advances 2, e1501223 (2016) (full version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01960
abstract: The frequency conversion of light has proved to be a crucial technology for communication, spectroscopy, imaging, and signal processing. In the quantum regime, it also offers great potential for realizing quantum networks incorporating disparate physical systems and quantum-enhanced information processing over a large computational space. The frequency conversion of quantum light, such as single photons, has been extensively investigated for the last two decades using all-optical frequency mixing, with the ultimate goal of realizing lossless and noiseless conversion. I demonstrate another route to this target using frequency conversion induced by cross-phase modulation in a dispersion-managed photonic crystal fiber. Owing to the deterministic and all-optical nature of the process, the lossless and low-noise spectral reshaping of a single-photon wave packet in the telecommunication band has been readily achieved with a modulation bandwidth as large as 0.4 THz. I further demonstrate that the scheme is applicable to manipulations of a nonclassical frequency correlation, wave packet interference, and entanglement between two photons. This approach presents a new coherent frequency interface for photons for quantum information processing.

id: 1604.01979
title: Quantum Yang-Mills theory: an overview of a programme
authors: Ashley Milsted, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 20 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01979
abstract: We present an overview of a programme to understand the low-energy physics of quantum Yang-Mills theory from a quantum-information perspective. Our setting is that of the hamiltonian formulation of pure Yang-Mills theory in the temporal gauge on the lattice. Firstly, inspired by recent constructions for $\mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}$ lattice gauge theory, in particular, Kitaev's toric code, we describe the gauge-invariant sector of hilbert space by introducing a primitive quantum gate: the quantum parallel transporter. We then develop a nonabelian generalisation of laplace interpolation to present an ansatz for the ground state of pure Yang-Mills theory which interpolates between the weak- and strong-coupling RG fixed points. The resulting state acquires the structure of a tensor network, namely, a multiscale entanglement renormalisation ansatz, and allows for the efficient computation of local observables and Wilson loops. Various refinements of the tensor network are discussed leading to several generalisations. Finally, the continuum limit of our ansatz as the lattice regulator is removed is then described. This paper is intended as an abstract for an ongoing programme: there are still many open problems.

id: 1604.02011
title: Do objective results typically appear in quantum measurements?
authors: J. K. Korbicz, E. A. Aguilar, P. ?wikli¨½ski, P. Horodecki
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02011
abstract: Measurement is of central interest in quantum mechanics as it provides the link between the quantum word and the word of everyday experience. One of the features of the latter is its robust, objective character, contrasting delicate nature of quantum systems. Here we analyze in a model-independent way a measurement process and give an affirmative answer to the question in the title, provided the systems involved are large-dimensional and we wait long enough. As typicality measure we use the celebrated Gaussian Uniatry Ensemble of random matrices and the objectivization is characterized by the recently introduced, so called Spectrum Broadcast Structures. We show that they are typically approached during the measurement as $\sim 1/t^3$.

id: 1604.02046
title: Quantum state tomography via reduced density matrices
authors: Tao Xin, Dawei Lu, Joel Klassen, Nengkun Yu, Zhengfeng Ji, Jianxin Chen, Xian Ma, Guilu Long, Bei Zeng, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures. All comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02046
abstract: Quantum state tomography via local measurements is an efficient tool for characterizing quantum states. However it requires that the original global state be uniquely determined (UD) by its local reduced density matrices (RDMs). In this work we demonstrate for the first time a class of states that are UD by their RDMs under the assumption that the global state is pure, but fail to be UD in the absence of that assumption. This discovery allows us to classify quantum states according to their UD properties, with the requirement that each class be treated distinctly in the practice of simplifying quantum state tomography. Additionally we experimentally test the feasibility and stability of performing quantum state tomography via the measurement of local RDMs for each class. These theoretical and experimental results advance the project of performing efficient and accurate quantum state tomography in practice.

id: 1604.02119
title: Data processing for the sandwiched R¨¦nyi divergence: a condition for equality
authors: Felix Leditzky, Cambyse Rouz¨¦, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 19 pages, no figures, comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02119
abstract: The $\alpha$-sandwiched R\'enyi divergence satisfies the data processing inequality, i.e. monotonicity under quantum operations, for $\alpha\geq 1/2$. Here we derive a necessary and sufficient algebraic condition for equality in the data processing inequality. We first consider the special case of partial trace, and derive a condition for equality based on the original proof of the data processing inequality by Frank and Lieb [J. Math. Phys. 54.12 (2013), p. 122201] using a strict convexity/concavity argument. We then generalize to arbitrary quantum operations via the Stinespring Representation Theorem. As applications of our condition for equality in the data processing inequality, we deduce conditions for equality in various entropic inequalities. We formulate a R\'enyi version of the Araki-Lieb inequality and analyze the case of equality, generalizing a result by Carlen and Lieb [Lett. Math. Phys. 101.1 (2012), pp. 1-11] about equality in the original Araki-Lieb inequality. Furthermore, we prove a general lower bound on a R\'enyi version of the entanglement of formation, and observe that it is saturated by states saturating the R\'enyi version of the Araki-Lieb inequality. Finally, we prove that the known upper bound on the entanglement fidelity in terms of the usual fidelity is saturated only by pure states.

id: 1604.01772
title: EPR Pairs, Local Projections and Quantum Teleportation in Holography
authors: Tokiro Numasawa, Noburo Shiba, Tadashi Takayanagi, Kento Watanabe
comments: 61 pages, 24 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01772
abstract: In this paper we analyze three quantum operations in two dimensional conformal field theories (CFTs): local projection measurements, creations of partial entanglement between two CFTs, and swapping of subsystems between two CFTs. We also give their holographic duals and study time evolutions of entanglement entropy. By combining these operations, we present an analogue of quantum teleportation between two CFTs and give its holographic realization. We introduce a new quantity to probe tripartite entanglement by using local projection measurement.

id: 1604.01811
title: Tunable photonic cavity coupled to a voltage-biased double quantum dot system: Diagrammatic NEGF approach
authors: Bijay Kumar Agarwalla, Manas Kulkarni, Shaul Mukamel, Dvira Segal
comments: 30 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01811
abstract: We investigate gain in microwave photonic cavities coupled to voltage-biased double quantum dot systems with an arbitrary strong dot-lead coupling and with a Holstein-like light-matter interaction, by adapting the diagrammatic Keldysh nonequilibrium Green's function approach. We compute out-of-equilibrium properties of the cavity : its transmission, phase response, mean photon number, power spectrum, and spectral function. We show that by the careful engineering of these hybrid light-matter systems, one can achieve a significant amplification of the optical signal with the voltage-biased electronic system serving as a gain medium. We also study the steady state current across the device, identifying elastic and inelastic tunnelling processes which involve the cavity mode. Our results show how recent advances in quantum electronics can be exploited to build hybrid light-matter systems that behave as single-atom amplifiers and photon source devices. The diagrammatic Keldysh approach is primarily discussed for a cavity-coupled double quantum dot architecture, but it is generalizable to other hybrid light-matter systems.

id: 1604.01947
title: Dual-frequency injection-locked continuous-wave near-infrared laser
authors: Trivikramarao Gavara, Takeru Ohashi, Yusuke Sasaki, Takuya Kawashima, Hiroaki Hamano, Ryo Yoshizaki, Yuki Fujimura, Kazumichi Yoshii, Chiaki Ohae, Masayuki Katsuragawa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01947
abstract: We report a dual-frequency injection-locked continuous-wave near-infrared laser. The entire system consists of a Ti:sapphire ring laser as a power oscillator, two independent diode-lasers employed as seed lasers, and a master cavity providing a frequency reference. Stable dual-frequency injection-locked oscillation is achieved with a maximum output power of 2.8 W. As fundamental performance features of this laser system, we show its single longitudinal/transverse mode characteristics and practical power stability. Furthermore, as advanced features, we demonstrate arbitrary selectivity of the two frequencies and flexible control of their relative powers by simply manipulating the seed lasers.

id: 1604.01995
title: Transient phases and dynamical transitions in the post quench evolution of the generalized Bose-Anderson model
authors: Dmitry V. Chichinadze, Pedro Ribeiro, Yulia E. Shchadilova, Alexey N. Rubtsov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.01995
abstract: The exact description of the time evolution of open correlated quantum systems remains one of the major challenges of the condensed matter theory, specially for asymptotic long times where most numerical methods fail. Here, the post-quench dynamics of the $N$-component Bose-Anderson impurity model is studied in the $N\to\infty$ limit. The equilibrium phase diagram is similar to that of the Bose-Hubbard model in that it contains local versions of the Mott and Bose phases. Using a numerically exact procedure we are able to study the real time evolution including asymptotic long time regimes. The formation of long-lived transient phases is observed for quench paths crossing foreign phases. For quenches inside the local Bose condensed phase, a dynamical phase transition is reported, that separates the evolution towards a new equilibrium state and a regime characterized at large times by a persistent phase rotation of the order parameter. We explain how such non-decaying mode can exist in the presence of a dissipative bath. We discuss the extension of our results to the experimental relevant finite-$N$ case and their implication for the existence of non-decaying modes in generic quantum systems in the presence of a bath.

id: 1604.02026
title: Persistent Spin Textures in Semiconductor Nanostructures
authors: John Schliemann
comments: Submitted to Reviews of Modern Physics (Colloquia section). Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02026
abstract: Device concepts in semiconductor spintronics make long spin lifetimes desirable, let alone the requirements put on spin control by schemes of quantum information processing. Alas, due to spin-orbit coupling electron spins in semiconductors are generically subject to rather fast decoherence. In two-dimensional quantum wells, however, the spin-orbit interaction can be engineered in such a way that persistent spin structures with extraordinary long spin lifetimes arise even in the presence of disorder and imperfections. We review experimental and theoretical developments on that matter both for n-doped and p-doped structures, and we discuss possible device applications.

id: 1604.02042
title: Increase of quantum volume entropy in presence of degenerate eigenenergies
authors: Michele Campisi
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02042
abstract: The entropy of a classical thermally isolated Hamiltonian system is given by the logarithm of the measure of phase space enclosed by the constant energy hyper-surface, also known as volume entropy. It has been shown that on average the latter cannot decrease if the initial state is sampled from a classical passive distribution. Quantum extension of this result has been shown, but only for systems with a non-degenerate energy spectrum. Here we further extend to the case of possible degeneracies.

id: 1604.02101
title: Relationship between Population Dynamics and the Self-Energy in Driven Non-Equilibrium Systems
authors: Alexander F. Kemper, James. K. Freericks
comments: Submitted to Entropy
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02101
abstract: We compare the decay rates of excited populations directly calculated within a Keldysh formalism to the equation of motion of the population itself for a Hubbard-Holstein model in two dimensions. While it is true that these two approaches must give the same answer, it is common to make a number of simplifying assumptions within the differential equation for the populations that allows one to interpret the decay in terms of hot electrons interacting with a phonon bath. Here we show how care must be taken to ensure an accurate treatment of the equation of motion for the populations due to the fact that there are identities that require cancellations of terms that naively look like they contribute to the decay rates. In particular, the average time dependence of the Green's functions and self-energies plays a pivotal role in determining these decay rates.

id: 1604.02110
title: Time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect on the noncommutative space
authors: Kai Ma, Jian-Hua Wang, Huan-Xiong Yang
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1604.02110
abstract: We study the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect on the noncommutative space. Because there is no net Aharonov-Bohm phase shift in the time-dependent case on the commutative space, therefore tiny deviation from zero indicates new physics. Based on the Seiberg-Witten map we obtained the gauge invariant and Lorentz covariant Aharonov-Bohm phase shift on noncommutative space in general case. We find there are two kinds of contributions: momentum-dependent and momentum-independent corrections. For the momentum-dependent correction, there is a cancellation between the magnetic and electric phase shifts, just like the case on the commutative space. However, there is a non-trivial contribution in the momentum-independent correction. This is true for both the time-independent and time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effects on the noncommutative space. However, for the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect, there is no overwhelming background which exists on both commutative and noncommutative space for the time-independent Aharonov-Bohm effect. Therefore the time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm can be sensitive to the spatial noncommutativity. The net correction is proportional to the magnetic flux over the fundamental area represented by the noncommutative parameter $\theta$, and multiplied by the magnetic flux $\Phi$ over the surface enclosed by the orbit of the charged particle. Interestingly, there is an anti-collinear relation between the logarithms of the magnetic field $B$ and the averaged flux $\Phi/N$ (N is the number of fringes shifted). This nontrivial relation can provide a way to test the spatial noncommutativity. For $B\Phi/N\sim 1$, our estimation on the experimental sensitivity shows that it can reach the $\rm 10GeV$ scale. This sensitivity can be enhanced by using stronger magnetic field strength, larger magnetic flux, as well as higher experimental precision on the phase shift.

id: 1106.0979
title: Transition Probability (Fidelity) and Its Relatives
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: Talk at the 2009 Vaexoe Quantum Theory Conference. 11 pages
journal: Found. Phys. (2011) 41: 288-298
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1106.0979
abstract: 

id: 1406.6932
title: Computational quantum-classical boundary of complex and noisy quantum systems
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Shuhei Tamate
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, v2,v3: improved versions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1406.6932
abstract: 

id: 1412.3828
title: A derivation (and quantification) of the third law of thermodynamics
authors: Lluis Masanes, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: Substantial improvement of the third law derivation, which now only relies on a single assumption: the positivity of the heat capacity. 7 pages+appendix, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1412.3828
abstract: 

id: 1503.00133
title: Interaction of Strain and Nuclear Spins in Silicon: Quadrupolar Effects on Ionized Donors
authors: David P. Franke, Florian M. Hrubesch, Markus K¨¹nzl, Kohei M. Itoh, Martin Stutzmann, Felix Hoehne, Lukas Dreher, Martin S. Brandt
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 057601 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1503.00133
abstract: 

id: 1506.04831
title: A retrodiction paradox in quantum and classical optics
authors: Andrea Aiello, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1506.04831
abstract: 

id: 1506.06754
title: Symmetry fractionalization and twist defects
authors: Nicolas Tarantino, Netanel H. Lindner, Lukasz Fidkowski
comments: 28 pages, 18 figures. Version 2 contains all modifications made during the review process. It now matches the version found in the New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics, Volume 18, Issue 3, 035006 (2016)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1506.06754
abstract: 

id: 1507.06038
title: Quantum data hiding in the presence of noise
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Mark M. Wilde, Seth Lloyd
comments: 12 pages, accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1507.06038
abstract: 

id: 1510.08905
title: Revivals in Quantum Walks with quasi-periodically time-dependent coin
authors: C. Cedzich, R. F. Werner
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 93, 032329 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1510.08905
abstract: 

id: 1511.01702
title: Impenetrable Mass-Imbalanced Particles in One-Dimensional Harmonic Traps
authors: A. S. Dehkharghani, A. G. Volosniev, N. T. Zinner
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, 2 appendices, revised version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 49 085301 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1511.01702
abstract: 

id: 1512.05651
title: Pragmatic Information in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Juan G. Roederer
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1108.0991
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1512.05651
abstract: 

id: 1601.05563
title: Unconstrained distillation capacities of a pure-loss bosonic broadcast channel
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v2: 6 pages, 3 figures, introduction revised, appendix added where the result is extended to the 1-to-m pure-loss bosonic broadcast channel. v3: minor revision, typo error corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.05563
abstract: 

id: 1601.07440
title: Unified theory of PT and CP invariant topological metals and nodal superconductors
authors: Y. X. Zhao, Andreas P. Schnyder, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure and supplemental material, to be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1601.07440
abstract: 

id: 1603.03262
title: On the ring of local unitary invariants for mixed X-states of two qubits
authors: V. Gerdt, A. Khvedelidze, Yu. Palii
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.03262
abstract: 

