id: 1611.00612
title: Effects of system-bath coupling on Photosynthetic heat engine: A polaron master equation approach
authors: M Qin, H Z Shen, X L Zhao, X X Yi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.00612
abstract: In this paper, we apply the polaron master equation, which offers the possibilities to interpolate between weak and strong system-bath coupling, to study how system-bath couplings affect charge transfer processes in Photosystem II reaction center (PSII RC) inspired quantum heat engine (QHE) model in a wide parameter range. The effects of bath correlation and temperature, together with the combined effects of these factors are also discussed in details. The results show a variety of dynamical behaviours. We interpret these results in terms of noise-assisted transport effect and dynamical localization which correspond to two mechanisms underpinning the transfer process in photosynthetic complexes: One is resonance energy transfer and the other is dynamical localization effect captured by the polaron master equation. The effects of system-bath coupling and bath correlation are incorporated in the effective system-bath coupling strength determining whether noise-assisted transport effect or dynamical localization dominates the dynamics and temperature modulates the balance of the two mechanisms. Furthermore, these two mechanisms can be attributed to one physical origin: bath-induced fluctuations. The two mechanisms is manifestations of dual role played by bath-induced fluctuations within respective parameter range. In addition, we find that the effec- tive voltage of QHE exhibits superior robustness with respect to the bath noise as long as the system-coupling strength is not too large.

id: 1611.00634
title: Field Induced Oscillation of Two Majorana Modes for a finite Quantum Wire
authors: Yue Yu, Kwok Yip Szeto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.00634
abstract: The evolution of quantum walk on a finite wire under a small increment of vector potential $\alpha$ can exhibit intrinsic quantum oscillation of the two topologically protected bound states corresponding to the Majorana modes. By tuning an external electric field corresponding to the addition of an $\alpha$ impulse at the end of each intrinsic period, the intrinsic oscillation is enveloped by a beat modulation with a longer period. This beat oscillation is useful in the preparation of decoherence-free qubit in trapped ion chain and may be observed in several experiments.

