id: 1610.06646
title: The Computational Complexity of Ball Permutations
authors: Scott Aaronson, Adam Bouland, Greg Kuperberg, Saeed Mehraban
comments: 59 pages, 10 figures. Partially based on Saeed Mehraban's Master's thesis (arXiv: 1512.09243)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.06646
abstract: Inspired by connections to two dimensional quantum theory, we define several models of computation based on permuting distinguishable particles (which we call balls), and characterize their computational complexity. In the quantum setting, we find that the computational power of this model depends on the initial input states. More precisely, with a standard basis input state, we show how to approximate the amplitudes of this model within additive error using the model DQC1 (the class of problems solvable with one clean qubit), providing evidence that the model in this case is weaker than universal quantum computing. However, for specific choices of input states, the model is shown to be universal for BQP in an encoded sense. We use representation theory of the symmetric group to partially classify the computational complexity of this model for arbitrary input states. Interestingly, we find some input states which yield a model intermediate between DQC1 and BQP. Furthermore, we consider a restricted version of this model based on an integrable scattering problem in 1+1 dimensions. We show it is universal under postselection, if we allow intermediate destructive measurements and specific input states. Therefore, the existence of any classical procedure to sample from the output distribution of this model within multiplicative error implies collapse of polynomial hierarchy to its third level. Finally, we define a classical version of this model in which one can probabilistically permute balls. We find this yields a complexity class which is intermediate between L and BPP. Moreover, we find a nondeterministic version of this model is NP-complete.

id: 1610.06867
title: Quench-induced resonant tunneling mechanisms of bosons in an optical lattice with harmonic confinement
authors: G.M. Koutentakis, S.I. Mistakidis, P. Schmelcher
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.06867
abstract: The non-equilibrium dynamics of small boson ensembles in a one-dimensional optical lattice is explored upon a sudden quench of an additional harmonic trap from strong to weak confinement. We find that the competition between the initial localization and the repulsive interaction leads to a resonant response of the system for intermediate quench amplitudes, corresponding to avoided crossings in the many-body eigenspectrum with varying final trap frequency. In particular, we show that these avoided crossings can be utilized to prepare the system in a desired state. The dynamical response is shown to depend on both the interaction strength as well as the number of atoms manifesting the many-body nature of the tunneling dynamics.

id: 1610.06322
title: Detection of Zak phases and topological invariants in a chiral photonic quantum walk
authors: F. Cardano, A. D'Errico, A. Dauphin, M. Maffei, B. Piccirillo, C. de Lisio, G. De Filippis, V. Cataudella, E. Santamato, L. Marrucci, M. Lewenstein, P. Massignan
comments: 10 pages, 7 color figures (incl. appendices)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.06322
abstract: Topological insulators are fascinating states of matter exhibiting protected edge states and robust quantized features in their bulk. Here, we propose and validate experimentally a method to detect topological properties in the bulk of one-dimensional chiral systems. We first introduce the mean chiral displacement, and we show that it rapidly approaches a multiple of the Zak phase in the long time limit. Then we measure the Zak phase in a photonic quantum walk, by direct observation of the mean chiral displacement in its bulk. Next, we measure the Zak phase in an alternative, inequivalent timeframe, and combine the two windings to characterize the full phase diagram of this Floquet system. Finally, we prove the robustness of the measure by introducing dynamical disorder in the system. This detection method is extremely general, as it can be applied to all one-dimensional platforms simulating static or Floquet chiral systems.

