id: 1608.05471
title: Depolarization dynamics in a strongly interacting solid-state spin ensemble
authors: Soonwon Choi, Joonhee Choi, Georg Kucsko, Peter C. Maurer, Brendan J. Shields, Hitoshi Sumiya, Shinobu Onoda, Junichi Isoya, Eugene Demler, Fedor Jelezko, Norman Y. Yao, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1608.05471
abstract: We study the depolarization dynamics of a dense ensemble of dipolar interacting spins, associated with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. We observe anomalously fast, density-dependent, and non-exponential spin relaxation. To explain these observations, we propose a microscopic model where an interplay of long-range interactions, disorder, and dissipation leads to predictions that are in quantitative agreement with both current and prior experimental results. Our results pave the way for controlled many-body experiments with long-lived and strongly interacting ensembles of solid-state spins.

id: 1608.05510
title: Hitting statistics from quantum jumps
authors: A. Chia, T. Paterek, L. C. Kwek
comments: Preliminary draft. Simple examples with plots to be included in a later version. Further discussion of alternative hitting-time definitions to come
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1608.05510
abstract: It is known that a quantum random walker is capable of moving much faster than its classical counterpart. This property of quantum walks has been taken advantage of, for example, in the design of efficient quantum algorithms. A standard quantity that reveals the quantum speed-up is the so-called hitting time which measures the time taken to reach a given destination for the first time (the time required to arrive at a solution to a problem in the context of quantum algorithms). Here we show how the quantum-jump formalism, known primarily from quantum optics, can be used to define the hitting time for continuous- time open quantum walks evolving under a Lindblad-form master equation. The quantum-jump approach is used to derive the hitting-time distribution and its average. We consider graphs that contain both unitary and non-unitary (incoherent population transfer and dephasing) interconnections between vertices. We discuss the conditions under which the hitting-time distributions of continuous- and discrete-time quantum walks coincide. Finally, we study quantum walks with coherent transitions to the destination vertex. At first glance the quantum-jump approach is not applicable in this case (as there is no jump), but we provide a remedy.

