id: 1605.07513
title: Signatures of attractive and repulsive interactions on quantum correlations in the Hubbard Model
authors: Andrea Beggi, Luca Razzoli, Paolo Bordone
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.07513
abstract: We study the dynamics and the entanglement between two interacting identical bosons performing a quantum walk on a 1D lattice. The system is described by the Hubbard model, and the interaction among the particles can be either attractive or repulsive. We show that there are clear signatures - both in the evolution and in the correlations - that allow a distinction between the two cases, and we demonstrate that these features result to be intimately connected with the bandstructure and the eigenstates of the Hubbard Hamiltonian.

id: 1605.07539
title: Creating cat states in one-dimensional quantum walks using delocalized initial states
authors: Wei-Wei Zhang, Sandeep K. Goyal, Fei Gao, Barry C. Sanders, Christoph Simon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.07539
abstract: Cat states are coherent quantum superpositions of macroscopically distinct states, and are useful for understanding the boundary between the classical and the quantum world. Due to their macroscopic nature, cat states are difficult to prepare in physical systems. We propose a method to realize the cat states in one-dimensional quantum walks using delocalized initial states of the walker. We show that the linear dispersion relation of the effective quantum walk Hamiltonian, which governs the dynamics of the delocalized states, is responsible for the formation of the cat states. We analyze the robustness of these states against the environmental interactions. We present methods to control and manipulate the cat states in the photonic implementation of quantum walks.

id: 1605.07552
title: Generation of a coherent electronic spin cluster in diamond
authors: Helena S. Knowles, Dhiren M. Kara, Mete Atat¨¹re
comments: Supplementary material can be found in the publications section of our website: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.07552
abstract: An obstacle for spin-based quantum sensors is magnetic noise due to proximal spins. However, such a spin cluster surrounding the sensor can become an asset, if it can be controlled. Here, we polarize and readout a cluster of three nitrogen (N) electron spins coupled to a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) spin in diamond. We further achieve sub-nm localization of the cluster spins. Finally, we demonstrate coherent spin exchange between the species by simultaneous dressing of the NV and the N states. These results establish the feasibility of environment-assisted sensing and quantum simulations with diamond spins.

id: 1605.07297
title: Fault-tolerant and finite-error localization for point emitters within the diffraction limit
authors: Tang Zong Sheng, Kadir Durak, Alexander Ling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1605.07297
abstract: We implement an estimator for determining the separation between two incoherent point sources. This estimator relies on image inversion interferometry and when used with the appropriate data analytics, it yields an estimate of the separation with finite-error, even when the sources come arbitrarily close together. The experimental results show that the technique has a good tolerance to noise and misalignment, making it an interesting consideration for high resolution instruments.

id: 1509.08851
title: Dirac Quantum Cellular Automaton from Split-step Quantum Walk
authors: Arindam Mallick, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Scientific Reports 6, 25779 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1509.08851
abstract: 

