id: 1606.00070
title: Quantum-limited estimation of continuous spontaneous localization
authors: Sam McMillen, Matteo Brunelli, Matteo Carlesso, Angelo Bassi, Hendrik Ulbricht, Matteo G. A. Paris, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.00070
abstract: We apply the formalism of quantum estimation theory to extract information about potential collapse mechanisms of the continuous spontaneous localisation (CSL) form. In order to estimate the strength with which the field responsible for the CSL mechanism couples to massive systems, we consider the optomechanical interaction between a mechanical resonator and a cavity field. We demonstrate the experimental viability of strategies for the estimation of the coupling strength by either probing the oscillator or the electromagnetic field that drives its motion.In particular, we concentrate on all-optical measurements, such as homodyne and heterodyne measurements. We also compare the performances of such strategies with those of a spin-assisted optomechanical system, where the estimation of the CSL parameter is performed through time-gated spin-like measurements.

id: 1606.00299
title: Measuring Topological Invariants and Protected Bound States in Disordered Discrete Time Quantum Walks
authors: Sonja Barkhofen, Thomas Nitsche, Fabian Elster, Lennart Lorz, Aurel Gabris, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1606.00299
abstract: The discovery of topological insulators sparked significant interest in the investigation of topological material properties. Quantum walks constitute a versatile platform for simulating transport phenomena including topological features in highly controllable setups. We experimentally implement the scheme proposed by Tarasinski et al. [Phys. Rev. A 89, 042327 (2014)] using our photonic time multiplexed discrete-time quantum walk system, directly accessing and measuring the relevant topological invariants. Our tunable coin operation allows to reach distinct topological phases, and accordingly observe topological phase transitions. Being able to read-out the position and the coin state, we measure scattered reflection amplitudes which are directly related to the topological invariants. By interfacing two samples with known, experimentally determined, topological invariants we observe localised edge states of verified topological origin. The predicted robustness of the found edge states against disorder and perturbation has been tested and verified in large ensemble measurements.

id: 1005.0915
title: Disorder and interference: localization phenomena
authors: Cord A. M¨¹ller, Dominique Delande
comments: Notes of a lecture delivered at the Les Houches School of Physics on "Ultracold gases and quantum information" 2009 in Singapore. v3: corrected mistakes, improved script for numerics, Chapter 9 in "Les Houches 2009 - Session XCI: Ultracold Gases and Quantum Information" edited by C. Miniatura et al. (Oxford University Press, 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1005.0915
abstract: 

id: 1511.01486
title: Josephson Junction through a Disordered Topological Insulator with Helical Magnetization
authors: Alexander Zyuzin, Mohammad Alidoust, Daniel Loss
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, (Eilenberger and Usadel Techniques)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 93, 214502 (2016)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1511.01486
abstract: 

