id: 1610.00671
title: Dynamical collapse for photons
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: This paper shall be part of the anthology "Collapse of the Wave Function" edited by Gao Shan, to be published by Cambridge University Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.00671
abstract: I suggest a simple alteration of my CSL (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) theory, replacing the mass density collapse-generating operators by relativistic energy density operators. Some consequences of the density matrix evolution equation are explored. First, the expression for the mean energy increase of free particles is calculated (which, in the non-relativistic limit, agrees with the usual result). Then, the density matrix evolution is applied to photons. The mean rate of loss of photon number from a laser beam pulse, the momentum distribution of the photons "excited" out of the laser beam pulse, and the alteration of the cosmic blackbody spectrum are all treated to first order in the collapse rate parameter $\lambda$. Associated possible experimental limits on $\lambda$ are discussed.

id: 1610.00273
title: Multipoint entanglement in disordered systems
authors: Javier M. Mag¨¢n, Simone Paganelli, Vadim Oganesyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.00273
abstract: We develop an approach to characterize excited states of disordered many-body systems using spatially resolved structures of entanglement. We show that the behavior of the mutual information (MI) between two parties of a many-body system can signal a qualitative difference between thermal and localized phases -- MI is finite in insulators while it approaches zero in the thermodynamic limit in the ergodic phase. Related quantities, such as the recently introduced Codification Volume (CV), are shown to be suitable to quantify the correlation length of the system. These ideas are illustrated using prototypical non-interacting wavefunctions of localized and extended particles and then applied to characterize states of strongly excited interacting spin chains. We especially focus on evolution of spatial structure of quantum information between high temperature diffusive and many-body localized phases believed to exist in these models. We study MI as a function of disorder strength both averaged over the eigenstates and in time-evolved product states drawn from continuously deformed family of initial states realizable experimentally. As expected, spectral and time-evolved averages coincide inside the ergodic phase and differ significantly outside. We also highlight dispersion among the initial states \emph{within} the localized phase -- some of these show considerable generation and delocalization of quantum information.

id: 1610.00587
title: Chaos-assisted tunneling in the presence of Anderson localization
authors: Elmer V. H. Doggen, Bertrand Georgeot, Gabriel Lemari¨¦
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.00587
abstract: Tunneling between two classically disconnected regular regions can be strongly affected by the presence of a chaotic sea in between. This phenomenon, known as chaos-assisted tunneling, gives rise to large fluctuations of the tunneling rate. Here we study chaos-assisted tunneling in the presence of Anderson localization effects in the chaotic sea. Our results show that the standard tunneling rate distribution is strongly modified by localization, going from the known Cauchy distribution in the ergodic regime to a log-normal distribution in the strongly localized case. We develop an analytical single-parameter scaling theory which accurately describes the numerical data, for both a deterministic and a disordered model. Several possible experimental implementations using cold atoms, photonic lattices or microwave billiards are discussed.

id: 1310.0420
title: Quantum walks of interacting fermions on a cycle graph
authors: Alexey A. Melnikov, Leonid E. Fedichkin
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 6, 34226 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1310.0420
abstract: 

