id: 1610.01298
title: Central Limit Theorem and Large Deviation Principle for Continuous Time Open Quantum Walks
authors: Hugo Bringuier
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.01298
abstract: Open Quantum Walks (OQWs), originally introduced by S. Attal, are quantum generalizations of classical Markov chains. Recently, natural continuous time models of OQW have been developed by C. Pellegrini. These models, called Continuous Time Open Quantum Walks (CTOQWs), appear as natural continuous time limits of discrete time OQWs. In particular they are quantum extensions of continuous time Markov chains. This article is devoted to the study of homogeneous CTOQW on $\mathbb{Z}^d$. We focus namely on their associated quantum trajectories which allow us to prove a Central Limit Theorem for the "position" of the walker as well as a Large Deviation Principle.

id: 1610.01613
title: Signatures of Many-Body Localization in a Controlled Open Quantum System
authors: Henrik P. L¨¹schen, Pranjal Bordia, Sean S. Hodgman, Michael Schreiber, Saubhik Sarkar, Andrew J. Daley, Mark H. Fischer, Ehud Altman, Immanuel Bloch, Ulrich Schneider
comments: 5+7 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.01613
abstract: In the presence of disorder, an interacting closed quantum system can undergo many-body localization (MBL) and fail to thermalize. However, over long times even weak couplings to any thermal environment will necessarily thermalize the system and erase all signatures of MBL. This presents a challenge for experimental investigations of MBL, since no realistic system can ever be fully closed. In this work, we experimentally explore the thermalization dynamics of a localized system in the presence of controlled dissipation. Specifically, we find that photon scattering results in a stretched exponential decay of an initial density pattern with a rate that depends linearly on the scattering rate. We find that the resulting susceptibility increases significantly close to the phase transition point. In this regime, which is inaccessible to current numerical studies, we also find a strong dependence on interactions. Our work provides a basis for systematic studies of MBL in open systems and opens a route towards extrapolation of closed system properties from experiments.

id: 1610.01939
title: Mathematical results on many-body localization in the disordered XY spin chain
authors: Houssam Abdul-Rahman, Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims, G¨¹nter Stolz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1610.01939
abstract: We review several aspects of Many-Body Localization as manifested in disordered XY chains: localization properties of the energy eigenstates and thermal states, propagation bounds of Lieb-Robinson type, decay of correlation functions, absence of particle transport, bounds on the bipartite entanglement, and bounded entanglement growth under the dynamics. We also prove new results on the absence of energy transport and Fock space localization. All these properties are made accessible to mathematical analysis due to the exact mapping of the XY chain to a system of quasi-free fermions given by the Jordan-Wigner transformation. Motivated by these results we discuss conjectured properties of more general disordered quantum spin and other systems as possible directions for future mathematical research.

