id: 1609.02587
title: How many bits specify a quantum state?
authors: Barbara Drossel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.02587
abstract: Wave functions are reproducible only when they represent long-lived eigenstates in a bound system, or when a well-controlled preparation procedure is available. If we admit that otherwise their precision is limited, we find that the classical and the quantum mechanical description of macroscopic systems can converge, with both of them including particle localization and stochastic effects. This argument is developped using a finite-temperature gas confined in a box as an example.

id: 1609.02722
title: Energy localization and ground-state cooling of mechanical resonator from room temperature in optomechanics using a gain cavity
authors: Yu-Long Liu, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.02722
abstract: It is well known that the energy flows from the hot (gain) system to the cold (loss) one when they are coupled to each other. We present a counterintuitive theory for the ground-state cooling of the mechanical resonator in optomechanics via a gain cavity. Here, the energy flows first from the mechanical resonator to the loss cavity, then to the gain cavity, and finally localizes there. The energy localization in the gain cavity dramatically enhances the cooling rate of the mechanical resonator. Moreover, we show that unconventional optical spring effect, e.g., giant frequency shift and optically induced damping of the mechanical resonator, can be realized. Those feature a pre-cooling free ground-state cooling, i.e., the mechanical resonator can directly be cooled to the ground state from the room temperature.

id: 1607.08191
title: Quantum walk on a cylinder
authors: Luis A. Bru, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Armando P¨¦rez, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Fernando Silva
comments: 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.08191
abstract: 

