id: 1607.06100
title: Conformal energy currents on the edge of a topological superconductor
authors: Chris N. Self, Jiannis K. Pachos, James R. Wootton, Sofyan Iblisdir
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.06100
abstract: The boundary of a 2D topological superconductor can be modeled by a conformal field theory. Here we demonstrate the behaviors of this high level description emerging from a microscopic model at finite temperatures. To achieve that, we analyze the low energy sector of Kitaev's honeycomb lattice model and probe its energy current. We observe that the scaling of the energy current with temperature reveals the central charge of the conformal field theory, which is in agreement with the Chern number of the bulk. Importantly, these currents can discriminate between distinct topological phases at finite temperatures. We assess the resilience of this measurement of the central charge under coupling disorder, bulk dimerisation and defects at the boundary, thus establishing it as a favorable means of experimentally probing topological superconductors.

id: 1607.06295
title: Localization phenomena in interacting Rydberg lattice gases with position disorder
authors: Matteo Marcuzzi, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Daniel Barredo, Sylvain de L¨¦s¨¦leuc, Henning Labuhn, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys, Emanuele Levi, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.06295
abstract: Disordered systems provide paradigmatic instances of ergodicity breaking and localization phenomena. Here we explore the dynamics of excitations in a system of Rydberg atoms held in optical tweezers. The finite temperature produces an intrinsic uncertainty in the atomic positions, which translates into quenched correlated disorder in the interatomic interaction strengths. In a simple approach, the dynamics in the many-body Hilbert space can be understood in terms of a one-dimensional Anderson-like model with disorder on every other site, featuring both localized and delocalized states. We conduct an experiment on an eight-atom chain and observe a clear suppression of excitation transfer. Our experiment accesses a regime which is described by a two-dimensional Anderson model on a "trimmed" square lattice. Our results thus provide a concrete example in which the absence of excitation propagation in a many-body system is directly related to Anderson-like localization in the Hilbert space, which is believed to be the mechanism underlying many-body localization.

