id: 1611.07457
title: Continuous-time limit of topological quantum walks
authors: Radhakrishnan Balu, Daniel Castillo, George Siopsis, Christian Weedbrook
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07457
abstract: We derive the continuous-time limit of discrete quantum walks with topological phases. We show the existence of a continuous-time limit that preserves their topological phases. We consider both simple-step and split-step walks, and derive analytically equations of motion governing their behavior. We obtain simple analytical solutions showing the existence of bound states at the boundary of two phases, and solve the equations of motion numerically in the bulk.

id: 1611.07495
title: Neighborhood-History Quantum Walk
authors: Asif Shakeel
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07495
abstract: History dependent discrete time quantum walks (QWs) are often studied for their lattice traversal properties. A particular model, which we call the $\textit{site-history quantum walk}$ (SHQW), uses the state of a memory qubit at each site to record visits and to control the dynamics of the walk. We generalize this model to the $\textit{neighborhood-history quantum walk}$ (NHQW), in which the walk dynamics and the state of the memory qubits in a $\textit{neighborhood}$ of the particle's position are interdependent. To demonstrate it, we construct an NHQW on a one-dimensional lattice, with a simple neighborhood. Several dynamically interesting history dependent QWs, including the SHQW, can be realized as single-particle sectors of quantum lattice gas automata (QLGA). In contrast, the NHQW constructed in this paper is realized as a single-particle sector of the more general quantum cellular automaton (QCA). The complexity of the NHQW dynamics presents a promising avenue toward richer walk strategies.

id: 1611.07484
title: Creating photon-number squeezed strong microwave fields by a Cooper-pair injection laser
authors: Martin Koppenh?fer, Juha Lepp?kangas, Michael Marthaler
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07484
abstract: The use of artificial atoms as an active lasing medium opens a way to construct novel sources of nonclassical radiation. An example is the creation of photon-number squeezed light. Here we present a design of a laser consisting of multiple Cooper-pair transistors coupled to a microwave resonator. Over a broad range of experimentally realizable parameters, this laser creates photon-number squeezed microwave radiation, characterized by a Fano factor $F \ll 1$, at a very high resonator photon number. We investigate the impact of gate-charge disorder in a Cooper-pair transistor and show that the system can create squeezed strong microwave fields even in the presence of maximum disorder.

