id: 1603.03699
title: On the physical realizability of quantum stochastic walks
authors: Bruno G. Taketani, Luke C. G. Govia, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1603.03699
abstract: Quantum walks are a promising framework that can be used to both understand and implement quantum information processing tasks. The quantum stochastic walk is a recently developed framework that combines the concept of a quantum walk with that of a classical random walk, through open system evolution of a quantum system. Quantum stochastic walks have been shown to have applications in as far reaching fields as artificial intelligence. However, there are significant constraints on the kind of open system evolutions that can be realized in a physical experiment. In this work, we discuss the restrictions on the allowed open system evolution, and the physical assumptions underpinning them. We show that general implementations would require the complete solution of the underlying unitary dynamics, and sophisticated reservoir engineering, thus weakening the benefits of experimental investigations.

id: 1402.3266
title: Anderson localization on the Falicov-Kimball model with Coulomb disorder
authors: Rubens D. B. Carvalho, Guilherme M. A. Almeida, Andre M. C. Souza
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal B 87, 160 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1402.3266
abstract: The role of Coulomb disorder is analysed in the Anderson-Falicov-Kimball model. Phase diagrams of correlated and disordered electron systems are calculated within dynamical mean-field theory applied to the Bethe lattice, in which metal-insulator transitions led by structural and Coulomb disorders and correlation can be identified. Metallic, Mott insulator, and Anderson insulator phases, as well as the crossover between them are studied in this perspective. We show that Coulomb disorder has a relevant role in the phase-transition behavior as the system is led towards the insulator regime.

id: 1508.01327
title: Spatial search by quantum walk is optimal for almost all graphs
authors: Shantanav Chakraborty, Leonardo Novo, Andris Ambainis, Yasser Omar
comments: Keywords: Quantum spatial search, quantum walks, quantum state transfer, entanglement generation, random graphs, complex networks. Published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 116, 100501 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1508.01327
abstract: 

