id: 1609.02431
title: Quench dynamics of the three-dimensional U(1) complex field theory: geometric and scaling characterisation of the vortex tangle
authors: Michikazu Kobayashi, Leticia F. Cugliandolo
comments: 81 pages, 40 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1609.02431
abstract: We present a detailed study of the equilibrium properties and stochastic dynamic evolution of the U(1)-invariant relativistic complex field theory in three dimensions. This model has been used to describe, in various limits, properties of relativistic bosons at finite chemical potential, type II su- perconductors, magnetic materials and aspects of cosmology. We characterise the thermodynamic second-order phase transition in different ways. We study the equilibrium vortex configurations and their statistical and geometrical properties in equilibrium at all temperatures. We show that at very high temperature the statistics of the filaments is the one of fully-packed loop models. We identify the temperature, within the ordered phase, at which the number density of vortex lengths falls-off algebraically and we associate it to a geometric percolation transition that we characterise in various ways. We measure the fractal properties of the vortex tangle at this threshold. Next, we perform infinite rate quenches from equilibrium in the disordered phase, across the thermo- dynamic critical point, and deep into the ordered phase. We show that three time regimes can be distinguished: a first approach towards a state that, within numerical accuracy, shares many features with the one at the percolation threshold, a later coarsening process that does not alter, at sufficiently low temperature, the fractal properties of the long vortex loops, and a final approach to equilibrium. These features are independent of the reconnection rule used to build the vortex lines. In each of these regimes we identify the various length-scales of the vortices in the system. We also study the scaling properties of the ordering process and the progressive annihilation of topological defects and we prove that the time-dependence of the time-evolving vortex tangle can be described within the dynamic scaling framework.

id: 1408.0179
title: Constructive Interference Between Disordered Couplings Enhances Multiparty Entanglement in Quantum Heisenberg Spin Glass Models
authors: Utkarsh Mishra, Debraj Rakshit, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: Close to published version, some additional material wrt published version, 17 pages, 6 figure
journal: New J. Phys.18 (2016) 083044
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1408.0179
abstract: 

id: 1607.00529
title: Quantum Walks as simulators of neutrino oscillations in vacuum and matter
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Armando P¨¦rez
comments: 4 figures, 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1607.00529
abstract: 

id: 1608.00136
title: Stationary States in Quantum Walk Search
authors: Kri?j¨¡nis Pr¨±sis, Jevg¨¥nijs Vihrovs, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1608.00136
abstract: 

