id: 1608.00136
title: Stationary States in Quantum Walk Search
authors: Kri?j¨¡nis Pr¨±sis, Jevg¨¥nijs Vihrovs, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1608.00136
abstract: When classically searching a database, having additional correct answers makes the search easier. For a discrete-time quantum walk searching a graph for a marked vertex, however, additional marked vertices can make the search harder by causing the system to approximately begin in a stationary state, so the system fails to evolve. In this paper, we completely characterize the stationary states, or 1-eigenvectors, of the quantum walk search operator for general graphs and configurations of marked vertices by decomposing their amplitudes into uniform and flip states. This infinitely expands the number of known stationary states and gives an optimization procedure to find the stationary state closest to the initial uniform state of the walk. We further prove theorems on the existence of stationary states, with them conditionally existing if the marked vertices form a bipartite connected component and always existing if non-bipartite. These results utilize the standard oracle in Grover's algorithm, but we show that a different type of oracle prevents stationary states from interfering with the search algorithm.

id: 1608.00498
title: Perfect state transfer by means of discrete-time quantum walk search algorithms on highly symmetric graphs
authors: Martin Stefanak, Stanislav Skoupy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 94, 022301 (2016)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1608.00498
abstract: Perfect state transfer between two marked vertices of a graph by means of discrete-time quantum walk is analyzed. We consider the quantum walk search algorithm with two marked vertices, sender and receiver. It is shown by explicit calculation that for the coined quantum walks on star graph and complete graph with self-loops perfect state transfer between the sender and receiver vertex is achieved for arbitrary number of vertices $N$ in $O(\sqrt{N})$ steps of the walk. Finally, we show that Szegedy's walk with queries on complete graph allows for state transfer with unit fidelity in the limit of large $N$.

