id: 1611.07835
title: Quantum effects in nanosystems: good reasons to use phase-space Weyl symbols
authors: Ruggero Vaia
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to appear in PRB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07835
abstract: Bogoliubov transformations have been successfully applied in several Condensed Matter contexts, e.g., in the theory of superconductors, superfluids, and antiferromagnets. These applications are based on bulk models where translation symmetry can be assumed, so that few degrees of freedom in Fourier space can be `diagonalized' separately, and in this way it is easy to find the approximate ground state and its excitations. As translation symmetry cannot be invoked when it comes about nanoscopic systems, the corresponding multidimensional Bogoliubov transformations are more complicated. For bosonic systems it is much simpler to proceed using phase-space variables, i.e., coordinates and momenta. Interactions can be accounted for by the self-consistent harmonic approximation, which is naturally developed using phase-space Weyl symbols. The spin-flop transition in a short antiferromagnetic chain is illustrated as an example. This approach, rarely used in the past, is expected to be generally useful to estimate quantum effects, e.g., on phase diagrams of ordered vs disordered phases.

id: 1611.07536
title: Partial time-reversal transformation and entanglement negativity in fermionic systems
authors: Hassan Shapourian, Ken Shiozaki, Shinsei Ryu
comments: 15 pages+ 10 figures + 4 appendices
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07536
abstract: We propose a definition of partial transpose for a fermionic density matrix based on time-reversal transformation in the Grassmannian coherent state representation of fermions. Using this definition, we present a path-integral picture and develop methods to compute the entanglement negativity associated with the partial time-reversal. For noninteracting fermions, we derive an exact formula for the entanglement negativity which can be straightforwardly computed for any lattice models. We benchmark our method against two examples: Majorana chain and Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model, where we also provide analytical expressions for the negativity in the fixed-point limits of topological phases as well as at the criticality. The results at the criticality match with previous conformal field theory calculations. Our definition of partial transpose is intrinsically fermionic and goes beyond previous definitions by capturing not only the singlet bonds but also the Majorana bonds between two subsystems. Finally, we uncover the first concrete microscopic calculation of the entanglement negativity in the random singlet phase of disordered spin chains.

id: 1611.07695
title: Signatures of the single particle mobility edge in the ground state properties of Tonks-Girardeau and non-interacting Fermi gases in a bichromatic potential
authors: J. Settino, N. Lo Gullo, A. Sindona, J. Goold, F. Plastina
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07695
abstract: We explore the ground state properties of cold atomic gases, loaded into a bichromatic lattice, focusing on the cases of non-interacting fermions and hard-core (Tonks-Girardeau) bosons, trapped by the combination of two potentials with incommensurate periods. For such systems, two limiting cases have been thoroughly established. In the tight-binding limit, the single-particle states in the lowest occupied band show a localization transition, as the strength of the second potential is increased above a certain threshold. In the continuous limit, when the tight-binding approximation does not hold anymore, a mobility edge is found, whose position in energy depends upon the strength of the second potential. Here, we study how the crossover from the discrete to the continuum behavior occurs, and prove that signatures of the localization transition and mobility edge clearly appear in the generic many-body properties of the systems. Specifically, we evaluate the momentum distribution, which is a routinely measured quantity in experiments with cold atoms, and demonstrate that, even in the presence of strong boson-boson interactions, the single particle mobility edge can be observed in the ground state properties.

id: 1611.07740
title: AC-Conductivity Measure from Heat Production of Free Fermions in Disordered Media
authors: J.-B. Bru, W. de Siqueira Pedra, C. Hertling
comments: 
journal: Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, 220 (2016) 445
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.07740
abstract: We extend [Bru-de Siqueira Pedra-Hertling, J. Math. Phys. 56 (2015) 051901] in order to study the linear response of free fermions on the lattice within a (independently and identically distributed) random potential to a macroscopic electric field that is time- and space-dependent. We obtain the notion of a macroscopic AC-conductivity measure which only results from the second principle of thermodynamics. The latter corresponds here to the positivity of the heat production for cyclic processes on equilibrium states. Its Fourier transform is a continuous bounded function which is naturally called (macroscopic) conductivity. We additionally derive Green-Kubo relations involving time-correlations of bosonic fields coming from current fluctuations in the system. This is reminiscent of non-commutative central limit theorems.

id: 1611.05160
title: Continuous Quantum Walk on Penrose Lattice
authors: Y.M.Min, K.Wang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error in equation 7
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05160
abstract: 

